================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: swuzBDT1Krk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=swuzBDT1Krk
TITLE: All or Nothing... Do We Need More Football Documentaries? | Libero 057
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-30
DURATION: 1h 4m 14s
VIEWS: 2,187
LIKES: 105
COMMENTS: 16
TAGS: football, podcast, soccer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
No progressive football club’s project is complete without an authorised streaming documentary series. They’ve become a significant contribution to football’s reinvention as a content provider. Does authenticity matter? Is Wrexham’s celebrity-assisted rise to be welcomed? John Brewin, Jack Pitt-Brooke and Rory Smith enter the scripted realities of Phil Parkinson, Tom Brady, Brendan Rodgers et al to discuss whether the real story is always left on the cutting-room floor.

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky.social
Follow us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/liberopod
Follow us on TikTok https://www.tiktok.com/@liberopod
Follow us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/liberopod

Chapters
00:00 Intro
04:41 Premier League vibes
13:12 The rise of football documentaries
18:53 The shift in storytelling
26:03 Impact on culture
30:11 Sunderland 
... [truncated]

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 12,384

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Shall we begin? Hello. Good evening, good morning, good afternoon, wherever you are. You join us for episode number 57 of Libero, the podcast that's about the most important of the least important things. And at that point, we're paraphrasing 80s style icon Paul Shane. That might be the best one. Yeah. So, it's high Roy Rory Smith, The Observer. Heidi High and the Men in Blazers. Uh perhaps like Paul Shane, he could have worn a camp entertainer blazer, but he hasn't done that. Um but we've shuffled the pack actually from the last episode and uh a fellow camp entertainer, Jack Pitbrook of the Athletic has joined us. Uh morning, John. Yeah, I hope all is well, Jack. In fact, we saw each other just the other night. uh at uh Tottenham v Wolves. Let's let's go over the sporting weekend, shall we? Uh I am actually very tired because I was stood up watching the Ryder Cup. Like I was on the terraces. That was such a amazing sporting occasion. So tense. Oh god. God, I really wanted to beat them. Listen, nothing against America. Got something against American golfers and that crowd. It was uh Oh, brilliant. Brilliant sport. I'm not I'm not a golf person. I attracted the the kind of score of the Ryder Cup and want Europe to win. Do you not find it interesting the um the footballification of the crowd? I find that really fascinating. Yes. And I think that actually well I think there's two aspects of it. I think it all started in 1991 with the Kioa Island thing which is around the time of Gulf War which was I don't know if you you chaps are old enough to remember this but the uh the US team dressed in sort of army fatigues and stuff and there was this USA and it at the same time Europe had the football aspect of it and the Ole Olay comes from Big Jackalton's Ireland so it's because there was a lot of Irish players in the team And I think it's a convergence of that. And it's weird that the American team act more like the football hooligans than the than the actual European team who just seem to be like a couple of a group of nice chaps that went to Black Rockck College in Ireland or you know from Surrey over here or whatever. There's those those lads that dress up in sort of chaps and all. It's kind of a mixture of football and Eurovvision. Yeah. the crowd like there is you know it's it's a little bit barmy army bit of fancy dress. Yeah. Yeah. And the darts. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's that it's you know look at you know we're all having a really good time. It's that type of thing isn't it? It's that sort of aspect of it. But I suppose being uh among with the winning team and it did cost $700 plus dollars to be there though I did notice that uh not everyone stayed till the end. Uh that place was empty by the time got to be in traffic. Well, by the traffic around Beth Page Black must be pretty bad, it has to be said. But uh they got the hell out of there as soon as it became clear there would be no comeback. Was it was it genuine? Because obviously I went to bed when I think Europe were I think the first of the singles matches was on the 16th or something and Europe at that point were like 12 six ahead maybe. Did it get to the point where it looked like Europe might blow it? Yes. Oh, very much so. And then it uh it required a Shane Lowry sort of heroic put and tears and then at that point I mean I think only one uh European won uh the actual singles game. So yeah it it was high drama and we should actually credit the US team for for playing so well. Amazing that they would do considering they're the world's top golfers but you know there we go. But anyway, we we this is a football podcast. Uh golf libero is one we'll have to discuss with Tom. Uh Rory, should we discuss Liverpool? Should we discuss Arsenal? And speaking of blowing it, yeah, the uh Yeah, I it does. It's one of those things where I feel it's really hard not to feel it's a big kind of vibe shift Premier League weekend. Obviously, six games in, it's still September when we're recording. It's there is this weird thing I find and I suppose I'm exposed to it. I do on a Monday I do both Men in Blazers and um and the Monday nightclub on on the radio. And I hope I'm not guilty of this. We're not guilty of it. But I do do detect that there's this sort of desire at the end of every Premier League weekend basically to to declare the season is over to kind of make these massive sweeping statements based on one result. So yesterday did feel yesterday being Sunday when Arsenal saw that late winner did feel like a big okay actually this is it is absolutely a statement win. huge sort of character performance, all that stuff. But you think, well, actually, it's still only six games in, so trying to like place meaning on it now seems a little bit premature. Yeah, it was hardly Fergie and Brian Kidd dancing on the pitch on Easter Saturday, was it? I mean, Jack and even Gary Neville, I think immediately after the final whistle at St. James's Park, was saying like, I know it's really early, but this really does feel massive. And people were people were were were talking about it as if this game had happened in March or April, right? Like as if it was as if we were really in the final straight of the season. But there's like I mean obviously there's so much that can happen in the remaining 32 rounds of Premier League games that I feel like it's you know it probably won't be the determining factor. Right. Do you think that's like a is it a function of it's I think with this one it partly feels that way because Liverpool losing at Palace which was entirely deserved. It felt a little bit like chickens coming home to roost. Like Liverpool have been storing all these late winners. They've not really been convincing. I would say having been at quite a few of their games. They are playing very well in patches like you can see glimpses of okay actually when when this clits if this clicks they're going to be a really good team but they've been giving team you know been given up a lot of shots. They've been thrown away two leads. All that stuff and it felt like okay you've been hoisted by your own petard a little bit here. This confirms the impression that they are not yet convincing. Arsenal then the day after almost falter don't falter absolutely shifts the momentum in the early in the nent title race as um as the broad sheet as three broad sheet journalists we would we would phrase it but I've always I kind of think the the size of the of the football season is really interesting because it's 38 games so each individual game can feel like not conclusive but but significant in a way that say in the NBA or the the or major league baseball it doesn't cuz they played 407 games or whatever, but it feels now as though it's almost it's almost more like the NFL where every game is well that's the season done. That's them. They're champions now. And I that that's but more so because obviously NFL has Super Bowl, right? So there's no each each round of the regular season. I mean, it determines who gets into the postseason, but it doesn't necessarily determine who wins the thing. Whereas in the Premier League, it's almost heightened, right? Because this is this is what constitutes winning the league. I just think we're um I mean I remember Arson Wenger used to come out with a phrase it's like we live in a world of instant judgments and I do feel like it's it's just kind of I think it's probably to with the media more than anything else right like at the end of every game or uh or weekend of games everybody wants to draw the biggest possible conclusion right you want to draw the big because you know like the more sweeping your conclusion the grander your conclusion the more the more people will read your story or watch your your clip of you talking. Yeah. And it it it's like um Paul Hwood was talking about recently how the match report now has shifted from this this is what happened to this is what this means and uh so yeah so for example the game we were at Wolves actually played very well for the second half. This means Wolves will not go down and and and and like they did play well and and they showed that they did have decent players. So you can you can draw that in any direction you want to. But listen, does that prove that they're not going to go down? Of course it doesn't. No. Does it prove that Tottenham are the same as they used to be? No, it doesn't. But that is interesting as well that that it what? Liverpool lose, United lose, Spurs draw, Chelsea lose, Arsenal obviously win, but you know, almost didn't. It it that that I think is a theme that we're going to have to think about not just on the liberal podcast but like across like it feels to me like the way we react to results is is based on like an old paradigm that that there are a lot like I saw Wolves at at Newcastle and they weren't brilliant but you saw enough from them that you thought actually if if they get a little bit better this is probably not a bad team because the Premier League is insanely strong. Do you sense that we are headed I mean do it sounds to me like you think that we are moving away from the kind of Guardiola Klopp 100 point era and heading do you think we could be heading to I mean Liverpool won the league with 84 points last season which was historically not an abnormally low number but in the context of the last 10 years is an abnormally low number. Do you sense that we might be heading for another 84 point champion this season? I'm contractually obliged to point out that Liverpool switched off the last month of the season last year and and had a party. So I think it was a slightly weird point total. I feel like they could have got more points if they needed to, but they didn't. Jack, you're quite right. They didn't the um and I think they might regret that. But yes, I I think it's more likely to be it it's more likely to be closer to 85 this year than it is to be 100. Do you know what I mean? It feels more I think City and Arsenal will will post big totals. I think obviously Liverpool have finished, they lost the game, but um the it feels more I just I I find it really interesting and we talked about I think before that we we react to like United losing at Brenford as this this is some sort of colossal embarrassment for Manchester United. How can Ruben Aarim keep his job? Brenford are really good and it feels like we're judging the results like we used to in like Ferguson and Vender's time when we we haven't quite accepted that the nature of the Premier League's changed a bit and now you can go and you know if you win an away game you're doing pretty well to be honest. Yeah. Um I think the hottest take I heard over the weekend uh in it was in our WhatsApp chat the one that you know the one that Miguel thinks is some sort of high-end production meeting. Uh yeah uh when James Horncastle uh Sir James uh said that Iola is the best coach in the Premier League. I thought that was a big call but it's one I might not argue with. I thought very interesting. Very interesting. We we are proola as a podcast, aren't we? We are very very Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. He's really nice guy as well, isn't he? Um and uh but just before we get to uh we actually bory I should say we breathe life into Aston Villa Wolves. Uh we also got Graeme Potter sacked as well in on our last podcast. So I can only assume that I mean David Sullivan is very much the type of listener we're going for. So I assume that he's he's tuned in heard that had to be the end, didn't it? And then you know Nuno got the call. So uh excitement awaits down at the London Stadium. It doesn't. It doesn't because that is not that's just that that is repeating, isn't it? It's the ultimate West Ham appointment, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um but actually, uh we mentioned uh Bournemouth there and they've got that very ambitious owner Bill Foley. Um now I don't know this are Bournemouth doing a documentary on the Bournemouth thing because it feels like they possibly should do. It's worth the documentary. This would be the sweet spot, wouldn't it? Uh, it would that I know they've done they did a Men and Blazers special, which is very good. I think it's on YouTube. If if you're interested in that kind of business, then you should watch it. Um, but I don't know if there's any plans for an actual full scale all or nothing type thing. And I know and I know that Bournemouth, you know, very good with the media. Um, our friend Alice Rudd did a pretty in-depth uh, you know, time spent with the club and the players. Um, so yeah, it's possible. Every every club it appears these days. I mean, this is what we're going to talk about in this this episode, the the concept of the football documentary, the soccer documentary, if you will. Uh, it's um we're in the era of what our American friends call storytelling. This is what this is about, isn't it? And clubs have used this, and it's not a new medium. the documentary is as old as celluloid itself to to tell their story. Rory, what what's the what's at the heart of this? What's what's the what's the plan here? I think it's really interesting because it it's definitely a thing and it's been a it's a way for the clubs, I think, to to reach new audiences. A lot of it is driven by by the success of Drive to Survive to to complete the kind of broad sporting landscape that we're discussing today. Drive to Survive comes along in like 2017, I guess, some sometime around then, and suddenly lots of people who don't like talk are really into F1. They're not they don't want to talk about the tires. They want to follow the kind of um the characters and and lots of sports, cricket, cycling, rugby, there's been a million different kind of versions of Drive to Survive. Everyone kind of notices actually this is a way to grow your audience outside of your traditional base. Football latches on to that. Um, and I think it there's a clear spread to me between or a distinction between kind of old school documentaries, what we would think of as being sort of fly on the wall, Waltz and all documentaries, the best of which I think is probably Sunderland till I die, which is a proper documentary. And that then bleeds into at some point a realization, and I don't know how conscious this realization is, of actually we don't have to do warts and all. Why don't we make it shiny and polished and hey geographical and we can we can use this basically to sell ourselves rather than to describe ourselves and that I think is is very much a new thing and it's also quite an out it's not not outdated but like a late thing because lots of other sports have been doing this basically since their invention whereas football's always been very reluctant in a weird way to tell its own story and it feels like in the last 5 to 10 years B it's worked out do you know what we are clubs are content houses effectively they are all production companies and they have an awful lot of IP so why not why not get into that business. Yeah, I I remember when I I worked for ESPN and would watch the ESPN Classic Channel when I was over in the US and they'd have these documentaries about an NFL team in the 70s and the footage they would have was incredible, you know, and like you know, locker room talk and sideline stuff. And it it really did show off the NFL as this this TV product and it's something that the Premier League despite its you know world facing uh towards them you're pushing itself has never really had that actually the frontier of the Premier League is still a bit reticent beyond this all or nothing thing. Um Jack uh how do you feel about these documentaries? Are you are you every night doing the full box set with Mrs. Pitbrook? Um, no. I think that I mean I do find them quite interesting, but as Rory says, they're not they're not really in the traditional sense documentaries, are they? There's there's clearly there's clearly a difference between something which is made about a club, for example, Suddenly Until I Die and made by a club or for a club. And I think that in a in a lot of the ones that have come out in the last I don't know five, six, seven years, you can tell that they are really an extension of club kind of in-house marketing. Um it's very obvious that they are an attempt an attempt by the club to get their message and their and their branding out into the world. And I completely understand the impulse like we you guys were were talking on the last episode about the need the need for a club to have an identity, right? the need for a club to have a clear a clear brand to and there is no and if you want to tell the world who you are maybe making a documentary is actually the best way to do it. You don't need to you don't even need to I don't know brief anything off the record or like you can literally just you can literally make the whole show which tells the you know which which goes out into the whole world and says this is who we are these are our brand values this is our story and given how much the clubs want to do this I think it's no it's no coincidence that most of these documentaries that come out is usually when a club is at a moment where they've got a new manager or they've got a new way of doing things or they're trying to relaunch themselves in a particular direction. Um, but ultimately I you are always left with the sense that what you're watching is it's a bit like when clubs put out I don't know like tunnel cam footage or like inside the training ground footage or the which they all like so many Premier League clubs pump this stuff out on YouTube all the time and it's you know the hidden like the secret scenes that you didn't see from our nil nil draw with Sheffield United but it's obviously all being and it it has this feeling where you kind of feel on the one hand you feel Oh wow, I'm I'm really getting behind the curtain here. But at the same time, it's obviously been curated by the club so that you only, you know, you you see stuff which they're happy for you to see. And ultimately, that's the impression that I'm largely left with these documentaries. Yeah, they feel that a lot of them, the Glossier ones feel advertorial to me. There's no I don't think journal this sounds very pretentious, but I don't think journalistically they have a huge amount to recommend that. Well, it's it's funny, isn't it? these days in the the press box at a a Premier League club, maybe even Championship clubs, you look around and there's a lot of people in sort of club suits and stuff like that that are pushing buttons on machines that you're thinking, what's that? And it is, you know, rather than the sort of local, you know, uh, local hack in a dirty Mac, you've got a group of people like young professionals that are that, you know, keying in this essentially PR material for the club. And that it's the fact to keep the club website, this content machine throughout the week. And we've got this special picture here and this photo gallery there. And this it's it's all part of clubs are content providers as we've said so many times on this pod. But it's really interesting, isn't it? Because I think that that speaks to a like a broader shift, which is that, and I I'm I'm preempting Jack a little bit here because this is kind of his point that he made in our actual production WhatsApp group, is is that Miguel, wasn't there, there has been a realization, I think, that that fandom extends beyond 90 minutes and that there is this kind of audience out there that maybe maybe actually it's the opposite to Drive to Survive. Drive to Survive was a sport desperately reaching out of the petrol head community. F1 realized that it was its audience in say 2015 was men probably quite old men. I mean that's maybe not you know maybe a bit rich of saying that but it was men who wanted to talk about you know petrol intakes and that was the interest because that that is like I went and you famously went to a superbikes event earlier this year and that's a like a subculture that I had no exposure to whatsoever but there are loads of people there who just really ban into bikes and I'm not don't really care. It's a it's a great thing to go and watch. like it is a genuinely jaw-dropping thing to watch and I I think given how much everything costs nowadays, it's probably quite quite economical to go and watch Superbikes. Um, if you get a chance to go to Donington or Brans or wherever, go. It's fun. Um, but to be really into it, you have to care about like yeah, talk and stuff and I don't. F1 realized there is a whole like there's a population that is is into talk and then there's a population that isn't. How do we speak to the population that isn't? And the way you do that is by building character dramas and focusing on like the Williams pit guy whose job is to put the tires on but his his life is collapsing or whatever. The football example is the opposite of that. It's saying we have worked out there is this huge dedicated audience that will basically consume any old [ __ ] about this club because they are so dedicated to this one institution. And I'm the same. I will watch like inside the UCL things about I've shown the the Liverpool Barcelona one to my little boy about 70 times the the the TNT inside the UCL thing because it's it's fun to watch and it kind of cap it captures a feeling all that stuff and I think football has realized we can we've got all this stuff that's happening inside the club that our audience will eat will eat up and there is an essentially bottomless appetite for because fandom is not just football is not just about games anymore. The games are kind of they're not even the central central part of the drama necessarily. They're just part they're just like part of it. It's like an episodic drama and that's a bit of it but then so is kind of what's happening in training and here's the manager press conference and all that stuff. People love that stuff. So I remember watching the I watched the Manchester City all or nothing. uh which is strange because they're obviously one thing it really struggles with is that it's very difficult to create a sense of narrative tension and high stakes in a season where Manchester City got 100 points every every setup is you know and then they face the biggest test of all and then City and then and then like City batter someone 5-nil again but I it's weird cuz I watched it and I thought I kind of realized that it wasn't really for me when the narrator Sen Kingsley used the phrase football legend and Johan K. Um, but it was uh like you so much of it is just kind of fairly benile interviews with players. The the one moment where I thought I'm surprised that I've been shown this and I think it's really good is this famous row between um Fabian Del and the rest of the City squad which is this is as they say on on Twitter absolute cinema. City were playing badly at one point and Del starts tearing into his teammates and Del says uh and Del tells his teammates to remember the basics of football and he's like he's really he's really uh emotional in this moment. He's saying midfielders no defenders defend midfielders boxto box the basics of football and Guardiola obviously you can see him kind of short circuiting right because this is not the Guardiola playbook at all and Guardiola says to him something like Fabby Fabby no it's football it's so complicated and that was the one bit where I thought wow I actually like this is interesting and new and I wouldn't I wouldn't know about this row if I hadn't watched the documentary um but most of the documentary so So that bit is good, but the rest of it is like 10 hours of, you know, Carl Walker saying the secret to Manchester City is we're all great lads and stuff like that. Like and the weird thing is though that I think Pep Guardiola now watches that Fabian Del clip and thinks he was right all along. Maybe Fabian Del was a real visionary. Fabian Del football guru. You can see him uh you can imagine Pep calling up Fabby and say, "Fabby, Fabby, I've got something to say." And then explaining over the course of like a 4-hour long phone call how he wi he wished he'd listened to him in 2018. And who would be h like I could not imagine Del being happier than with big lad up front Harland, big keeper in goal, Donnaruma, get get the ball from one end to the other. The basics of football. Goalkeepers save shots. Center forward stick the ball in the net. The basics of football. Jack, you you hit on something there and I think this is the point of of these things, isn't it? It's a means to tell stories worldwide, not to maybe the the native audience of of say the English Premier League. I mean, let let's face it, uh Rexom was not a worldwide brand until Robin Ryan came along. Now they're selling out stadiums in the US like Oasis never did until just recently. Um so come on, let let's see where this came from then. Let's start with the medium itself. Documentaries have become pretty big business in the last couple of decades, last 15 years. You've got Asive Kapadia with Amy Winehouse Senna, Diego Maradona. You got Alex Gibney with Lance Armstrong, a few other things. You've also got this that strand of things, you know, the Ken Burns thing uh with the amazing Peter Coyote narrating. Another aspect of this is that we've got it's the technology as ever is at the heart of this. Netflix, Amazon, Disney Plus, they're world TV stations, aren't they, that can get this message over and so the all or nothing brand started really, didn't it, with I think it's the All Blacks. Uh, and we've also had it rugby again has been ahead of its time. You ever seen Living with Lions, the documentary series about the 1997 uh British lions, British Irish lions I should say, tour to South Africa? That's a classic of its time and it's fly on the wall as you said before Rory. That's that aspect of you you're actually meeting the people as they are. And um and then our our relationship with do football documentaries in the UK has been slightly different, hasn't it? Because we've had Well, I think this is Taylor. We've had Graeme Taylor. We've had John Sitten. We've had these people that have I think it's to do with the British. This is why the the office the UK office what you call it could only come from this country of like there is a almost like a a comedic uh strand in this country which is people getting above themselves are a source of absolute humor. So Derek Trotter, um, Reginald Perry, David Brent, all these people are people of high amusement in this country. And so you have these documentaries where people try to act above themselves. And so you get people making a fool of themselves in front of the camera and by being themselves. Do you think though that when they made those kind of early documentaries that it was always an outsider looking in, do you think they chose the characters because they thought they had that streak of pomposity or you know that Brentian characteristic that they were looking for? Or do you think they thought well actually it would be interesting to follow the England manager around? I that's an interesting point. I mean you know the England the England job is always going to be interest isn't there? you know, and and the thing is with Graeme Taylor spoke about this, you know, he was a son of a journalist and said, "Well, okay. Well, well, I'm happy to do this and was very media friendly uh to his cost." Um, Graeme Taylor was media friendly after his England career. He was a pretty good radio commentator and all that. Graeme Taylor was a really nice man. He was lovely. Yeah, really. And it is to the British press back shape as to what happened to him. Listen, the football was bad. We all know this and uh a good friend of mine uh uh during uh less busy times in CO actually watched all the England games during Graham Taylor again and just said my god but there you go. Uh but yeah but see you had this sort of culture of um it this culture of documentaries where you would have these characters pull out. I mean the John sitting thing clearly someone said oh there's late or stuff going on here let's have a look at it. And suddenly this this monster appears on camera and he's you cannot not watch it. But they're sort of warts and all documentaries the all or nothing brand that isn't is it? It's there's a very clear yeah there's a very clear distinction I think between the journalistic the journalistic um documentary like an impossible job which is I mean if people if there's anyone out there who hasn't seen it or hasn't heard of it it's so good like it really is amazing like you you learn so I mean it's very entertaining TV but you also you also get such a good sense about how how different it not just English football but like the English national team was at that time like it's not that long ago like it's within my lifetime early what 199 it's the build up to the it's failing to qualify for the 1994 World Cup right so it's stuff that happens in in 1992 and 1993 it's brilliant like it's so funny and it's so revealing um about a very very particular era of English football do we think the last of those documentaries is Sunland Till I Die yes I think I was going to get to that point because I think that's that's a really good point because Sunland are willing to do this. And again, it's UK made, isn't it? It's made by the Fullwell uh team um London based, but their Sunland supporters actually uh Fullwell 73, named after the 1973 FA Cup Triumph that Jonathan Wilson will probably do a 10-p part podcast series on if he hasn't done already. Uh, and yes, it's done in this sort of almost traditional style of what's all speak to the people, let them be the star and not and yeah, he's got that nice. So, part of it part of the genius of Sunderland that I don't want to embarrass Jack, but one one of the fa my favorite Jack Pitbrook pieces is his interview with Richard Keys from what, four or five years ago, Jack, I can't remember. Uh, done two. One was in 2013, one was in 2021. Which was the one where you let him hang himself? 2013. Yeah. That is that that long ago? That's really upsetting. Yeah, it was 12 years ago. Anyway, you should Jack's career has gone downhill since then. But the um just the it's a it is an absolute masterpiece of journalism because Richard Keys will have read that piece and thought I come out of that really well and nobody else will. And I think what's brilliant about Sunderland till I die is they tread that same line. the executives will have thought this has gone pretty well. I have I have I have given a fair account of myself and when they are exposed to the sunlight of of broader scrutiny that is not the um the take that is not your takeaway but that is combined with something that will become a real trope of all of the subsequent shows and it's the bit it's interesting that that was the bit that everyone kind of latched on to which is the kind of the meaning and the sweetness and the touching nature of fandom and what it means to a community. That's the other thing that Sunderland Till I Die does brilliantly. It it draws out this is not just a sports team. This is an avatar for a place. This is this is where all of our hopes hopes and dreams reside. And that is the thing I think that lots of people watched and thought, "Huh, we can do that, too." But we can also but we can do it in a in a way that makes us look better by doing it ourselves, right? Like I think you were kind of hinting at it earlier. Do you think it feels to me like after Sunderland like team no club is going to want a bunch of people to come in and put c wave cameras in their faces, publish the documentary, then risk making us look like idiots. But clubs might be thinking if we can make our own documentary and if we can harness that kind of community feel and then pack and this is something we talked about the lot on the pod before. If we can package that and then sell it out and sell it to the world via the means of a documentary and we can explain to the world how we are, you know, we have this kind of cosmic power to harness that all that local energy. Uh then that's an incredibly powerful piece of branding. Basically, it's a powerful brand story. Yeah. And it's it's like the the chorus line in these programs are actually the stars, aren't they? Rather than the actual football stars themselves. Um, the people that act most unnaturally in these documentaries tend to be footballers. I mean, you some of the uh some of the it's scripted reality, isn't it? In the it's like the uh, you know, the only way is Essics or Made in Chelsea. Of the two minutes that I have watched of those, I should have mentioned. Come on, John. Come on. It's okay. There's no there's no tint shaming here. You can admit to watching Made in Chelsea. It's not a problem. One of my oldest and best friends edits this stuff and I take great pride in telling him I've never watched them. So there you go. Um and so one of these here is uh and Jack you're the man on the Spurs beat the all or nothing Spurs documentary was it was fairly disappointing but it was it was David David was David he's forgotten him already. Daniel Ley Daniel Levy. God what happened to him? uh his attempt to keep up with the Joneses, wasn't it? He's like, "Oh, Manchester City have had one of those. I want want that, too." Uh and or Juventus. Um and I thought there was some painful bits. There's a bit where Daniel Ley's drinking a pint of Stella, and I think that's probably the first pint of Stella Daniel Levy has ever drunk, but he sort of does it to show himself off as a as as an everyman. Uh, and there's another bit where Delhi Ali is talking with one of the physios about the best way to put uh do you when you put brushing your teeth, do you put water on first or do you put it on after you put the toothpaste on? And I did think how desperate for material must have been that this is featured and it goes on for about two minutes this discussion. But the other thing about that one was Jose Marinho. Now we've always wanted a Jose Marinho fly on the wall documentary. We want to see this guy be Jose Mourinho. And the weird thing is he couldn't carry off being Jose Mourinho. Like there's that really unnatural scene, isn't it? The one where he's saying he swears at a Sky Sports report which is actually dubbed over and you know speak to my friends that do work in this injury saying there's about five edits that make that look quite bad. It doesn't really come off. And Mourinho I think had looked at the Pep Guardiola one where Pep in the all the City version of this actually comes across as Pep Guardiola because Pep cannot do anyone other than Pep. Pep is himself. He's the star of the show. He's a fascinating figure. Mourinho was actually quite disappointing. He didn't quite become what you wanted to see. He didn't Jack. Yeah. So, we talked earlier, didn't we, about how these these documentaries are, I think ultimately they're about a club trying to sell a particular image, a particular brand, a particular story about themselves. And so, they always come, I think, of like certain moments in a club's development. And I think that all or nothing Tottenham is maybe the best example of this. So, this was this was set up in it covers the 201920 season. So it would it would have been agreed upon I think in the back end of the 1819 season which was when Tottenham opened their new stadium. Uh they obviously got to the Champions League final that season and the like the main kind of feeling around Tottenham at that point was we are a big club now. That was that was the theme and obviously and they you know so they agreed this documentary I don't think Murio Pochino was especially keen on it. Uh and you can see that in the you the season starts when Pino is still the manager. He doesn't have he doesn't he's not performing for the camera an awful lot. I don't think he doesn't don't think he was especially keen to give them a lot of his time. But then you know in November of that season they sack Pochino and brought in Mourinho. And I I've always suspected I've always had this at the back of my mind. I'm sure this would would be would be denied by the people involved, but it did occur to me that Mourinho was just a much better star for this vehicle than Pochettino. Like he Mourinho is a brilliant media performer. Mourinho wants to be the superstar. He wants to be on camera. And so I did always think that I this almost felt like a kind of Daniel Levy master plan, right? We we'll have a documentary and Mourinho will be the star of the documentary and through this we'll get out into the the eyes of the world. through this documentary. And so it was it was all wrapped up in kind of projecting the global brand of Tottenham Hotspur um around the world. But there's not really there, as you said, there's not really an awful lot of interesting detail in there. There's a lot of conversations between Levby and Mourinho. And you're not really clear like who's who's performing for whom here, who's like, you know, Levy would talk about how, you know, he would offer his thoughts on the game and Mourinho would just nod along. Yes. Yes. Yes. Um, but yeah, there's it's uh it was not there's not an awful lot in there, I don't think. Is is that because they're kind of or do you think that's because they're kind of selling into it? They're trying to to to make more fans in America. That's the basic plan, right? They they want that drive to survive play. Let's let's um let's make ourselves more appealing to Americans because that's where everyone sees the growth market as. And you know, if if we bring some Europeans with us, great. If not, who cares? Um, but they also kind of know in the back of their minds, Spurs fans will watch this. Like, Spurs fans will be interested in this. They will they will be the kind of bedrock audience. That's what makes it appealing to Prime, uh, who I think carry the all or nothing strand. Um, we can they will have figures that say we can attract an audience reliably of x00,000 Tottenham fans who just consume anything on Spurs and that makes it kind of worthwhile for Prime. The the the play for Spurs is can we go and make some more fans? But unlike with F1, the clubs aren't actually that willing to give the access. I remember with and it's interesting what Jack says about Pochettino, which is what prompted the thought when um when Liverpool commissioned not being Liverpool, one of the true originators of the um of the of the Oh, I was about to we're going to get to that, don't worry. of the um of the of the genre, the V. When they commissioned the the clock, what became the Klopp one, Doubters to Believers, that was, I think, before Klopp had decided or informed them that he was going to going to quit or, you know, resign or whatever. Um, and they had to kind of do a little bit of a a switcheroo on the on the production. I think it was Lawson who made that one. They they had to turn it into a clock docu, like a clock retrospective. Um, but he didn't want to be in it. He was he he was him, his staff or certainly quite a lot of his staff, not all of his staff. Um, and a lot of the players were like, "I'm not really I mean, I'm not really up for this. I've got, you know, this is not something that I want to do." And so what you end up with is a documentary that is trying to be sort of three different things. One for the fans, one for new fans, and one for the documentarians who were all trying to produce, you know, they're all trying to make something good. They don't want to make anything [ __ ] They they're serious professionals who take their take their art seriously. And those three things are really hard to marry up because you can't tell the stories that will win over new fans, that will make them invest in your kind of personal journey if you can't get the access to the people at the center of it. And I wonder to an extent with some of them whether that's why that community aspect of the publican or you know this person who worked in the club and is a lifelong fan. I wonder if that's why they lean so heavily on those stories, Harvey Elliot's dad, because they can't really get access to anybody else because football does still have that that reticence to let people into the inner sanctum which I think is different in American sports. I think US sports it is so the idea that you should be kind of exposed even in the most private areas of a of a team. the the journalist going into the dressing room after a baseball game and you know talking to the players while they've got towels wrapped around them is is alien in in football and probably rightly I feel like we don't need to see players in a state of undressed that that feels excessive to me but I think if you look through American sports NFL films were set up the year after the NFL was set up like it was they were trying to curate and document it in real time whereas in football there is still that sense most training grounds will have an area that only the players are allowed in and they will not they they will not let other people in that area. You can't I remember sneaking into city's um like players area at the training round with Ilkai Dundan when I I wrote a piece about him several years ago. My career has also gone downhill jack um and he was like come in quickly but let's let's not hang around as you are not meant to be here. This is just for the players. Um yeah, it's funny is it Americans I've always felt was so so much more natural on TV than uh people from Britain say. Uh and is that to do with public access TV? Is it the fact they all have video cameras at home? Show and tell. It's show and tell. Is that what it is? Yeah. They all stand up at school and do show and tell. Okay. Well, and and I I think um it's Adam Curtsis, famous documentarian. uh he was talking about this the other day about how when he's producing his the latest one was it called Shifty when he's producing these documentary he says when you've got footage after about 98 99 people are now aware that they're on TV whereas before they weren't and so that's the reality TV aspect of it so everyone is building their own portfolio these days with camera phones and all that stuff and the idea that you can be on TV now and I think like a documentary going back to the ' 70s, you know, like the the one that we enjoyed, the Manchester City one with Malcolm Allison from 1980, even, you know, the the the Graeme Taylor one, obviously the classic is people weren't used to being part of that, but now it's almost like, well, of course I'm on TV. I mean, everyone is. Yeah. Yeah, I there's a brilliant book on this called Cue the Sun by Emily Nusbam who's a a New Yorker journalist about the kind of orig origins of reality TV and she she goes into that shift of if you watch early reality TV people are much more natural because they don't know how to be on television so they are just themselves. It it doesn't take long before we all realize that that this is what you do when you're on TV. And I always think that with players as well that the reason players so often resort to sound bites is is because partly because I've been asked really obvious questions immediately after they've run about 15k and I mean I don't know if if you've ever run 15k but if anyone asked me after 15k if I wanted to to assess my performance I'm not sure I'd give the most sort of aerodite answer. It's not just running 15k though is it? Because if you're if you're playing a football match most of the running you do is sprinting. Like I could I mean I could probably jog 15k and then be very tired and feel sick afterwards. But I definitely couldn't sprint on and off like stop stuff stop. I would I that would be the end of me. Yeah. You we we would all die and the but the the players kind of know what they're meant to say. It's why they resort to these phrases because everyone is used to this experience. And I think a lot of people now are it's maybe why in a lot of these documentaries Yeah. those kind of fan characters or the kind of the ex the football adjacent characters of the stars is because they they are just as native to this medium as anybody else. They know what they know what people do on TV. They know what it looks like to be on TV. they've watched enough TV and if you watch a lot of these documentaries like so I've watched a lot of the Kardashians like I've watched all keeping up with the Kardashians and uh now the show just called Kardashians which is on Disney Plus and it and it and you're right like Rory you know when it ch it felt fly on the wall at first but in the later series you've got this constant kind of interchange right between the stuff which is filmed like as live which is obviously very put on and then it cuts to one a member of the family basically like talking and analyzing the scene that you've just seen. So, you're constantly getting this interplay between the sort of live footage in inverted commas and then the the the analysis of that footage. And I kind of feel like that's the that is probably where these shows will end up. you know, they'll have they'll show you a kind of clip of Kyle Walker running, you know, running down the right and putting across it and then it will cut to Kyle Walker sat in a, you know, sat in a kind of in his house or whatever, but at the training ground afterwards and he will talk about that like in the present tense as if it's happening saying like and then and then I run down the right and then I burst past um Hugo Hugo Bueno and then I whip across in and then it will go back to the footage and so you'll get this kind of a genuinely Kardashian feel in the course of these documentaries with that with that horrifying vision of the future that uh a vision of the future and Jack's TV habits that we've just had there. No shaming. Let's let's let's take a short break. Uh and also remind you uh the listener if you can help us by liking and subscribing. Commenting on the YouTube is pretty helpful. Commenting on the Spotify is helpful too. Be nice if you can. Actually, be nice if you can. particularly with the reviews. And we'll be back after this piece of moody music. Welcome back to part two of Livero. Jack and Rory are still here getting their Netflix and Amazon queued up to watch the latest documentary series. But I'm going to take you back, Rory. And uh this is a point probably about the time I I I we began to know each other was the golden era of being colon Liverpool. Remember you got remember the colon? Uh I think that was Fox TV that was wasn't it? That was a fact. Yeah, it was yeah. Uh I actually bought a DVD of that uh in an era where you don't buy DVDs. I'm still a sort of analog digital guy. Uh because I loved that program. so much because oh my god the the I mean has Brendon Rogers ever recovered really from that? No. And I I wonder in fact I wrote about this a little while ago. I think being Liverpool was to an extent before its time. It was too early. Well, we've always said Rory that uh FSG are you know they're pretty farsighted people. They were ahead of the game with this. But I mean people thought it was just kind of silly and weird. They didn't realize that this is it was all of that. I mean it was but like they didn't realize that in you know seven or eight years later all clubs would want to do that wouldn't they? Yeah 100%. And I think Liverp Yeah they I suppose there's a whatever the what's the opposite of first mover's advantage I don't know but Liverpool had whatever that is in the sense that football hadn't seen it. It was quite a familiar thing in the US and I think FSG looked at it and thought no one else is doing it. we can make some money and it will have kind of extra benefits in terms of winning extra fans elsewhere by telling our story. All this stuff that is now what 12 years on we all totally accept all of the time. um it wasn't particularly well thought through and I think its legacy was probably that it put quite a lot of teams off doing it for a while because yeah Rogers in particular that defined his public image and I'm not a great fan of Brendan Rogers but you know the thing about the portrait of himself in his house which has a really nice backstory and is totally legitimate but it's just it's a really bad look like just don't have a self-portrait in your house, even if you've been given it by a charity to commemorate your work for that charity and it it's very meaningful to you. Either don't put it up in your house or maybe take it down when the TV cameras are there. Like, you got to think that stuff through. And I think as much as if you watched Being Liverpool now on your DVD, John, I'm not sure it would be any more craven or drawing than any of the all or nothing. In fact, it might be a little bit more honest. It at the time it was so alien and it seemed so antithetical. Do you know what? Actually, it it felt a bit like they're getting above themselves, which as we discussed previously is the one thing that British people don't like. Yeah, that was it had this it was Clive Owen, wasn't it? Did the narration. Uh Clive Owen, a Liverpool fan. Uh but the script was just it was really weird sort of and it was written for an American audience quite clearly. So when it's when it they showed it on channel 5 over here and it was like what are these words that they're speaking and Clive is saying them in an English accent speaking in American if you see what I mean like it was like a a really odd uh and there was so many things that are now cliches there. I mean every documentary on Liverpool has to feature some local poet doesn't it? So there was a local poet in the pub and there's always this the symbol I suppose of the the workingclass man and you'll get this in Rexom and Birmingham and whichever ones are doing them these days is of the fizzing pint sat on a pub table you know because all of life revolves around the fizzing pint on a pub table and it I suppose it was ahead of its time despite that laughter and now I mean that was that was an authorized documentary And another image, Ian Air on his motorcycle. Oh, I mean that was a classic David Brent thing, wasn't it? I mean, it was just they they so I mean Brendan Rogers has I think just about recovered from that. But I'd say that the way that he's seen by the football public is is is at least in part well partly rooted in that, but it's also partly rooted in within a year of that documentary, Liverpool were very close to winning the league, but his credibility was never quite what it should have been for someone that did that. Yeah. Anyway, so moving on to to the the latest of these as far as I can gather and that there may be some bubbling under, but it it does appear that maybe this medium has come to something of a halt apart from Rexom, which you know is still bubbling. Uh I watched the Birmingham uh documentary, Tom Brady, Brady and the Blues I think this is called, which sounds like some sort of ' 70s cop series or something, doesn't it? Now this uh is a an interesting uh meeting of I suppose the Rexom idea where you meet the fans, you meet the people behind the you know the manager uh the manager Chris Evans he's called isn't he? Uh he's a pretty capable guy um in the Phil Parkinson role. Then you've got Tom Brady, right? And Tom Brady is an overgrown sporting athlete, a sporting great, uh, a man uh, in his mid to late 40s who doesn't, like many sportsmen, hasn't got over being the sportsman that he was. And there's a meeting with Wayne Rooney. Now, whatever you think about Wayne Rooney as a manager, Wayne Rooney is one of the greatest footballers that's probably ever lived, and he's one of the greatest English footballers. I think Tom Brady didn't know who Wayne Rooney actually was when they meet and he's and there's this line, isn't there? I'm not sure about the energy levels of our manager. I mean, all right, fair enough. But that's Wayne Rooney. There was a point when Rooney was more famous than Tom Brady. Oh, I mean, I'd say globally Wayne Rooney is still more famous than Tom Brady. Yeah. Yeah. And he and that comes across really and and so you got this thing with Brady and his bros, you know, his lawyer and his players driving around in a limo and he's explaining to them what Birmingham is. Um and uh they go to the Veru final. We we've got that finally, Rory, after we couldn't remember its name last time. Uh a game I attended. Um and that was that's supposed to be the final set piece. you know, this is where and they lose it. And Tom Tom Wagner, who is the uh the owner, gives this speech to the players, which is clearly set up for this documentary as they're at at the Royal Box receiving their losers medals. It's quite amazing. And it's it's it's almost like post we've gone from the Rexom thing, which I think has a certain amount of credibility, the Sunland thing, to the Rexom thing. and the Rex thing is a pretty positive uh you know almost Hollywood aspect nice story and the people the other one feels like it's not quite of that level is it is it a kind of sliding scale of of cravenness that so I remember interviewing Rob Menny Rob Mack as he is now and Ryan Reynolds about um about Rexum and say putting that you know the the idea that the kind of established law is that um they were in they watch Sunland till I die dur or Rob Mack watched Sunland Till I died during lockdown. Thought let's do that for football. He says that's he said to me and I think he may have said it different to other people that that's not quite true that he watched a documentary about Diego Maradona and thought looked at this this whole kind of sporting landscape that I don't understand and that was what inspired him. Regardless, it's kind of a cross between Sunderland till I die and Ted Lasso. That is what Rexum is and it has worked really well. Like the the scale of their success in in the US is astonishing. And if look, if Miguel was on this podcast, there would be a slightly different perspective here. I think it's really hard to think that what's happened to Rexum is bad. If I'm completely honest, like I get that there is it is it's inherently exploitative. You are using a kind of working-class cultural institution to further to make money through creating content, but given literally all of the available alternatives like Rob Mack and Ryan Reynolds are not the bad guys in modern football. No, I agree with you Rory. Yeah, I just think like I Yeah, I' I've always taken a view broadly along those lines. I think largely because I think I mean it's a bit it may maybe it's slightly different now but when certainly when they started when Rexen were what in the national league I think in the first season you know there's so many there there are not many happy stories out there about national league owners like most owners of clubs at that level are either underinvesting I mean they're not investing the team because they don't have any money like they can't invest in the team or because or you know they're trying to turn the ground into flats or they're not paying their taxes or whatever like it, you know, spend spend 10 minutes looking up the finances and ownership model of uh you know, step one, two, and three in non-league football, and that's basically what you will find. Um, so I think that having particularly in a town like Rexom, like a big town with a big and well supported club who done nothing for a very long time, actually having money, having owners who come in and say, "We want to make you good. We are going to spend money. Here's our plan to do so. here's how we here's how we're going to keep the money coming in and we're going to spend it on players. There's worse things in football than that basically. And even and particularly when it means getting more people to go and watch the team and even like the bid worry when they first took over was right what happens when they get bored or when the the audience drops and Disney or whoever shows it in the states drops the documentary. But I think the answer to that is pretty obvious that what Rexum now is worth much more money than it than it was then. Like Rexum is now a viable viable business to buy. you you would have people who wanted to buy states in Rexom and that there is a question mark over like will they be the right people the people that Reynolds and and Rob Mack sell it to eventually might be total scumbags and they have to get that decision right it's really important they do but it's really hard and Miguel Wood and I'm not saying this with any disrespect to a you know beloved member of Libero Miguel takes quite a hard line on this stuff but it's really hard I find it very difficult to make the case that it has been bad for Rexum like it's it's clearly been a good thing for Rexom. The question I think is how I think it's interesting to think what like what impact the nature of Rexom's fandom has on how on how it's run as a football club. Like what happens when Phil Parkinson is underperforming? Does the fact that a lot of your fans, like a massive proportion of your fans are personally invested in Phil Parkinson's journey, does that change the nature of your decision-m? like are you are you operating purely along the lines of like sporting merit as it comes to some of those characters and and the other thing that I think is interesting is that the the the case studies that are kind of downstream of Rexum Birmingham is directly inspired by Rexom. Rexum was inspired a bit by Ted Lasso and a bit by Sunderland and a bit by this random Maradona documentary that Rob Mack watched. Birmingham is just trying to ape Rexom. Yes. Which makes it a much more cynical play. Well, I suppose Tom Magnus view is trying to make he's got the classic sort of thing of like I'm going to move into Birmingham. We're going to rebuild the stadium. We're going to rebuild Birmingham is is one of his plans it appears to be. Um and that is that's a bigger job than Rexom. I'll say that. Uh I suppose one aspect of it is that if you support a club that's in those tiers and obviously Brex have gone through the tears pretty quickly, there is resentment from those other fans that are like, well, you know, you got this lottery win, this cash injection. One of the things we heard was that when the makers of the series were putting it together, they looked for a suitably poor working-class town. One things I was told is that Macklesfield, my town, was too affluent. Uh quite right quite right. Yes. The the town center doesn't look too affluent these days, I'm afraid. Uh the the the um that it had too many middle- class people in and it was or whatever and it and Rexom suited that and that feels a little bit cynical and there was res there was resentment when Sulford, you know, because they had the class of 92 involved there was resentment in their division. Um, and I think the point that Miguel would make, and I don't want to speak for for our dear friend, is that you can't have that. It's it's an imbalancing factor in in the league. Yeah. And it's it's the same as as saying that it you need to to retain FA Cup replays because that is basically English football's lower league financial model that occasionally you might get Man United away in the third round. That is the reward. So yeah, you are now if you're a team in lead one, your route to success in English football's beloved pyramid is either you get Man United in the third round of the FA Cup or someone from Hollywood buys you. And Midell is right to say that that is not a healthy financial situation. The flip side to that argument is of course the reason they have to rely on that is because the those in the top tier the Premier League have still not kicked down the money that they should do do from the EFL which is uh possibly another subject we should discuss at length. But also I think the other the other thing that's significant about rectum about Birmingham and we touched on it right at the start is these are all controlled. They are not documentaries. Yeah, there is nothing executive producer Tom Brady. That's that's the they are are projects designed to make their to cast their stars as heroes and that is that has a you know whether that's good or bad for the clubs depends I guess case by case whether it's good or bad for football I think it's probably neutral like value neutral I suppose given that you know if you accept the world as it is but what it does not do is give you a realistic insight into what football is like it doesn't it creates an artificial world in the same way as all those structured reality shows do. Yeah, absolutely. To close this out, do you think that maybe the Birmingham one might be the last of them? Or I mean, I know that there's a Naka version of the uh with the club is owned by Eva Longoria. Now, I've not done the research, but I don't know how responsive the fans of NASA were to Eva Longoria. I'm sure they were pretty happy about that. I feel like you would be if anyone in the in the world bought your club and it was Evil Longoria, you'd be pretty happy about that. It seems all right, doesn't it? Yeah, but so but maybe it's not over, but the all or nothing series for football seems to I know Manchester United, which is which is both a shame and a good thing. Like they they had an opportunity to work with Amazon on a documentary and they decided not to. We'd all like to see that documentary done Watson and all in the style of John Sitten. I mean, if you were to do it like Graeme Taylor. Oh, 100%. But that isn't the documentary you'd get, is it? So I I would love to watch I think that there can be no better subject for a documentary at the moment than like the modern Manchester United desperately kind of blindly stumbling towards some sort of future. But what you would get would be hey geography and that is it's interesting that I wonder if that does have a bitter audience than what than a version of the John like Ruben Amarim as John Sitten. But why do they need to make a documentary when every single every single match that they play is so entertaining? It would be physically impossible for them to make to produce content better than the 90 minutes of their game against Brenford or any of their games. And and this is the issue, isn't it? The drive to survive, a lot of people are into it because it's actually more interesting than the racing itself. Yeah. Are these documentaries more interesting than football? Manchester United against Grimby match this moment of the season. You couldn't script, you know, rumor Amarim's little plastic tactics board. Amarim not being able to watch the penalties. You know, you can't no no no no reality TV scripted documentary whatever could come close to producing anything like that. And that's the glory of football. But John, I think you've hit on something really important there and it's suitable that it's like the last thing we say after an hour is is are are the reason these are popular because people prefer them to the actual football and that is that comes that gets to the heart of like loads of stuff we talk about on this podcast which is the extent to which are fans engaging with football as a sport or is it to use like that that Juventus phrase? Is football now a lifestyle that you live? And I think there probably is an audience out there that would prefer to watch Manchester United in documentary form. To be honest, there's probably quite a lot of Man United fans who'd rather watch Manchester United in documentary forms than actually watch them play football at the moment. But there are there is an audience of fans out there and it's much bigger than the audience who want to watch games who are into all the stuff around football, whether that's transfers or, you know, kind of the personality side of it like Stanning Leo Messi. That stuff is much bigger. People consume football in clips and highlights and all that stuff. What people want is this 247 content and that's what the documentary is trying to provide. That's the that's the type of audience they're aiming for. Right. So, well, we look forward to the libero flying the wall documentary that's coming to you. Possibly never if we can get Miguel Wilson could be difficult to get do that, could you imagine his image his image right still? His image right be huge. Jesus Christ. Anyway, uh thank you Rory. Thank you Jack for for joining us. Uh, and thank you of course producer Tom up in the little corner there. We can see him. Uh, and uh, well, like, subscribe, all the rest of it. Tell your friends. See you next time. Cheers. Powered by Riverside FM.