================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: yD56uqPxbog
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yD56uqPxbog
TITLE: Is the Premier League's financial might causing problems on the continent? | Libero 047
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-26
DURATION: 1h 4m 12s
VIEWS: 2,561
LIKES: 131
COMMENTS: 26

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The European club season is now underway, with the Champions League draw to follow on Thursday. James Horncastle and Miguel Delaney join John Brewin to discuss some of the key questions from the continent. The rest of Europe is taking some surprising decisions to keep up with the Premier League’s riches. Each of the so-called top-five leagues have taken different approaches. Can they work? Or are the major clubs now in control? Plus, some more logs are thrown on the PSR fire. 

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero 
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky.social 
Follow us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/liberopod

Chapters
00:00 Intro
05:21 Serie A's market dynamics and stability in Italy?
16:06 The state of Spanish football and Barcelona's challenges
26:04 Bundesliga's struggles and its media outlook
32:07 The influence of English football on France and beyond
39:34 Has Be
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 16
English available: False (none)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,408

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Well, hello. Good evening and welcome to the latest edition of Libero, the podcast about the most important of the least important things. As I said, as I think F. Scott Fitzgerald once said to his friend Gertrude Stein. Now, do you know what? I've actually written impotent there. Uh, which I think might also work. So, we're the most impotent of the least impotent things. So, I don't know how that works. Anyway, I think John's pitching for some ED advertising there. We're all of an age. We're all of an age. Um, yeah. Well, yeah. To get those advertisers flowing in. Actually, I'm going to make a request. Um, keep spreading the word by liking and subscribing on Spotify, Apple, uh, and joining in our YouTube channel. Get your comments in. So anyway, uh I'm joined uh in in in the uh virtual studio today by James Horn Castle of the East Riding and Athletic and Miguel Delaney, adopted son of the Onsworth Delta of the Independent. Um you may have noticed that we didn't do a European season preview. Uh we got bogged down in all types of dryness, PSR, and so on. A bit a bit more of which later. Uh but in mind of the fact that most of it kicked off this weekend apart from Spain which obviously started the pre previous week uh and with a Champions League draw to come later this week. Uh we're going to try and discuss the lie of the land uh on a continent. But as ever it's probably a good place to start is the Premier League. Some observations from there. Pep Guardiola it's over for him. Thomas Frank absolute genius. Graeme Potter. Oh dear. I was at Fulham v Man United further grinding of the gears. Miguel, I think you were uh where were you this weekend? So I I'm actually home for my nephew's christening. That meant I went to West Ham Chelsea on Friday evening. Wow. Okay. I watched United Fulham from uh my local pub yesterday, which is extreme to extreme. It's either massive United fans or abus. But yeah, I was going to say there just from what you mentioned, I mean, going into this weekend, the teams were obviously good signs of United, Amarum is all going well. Guardiola, yep, everything back. City are going to dominate everything again. And Spurs, what a joke. Whereas, uh, after the weekend, as you say, Pep, it's over. Amaram, massive problems. And Thomas Frank is is the man, the man that United should have gone to. Yeah. Who is Eberretche? Ez is what they're asking in Tottenham these days. Yeah. We've long forgotten. Um, yeah. Amazing, isn't it? way these these things are turned over. Um and of course uh another team uh of which doom and gloom was predicted earlier this week. Everton Jack Greish reborn. Great to see I think. Uh but yeah um so many story lines in the Premier League. we go. And actually I just we should add there's three great story or at least 2.5 great stories outside the Premier League which is Morham, Sheffield Wednesday and um Coventry City given like the the anniversary and buying it now maybe that I say 2.5 because not so great for QBR. Um but yeah, it does you know especially given what we're about to talk about for the next hour and actually this is true for the European League as well. The good of football does still find a way. Yeah, I mean it's it, you know, uh Frank Lampard's commentary as we're legally uh binded to call them. Uh brilliant result 71. We wanted 10. It it didn't happen. Uh but yeah, I think they're now in control of their stadium after 20 years. The Rico, all types of legal um wrangles. I don't know if you've been up to the stadium. Uh it I was up there a couple of years ago and uh it it has a slightly care one feel to it like because it was sky blue the colors obviously of Comry City bleached in the sun the sun such as it is in Comry and so it has this sort of like bleach sky blue feeling to it that you but uh it's also reasonably high tech so yeah good look to Coventry I am of an age that Coventry are an establishment top division club I'd be interested to see Frank and Gan must have a use of Chipo. Yeah, the Wednesday one was great as well though I have to say. I mean that that was the Wednesday one was great and Rexom given we I suppose we discussed you know some of the some of the debates around their ownership say to be fair like when the gold shirts in solidarity um the chanting in solidarity although I was speaking to someone who was at the game who said the chanting in solidarity from Rexom fans inspired Wednesday's comeback. Well, yeah. I I Wednesday things are so difficult for the players and staff there. Um, and obviously and we're talking about sporting difficulty there, aren't we? Rex are actually finding it reasonably difficult in in the championship, which should make for interesting streaming content. Um, and we'll get on to streaming content later in this pod. Um, right. Okay. To the continent. And one of us here is actually on the continent. James, uh, you are on one of his regular trips to Siri, uh, Citadels. Where and when have you been? Where are you off to next? I am in Milan at the moment. um which is uh pretty good place to base yourself particularly in the final week of the transfer window because usually uh the clubs rent a hotel behind Sansiro and they use it as kind of a trading floor where they they all meet. It's all happens in one place. Um so if something falls through you can go and talk to another club. They might have a player in the position you want. Speed dating speed transfer. It is draft mixed up with trading places. That that sort of Yeah, it sounds great. I mean, why aren't Sky getting this and monetizing this, you know, as a as a spectacle? Well, again, I mean, I, you know, people think I'm just the the company man saying this sort of stuff because it's it's it's very much part of my company brand, but um uh Sydia has invented so many things. You know, it is responsible for like this kind of, you know, um our obsession with the transfer market. you know they they're really the first when it came up to come up with sort of transfer reporting as a kind of specialism you know for Britzio was basically reared born and raised by Januka de Matio um whose father was a sporting director and a coach back in the day so he grew up around sporting directors and agents they've had this thing where as I mentioned every deadline day they have a hotel yeah that's been going on for decades Now, I always remember Mino Rier kind of coming out of the hotel foyer one time ranting and raving about how the Wi-Fi had failed. It wasn't good enough and basically it had cost him a deal so they moved the hotel. Uh and so I mean the other reason to be here is because at the moment like Lombedi you know as much as there are Milan and into here Lombedi the region uh which Milan is capital um there are so many clubs in city are from this region. Last year it was Monza. Monza have gone down but they've been replaced by Cremana who have just up the road. Ko biggest spenders in the league last couple of years just up the road as well. Atalza who've been such a mainstay of European football u as well over the last seven or eight years. Uh a a very short train ride away. And um you know because we you know in Italy HS2 actually happened rather than you know sort of just billions of taxpayers money in Britain just going down the drain. Um you can get to Rejo Amelia to watch Sasual Napoli which is what I did on Saturday and in 40 minutes which is um which is crazy. So yeah, I've done SEO Napoli, saw Mctomadona. Uh again, I think you know Kevin De Bruyne is going to have a really hard time actually uh knocking the crown off Scott McTominay's head which is just incredible when you think of their careers in Manchester and how Kevin De Bruyne is seen as the best player in Manchester City's history, one of the best players in Premier League history. Scott McTominay good United career but Naples legend. He seen of a sort of inferior Darren Fletcher, wasn't he? That was like, you know, it was Well, do you remember his his his um n his kind of origin story was basically uh Jose apparently putting him in the team for some sort of political reason. Uh Pogba was dropped um in a in a classic, but obviously McTominay has gone on to prove is very much not political. He was also a favorite of Sir Alex as well. It was after Serax's time and there's a some footage of I think it's a preseason game where Alex turns to Jose points to McTominay and says get him in the team. He's a fellow Scott. You see I think that might have been part of it. Scott Mctomin has lived up to uh at least Sir Alex's expectations. I was always a always thought that uh he was misused by United. There was something there but like so many players at that club uh United didn't find it. which I mean just see him actually dressed in a suit at Wimbledon this year, you know, and and looking like, you know, the consumer, a European gentleman. He just incredible. Incredible. He he could have been hanging out with James Horncastle. I mean, it was um I was going to ask you, Miguel, uh about one of your compatriots. Um Evan Ferguson played for Roma. Uh decent enough debut. The goal didn't come, but they did win. Yeah. Yeah. and looks looked encouraging. He's probably kind of getting up to sharpness given I suppose full fitness has been a bit of an issue for him since his um initial breakthrough which is now what two years ago. Uh but like I think I was talking to James about this during the summer. One of the reasons he actually picked Roma he did have a lot of options because clubs can see the potential in him despite kind of how he's uh he stagnated a bit. But one of the reasons he picked Roma was because Gasparin he got him and basically told him about how you know what he did with Handland. He thinks he's a better player than Handland and feels he can kind of you know fashion him into the forward he he he should become and yeah signs are promising including I was just going to go through the social media. I mean this is also a very Irish thing as well especially when we have a player who has potential like this looking through the discussion from you know foreign country about our player there and yeah all you know Roma fans go on about how he's the the reincarnation of Batisuta and all this great to see if not if not necessarily something we actually we've seen him physically yet there's a there's a great uh Irish pub crawl that you can do in Rome as well um if he wants to do that Scholars Lounge Abby Theater it feel. I mean, anytime I've been to Rome and seen the Irish pubs, it's like it'd be it's almost it'd be wrong to be in Rome and be in a bloody Irish bar. I feel that about most cities, actually. But anyway, it's it's one of the few places you can watch Premier League. So, like when I when I lived in Rome, I would go to the Abbey Theater, uh, get a fast menu, which was like a unspeakable kind of burger for like you got burger, chips, and a pint for like €9. And then you could just watch Premier League all day, which you know, I mean, it's it I know people have this certain idea of what my life might be like in Italy, but some days just wanted to go and have a Guinness and watch I seem to remember watching Yovil in a playoff final in the Abby Theater in Rome. Abby. Wow. But uh anyway, a digression. Ferguson I thought was really good. I watched I watched the game. our first 15 minutes had three chances, three very different chances um and was unlucky not to score. Um and uh you know as as Mig was alluding to there, you know, Gaspirini turned Hland in the space of a year into a player that Man United were prepared to pay 70 million for. Last year he had Mateo Reggi uh Reti ended the top top top scorer in Sydia and has just moved to Saudi Arabia for 70 million. Um I mean he couldn't be in better hands Ferguson. So I think as long as he stays fit and he started over the striker they signed for a lot of money last year at Doofic. Uh very encouraging. Um, but looking at the overall picture, James, in Syria, uh, it's fair to say it's in a bit of flux. I mean, 12 clubs are change manager. I know the change manager a lot in Italy, but six of the top eight. Uh, one of your particular heroes, Master Miano Allegri, lost his first game, Milan. Tell me about that. Tell how tell me tell me about all the managerial changes and the big flux we're in cuz it it's I I can't really work out what is going to happen in that season apart from Napoli somehow look a stable club when you've got Kante and Durantis at the same club. I mean it's it's how's that situation right? Yeah, I mean even when the news came through last week that Lukaku had s suffered quite a bad muscle injury and is going to be out for, you know, three months, Conte was very relaxed um and was saying, you know what, we'll find the solution. Might be in the transfer market. It might be, you know, among the players that have already got um and Kevin De Bruyne kind of finished the game uh in retroia playing as a false nine. And I mean it it's a lot of people have this idea of Italian football as being chaotic and look for decades it has conformed to that. Um you know you've had owners who basically go through lots and lots of coaches in one season. Um but gradually those owners have been phased out and replaced by foreign owners and you know for the last 5 years where you've seen this percolation of foreign ownership there's been a lot more stability. Um so Gaspirini for example was at Atlanta for nearly a decade. Uh Stephanopoli was at Milan for five or six years. Um you know Jose got two and a half years at Roma. Allegri 3 years in his second spell at Juventus, five years in his other spell. I do think that stability was kind of behind that little resurgence that we've seen in Europe. You know, even in Zagi was at into for four years. So that that stability has been there. So this summer does feel like it's been the most volatile um in quite some time. There there's kind of been an in the post Uve era which kind of like it did feel like it just a little bit like the Bundus League it kind of deadened Syria a bit. there's been an enjoyable vitality to it and even now like after this kind of recent I suppose Milan resurgence for both clubs if maybe if there's a title race this season say between Napoli and Roma and it does feel like maybe Ro and Roma winning it will be so good for the competition but that this that kind of the storyline of potential unpredictability of winners you don't necessarily seeing happening happening that feels all the more important now given I suppose like what we're going to talk about which is you know how these leagues kind of adapt to this to this new world, especially against the Premier League's power because it's the one thing he can sell or one big thing he can sell. Uh but of course then another issue as we'll get on to is ensuring you have people to watch it. Yeah. Yeah. Um we we move on to Spain now and uh you know I watched um over here on the Disney Plus uh Saturday night special. Um uh interesting at one point uh that they need to they need to get the sound mix right cuz I had both uh Phil Kitro uh and Rob Palmer at the same time. Love both of them. I would rather hear one at a time but uh other than that you know uh uh but it they actually for for a first game uh Levante against Barcelona um well it was just a typical Barcelona game. They go 2-0 down. Uh and then Barcelona come back and win. Uh Marcus Rashford subbed at Halime. Uh which um they started last week just to if you want to correct that. What? Sorry. They started last week. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. Well, no. It was the first game on uh on Disney. Sorry. Sorry. On Disney. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um yeah. So I mean yeah. Um and it's that highwire act, isn't it, of Hansy Flick. whatever happens to Barcelona, uh they're really entertaining. They really I mean, you know, they will give people a game because of the way that they play. Uh Marcus Rashford struggled and then uh essentially Hansy Flick talked after about how Rafina is the playmaker and from that point on um slightly fluky goal actually at one point but it was just uh as you'd expect um Barcelona um are such high risks but so entertaining to watch. I mean they're they're such a fascinating club as well and like I mean they're almost kind of a case study for where modern football is at least some of the financial decisions they've taken over the past decade and you would almost there is this argument and a lot of people in football say it that like Barca really they really don't deserve to be back where they are because of some of the the decisions they're taking some of the strategies and yet okay it's it's still not the the Barcelona of of Guardiola that made like that essentially created their modern identity But against all that and against how kind of like just complex everything with bars seems there's two things that still makes them you know so compelling and alluring. as you've said is suddenly this decision to appoint Flick whose style has made every game I mean they've become kind of like unmissable again in the same in a different way they were to Pep Guardiola and of course something he's using it in that which is just again this production line of players the one thing the club to be fair regardless of what happens around the all the noise like I mean there is an argument really that this summer the the club that should really have been on been in for Isak and what we would have expected maybe for most of the last 30 years of football history was Barcelona. They even had a vacancy in that area. They've like they could have used him in the way they've used Rashford or at least going to but they needed a wide player. Um instead they did the Rashford deal but of course even Rashford like he's facing competition from their array of young stars chief among them Yamal. So suddenly this again despite the dysfunction around the club here's another Messi. Well, yeah. And Pedri is I mean we should they did sign him actually. Well, you know, yeah, Pedro sign when he was very young, but I mean Pedrick scored a brilliant goal and which is something we didn't normally see see from him. They're I mean yeah the fascination with Barcelona and again uh the PSR debate other clubs like Newcastle like Aston Villa must look at a club like Barcelona that have broken it appear every rule possible and and you know pulled all these levers and fallen out and yet are still able to compete at the top cuz they're part of an established elite. But it does feel that at any point it could come apart and that continues the fascination with that club. But my memory of Barcelona before the Pep Guardiola uh era was they were boom and bust, weren't they? There was just it was either crisis, feast or famine and obviously that great big gap between 1974 and 1985 of not winning the title and expensive buys that didn't work out. And maybe they're just more like the real Barcelona than the Pep sort of perfection element that they had under him and Louis Enrique. But even the Pep era kind of actually in in a longer term fitted into this because rather than use it to kind of build something very stable for the future. instead them and and kind of I suppose Madrid as well and a whole kind of the La Liga power at that point rather than create something sustainable they actually created something to cannibalize themselves in terms of like so much of the money in Spanish football going into kind of two clubs it allowed the Premier League to get ahead and obviously like I mean one of the major stories in modern football and where we are where we are is because by the time CO hit they both had these kind of enormous levels of death that was kind of almost manifested in the two signing it was got sorry it was personified in two players that both in their late 20s that they signed for huge money Griezmann the Barca and uh Eden Hazard to Real Madrid both excellent players their own way but their signings typified kind of the the high point of that era that would cause you know both clubs to have you know to face big decisions in different ways that they are still sort of reckoning with a little bit despite Madrid winning Champions Leagues recently. Barcelona have always been a big club, a very big club, but to use Wilson's um inflammatory football food chain comment, you know, they used to get picked off by the Milan clubs, you know, Inter would buy Luito Suarez, the original Bondor winner. uh Ronaldo, they'd buy they'd pay the buyout clause for Ronaldo. And I think scale and stature club became disproportionately big with brand Barcelona when you had these things colliding, which was Pep, new football, the the big the big leap forward for football with Pep, Messi, the greatest player of all time, and Laasia all coming together simultaneously. and and that created a very long tale for that Barcelona era which didn't obviously end when when Guardiola left. See Messi kept going from one level to another. But you know the the big question with Barcelona should has to be like how did the most sustainable club become unsustainable which is you know if only Mick you mentioned those you know sort of Dembele and Coutinho transfers if only they basically said you know what we're good the guys down at Lamasia they tell they tell us they found another one you know in terms of not maybe not a new Messi but some players who if we if we give it two one or two seasons they'll be there. We don't need to spend the money we've got from Neymar and and they did they spent that money. And then the other thing is um the sheer expense of um keeping Messi happy and paying him what he felt or his his his father felt he was worth. col colossal amount of money even for a club that was bringing in huge revenues to to to bring in um wasn't worth it in the end, wasn't he? That was the point. I think there's a really interesting thing there that ties in with I suppose this whole theme of the continent having to adapt to the Premier League. Obviously, on this very podcast, we discussed a lot how English football has an ownership issue. Uh and that has kind of created uh problems for English football to have to deal with. Now, we would often or I would at least would point to kind of the uh panacea of fan ownership, which I think in most cases is good and obviously two most famous fan ownerships in the world by a distance are Real Madrid and Barcelona. But from speaking to people who do work in this and kind of like you know um work with clubs in terms of how these models should operate, they would say that while it's fan ownership in terms of stake as a club, it's not truly fanun because it the presidential model that both of these clubs have picked and there are actually two different models at Osu and Atletic Bau. the only other two Spanish clubs that were allowed to keep this old social model because of and it was because of their kind of their um their place in the local communities or the local geographical areas they've got kind of more it's because they're not as big I suppose as well they've got more kind of sustainable models whereas with Barca and Madrid because everything is so driven towards the president it's not true fan democracy becomes a form of populism and hence you have decisions where presidents are thinking about their legacy or the next elections that they kind of well we have to keep me I can't be the president who loses Messi um all all that stuff sort of stuff feeds into and also you have the situation of Madrid where even though it's still kind it's still fan ownership where it's supposed to be an elected president Florentino Perez basically the fixture there until he until he decides uh when to go right down to the point that people are are talking about how his successor is obviously going to be uh a business associate who worked with him on on the Super League project. Yeah, I mean it's talking of great expensive Real Madrid Mbappe in the goals against Sidlo FC ao. Yeah, I mean Trent on the bench which must have caused great delight over on Murzy side. Yeah, I mean it's Spanish football has come to back to those two great big giants hasn't it? and you know Atletico are the third way the lib dems of uh of Spanish football um let's move on to Bundesliga um where rather than two clubs there's one club Bayern Munich uh smash RB Leipiger one of their previous pretenders by Lewus and lose uh Dortmund draw with S Palley great game uh and you're thinking uh and I was chatting to a friend of ours uh who works in the Bundesliga only we were laughing that the Bundesliga is over. Uh it feels like the you know the the the silver has been sold off to the Premier League this summer the better players uh and Spain as well you obviously with um Etsy Flick coaching over there. Um and of course in England of course we had this new experience of streaming uh on Friday night. Uh I was able to watch it in the uh company of the former Brent Dezure on his uh channel. Uh and it was um an interesting watch. Enjoyed actually his comment that he didn't really know much about this and it's all a learning experience. I wonder how the Bundesliga execs that sold this deal thought what they thought of that when it when they were watching. Just on that cuz it and what I'm about to say is relevant to it. the the German results were so depressing to not just because Byron thrashed one of their recent kind of title rivals, one of the recent top four sides as all the others faltered, including Tennags and Leverkusen, but also because this is if you when you speak to people around Europe and even in Germany, this is a buyer that feels like it's at kind of a 0708 stage or 2017 stage where they're not as lean and sharp and kind of vibrant as they were when they kind of won in 2013 or then won the Champions League again in 2020. they're kind of they've been making kind of strange signings again. The identity and recruitment model doesn't seem as as focused as it was. Hence kind of they've been you know scrambling around a bit this summer. So that's obviously one issue. Um especially as the kind of I mean the Bundesliga has its own self-sustainable culture but I suppose we're talking about whether this league I mean and is one of the great leagues the German league one of the one of the big five. It should be producing a series of clubs that can compete at the top level of European football that can compete with Premier League clubs and instead they can't. And I know like James has especially experience of kind of dealing with this issue or discussing this issue was say one of the solutions obviously I mean my very simplistic response to all this I mean one of the reasons why these clubs aren't as strong as the Premier League is obviously because broadcasting money and interest around the world and my solution was always to take and I know Spain has been thinking about this a bit you've almost go back to the '9s and take the kind of if you can't initially get the same money ensure you're in front of a lot of eyeballs. So that's what it's that's sort of the benefit say that Siri had on channel 4 in the 1990s. H and you would think I I mean I suppose the Bundesliga is now in BBC so maybe that's a potential route there that they're thinking about as well as um gold channel we should call but I mean because that I know you've got a lot of thought thoughts this James but that's it's a lot it's not as quite as simple as that is it that now there's all sorts of complex layers in terms of bringing the money in for now and also trying to build some sort of audience that can compete with the Premier League or or can you compete with the Premier League? Look, I think the Premier League the genius of kind of Scootermore and the team that he had around him um was, you know, to see this as a business very much from the beginning and just go out and sell the Premier League in every corner of the world. You know, often not give the rights away, but say, "Look, it's this price now. Build an audience and then, you know, if the audience grows, we'll come back and we'll negotiate again." And you know you can be in and you know at a bar and the Premier League will be on. No other league will be on. Um yeah that's that's the breadth that they have uh achieved with it. And you know I think even domestically um when we were kind of growing up with the Premier League you'd hear Keys and Gray on Sky talk about how it was the best league in the world even though we knew it wasn't the best league in the world. you know, when United were struggling against Hon and Galataseray in in yeah, kind of early Champions League, but they kind of spoke it into reality because over over the long term that strategy of the Premier League um to to really kind of win out and conquer the world has squeezed out uh everybody else. And like I don't look at that and blame the Premier League for it. I just think, you know, they they understood it before everybody else. Um, and now they've been able to grow audiences, uh, bring revenue back to their shareholders. So, the clubs, the clubs have got richer, clubs are able to buy better players, better coaches. Um, and it means that when those broadcast rights come up again, those TV companies don't want to lose those rights. They either pay what they paid last time or they pay more. And so the it gets richer and richer and so the reason why the Bundesliga is on um you know Gold Bridg's channel on the YouTube and there's a Friday night game on the BBC and that sort of thing is they can't get anywhere else. Even Sky last in their last broadcasting deal I think a lot of people would have said where's the Bundesliga on Sky you know it is there still but you just you just get the Saturday night game. Yeah. Yeah. And uh it's you know I mean it's it's it's tricky. It's tricky to find. Um, and you know, at least with the Premier League in the UK, you know, it's going to be on Sky and TNT and then match the day on BBC. With all the other leagues, it's becoming so fragmented. Um, as they as they chase reach that they even just get even more lost in the shuffle. That's the kind of that's the threat. Yeah. I was going to get on to the next league that I talk about is France. Now, France obviously has had this uh huge problem with uh the zone essentially handing the rights back uh and then being unable to get many international rights sold particularly in the UK. I am uh as of last week uh a subscriber to the channel. It's quite a cheap price £60 for the season. You can watch French every French football game in league and dirt if you wish. It's, you know, it's quite a good package that I thought, uh, you know, for research purposes and so on. Beyond that, it struck the game that I I watched a bit of um was on the Saturday afternoon. I had to watch the highlights of uh because of the TV blackout was Marseilles against Paris FC. Now, Paris FC back in the uh Liga for the first time for many, many years. They're owned, of course. I think is it the guy behind Gongi? They're actually impossibly rich, the owners. But Marseilles coached by a familiar face in deserby. They won 52. And the thing, one of the things that struck me about this is the huge influence of English footballers in this Marseilles squad or English football. So, it's not so much that it's not so much that the Premier League is importing players, it's also exporting talent as well. This is it. I mean, you look through the squad, uh, the defender, you know, CJ Egan Riley, Neil Mope is playing for Marseilles. Uh uh you've got Hoberg Hoberg uh formerly of Spurs in uh um uh they previously had Jonathan Row uh who obviously has been sold to um Bologna after that huge row with Adrian Rabio that uh Deserby who described himself as a street fighter said he'd never seen the like of uh and they've got Pierre Emory Aubameyang. um the Premier League it sort of its tentacles have got into a club like Marseilles. I mean obviously they had Chris Waddle many years ago and Trevor Steven but it it it just really struck me that that uh that influence is coming back as well as that influence is going into the English game. M isn't this a little bit of a mirror image say of when the excitement when Andrea Senzi went to forest from Torino in the mid '9s like wow a Syria player in Brian Roy as well at the time to be fair but I suppose it's more cuz I mean the parallel there is that Italy was the obvious like the power in the game at the time and now England has gone to greater levels of power but because it is this global super league it obviously just won't have the same space for everyone and And since no other league can compete with it on the same level by a few individual super clubs that they have to almost I don't want to say cast offs but like that that's sort that's sort of where we are and like even even this week cuz one of the themes of the entire transfer window this year when you when you speak and this comes back I suppose why why Barcelona say haven't gone for Isak in the way that they would have done for most of their modern history everyone say like there's just not the money in Europe even among the big clubs you have to spend in a certain way so it's why this week in Europe, this last week of the window could be particularly active because suddenly there's a lot of the big Premier League clubs like Arsenal, like Manchester City, like Manchester United that need to sell now and clubs are going to be looking for opportunities and then and I think that's one reason why this and there is another dynamic like say for example, I know James wants to get in here, sorry, but how um for the first time in history, all three Spanish clubs have an English player and they're not just kind of like medium English medium level, they're kind of they're bigname English players players. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, but it's still it's still all part of this kind of wider place of the Premier League in the in the global game. Yeah, the name I didn't mention with Marc is of course Mason Greenwood uh you know is exile from English football for for you know much reported reasons. games. No, I think there are three tiers. Um, talking about that mirror image that Mig was talking about where, you know, the best English players if they have the opportunity to go play for Real Madrid, Madrid is still Madrid. And, you know, I think it is um something that's very encouraging, we should be very proud of as uh well, us as Englishmen um that you know, the likes of Bellingham, Trent um are considered good enough to go and play for Madrid. The other tier is the Dortmund model really which is to take a chance on you know young players who can't find a pathway at big elite Premier League clubs develop them and then either sell them on to yeah in the Bellingham case to Real Madrid or more often than not sell them back to the Premier League which is what happened with Sancho and Gittens and yeah that has really become um a model across Italy. I know with AC Milan when they signed Tammori for example, Tamori is still at the club. But the initial instinct with that was okay, if we pay 30 million for him and he does well, wins the league, which he did, maybe we can at one stage spin this back to the Premier League and make a profit. That's what Roma thought with Tammy Abraham um as well. Um, so yeah, they're looking at the how rich and wealthy the Premier League is and like always thinking about ways in which they can attract some of that wealth back or take some of that wealth away by selling them what they want. Um and then as Mick said with and I think it's true of your list of Marseilles players um John is that you you have clubs that are they look at on the one hand physicality and intensity of the Premier League and think like even if we bling it bring in a kind of um B-grade Premier League player they can be an Agrade player in our league. Um and and and and the other is they they're prepared to take chances on players that have had injury problems. Um yeah, you can look at Ferguson. Ferguson might fall into category two of of these three categories, but like you look at what Roma are doing with Evan Ferguson, but they they will take chances on, you know, I mean even McTominay, I think McTominay has found the right coach for him in a good team. Um, and Conte is getting stuff out of McTominay, which I think Conte would have got out of McTominay at if he'd been the coach at Man United, which I still can't believe that Man United have never gone for Conte. Um, and uh, and they they they find they find a new role for them um, within these leagues. So, but that's just that's how these foreign these how the clubs on the continent are now having to to think about their their transfer business. I think we should probably take a short break there because uh well that's what we do on this podcast is take a short break. Uh and after this we're going to talk about uh a couple of less starred leagues. But um you'll see [Music] welcome again to part two of Libero. Um now uh the in the I was watching even over my weekend of European football. I didn't actually go to football and did step out of the house. Uh but um I watched a bit of the Dutch league uh which um PSV uh were seemed like a very much work in progress. Mark Van Boml's boy was playing for them which you know makes very on the wing as well isn't he? What's that? Sorry. He's on he's on the wing. He's he's not the kind of the Yeah, he's not he's not a midfield gripper. No, no, no. He's not inest as he was in the 2010 World Cup final. Maldini was playing for Atlanta yesterday and Daniel Maldini is a number 10. That feels wrong. I mean, I wish him all the best, but come on. That's not the family business. Yeah, come on. Brennan Johnson is a speedy winger and his dad was more a sort of, you know, center forward. Yeah, I mean it it does happen and uh the same Harvey Barnes, Paul Barnes was your more of a up and atom center forward. So yeah, but you know to the man of born some of these lads, aren't he? Um yeah and I was watching that and then last week uh I watched um Rangers struggle terribly uh with FC Ber Bruge as we used to call them. Um and it appears to me and and Brooker did very well in the Champions League last season. Um, and it's something that you see and uh a figure we mentioned quite a lot on on this podcast. Tony Bloom owns Sanjilwa in Belgium. Has Belgium superseded the the Netherlands as this kernel of talent? Miguel, what you hear? Yeah, if you if you speak to agents uh and and like recruitment of clubs, they think Belgium has stepped ahead. Uh it's it's now developing a really high level of players. Uh and it's also the league itself is a good grounding for players as you say with some upwardly mobile clubs and I think there's one thing there that kind of ties a lot of this discussion together really where I mean because everything we're talking about here I suppose right down to say you know the decisions clubs make as regards recruitment clubs like Marseilles it's essentially dealing with trickle down economics and this system that European football has chosen and again like to come back to James' point there about um you know the Premier League like you you can't blame the Premier League for doing what it what it did. The but the other side of that is the Premier League is still a problem for the rest of football because it just consumes so much in kind of a football economy that's geared towards kind of endless concentration and as a consequence endless cannibalization. Well, maybe not endless but cannibalization to a point. So within that you I think you've got leagues like the Era devis and SPL and as much as some clubs within them try to take progressive decisions as much as some figures within those leagues try to take progressive decisions there's still this sense of naturally enough to be fair pining for what they used to be and let's not forget Rangers were actually influential in the um or or figures that Rangers were influential in the creation of the Champions League in the early '90s and like that is one of these classic morality tales. You can say the same of Milan and given Berleskone was so key in that whereas Belgium that didn't have the same history really what they had one club in the Champions League final which is Buga in 1978 against Liverpool um they didn't have the history and it's like they've been able to adapt their modern role a bit more and it's you could almost say the same with Brighton as another example a club that has adapted to modern realities and hence have been able to build from a clean slate that's allowed them to kind of make greater progress than leagues with with other powers because it's not the same kind of historic expectation there. I think when I spent a bit of time in in the Netherlands quite recently, it appears that Dutch football has almost like turned in on itself. Like it's they decided to concentrate on Dutch football culture and what happens in the Dutch league and they used to players leaving and so on and so forth. But it's its own entity and you'll actually struggle apart from your Irish bars to to watch English Premier League in in Holland because they're not that interested. It's their deal. uh which is which is reflected actually sometimes in Sweden and Norway which is you know we'll concentrate our own thing it's it's what we do it's um the this idea that the Premier League is on in every bar in the world it's not true if you go to these countries again you in Germany you'll struggle to see the Premier League in in a lot of places but uh it's it's more the dominant power it has over the rest of football um James yeah look I mean I think we have got used to talking about the top five leagues and uh we shouldn't talk about the top five leagues. We should basically confine that term to the bin because there is one league which is the Premier League and then there are some top clubs. Okay. And those top clubs outside the Premier League find it more and more difficult to compete with teams that are in the Premier League because if the team that finishes bottom in the Premier League makes more in domestic and foreign TV money than the top teams in the Bundesliga in La Liga and in Syria, let alone the other leagues that we're talking about, Holland, Belgium, Scotland, Portugal, then there's no point to that argument. Um, I always remember the Italian clubs got knocked out really early um, in the Champions League a few years ago. Um, and so I ended up following Liverpool when they got to the final in Paris against Real Madrid. And I remember going to Lisbon to watch Liverpool play Benfica and there were a couple of uh, British press pack next to me and they watched Benfica and they were like, "God, these lads aren't up to much, are they? They're crap. They're rubbish. And I and I was like I was like well they're not but like if you look at the difference in revenue ability to retain players these clubs um have now which have great European histories. You think of Benfica, you think of Porto. Tremendous European histories have have now had to become essentially like finishing schools for talent that goes to PSG, talent that goes to Real Madrid, talent that goes to the big Premier League teams or Wolves. Okay. Right. Um, and I I find that very sad. I find it very sad and people should be worried if if you're typing the term farmers league to describe clubs in Liga or Bundis Bundesliga City that's that's a canary in a coal mine of a very serious problem about the ecosystem football and you know one other thing that last point I'll make on this is that for all the critics that Andre Anelli had when he was chairman of Juventus and head of the ECA you know one of the reasons for reforming European football and going into the Super League was because he saw that and he described this as like you're in a secondass train carriage and all of a sudden that train carriage is going to get disconnected and the first class carriage is about to pull away and you need to be in that first class carriage. Okay? Because what what what what does it mean if you don't stay in that first class carriage? It means you ultimately go the same way. So the the leagues I'm talking about now is Germany, France, some extent Spain and Italy and and and I'm pretty sure Andreani foraw a future in which they go the way of Holland, Scotland and Portugal. Now the big clubs, you know, will I think the big clubs looked at the Super League almost as like you know in Interstellar you've got the spaceship, you know, we're in a dust bowl here. We have to find a new planet. Okay, a new planet which can support life and and that was it. But I you know I think the problem more and more is that those leagues which we've traditionally considered top five fear that in in the economic food chain they will become um to the Premier League you know what LIA what what Portuguese league, Scottish league and and um and the Dutch league have become. Yeah, they and on that this is why the new Champions League which of course Anelli was central to its um its idea at the exact same time as the Super League was happening. I mean this you know this is a consequence in some ways of the discussions that led to the to the Super League. But it's why and we got the draw for on Thursday. It's why it's seen as such a potentially huge impact on football's future and like we've got six of the teams in are from the Premier League. That's a six of the competition which is absurd. But all of these clubs like the Juuve, the Benfikas, the Celtics, they they see a particularly crucial development in the way how I mean the European season used to be this clean split a few games before Christmas, the knockouts after Christmas. Now it's one parallel domest one parallel season basically running alongside your domestic league because it runs right through the year. There's a lot more games. And I suppose to touch on James' point there, if you're in a league that just doesn't have that TV market, like pretty much all of them outside maybe three or four after the Premier League, suddenly you're in I mean, and it's the same issue that the Champions League has has fostered or kind of crystallized for the last 30 years, but going to its next stage. Suddenly, you're actually in this constant league that has this massive market. And it and it's why I think it's why people call this new Champions League, well, it's one of many reasons they call it the Super League by another name because it is kind of institutionalizing exactly these plans while giving a lot of the mid-tier clubs this sock that they were going to miss on miss out on from the original Champions League. And actually, if you look at the evolution of these things, what the Champions League is, what what it's going to be drawn for for this Thursday, it starts to look a lot more like some of the ideas that A22 had after the initial Super League failure, right down to the fact we've got three tiered European football now, where like the conference has basically been created as almost a Champions League for like 25 other leagues, which is why I have to say I do think it's wrong that while it's great for West Ham, they won it. I don't think I don't think English clubs should be in it because they I we've got nine English clubs in European competition, six of them in the Champions League. Yeah. And this is this is why I always I I kind of think that Crystal Palace fans, you know, while I understand they're upset uh about being demoted from the Europa League into the Conference League, you have a far better chance of winning the Conference League than you do the Europa League. Yeah, that is a chance to win a European trophy. No one will care what it's called. you can basically you'll be able to say we've won a we've won a European trophy and you'll you'll get to have another campaign in Europe if you win it. So it just keeps in some respects, you know, I think, you know, it's a it's it's not the demotion they see it to be. You know, it it could be something that gives them as rewarding a season as they had last year and more memories than um than being in the in the in the Europa League. So, but yeah, they I I take Mick's point. It's it's absurd really that since the Conference League started, it's been dominated by Italian and English teams. Yeah, I I was going to say actually, you know, um I suppose a measure of the evolution of the Champions League since its inception in 92 93 season uh is that remember FC Ber Rangers was one of the group games that could have you know led to towards the final. Those were two of the bigger teams in the competition. Um, and of course now they're scrapping it out to be, you know, in the bottom rung of this, you know, enorm group. Uh, you know, scrabbling for for extra money and revenue. It It's um and, you know, last season Celtics exploits were seen as a great success, you know, by creeping into Yeah. I mean, amazing. Well, and on that as well, I mean like I I do have a lot of issues with some of how the new Champions League was discussed last year, especially UEFA's will they just describe as a massive success, but another from speaking to people who work at some of the kind of other European clubs. One of the reasons they like it as well is because they all see the Premier League as the most competitively intense and obviously England has a League Cup as well. So that what an expanded Champions League group stage does is basically sort of debilitates English clubs. It does kind of it's it's almost kind of a a balancing factor in that incre as there are fixture congestion but you can look at an obvious example of that and well as well an obvious more problematic development maybe so last season say or sorry the season before last Arsenal had something like three or four games in January last season it was 11 and what's been solution now this summer but suddenly Arsenal have won like they've got almost right now what people would joke about the the Chelsea dressing room it's like I've been speaking to people who've at the Arsenal training ground and talk about players having to work on all sorts of different pitches because the p the squad is so stacked and that's going to be the solution now to um to this like it's it's almost like football like we can get into all sorts of bigger issues here right right up to the leader the leadership of UEFA as well as the the increasingly influential role of the European club association and all this about like kind of the actual direction of the game and how it never feels like football is actually on top of its own problems and hence it kind of it it keeps creating temporary solutions to a hardwired problem that just leads off to another problem another direction and hence we've seen this which is just the endless concentration of wealth and football that we're talking about all these issues and good story lines in Europe but story lines that we kind of we're hopeful for rather than that are that are part of the kind of sustained package of European football that's been the case for like eight decades or more. Well, talking of football finance to close out um a discussion we had last week, uh James wasn't present, not guilty in this particular uh podcast that received uh considerable response um sometimes not directly, but uh I was interested to watch match of the day in my uh great weekend of watching football on television. Uh was Michael Richards and Alan Sheer speaking out against PSR. Uh Aston Villa um Aston Villa struggles with uh being unable to add players. Alan Sheer um adding his hapenith involve in that. Uh it doesn't sit right with Michael Richards uh Manchester City ambassador. Uh and um it was it appears that one of the things is when we discussed PSR last week, we never said the system was perfect. We said there was a lot of imperfections with it. Trick in particular said, you know, that they needed to make it something that legal eagles and accountancy experts cannot get round. That's what we were talking about. And the system isn't right. And I do have a certain amount of sympathy for the Villa fans. But cast back 10 years ago, Randy Lerner left the club in a terrible mess and sold them to a a Chinese businessman who didn't have the money. And this is what can happen, right? This is what happens in football. And it it's the short-term memory and and and the the the uh the thirst for success in inverted commas and more money just appears to be waved through and nobody is coming out from the actual bodies that push this these laws and rules in to to to speak about why the laws are there. Do they Miguel? Yeah, I mean this is my issue with this debate and again you're absolutely right. No, we didn't call the system perfect. And I think yeah, I did see Kieran Magcguire correspondent to um Rory's piece in the Observer, which I suppose obviously mirrors a lot of our discussion of what the piece was. The system isn't perfect. It's more I I think one of the and I brought this up a lot. It's the way the direction of debate the debate goes. I do think the Premier League the Premier League's regulations could be firmed up as from again from speaking to people who've worked at both levels. They're nowhere near as um as clear or work as well as UEFAs. And that that's illustrated in the fact that the Premier League is currently struggling to vote through the SEO rules, squad cost ratio rules that would mimic UEFA's rules. And that's a question of Premier League governance, but not not the rules. it I mean because it feels this whole discussion so much of it now is being driven through the specific examples of say Villa and Newcastle you can't run a game based on specific individual examples and like also if say I mean like Villa one of the reasons they're here is because they were willing to spend close to 100% of their revenue on wages like that's that's essentially trying to accelerate success I don't think anyone in any level would say that's way to unless you you can just pour ownership money in. I don't think anyone would suggest that's a that's a good way to run a business. But again, it keeps coming back to the same thing. As soon as you create any sort of financial dependency on ownership money that that leads that spools out into all sorts of other problems for the game both in terms of kind of leaving it dependent on owners that come in the inflationary effect and and it's why any sort of regulation has to have a more holistic look at football because it's not just about these individual ownerships that that can spend. What about the effects on the rest of the game? Sorry, I get very animated when this something as dry as uh as as financial regulation because it just it does frustrate me how the entire thing is shaped by specific and specific examples anchored to in the case of Newcastle say ownerships that I mean they're not in the game for the good of football. Well, the other the other complaint you have is what other business wouldn't you allowed to be? Well, monopolies and mergers, you know, I mean, it's like the the Footsie index is run on companies that of course have to follow all types of regulations. That's business how you do it. It's it's a uh yeah, it it's some of it's deliberate, some of it is. And you know, Alan Sheer and Michael of Richards have been in a game a long time. They should probably have a look at the rule book and consider Sheffield Wednesday, Morham, Macklesville, Berry, see what happens there. Think about what happened to Aston Villa nearly what would have happened if Manashley had just you know cut away Newcastle and and let it go. I it's a subject again it's dry but you cannot get compassionate about I had um I I had a a former colleague at a newspaper in Ireland uh who was complaining to me I think has he how depressing that discussion was it actually it generated more debate than I think any podcast we've had so far has it I I think probably the the two kind of twin PS linked episodes yeah I mean some people do agree some others don't and as ever in football uh self-interest rules as it does I think we've established across Europe as well but self-interest is shadowed by the Premier League and it's its influence I mean because I know and it's probably one we should get to on a bigger pod before but like I think you've referenced James so it England is now seeing essentially the sort of the modern version of problems that Italy has had for years right down to the debate yeah I mean it's um kind of late stage capitalist Premier League uh feels very much like late 90s early 2000s um City where yeah that league you know reached such a peak um not only in competitiveness but in kind of spending and trying to sort of outdo each other um that it's you know it led to all sorts of financial chicainery which for a long time you always got the the impression that the Premier League is we're better than that. We're superior. But, you know, as we've seen with these um swap deals that have been happening June 30th, um hotels sold from one company to another company within the same club. Um you know, all the kind of lip service paid to the women's game. And then you look at how the women's game has been is being used as well uh in order to to to benefit kind of the uh the books um to the point where you know I know some Italian exe come to work in the Premier League and they're they're beginning to like wow we're not even this creative and and I I think to come back to the PS debate I think if if if that's the reaction of some people that's a problem you know um and obviously the the Premier League is is wrestling with it. It's having a reckoning with it, be it in some of the disputes that it has with its clubs, uh with it the the independent regulator. Um but yeah, I think yeah, the game that um you know, we love the league, you know, the Premier League is now in the the thing is it it's it's so it's business foundations so strong here, you know, be be it because of how well it's been sold around the world that uh and and being able to fall back on those TV rights, that's something that Italy never really had you know because you know Italy's success through the 80s and '9s was the satellite model that kind of Sylvia Blesisone pioneered the competition within that satellite model so you had different streaming services wasn't just a case of like you know sky versus sitanta ESPN and BT it was um yeah lots it was media set streamw all these kind of things um and you know the clubs would negotiate their TV deals on an individual basis rather than a collective basis and TV revenue was you know what fueled spending as well as shareholders basically Burleskonei Modati basically saying okay we want to sign a Ballandor player there's the check and when they had to collectively bargain those TV rights all of a sudden you realize oh right what are we doing what else are we doing as a business um stadium that's owned by the council um commercial merchandising. No, not been doing much of that cuz we've never really had to do it. And the the league spiraled and and kind of declined and wasn't able to cope with some of these problems that the Premier League is um is a better able to face. Um even though both both leagues are basically facing an issue which is we've got to find a way to spend more money, you know, like Well, I I I think I think James, we we should end it there and say and conclude uh with the fact that there will always need to be more money in football. That's something we can all agree on, I think, whatever side of the argument you're on. But thank you, James, uh for your insight. Thank you, Miguel. Uh thank you, producer Tom. Get in touch with us via the email which is listed in the description. Like, subscribe, tell your friends, all the rest of it. Thanks for joining us on Libero once again. Cheers. Powered by Riverside FM. [Music]