================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: nI0FAsaX6R0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nI0FAsaX6R0
TITLE: Where would Celtic finish in the Premier League?
CHANNEL: Total Soccer Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-08
DURATION: 51m 30s
VIEWS: 530
LIKES: 21
COMMENTS: 4

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The TSS Gang is here and we're ready to delve into the Listener Questions mailbag! 

On this episode, we are asking if Thomas Müller is still good, we’re debating where Celtic would finish in the Premier League, and we’re getting into the club or country debate!

Thumbnail photo by Ian MacNicol/Getty Images

LISTENER QUESTIONS CHAPTERS

0:00 - Intro
01:48 - Celtic in the EPL
09:35 - Memorable single-season teams
19:46 - Why is Osimhen in Turkey?
26:32 - Is Muller still good?
36:47 - Club v Country
44:44 - Picking a new team

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 23,037

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and our Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and our latest batch of listener questions. On latest batch of listener questions. On this episode, we're asking if Thomas this episode, we're asking if Thomas Müller is still good. We're asking where Müller is still good. We're asking where Celtic would finish in the Premier Celtic would finish in the Premier League and we're getting into the old League and we're getting into the old club or country debate. Here we go. My club or country debate. Here we go. My name's Ryan Bailey. Power trio on the name's Ryan Bailey. Power trio on the feed today. Graham Rton's here. Hello, feed today. Graham Rton's here. Hello, Graeme. Graeme. Graeme. &gt;&gt; Hello, Ryan Bailey. How are you? &gt;&gt; Hello, Ryan Bailey. How are you? &gt;&gt; I'm marvelous. I'm doing wonderful. &gt;&gt; I'm marvelous. I'm doing wonderful. Ready to delve my little hand into that Ready to delve my little hand into that sack of listener questions, pull some sack of listener questions, pull some out and ask you all about them. Yeah, out and ask you all about them. Yeah, &gt;&gt; you're you're the best qu question &gt;&gt; you're you're the best qu question picker. That's why we that's why we picker. That's why we that's why we employ you and for for that role. employ you and for for that role. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Um I did not &gt;&gt; Thank you. Um I did not &gt;&gt; I mean the transfer window is still the &gt;&gt; I mean the transfer window is still open. transfer window is still open. &gt;&gt; We you know could find a replacement but &gt;&gt; We you know could find a replacement but &gt;&gt; I mean in this market I could go for I &gt;&gt; I mean in this market I could go for 150 million in this market. could go for 150 million in this market. Grab it can see see yesterday's pod Grab it can see see yesterday's pod listener. Joe and Larry, hello. How are listener. Joe and Larry, hello. How are you? Hey, one of my favorite moments you? Hey, one of my favorite moments from yesterday's show that that we from yesterday's show that that we haven't talked about yet is Graham haven't talked about yet is Graham saying Benjamin Jessica can shoot from saying Benjamin Jessica can shoot from anywhere and Ryan says, "Yeah, so can anywhere and Ryan says, "Yeah, so can I." That's awesome. That needs to be my I." That's awesome. That needs to be my response when people talk about, "Wow, response when people talk about, "Wow, this guy's like long range shooting is this guy's like long range shooting is is a differencemaking thing." Cuz it is a differencemaking thing." Cuz it almost never is. Like maybe there's two almost never is. Like maybe there's two players alive where where that is players alive where where that is actually true. Um I'm going to start I'm actually true. Um I'm going to start saying that, Ryan. And going to start saying that, Ryan. And I'll credit you every time I do it. I'll credit you every time I do it. It'll be long and painful, but you know, It'll be long and painful, but you know, it'll be worth it. As a wreck player, it'll be worth it. As a wreck player, Joe, is it your inclination to have a Joe, is it your inclination to have a poke from distance or would you rather poke from distance or would you rather sort of pass it into the box? sort of pass it into the box? &gt;&gt; Make make the next pass, mate. Make the &gt;&gt; Make make the next pass, mate. Make the next pass. Only optimal decisions when next pass. Only optimal decisions when I'm playing soccer. I mean, only optimal I'm playing soccer. I mean, only optimal decisions when I'm not turning the ball decisions when I'm not turning the ball over needlessly in central midfield, but over needlessly in central midfield, but other than that, optimal all the way. other than that, optimal all the way. &gt;&gt; Graeme, you you were hitting hope from &gt;&gt; Graeme, you you were hitting hope from &gt;&gt; I don't I don't play for goals. Play for &gt;&gt; I don't I don't play for goals. Play for nutmegs. We established that this week. nutmegs. We established that this week. &gt;&gt; Long range nutmegs. 25 yarders. &gt;&gt; Long range nutmegs. 25 yarders. &gt;&gt; Yeah, just blew it through the keeper's &gt;&gt; Yeah, just blew it through the keeper's legs. That counts. legs. That counts. Got to aim for something. Very good Got to aim for something. Very good indeed. Before we get to our listener indeed. Before we get to our listener questions mailbag, let me tell you about questions mailbag, let me tell you about our Patreon. patreon.com/total soccer our Patreon. patreon.com/total soccer show where you can find bonus content show where you can find bonus content including bonus listener questions including bonus listener questions hitting the feed left, right, and hitting the feed left, right, and center. We've got bonus video content center. We've got bonus video content and perhaps the funnest of all, our and perhaps the funnest of all, our Discord server. Come and join us. Have a Discord server. Come and join us. Have a chat with us in there. It's jumping. So chat with us in there. It's jumping. So say the kids. patreon.com/totals say the kids. patreon.com/totals Soccer Show to support us, please. and Soccer Show to support us, please. and thank you. All right, so let's get to thank you. All right, so let's get to our listener questions mailbag. Uh the our listener questions mailbag. Uh the first question of which was plucked from first question of which was plucked from the aforementioned Discord from Andrew. the aforementioned Discord from Andrew. Brendan Rogers recently said that Celtic Brendan Rogers recently said that Celtic would be a top six team in the Premier would be a top six team in the Premier League. League. League. Where do the guys, especially Graeme, Where do the guys, especially Graeme, think they would actually finish in the think they would actually finish in the Premier League? The pause there for Premier League? The pause there for effect, of course. Uh I am skeptical of effect, of course. Uh I am skeptical of Brendan Rogers here, Graeme. Um when I Brendan Rogers here, Graeme. Um when I first saw this question, I thought, first saw this question, I thought, okay, top six is a bit much. maybe top okay, top six is a bit much. maybe top of the bottom half would be real of the bottom half would be real reasonable. And the more I looked at the reasonable. And the more I looked at the numbers, the more I thought I think numbers, the more I thought I think Celtic would be in the championship. I Celtic would be in the championship. I think ultimately soccer at this level is think ultimately soccer at this level is is is about how much you spend, right? is is about how much you spend, right? So Celtic squad value according to So Celtic squad value according to transfer marked is 131 million. Leads transfer marked is 131 million. Leads who are just promoted to the Premier who are just promoted to the Premier League, their squad value according to League, their squad value according to transfer mark €278 transfer mark €278 million. So double Celtic squad value. million. So double Celtic squad value. So using that metric, which is a very So using that metric, which is a very important metric in the modern game, I important metric in the modern game, I think Celtic would struggle. What do you think Celtic would struggle. What do you think, Graeme? think, Graeme? think, Graeme? &gt;&gt; Yeah, not for the first time. Brendan &gt;&gt; Yeah, not for the first time. Brendan Rogers is talking absolute nonsense Rogers is talking absolute nonsense because Celtic would be nowhere near the because Celtic would be nowhere near the top six in the Premier League table. I I top six in the Premier League table. I I don't know. I didn't catch this um this don't know. I didn't catch this um this this quote like firsthand from him. I this quote like firsthand from him. I don't know whether he is talking about don't know whether he is talking about like the size of the club or maybe he like the size of the club or maybe he means that there's always this argument means that there's always this argument that if Celtic and Rangers were in the that if Celtic and Rangers were in the Premier League for a period of time over Premier League for a period of time over time they would maybe rise to that time they would maybe rise to that level. But that feels like I'm level. But that feels like I'm stretching I'm doing a lot of leg work stretching I'm doing a lot of leg work here to try and rationalize his comment here to try and rationalize his comment which is just complete rubbish. I think which is just complete rubbish. I think if I was dropping Celtic into the if I was dropping Celtic into the Premier League of last season, Celtic Premier League of last season, Celtic were actually pretty good last season. were actually pretty good last season. They made it out of the league phase of They made it out of the league phase of the Champions League. They had that the Champions League. They had that really impressive performance against um really impressive performance against um Leipzig in the in in the league phase Leipzig in the in in the league phase when they in the phasing when they when they in the phasing when they pretty much demolished them and then pretty much demolished them and then they pushed um Bayern all the way in in they pushed um Bayern all the way in in the knockout rounds as well. They were the knockout rounds as well. They were about 30 seconds from taking them to about 30 seconds from taking them to extra time. So I looking at that table extra time. So I looking at that table and knowing how bad Southampton, and knowing how bad Southampton, Epswitch, and Leicester were last Epswitch, and Leicester were last season. I I do think Celtic would have season. I I do think Celtic would have stayed up last season, but it feels like stayed up last season, but it feels like we had excuse me an exceptionally bad we had excuse me an exceptionally bad bottom three last year. And so I think bottom three last year. And so I think generally that's where Celtic would be generally that's where Celtic would be in the Premier League table. I don't in the Premier League table. I don't know if I fully agree that they would be know if I fully agree that they would be like a championship team um if you're like a championship team um if you're just placing them in terms of quality. I just placing them in terms of quality. I think they are probably a little bit think they are probably a little bit better than some of the teams at the top better than some of the teams at the top of the Championship. So I think they're of the Championship. So I think they're very much like bottom of the bottom of very much like bottom of the Premier League and like last season the Premier League and like last season you look at the attack that they had for you look at the attack that they had for much of the campaign. Kyogo Kun Mieda much of the campaign. Kyogo Kun Mieda then Ray Hhatati Arnet Engles Call then Ray Hhatati Arnet Engles Call McGregor I think has always had the McGregor I think has always had the quality to play in the Premier League quality to play in the Premier League just hasn't because he's a Celtic fan just hasn't because he's a Celtic fan and he's the captain of of that club. So and he's the captain of of that club. So there is there is a lot of quality in there is there is a lot of quality in that Celtic team that I think would keep that Celtic team that I think would keep them out of relegation trouble but maybe them out of relegation trouble but maybe this season the the promoted teams are this season the the promoted teams are going to be stronger and maybe they going to be stronger and maybe they would be down in that bottom three. would be down in that bottom three. &gt;&gt; Yeah. What are your thoughts here Joe? &gt;&gt; Yeah. What are your thoughts here Joe? as as Greg mentioned to to Celtics's as as Greg mentioned to to Celtics's credit they do sometimes or re credit they do sometimes or re reasonably often pull off a a European reasonably often pull off a a European surprise and a little run in a knockout surprise and a little run in a knockout competition but over the course of a competition but over the course of a Premier League season uh the Premier League season uh the circumstances are a little bit circumstances are a little bit different. different. different. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And it's impressive to me that &gt;&gt; Yeah. And it's impressive to me that Celtic pull off some of those results in Celtic pull off some of those results in Europe because of how drastically they Europe because of how drastically they have to change their style, right? When have to change their style, right? When when they're playing league games, they when they're playing league games, they are controlling the ball because they are controlling the ball because they have the talent advantage. You come to have the talent advantage. You come to Celtic to to do the kinds of onball Celtic to to do the kinds of onball stuff that you get to do in that league. stuff that you get to do in that league. And then when you go and play major And then when you go and play major teams in Europe, you have you have to teams in Europe, you have you have to shift because if you leave so much space shift because if you leave so much space um in behind you, you're going to be um in behind you, you're going to be punished by that more often than not. punished by that more often than not. So, it is impressive to me how Celtic So, it is impressive to me how Celtic balance those things. It is a testament balance those things. It is a testament to their quality. But my my reaction to to their quality. But my my reaction to this um this this concept is absolutely this um this this concept is absolutely not. Like there's just no way that this not. Like there's just no way that this would possibly happen. I looked at the would possibly happen. I looked at the Optic Club power rankings um which I Optic Club power rankings um which I think are a helpful tool with these think are a helpful tool with these kinds of discussions. uh they have opta kinds of discussions. uh they have opta has Celtic just ahead if they were to has Celtic just ahead if they were to enter this Premier League season of enter this Premier League season of Burnley leads and Sunderland the three Burnley leads and Sunderland the three teams coming up but behind everybody teams coming up but behind everybody else. So in that in that world if if you else. So in that in that world if if you have then one extra team in the league have then one extra team in the league and you still only relegate in the and you still only relegate in the bottom three maybe they would avoid bottom three maybe they would avoid relegation but I I think instinctively relegation but I I think instinctively that that felt right to me anyway I look that that felt right to me anyway I look at this roster and there are players at this roster and there are players that are above this level but there's a that are above this level but there's a lot of like top tier MLS players in this lot of like top tier MLS players in this team like literally top tier MLS players team like literally top tier MLS players Johnston in this team. Uh, I think about Johnston in this team. Uh, I think about Austin Trusty. Cameron Carter Victor is Austin Trusty. Cameron Carter Victor is not not an MLS player, right? But he he not not an MLS player, right? But he he would be a good MLS center back. He is would be a good MLS center back. He is not, and we have a good pile of evidence not, and we have a good pile of evidence of this because it never quite worked of this because it never quite worked out for him in the Premier League. He is out for him in the Premier League. He is not a Premier League center back. And not a Premier League center back. And you run through this list of players, you run through this list of players, and there are a lot of guys that I think and there are a lot of guys that I think are just underneath that threshold. No, are just underneath that threshold. No, Graeme, you laid it out well. There are Graeme, you laid it out well. There are some players in this team who absolutely some players in this team who absolutely think are Premier League level players, think are Premier League level players, but there are also a lot of players that but there are also a lot of players that are not. And you marry those things are not. And you marry those things together and that's what we see with together and that's what we see with teams that are promoted where you get a teams that are promoted where you get a nice mix of yep this player is is at nice mix of yep this player is is at this level this player is not and you this level this player is not and you end up with a team fighting relegation. end up with a team fighting relegation. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I hadn't actually looked at the &gt;&gt; Yeah, I hadn't actually looked at the opta ranking so I feel I feel somewhat opta ranking so I feel I feel somewhat vindicated by them dropping it exactly vindicated by them dropping it exactly where I said they they would be. That where I said they they would be. That that feels about right for for Celtic. that feels about right for for Celtic. &gt;&gt; I think Brennan Rogers must have meant &gt;&gt; I think Brennan Rogers must have meant that Celtic would be a top team six in that Celtic would be a top team six in attendance in the Premier League. That I attendance in the Premier League. That I could say. could say. could say. &gt;&gt; There it is. &gt;&gt; There it is. &gt;&gt; There it is. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean in terms of size that's an &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean in terms of size that's an entirely different um discussion but entirely different um discussion but &gt;&gt; okay &gt;&gt; okay &gt;&gt; okay &gt;&gt; talking about &gt;&gt; talking about &gt;&gt; where do they fit in size Graham if you &gt;&gt; where do they fit in size Graham if you had to like give your cuz I know we talk had to like give your cuz I know we talk about this a lot like big club what does about this a lot like big club what does this mean and I I don't really know what this mean and I I don't really know what it means to be honest I don't think it means to be honest I don't think anybody does but in the Graham Ruffen anybody does but in the Graham Ruffen big club a meter which we've talked big club a meter which we've talked about on the show before about on the show before &gt;&gt; where do they fall in the Premier League &gt;&gt; where do they fall in the Premier League this is what it's about now it's not this is what it's about now it's not about onfield play about onfield play &gt;&gt; okay this is so in intangible it's it's &gt;&gt; okay this is so in intangible it's it's unreal everyone has different measures unreal everyone has different measures but I'll just give you off the top of my but I'll just give you off the top of my head so um for For me, Manchester United head so um for For me, Manchester United are the biggest club in the Premier are the biggest club in the Premier League. Second is Liverpool. Third is League. Second is Liverpool. Third is Arsenal. Arsenal. Arsenal. Fourth is Chelsea. Fifth is Man City. Fourth is Chelsea. Fifth is Man City. Now we're starting to get to Celtic Now we're starting to get to Celtic territory. Sixth is Spurs. And then I territory. Sixth is Spurs. And then I think Celtic territory I think they'd be think Celtic territory I think they'd be like seventh. And that's like where I like seventh. And that's like where I would drop Rangers and about then. would drop Rangers and about then. &gt;&gt; What a shame. &gt;&gt; What a shame. &gt;&gt; Darn it. Darn it. Pro was wrong. um &gt;&gt; Darn it. Darn it. Pro was wrong. um confirmed to confirmed to confirmed to &gt;&gt; be in that they're in the kind of &gt;&gt; be in that they're in the kind of Newcastle territory like big club but Newcastle territory like big club but maybe not cracking the the top six just maybe not cracking the the top six just yet. yet. yet. &gt;&gt; There you go. &gt;&gt; There you go. &gt;&gt; Ryan, would you agree or &gt;&gt; Ryan, would you agree or &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I think you're you're spot &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I think you're you're spot on there, I'd say anecdotally speaking. on there, I'd say anecdotally speaking. Um Graeme, there's often a debate about Um Graeme, there's often a debate about Celtic and Rangers joining the Premier Celtic and Rangers joining the Premier League. Remind us your stance on whether League. Remind us your stance on whether that would be a good thing or a bad that would be a good thing or a bad thing or whether they maybe would it be thing or whether they maybe would it be at risk if they did that and maybe it at risk if they did that and maybe it would destroy Scottish soccer if they would destroy Scottish soccer if they did that. did that. did that. Um, yeah. I think there's probably more Um, yeah. I think there's probably more negative than positive to be gained from negative than positive to be gained from I think it would be fun. Like it would I think it would be fun. Like it would open up Scottish soccer open up it would open up Scottish soccer and we'd have a different title and we'd have a different title challenger every season because Scottish challenger every season because Scottish football below Celtic Rangers is football below Celtic Rangers is incredibly volatile where you have teams incredibly volatile where you have teams like Harts and Hibs and Dundy United like Harts and Hibs and Dundy United going not just finishing low in the going not just finishing low in the table but often being relegated down to table but often being relegated down to the championship. So, and in terms of the championship. So, and in terms of like who's finished third over recent like who's finished third over recent seasons, we've had Mother Karnick, seasons, we've had Mother Karnick, Harts, Hibs, Aberdeene. So, it's always Harts, Hibs, Aberdeene. So, it's always very competitive below Celtic Rangers. very competitive below Celtic Rangers. That would be fun, but I do fear a That would be fun, but I do fear a scenario where we come a bit of a scenario where we come a bit of a backwater like the the Irish League or backwater like the the Irish League or or I don't think we'd ever maybe we or I don't think we'd ever maybe we wouldn't be quite as much of a backwater wouldn't be quite as much of a backwater as like the Welsh League, but you get as like the Welsh League, but you get the point I'm making. That would be my the point I'm making. That would be my fear. fear. fear. &gt;&gt; All right, Andrew, thank you very much &gt;&gt; All right, Andrew, thank you very much indeed for your question. We go to Cam indeed for your question. We go to Cam Tape with this one. What are your Tape with this one. What are your favorite single season teams of all time favorite single season teams of all time that maybe aren't widely remembered that maybe aren't widely remembered because they didn't win significant because they didn't win significant silverware, but they were still great? silverware, but they were still great? The example given here is the Ajax team The example given here is the Ajax team of 2018-19 which if memory serves was a of 2018-19 which if memory serves was a few seconds away from a Champions League few seconds away from a Champions League final under Eric Tenhog and then they final under Eric Tenhog and then they got pulled apart mercilessly the got pulled apart mercilessly the following season and thereafter. Um I've following season and thereafter. Um I've got a couple of got a couple of &gt;&gt; All for what? All for what? Manchester &gt;&gt; All for what? Manchester United. United. United. We could have had that that glorious AX We could have had that that glorious AX team for another season but no team for another season but no &gt;&gt; just had to go and ruin it, didn't you? &gt;&gt; just had to go and ruin it, didn't you? Yeah. Um yeah, I've got a couple of Yeah. Um yeah, I've got a couple of noms. show. Um, anything standing out noms. show. Um, anything standing out for you? for you? for you? &gt;&gt; Oh, I wanted I wanted to hear your noms. &gt;&gt; Oh, I wanted I wanted to hear your noms. Give us at least one nom. Give us a Give us at least one nom. Give us a taste. taste. taste. &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay, fine. So, obviously like if &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay, fine. So, obviously like if it if we're not going to go the it if we're not going to go the significant silverware route, the significant silverware route, the Leicester route. Um, I think my actual Leicester route. Um, I think my actual favorite, and this is going to be a favorite, and this is going to be a random poll, and guess what? It's from random poll, and guess what? It's from the '9s. the '9s. the '9s. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Middlesbrough 9697. &gt;&gt; Middlesbrough 9697. &gt;&gt; Wow. I didn't think we were going there. &gt;&gt; Wow. I didn't think we were going there. Is that the Ravenelli team? Is that the Ravenelli team? &gt;&gt; Is that Ravenelli? &gt;&gt; Is that Ravenelli? &gt;&gt; Yes, it is. &gt;&gt; Yes, it is. &gt;&gt; It is. Right. You were just looking very &gt;&gt; It is. Right. You were just looking very blank. blank. blank. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So I think I had a jump in my in my &gt;&gt; So I think I had a jump in my in my connection there. But Middlesbrough were connection there. But Middlesbrough were promoted to the top flight for the first promoted to the top flight for the first time in a long time the previous season time in a long time the previous season 9596 and they had Brian Robson Man 9596 and they had Brian Robson Man United legend as player manager. That's United legend as player manager. That's fun. And in that following they they fun. And in that following they they they finished 12th. All right. In their they finished 12th. All right. In their first season back in the Premier League first season back in the Premier League the previous season. So the one I'm the previous season. So the one I'm talking about they were like right we're talking about they were like right we're going to all guns blazing. We can be going to all guns blazing. We can be better than 12th. And this was a middles better than 12th. And this was a middles middles team who were quite exciting. middles team who were quite exciting. They had a brand new stadium, uh, the BT They had a brand new stadium, uh, the BT Cellnet Stadium I think it was called at Cellnet Stadium I think it was called at the time. Yeah. Old school telephone the time. Yeah. Old school telephone networks. Um, networks. Um, networks. Um, &gt;&gt; that ages it so much. &gt;&gt; that ages it so much. &gt;&gt; Yeah. But they were from for &gt;&gt; Yeah. But they were from for Middlesbrough, which is a, you know, an Middlesbrough, which is a, you know, an industrial town in the Northeast, not a industrial town in the Northeast, not a million miles from sort of Sunderland million miles from sort of Sunderland and Newcastle for geographical and Newcastle for geographical reference. They were this exciting, reference. They were this exciting, glamorous team like the likes of which glamorous team like the likes of which the Premier League didn't really have the Premier League didn't really have elsewhere. So they had Brian Robson, elsewhere. So they had Brian Robson, obviously his manager. They had players obviously his manager. They had players like uh Emerson the Brazilian midfielder like uh Emerson the Brazilian midfielder who was like completely came out of the who was like completely came out of the blue for them. Fabricio Ravenelli as blue for them. Fabricio Ravenelli as you've mentioned there Graeme from you've mentioned there Graeme from Juventus and this was like a huge Juventus and this was like a huge statement getting Ravenelli pretty much statement getting Ravenelli pretty much at the end of his prime I would say some at the end of his prime I would say some other names from that team. Robbie Masto other names from that team. Robbie Masto okay Beck uh Branco another Brazilian okay Beck uh Branco another Brazilian Brazilian defender Mark Schwarzer was in Brazilian defender Mark Schwarzer was in there. Janinho Janho was a little there. Janinho Janho was a little dimminative little midfielder. He was dimminative little midfielder. He was great fun as well. So the obviously a great fun as well. So the obviously a great team, but what I love about this great team, but what I love about this team is they reached the FA Cup final, team is they reached the FA Cup final, they reached the League Cup final, they they reached the League Cup final, they lost them both and got relegated. That's lost them both and got relegated. That's why I love this team. why I love this team. &gt;&gt; That is football heritage right there. &gt;&gt; That is football heritage right there. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's like a wagon without even &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's like a wagon without even having the trophy to show for your having the trophy to show for your efforts. You made the final. You didn't efforts. You made the final. You didn't even win the final. But I I've I've even win the final. But I I've I've wors. Wimbledon, my team that same season made Wimbledon, my team that same season made both semi-finals and lost both both semi-finals and lost both semi-finals. That's worse. But we didn't semi-finals. That's worse. But we didn't get relegated. get relegated. get relegated. &gt;&gt; No, just disappeared a few years later. &gt;&gt; No, just disappeared a few years later. &gt;&gt; We didn't Yeah, we didn't get away and &gt;&gt; We didn't Yeah, we didn't get away and we disappeared off there. we disappeared off there. &gt;&gt; It was like a curse in the cup &gt;&gt; It was like a curse in the cup competitions that season in English competitions that season in English football. Yeah, I remember maybe football. Yeah, I remember maybe slightly, you know, I would have been slightly, you know, I would have been like five or six at that point, but like five or six at that point, but that's when I was starting to get into that's when I was starting to get into football. So, I vaguely remember that football. So, I vaguely remember that that team. And I remember the Brian that team. And I remember the Brian Robson photo shoot from when he was Robson photo shoot from when he was announced as the the player manager announced as the the player manager where he's wearing the shorts and the where he's wearing the shorts and the blazer on on top. The shorts and the blazer on on top. The shorts and the football boots with the blazer. It's a a football boots with the blazer. It's a a classic of the genre. classic of the genre. &gt;&gt; It's a player manager. Uh elite look, I &gt;&gt; It's a player manager. Uh elite look, I would say. Uh so there you go. I think would say. Uh so there you go. I think that's my main nominee. Who wants Who that's my main nominee. Who wants Who wants to jump in with a another favorite wants to jump in with a another favorite single season team? single season team? &gt;&gt; I'll go I'll go on mine. Mine are much &gt;&gt; I'll go I'll go on mine. Mine are much more recent and um a little less more recent and um a little less abstract than that. Although I do have abstract than that. Although I do have one that is is like right up my alley in one that is is like right up my alley in the way that that was perfectly up your the way that that was perfectly up your alley. This is early, but I'm going to alley. This is early, but I'm going to buy my stock in this team as an alltime, buy my stock in this team as an alltime, oh, the real ones remember kind of team. oh, the real ones remember kind of team. Barcelona from this past season. I'm Barcelona from this past season. I'm sorry, but that is going to go down as sorry, but that is going to go down as one of the weirdest, wildest seasons one of the weirdest, wildest seasons ever. Their tactical approach with the ever. Their tactical approach with the offside trap. There was a point last offside trap. There was a point last season, midway about midway through the season, midway about midway through the season, where they had drawn teams season, where they had drawn teams offside 50 more times than other team offside 50 more times than other team any other team in the Big Five Leagues. any other team in the Big Five Leagues. What they were doing was wild. It was What they were doing was wild. It was epic. It was crazy. It's going to be epic. It was crazy. It's going to be remembered as maybe Laminal's real remembered as maybe Laminal's real statement season uh when it comes to his statement season uh when it comes to his onfield play. Pedri, young talent onfield play. Pedri, young talent galore. I mean, we've talked about this galore. I mean, we've talked about this Barcelona team a lot, but they didn't Barcelona team a lot, but they didn't have the ultimate European success. So, have the ultimate European success. So, they do absolutely fit in fit into this they do absolutely fit in fit into this category. And that's what it takes, I category. And that's what it takes, I think, to have that European success to think, to have that European success to be remembered as one of the big two be remembered as one of the big two clubs in Spain. If you're going to have clubs in Spain. If you're going to have a season, it needs to end in a Champions a season, it needs to end in a Champions League trophy. It did not. That is League trophy. It did not. That is absolutely one on my list because I absolutely one on my list because I think it has shaped how I think about a think it has shaped how I think about a number of the key characters of this number of the key characters of this Barcelona team and a big part of their Barcelona team and a big part of their new era. I have two more and I'll go new era. I have two more and I'll go through these quickly. Uh I don't think through these quickly. Uh I don't think this one counts because they won the this one counts because they won the Champions League. Um but Liverpool on 97 Champions League. Um but Liverpool on 97 points 97 points in the 201819 Premier points 97 points in the 201819 Premier League season and they didn't win. That League season and they didn't win. That is the fourth highest single season is the fourth highest single season points total in Premier League history. points total in Premier League history. It will also not be remembered that It will also not be remembered that league campaign in the same way that it league campaign in the same way that it would have been. I know not not the best would have been. I know not not the best nom but really I wanted to get to this nom but really I wanted to get to this one. Phoenix Rising's 2019 team, baby. one. Phoenix Rising's 2019 team, baby. If you're actually asking for my real If you're actually asking for my real answer to this question, this is the answer to this question, this is the answer. Can Tate? So, I hope this answer. Can Tate? So, I hope this satisfies you. 78 points in 34 matches. satisfies you. 78 points in 34 matches. Um, that's the same number of matches Um, that's the same number of matches that MLS plays. If if they were doing that MLS plays. If if they were doing that in MLS, they would have the that in MLS, they would have the all-time points record in Major League all-time points record in Major League Soccer. So, that gives you some context Soccer. So, that gives you some context for how good that team was. They won 20 for how good that team was. They won 20 games in a row. 20 games in a row, games in a row. 20 games in a row, setting the record for the longest setting the record for the longest winning streak in American soccer winning streak in American soccer history. They lost ultimately in the history. They lost ultimately in the Western Conference semi-final. But if Western Conference semi-final. But if they had gone all the way, that would be they had gone all the way, that would be the undisputed best season in USL the undisputed best season in USL history. It is not that. Um, there is history. It is not that. Um, there is plenty of disputing about what is the plenty of disputing about what is the best USL team in history, and Phoenix best USL team in history, and Phoenix does not have that crown all to does not have that crown all to themselves. But that season, I was themselves. But that season, I was covering the team on the ground at the covering the team on the ground at the time, and and it I've never experienced time, and and it I've never experienced anything like that before. Like, you anything like that before. Like, you don't get win streaks like that in don't get win streaks like that in American soccer because of how the the American soccer because of how the the leagues are designed. But that team was leagues are designed. But that team was amazing. There were MLS players in amazing. There were MLS players in there. Tristan Blackman was in there. there. Tristan Blackman was in there. like there was so many pieces of that like there was so many pieces of that team that went on to do fun stuff. Um team that went on to do fun stuff. Um that that was a good error for me. So that that was a good error for me. So that is my actual answer even if it's that is my actual answer even if it's not the sexiest. not the sexiest. &gt;&gt; Nice. Very good. Graeme, how you feeling &gt;&gt; Nice. Very good. Graeme, how you feeling about this question? about this question? &gt;&gt; So it's funny that the question mentions &gt;&gt; So it's funny that the question mentions the 1819 Ajax team because the first the 1819 Ajax team because the first team that came to mind for me was the team that came to mind for me was the team that beat them in that famous team that beat them in that famous Champions League semi-final. I loved Champions League semi-final. I loved Pochettino Spurs team. I just thought Pochettino Spurs team. I just thought they were so good to watch at the time. they were so good to watch at the time. They were um they were good at taking They were um they were good at taking talent that you kind of you'd heard of talent that you kind of you'd heard of but then giving them giving them a but then giving them giving them a platform. So I'm thinking of someone platform. So I'm thinking of someone like um Toby Alderald or Yanverongan or like um Toby Alderald or Yanverongan or Musa Dembele. These were all players Musa Dembele. These were all players that you'd heard of, you knew who they that you'd heard of, you knew who they were, but they took them and they just were, but they took them and they just raised them to an entirely new level raised them to an entirely new level which was which was fun. They had Son at which was which was fun. They had Son at his best around that time, Deli Ali at his best around that time, Deli Ali at his best and I think people forget just his best and I think people forget just how good he was. I mean, there was a how good he was. I mean, there was a time when Kane and and Delhi were the time when Kane and and Delhi were the two kind of big assets that Spurs had two kind of big assets that Spurs had and and I thought Delhi was actually the and and I thought Delhi was actually the one who was going to get like a Real one who was going to get like a Real Madrid move or something like that. Like Madrid move or something like that. Like he was the player I could envision in a he was the player I could envision in a Real Madrid or Barcelona or a Bayern Real Madrid or Barcelona or a Bayern Munich over over Hurricane. Obviously Munich over over Hurricane. Obviously that that changed pretty quickly and that that changed pretty quickly and Hurricane is literally at Bayern Munich Hurricane is literally at Bayern Munich right now. But there was a poetic right now. But there was a poetic quality to how there was a progression quality to how there was a progression for that team season on season. They for that team season on season. They were fun to watch. They reached that were fun to watch. They reached that Champions League final and I think Champions League final and I think everyone thought they would then take everyone thought they would then take the next step and then PCH was gone the next step and then PCH was gone within a within a few months. It was within a within a few months. It was kind of like a I don't know like a a kind of like a I don't know like a a famous musician, you know, dying before famous musician, you know, dying before their time or something. They're just their time or something. They're just immortalized as being that good forever. immortalized as being that good forever. So, I'll always remember that team um So, I'll always remember that team um fondly. And then the other team that fondly. And then the other team that would nominate is I loved Beels Elsa's would nominate is I loved Beels Elsa's athletic club team. The the one that had athletic club team. The the one that had Ekar Munin Munin and Fernando Lorente Ekar Munin Munin and Fernando Lorente and Herrera before he went to Manchester and Herrera before he went to Manchester United. Andonia Riola was the starting United. Andonia Riola was the starting right back for that team. And this was right back for that team. And this was the team that went to Old Trafford and the team that went to Old Trafford and this was when Manchester United were this was when Manchester United were still in the you know were still good. still in the you know were still good. They were still in the Ferguson era and They were still in the Ferguson era and Athletic like totally turned them over Athletic like totally turned them over at Old Trafford and beat them 3-2 in at Old Trafford and beat them 3-2 in that Europa League game. And then that Europa League game. And then similar to um similar to the the Pchis similar to um similar to the the Pchis Spurs, they never had like their trophy Spurs, they never had like their trophy winning moment. They got dismantled by winning moment. They got dismantled by Atletico Madrid in the final which Atletico Madrid in the final which somehow felt perfect for the end of that somehow felt perfect for the end of that story. It was a bit like Billy Bean's a story. It was a bit like Billy Bean's a Oakland A's losing like in the World Oakland A's losing like in the World Series. So somehow that made it more Series. So somehow that made it more poetic for Beels Elsa who I don't think poetic for Beels Elsa who I don't think has ever won a major trophy in his time has ever won a major trophy in his time as a manager. Somehow that feels perfect as a manager. Somehow that feels perfect for him. But yeah, I remember that team for him. But yeah, I remember that team fondly as well. fondly as well. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I like that a lot. Very good &gt;&gt; Yeah, I like that a lot. Very good nomination. My other nomination is a is nomination. My other nomination is a is a Wimbledon one. Um it's not technically a Wimbledon one. Um it's not technically a single season. AS Wimbledon still a single season. AS Wimbledon still holds the record for the longest holds the record for the longest unbeaten run of league games at any unbeaten run of league games at any level of senior soccer in the UK. 78 level of senior soccer in the UK. 78 games unbeaten between February 2003 and games unbeaten between February 2003 and November 2004. So spanned over two November 2004. So spanned over two seasons technically, but that is a seasons technically, but that is a period of I mean technically we've got period of I mean technically we've got promotions in that period as well, so promotions in that period as well, so doesn't quite count. But it led me to a doesn't quite count. But it led me to a a conversation I was having Graeme with a conversation I was having Graeme with my brother a few days ago and about it my brother a few days ago and about it was about kits. And the theory is you was about kits. And the theory is you like a kit more if your team did well like a kit more if your team did well while they were wearing it. Totally. while they were wearing it. Totally. Yeah. So like I was going through my Yeah. So like I was going through my favorite Wimbledon kits. I said, "I favorite Wimbledon kits. I said, "I really like that Hummer one." My really like that Hummer one." My brother's like, "Yeah, we got tanked brother's like, "Yeah, we got tanked every week while we're wearing that." every week while we're wearing that." And I, "Oh, what about this one?" He's And I, "Oh, what about this one?" He's like, "No, we we got relegated wearing like, "No, we we got relegated wearing that one." It does it does cloud your that one." It does it does cloud your your um your perception of a kit and a your um your perception of a kit and a team depending on what they're wearing, team depending on what they're wearing, I think. And and what's even more I think. And and what's even more impressive, and people don't know this impressive, and people don't know this about Graham, is that he has only ever about Graham, is that he has only ever bought kits of relegated teams. So all bought kits of relegated teams. So all all every kit that Graham buys is just all every kit that Graham buys is just of relegated team. Imagine how many he of relegated team. Imagine how many he would have if if the rest of the teams would have if if the rest of the teams were open to him. It's it's impressive. were open to him. It's it's impressive. &gt;&gt; Almost. My collection is almost &gt;&gt; Almost. My collection is almost complete. Joe, I don't have an England complete. Joe, I don't have an England kit. You know, they've been relegated. kit. You know, they've been relegated. So So So &gt;&gt; there's time. &gt;&gt; there's time. &gt;&gt; Yeah, there's time. &gt;&gt; Yeah, there's time. &gt;&gt; I'm shaking my head. I'm shaking my &gt;&gt; I'm shaking my head. I would I this is the only time head. I would I this is the only time I'll ever encourage you to buy some MK I'll ever encourage you to buy some MK Dons kits. That's what I'll say. Graeme, Dons kits. That's what I'll say. Graeme, thank you very much. And thank you to thank you very much. And thank you to Cat 8 for that question. Let's take a Cat 8 for that question. Let's take a quick break. When we come back, we're quick break. When we come back, we're talking about Victor Osman and Thomas talking about Victor Osman and Thomas Müller. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Müller. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our listener questions. Welcome back to our listener questions. Cole Friedrich has been in touch with Cole Friedrich has been in touch with this one. Why did Victor Osman sign with this one. Why did Victor Osman sign with Galatarelite and not a team in a top Galatarelite and not a team in a top five league? With several Premier League five league? With several Premier League teams on the hunt for a striker, why teams on the hunt for a striker, why didn't any of them seem to be interested didn't any of them seem to be interested given his status among world strikers given his status among world strikers and relatively low transfer price? and relatively low transfer price? Graeme, the Gala deal with Osman is now Graeme, the Gala deal with Osman is now permanent. So why is he in Turkey and permanent. So why is he in Turkey and not at a league with a higher stature? I not at a league with a higher stature? I mean when he first went on loan to mean when he first went on loan to Galatasroy, there was this perception Galatasroy, there was this perception that Napoli had sort of botched the that Napoli had sort of botched the whole situation. They didn't get the the whole situation. They didn't get the the money they should have got for him and money they should have got for him and maybe they could have done from a other maybe they could have done from a other top five league. What are we thinking? top five league. What are we thinking? &gt;&gt; Yes, I think it all comes down to to &gt;&gt; Yes, I think it all comes down to to money or it largely comes down to to to money or it largely comes down to to to money. I do think Osman um enjoyed money. I do think Osman um enjoyed himself out in Turkey. And when you're himself out in Turkey. And when you're getting paid a fortune and you're getting paid a fortune and you're winning trophies and scoring lots of winning trophies and scoring lots of goals, it's going to be difficult for goals, it's going to be difficult for another team to make a sales pitch that another team to make a sales pitch that is that is better um to him than than is that is better um to him than than that. So I think there is an element of that. So I think there is an element of he's he is happy in Turkey. He's he's he is happy in Turkey. He's idolized at that club. He wins stuff. He idolized at that club. He wins stuff. He plays in European football, scores loads plays in European football, scores loads of goals, gets paid lots. Sound sounds of goals, gets paid lots. Sound sounds good to me. But yeah, this summer it good to me. But yeah, this summer it came down to came down to wages. And I came down to wages. And I think it has flown under the radar a bit think it has flown under the radar a bit just how much Galatasari are paying just how much Galatasari are paying Victor Osman. So he is receiving 20 Victor Osman. So he is receiving 20 million a season net um because there is million a season net um because there is a a tax um break of sorts in in Turkey. a a tax um break of sorts in in Turkey. So Turkey collects the second lowest um So Turkey collects the second lowest um amount of tax from athletes out of all amount of tax from athletes out of all the the European countries. So 20 the the European countries. So 20 million a season. million a season. &gt;&gt; Who's the lowest? Do we know? &gt;&gt; Who's the lowest? Do we know? &gt;&gt; I don't know. I didn't the the article. &gt;&gt; I don't know. I didn't the the article. You asked me the one question, Ryan. I You asked me the one question, Ryan. I don't know. The article that I read did don't know. The article that I read did not specify who the lowest was. Who not specify who the lowest was. Who could it be? Monaco. Monte Carlo. could it be? Monaco. Monte Carlo. &gt;&gt; Could be. Could be one of those. &gt;&gt; Could be. Could be one of those. &gt;&gt; Ryan's just asking because he's &gt;&gt; Ryan's just asking because he's pondering another European move. It pondering another European move. It sounds like sounds like sounds like &gt;&gt; and a career as an athlete. Yeah. &gt;&gt; and a career as an athlete. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So 20 million a season net that &gt;&gt; Yeah. So 20 million a season net that works out at around €300,000 a week, works out at around €300,000 a week, which would have cost a Premier League which would have cost a Premier League club if they were to pay him in terms of club if they were to pay him in terms of what Osman, we all know how tax works. what Osman, we all know how tax works. In terms of how what he would take home, In terms of how what he would take home, what his takehome pay would be, that what his takehome pay would be, that would cost a Premier League club around would cost a Premier League club around 500,000 uh euros a week to sign him. And 500,000 uh euros a week to sign him. And that would have made him the second that would have made him the second highest paid player in the Premier highest paid player in the Premier League behind Erling Holland. And while League behind Erling Holland. And while Victor Osman is a top quality player, I Victor Osman is a top quality player, I think lots of teams would have been think lots of teams would have been interested in him this summer. I have no interested in him this summer. I have no doubt that he had conversations with doubt that he had conversations with lots of them. I guess clubs just decided lots of them. I guess clubs just decided against that. And it would have been against that. And it would have been possible for a few clubs to to have paid possible for a few clubs to to have paid that amount, but a lot of those clubs, that amount, but a lot of those clubs, if we're if we're kind of identifying if we're if we're kind of identifying those clubs are I mean, what were the those clubs are I mean, what were the clubs would clubs that would be clubs would clubs that would be interested in? Awesome. Chelsea, Man interested in? Awesome. Chelsea, Man City, possibly Manchester United, City, possibly Manchester United, Liverpool, all of them had like a like Liverpool, all of them had like a like squad reconstruction to do this summer. squad reconstruction to do this summer. They needed more than a single player They needed more than a single player and so they just decided to spend that and so they just decided to spend that money in in other ways and Galatas's money in in other ways and Galatas's offer was pretty uh pretty tantalizing offer was pretty uh pretty tantalizing to us. to us. to us. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Joe, sounds like we've uh &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Joe, sounds like we've uh got to the root of that one. Anything to got to the root of that one. Anything to add on this one? No, ju just to add on this one? No, ju just to underscore the fact that if Osammen if underscore the fact that if Osammen if if teams were willing to pay Osman's if teams were willing to pay Osman's salary, there's a lot of value there. salary, there's a lot of value there. Like there's a lot of quality that he Like there's a lot of quality that he can provide. And I think if you're can provide. And I think if you're looking at the strikers actually on the looking at the strikers actually on the move this summer, the only one that I move this summer, the only one that I would be tempted to say I would rather would be tempted to say I would rather have in my team than than Osman is have in my team than than Osman is right. So I think Osman is so clearly a right. So I think Osman is so clearly a a plug-and-play like elite striker in a plug-and-play like elite striker in any league in the world. I maybe there's any league in the world. I maybe there's a little bit of physical adaptation that a little bit of physical adaptation that that needs to happen from Napoli to a that needs to happen from Napoli to a Premier League team, but um one of his Premier League team, but um one of his real strengths is his literal strength. real strengths is his literal strength. Like yes, he has a lot of technical Like yes, he has a lot of technical quality as well, but he's an amazing quality as well, but he's an amazing athlete and I don't really think that athlete and I don't really think that transition would have been all that transition would have been all that difficult for him. So it's it's a miss. difficult for him. So it's it's a miss. I'm sure there are plenty of Premier I'm sure there are plenty of Premier League teams that are are wishing that League teams that are are wishing that those salary demands were different. those salary demands were different. What I will say is, and I should have What I will say is, and I should have done the math before this episode, done the math before this episode, that's my bad. you know, paying paying that's my bad. you know, paying paying Napoli 75 million euros if you're uh Napoli 75 million euros if you're uh Liverpool as an example. Arsenal, maybe Liverpool as an example. Arsenal, maybe maybe that's a good one. Um, but we'll maybe that's a good one. Um, but we'll say with Liverpool if if you're if say with Liverpool if if you're if you're weighing up paying 130 million you're weighing up paying 130 million pounds for ESAC and a salary that's pounds for ESAC and a salary that's going to be high, but not Erling Holland going to be high, but not Erling Holland high or going out there and signing high or going out there and signing Osman for a lower transfer fee, but a Osman for a lower transfer fee, but a higher salary. I don't know, man. Maybe higher salary. I don't know, man. Maybe there's a world in which the math works there's a world in which the math works out on that front. So it it seems it out on that front. So it it seems it still seems a bit odd to me that no team still seems a bit odd to me that no team was was like willing to get a little bit was was like willing to get a little bit further down the field. Maybe there's further down the field. Maybe there's you know there have been plenty of you know there have been plenty of reports about some some reports about some some temperamentalness for maybe there's more temperamentalness for maybe there's more than just the money side of things. I do than just the money side of things. I do think that the wages and Grim's point think that the wages and Grim's point about hey he and he's Oman's come out about hey he and he's Oman's come out and talked about how I believe his and talked about how I believe his daughter really has enjoyed being where daughter really has enjoyed being where she is and is like has friends there and she is and is like has friends there and and it's not so easy to move your family and it's not so easy to move your family from one place to another, right? There from one place to another, right? There are other things that that are factors are other things that that are factors here. But man, I just keep coming back here. But man, I just keep coming back to that ESAC thing and and thinking to that ESAC thing and and thinking maybe maybe there's a world in which a maybe maybe there's a world in which a team would have gone Osman. I don't team would have gone Osman. I don't know. Yeah, I do wonder if the Napoli know. Yeah, I do wonder if the Napoli mess and the way things ended for him mess and the way things ended for him there maybe put some some teams off and there maybe put some some teams off and I don't know if that's fair or not I don't know if that's fair or not because um Derentes has his own because um Derentes has his own reputation there but it felt like the reputation there but it felt like the links you know last summer those links links you know last summer those links were to teams like Real Madrid and and were to teams like Real Madrid and and and Liverpool and then the links the and Liverpool and then the links the more kind of feasible links this summer more kind of feasible links this summer started to be with teams like Manchester started to be with teams like Manchester United and Chelsea who are maybe a rung United and Chelsea who are maybe a rung lower than than you know Liverpool and lower than than you know Liverpool and and Real Madrid. So, I don't know and Real Madrid. So, I don't know whether that was um something that whether that was um something that affected his his standing in in in the affected his his standing in in in the transfer market or not. Also, transfer market or not. Also, Galataseray, they're they're paying Galataseray, they're they're paying Leroy Sani €250,000 a week as well. So, Leroy Sani €250,000 a week as well. So, they they really have found some money they they really have found some money down the back of the couch this summer down the back of the couch this summer and they decided to blow a lot of it on and they decided to blow a lot of it on on Osman, which to be honest, there are on Osman, which to be honest, there are worse ways to uh Turkish clubs have worse ways to uh Turkish clubs have found worse ways to spend their money in found worse ways to spend their money in the past is is is all I'll say. Osman is the past is is is all I'll say. Osman is probably the best player that's played probably the best player that's played in that league in the last like 20 in that league in the last like 20 years. years. years. when they funded all those dud mobile when they funded all those dud mobile phones to throw onto the field. phones to throw onto the field. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; somebody's got to throw. &gt;&gt; somebody's got to throw. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean it's a shame for some of &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean it's a shame for some of the top five leagues. I mean, Spain the top five leagues. I mean, Spain don't get the opportunity to arbitrarily don't get the opportunity to arbitrarily give another player a suspended prison give another player a suspended prison sentence for tax evasion. Pour some out sentence for tax evasion. Pour some out for the UK version of the IRS as well for the UK version of the IRS as well who don't get to collect 40% of half a who don't get to collect 40% of half a million a week. I'm sure they would have million a week. I'm sure they would have loved to have done that. loved to have done that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that could have been a hospital &gt;&gt; Yeah, that could have been a hospital vector. vector. vector. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; that's what we we're missing out on. &gt;&gt; that's what we we're missing out on. Honestly, like my instinctive reaction Honestly, like my instinctive reaction when he went to Gatas was disappointment when he went to Gatas was disappointment because I just don't watch the Turkish because I just don't watch the Turkish Super League as as as much um or at all Super League as as as much um or at all really catch highlights sometimes and really catch highlights sometimes and put them in the newsletter. But um I put them in the newsletter. But um I think in this world where everything has think in this world where everything has been funneled into the Premier League been funneled into the Premier League and the top five leagues, it's kind of and the top five leagues, it's kind of refreshing that he's gone out outside refreshing that he's gone out outside that and and also the age that he is. that and and also the age that he is. How old is Austin? He's got to be like How old is Austin? He's got to be like 25 26. I would bet there's a Premier 25 26. I would bet there's a Premier League move or a La Liga move at some League move or a La Liga move at some point in his in his future. It may just point in his in his future. It may just be a couple years from now. be a couple years from now. &gt;&gt; There you go. All right, Cole. Thank you &gt;&gt; There you go. All right, Cole. Thank you very much for your question. Jojo Bjo very much for your question. Jojo Bjo has been in touch with this one. Jojo has been in touch with this one. Jojo Bjo. Yeah, very good. Is Thomas Müller Bjo. Yeah, very good. Is Thomas Müller still good? Asks Jojo. Is this all going still good? Asks Jojo. Is this all going to backfire on the White Caps or will to backfire on the White Caps or will they win the cup? Yes, Joe. Thomas they win the cup? Yes, Joe. Thomas Müller officially a White Caps player as Müller officially a White Caps player as of this week. Um, what do we think of of of this week. Um, what do we think of of him as a prospect? Obviously, he's been him as a prospect? Obviously, he's been playing for Bayern Munich since, I playing for Bayern Munich since, I think, 1974, uh, if my math is correct, think, 1974, uh, if my math is correct, but he's still going very strong, but but he's still going very strong, but uh, goals in the single figures in the uh, goals in the single figures in the last three season. His roles changing last three season. His roles changing perhaps, but is he still good? What do perhaps, but is he still good? What do we think? we think? we think? &gt;&gt; I think so. I think Thomas Müller could &gt;&gt; I think so. I think Thomas Müller could have played another season of useful have played another season of useful minutes at Bayern Munich or another high minutes at Bayern Munich or another high level European club. I think he is more level European club. I think he is more than good enough to influence MLS games than good enough to influence MLS games on the ball. And maybe most importantly on the ball. And maybe most importantly of all, because there are there are some of all, because there are there are some age risks here. He'll turn 36 next age risks here. He'll turn 36 next month. He has still been quite durable. month. He has still been quite durable. Thomas Muller, he played 2,000 minutes Thomas Muller, he played 2,000 minutes this past season across the Bundesliga this past season across the Bundesliga and Champions League. That is not an and Champions League. That is not an everyame starter. He was much more of a everyame starter. He was much more of a rotation piece. His minutes were were rotation piece. His minutes were were managed at a closer level. But from what managed at a closer level. But from what I found, you know, there have not been I found, you know, there have not been super serious injuries for Thomas Mohler super serious injuries for Thomas Mohler in in the recent past. That's huge, in in the recent past. That's huge, right? right? If you're going to sign an right? right? If you're going to sign an aging player, Father Time is undefeated, aging player, Father Time is undefeated, but you want to to maximize the chances but you want to to maximize the chances of having that player stay on the field, of having that player stay on the field, especially in Vancouver's case, if especially in Vancouver's case, if you're going to make him a designated you're going to make him a designated player next year. The the other thing player next year. The the other thing that that makes me so uh hopeful about that that makes me so uh hopeful about this signing for Vancouver, while also this signing for Vancouver, while also recognizing that there's a lot of recognizing that there's a lot of outcomes between this backfiring on the outcomes between this backfiring on the White Caps and them winning the cup, White Caps and them winning the cup, there's a lot of middle ground in there there's a lot of middle ground in there somewhere. The the other thing that I somewhere. The the other thing that I like a lot about this deal is that it's like a lot about this deal is that it's only an 18-month deal. So Thomas Mueller only an 18-month deal. So Thomas Mueller is signed now and he's eligible to play is signed now and he's eligible to play now, but he is only signed through the now, but he is only signed through the end of next season as he'll be a DP next end of next season as he'll be a DP next year and that's it. Now now maybe year and that's it. Now now maybe there's room for an extension. You know, there's room for an extension. You know, may maybe there's maybe there's more on may maybe there's maybe there's more on top of that, but the White Caps are not top of that, but the White Caps are not trapped in a place where you've trapped in a place where you've committed to having 38-year-old Thomas committed to having 38-year-old Thomas Muller on your team and that's not a Muller on your team and that's not a place that I would love to be. At the place that I would love to be. At the end of his deal, he'll be 37. And that end of his deal, he'll be 37. And that is that's old, don't get me wrong. Like is that's old, don't get me wrong. Like Thomas Miller is in in the twilight of Thomas Miller is in in the twilight of his career, but I think if if you his career, but I think if if you watched his tape last year, if you watched his tape last year, if you watched him at all, the Club World Cup, watched him at all, the Club World Cup, there's a there's a player in there there's a there's a player in there still. He does not have the same engine still. He does not have the same engine that he once had. He will not be as that he once had. He will not be as quick to move off the ball. He will not quick to move off the ball. He will not be as quick to press defensively. All be as quick to press defensively. All those things are real. Vancouver though those things are real. Vancouver though are uniquely equipped with the players are uniquely equipped with the players they have. I believe Sebal, Andre Kubas, they have. I believe Sebal, Andre Kubas, Ryan Gald is like the the working man's, Ryan Gald is like the the working man's, you know, best 11 player where he does you know, best 11 player where he does the defensive dirty work. He's the the defensive dirty work. He's the example for the kids in the academy. example for the kids in the academy. Brian White is a hardworking presser. Brian White is a hardworking presser. you run through this roster, they are you run through this roster, they are filled with guys who do the hard work filled with guys who do the hard work defensively. And I don't think Müller defensively. And I don't think Müller would view himself as being above that would view himself as being above that necessarily that are just going to be necessarily that are just going to be practical limitations on what he can do. practical limitations on what he can do. So, I think the team around him will be So, I think the team around him will be able to cover for at least some of his able to cover for at least some of his deficiencies. He'll change how the Caps deficiencies. He'll change how the Caps play defensively in ways and I think play defensively in ways and I think he's going to bring a ton on the ball. he's going to bring a ton on the ball. Like we think of Thomas Müller as the I Like we think of Thomas Müller as the I think even Axel Schustster sporting think even Axel Schustster sporting director up in Vancouver, you know, director up in Vancouver, you know, dropped in a in a you know statement dropped in a in a you know statement like Thomas Müller is the Ramdoer, the like Thomas Müller is the Ramdoer, the the worldrenowned space exploer and all the worldrenowned space exploer and all that stuff's true, right? He's a savvy that stuff's true, right? He's a savvy offball player. There's lots of those. offball player. There's lots of those. But he's really good at that stuff, but But he's really good at that stuff, but he's also amazing on the ball. Like he's he's also amazing on the ball. Like he's not amazing on the ball relative to not amazing on the ball relative to Jamal Musa, but relative to Pedro Vite Jamal Musa, but relative to Pedro Vite or relative to, I don't know, insert or relative to, I don't know, insert most MLS players here, he's going to be most MLS players here, he's going to be an amazing onball playmaker for them. So an amazing onball playmaker for them. So I I do like this move. I think the risks I I do like this move. I think the risks are relatively low. I think he he raises are relatively low. I think he he raises Vancouver ceiling even if he drops the Vancouver ceiling even if he drops the floor a little bit. It just doesn't drop floor a little bit. It just doesn't drop the floor a ton. the floor a ton. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Joe, I was going to ask you about &gt;&gt; Yeah. Joe, I was going to ask you about his role with with Vancouver because you his role with with Vancouver because you obviously watch them a lot more than obviously watch them a lot more than than I do. Um so you're not concerned than I do. Um so you're not concerned about So is is he the Pedro Vite about So is is he the Pedro Vite replacement? Vite my my impression is replacement? Vite my my impression is off the ball he was part of that like off the ball he was part of that like aggressive press from from Vancouver. aggressive press from from Vancouver. And I just having watched Müller And I just having watched Müller recently, he actually had a decent club recently, he actually had a decent club World Cup. He looked kind of World Cup. He looked kind of revitalized. But there were points last revitalized. But there were points last season for Byron where I really did season for Byron where I really did watch Müller and think he'd pretty watch Müller and think he'd pretty dramatically dropped off as a like in dramatically dropped off as a like in terms of his physicality. So I don't terms of his physicality. So I don't think he's going to be able to do that think he's going to be able to do that for Vancouver, but it sounds like you're for Vancouver, but it sounds like you're you're unconcerned they're going to be you're unconcerned they're going to be able to compensate for that in in in able to compensate for that in in in other ways. other ways. other ways. &gt;&gt; No, I mean they will be able to &gt;&gt; No, I mean they will be able to compensate for some of that. How how compensate for some of that. How how much I don't know. I think like my my much I don't know. I think like my my point is that Vancouver are built to point is that Vancouver are built to absorb some of his deficiencies. He will absorb some of his deficiencies. He will still make them a less effective still make them a less effective defensive team. There's there's just no defensive team. There's there's just no getting around that. But you trade that getting around that. But you trade that for attacking upside and and where this for attacking upside and and where this move lands on that scale, right? I mean, move lands on that scale, right? I mean, every every move has that same sort of every every move has that same sort of calculus to it, right? Um where where calculus to it, right? Um where where exactly it lands on that scale, I don't exactly it lands on that scale, I don't know. But I am optimistic that Thomas know. But I am optimistic that Thomas Müller's inability to defend at a higher Müller's inability to defend at a higher level will be number one just you know level will be number one just you know less obvious in MLS because the game less obvious in MLS because the game moves slower than it does in the moves slower than it does in the Bundesliga or in the Champions League Bundesliga or in the Champions League but also it will not hurt Vancouver in but also it will not hurt Vancouver in the way that it might hurt say the LA the way that it might hurt say the LA Galaxy or uh insert another bad sporting Galaxy or uh insert another bad sporting Kansas City or whatever like bad Kansas City or whatever like bad defensive teams. Vancouver are a great defensive teams. Vancouver are a great defensive team and there's room for them defensive team and there's room for them to drop without being just abysmal in to drop without being just abysmal in that part of the field. I am I am uh I that part of the field. I am I am uh I want to ask you Graeme about Müller, but want to ask you Graeme about Müller, but I guess you asked me about his fit in I guess you asked me about his fit in Vancouver. I don't know that he's going Vancouver. I don't know that he's going to be positionally the Vite replacement. to be positionally the Vite replacement. I I think Esper Sorenson can use him in I I think Esper Sorenson can use him in a couple of different roles. I would a couple of different roles. I would imagine we're going to see him more in imagine we're going to see him more in the front line like as sort of a nominal the front line like as sort of a nominal winger who drifts inside and just picks winger who drifts inside and just picks up the ball in the half space because up the ball in the half space because Vancouver tend to to defend anyway out Vancouver tend to to defend anyway out of a 4-3. And I don't know if you want of a 4-3. And I don't know if you want Muller's um lack of energy right in the Muller's um lack of energy right in the heart of your team. I think maybe you heart of your team. I think maybe you prefer it out wide. So, I would expect prefer it out wide. So, I would expect him to to pop up in the half spaces a him to to pop up in the half spaces a lot rather than being the third center lot rather than being the third center mid for them. I think we'll see mid for them. I think we'll see Vancouver go in another direction in Vancouver go in another direction in that part of the field. But I'm I'm that part of the field. But I'm I'm curious to flip it back to you or or curious to flip it back to you or or Ryan or, you know, either one of you Ryan or, you know, either one of you guys. You've you've watched plenty of guys. You've you've watched plenty of Thomas Müller. Thomas Müller. Thomas Müller. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Do you like what do what do you think &gt;&gt; Do you like what do what do you think about this move? Like I I see this more about this move? Like I I see this more from the MLS side and and Müller for for from the MLS side and and Müller for for who I think he is, but I you may have a who I think he is, but I you may have a more complete picture on who Thomas more complete picture on who Thomas Mueller is at this stage of his career. Mueller is at this stage of his career. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm I'm I'm unsure about it to be &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm I'm I'm unsure about it to be honest. I'm less sure of this one than honest. I'm less sure of this one than the the Son signing. Even though with the the Son signing. Even though with Son there's a question of where he's Son there's a question of where he's actually going to going to play in in actually going to going to play in in that LAFC team. But with Müller, I'm that LAFC team. But with Müller, I'm sure we spoke about him at some point sure we spoke about him at some point last season and our conclusion or last season and our conclusion or certainly my conclusion I think maybe certainly my conclusion I think maybe Taylor was was was with me on that Taylor was was was with me on that episode was just he has he's he's episode was just he has he's he's dropped off like players reach the the dropped off like players reach the the cliff edge physically. Um I even have cliff edge physically. Um I even have concerns about when you talk about Joe concerns about when you talk about Joe his like playmaking ability. Maybe that his like playmaking ability. Maybe that is something he's going to do in MLS. is something he's going to do in MLS. Like it's it's a less um the standard's Like it's it's a less um the standard's not as high as he's been playing in in not as high as he's been playing in in Bundesliga players adapt. We talked Bundesliga players adapt. We talked about this with um with Rodrigo Depal, about this with um with Rodrigo Depal, right? He's never really been an elite right? He's never really been an elite level ball progressor in Europe, but in level ball progressor in Europe, but in ML he's already Yeah, he's already doing ML he's already Yeah, he's already doing that. Yeah, he's racking up assists for that. Yeah, he's racking up assists for for for Miami. So, we're seeing when you for for Miami. So, we're seeing when you drop a player into an elite level player drop a player into an elite level player into a lower quality league, their game into a lower quality league, their game can change. So, maybe that'll happen can change. So, maybe that'll happen with with with Thomas Miller. I just with with with Thomas Miller. I just don't think of him as like a a a great don't think of him as like a a a great on the ball playmaker. I think of him as on the ball playmaker. I think of him as like a late arrival in the box. That's like a late arrival in the box. That's what he was great at, Thomas Müller. And what he was great at, Thomas Müller. And more of a finisher actually than like a more of a finisher actually than like a playmaker. So, from that point of view playmaker. So, from that point of view as well, I'm I'm a little bit concerned, as well, I'm I'm a little bit concerned, but it's fun and as a neutral, I'm glad but it's fun and as a neutral, I'm glad it's happening cuz Dam Miller is great it's happening cuz Dam Miller is great banner and when he's on form, he's a banner and when he's on form, he's a he's a fun player to watch. So, I'm he's a fun player to watch. So, I'm interested to see how it works out. interested to see how it works out. &gt;&gt; I think Graeme, I think all of those &gt;&gt; I think Graeme, I think all of those concerns are completely fair. Like there concerns are completely fair. Like there are those are real things and and even are those are real things and and even thinking about yeah you know Muller's thinking about yeah you know Muller's game has been largely based on his game has been largely based on his movement like you you can't just receive movement like you you can't just receive the ball in a vacuum like you have to the ball in a vacuum like you have to open yourself into space to get on the open yourself into space to get on the ball and the older you get the harder it ball and the older you get the harder it is to do that stuff in a way that is to do that stuff in a way that influences the game positively. So those influences the game positively. So those are all super fair. I just keep coming are all super fair. I just keep coming back to this fact that I don't think it back to this fact that I don't think it is a huge risk for Vancouver. like is a huge risk for Vancouver. like Vancouver's roster is pretty solid like Vancouver's roster is pretty solid like like solidly built and solidly deep even like solidly built and solidly deep even if it's a little less deep now that Vite if it's a little less deep now that Vite and and is gone and Vessel Linovich is and and is gone and Vessel Linovich is out for the year. It it's a very deep out for the year. It it's a very deep kind of squad that I think can absorb kind of squad that I think can absorb some of the risks that Muller provides some of the risks that Muller provides and Vancouver have been really good and Vancouver have been really good without that player like if if Muller without that player like if if Muller hits in some ways it is it's not quite hits in some ways it is it's not quite gravy because you've just lost Vite's gravy because you've just lost Vite's playmaking but I think you will get some playmaking but I think you will get some of that back. I I just don't see this of that back. I I just don't see this being a move that has a ton of downside, being a move that has a ton of downside, especially because they're not trapped especially because they're not trapped into a long-term deal. If this is a into a long-term deal. If this is a three-year deal, I feel differently three-year deal, I feel differently about this. There's just no way around about this. There's just no way around that. I think what LAFC and Vancouver to that. I think what LAFC and Vancouver to loop those together because those both loop those together because those both those deals were announced in the in the those deals were announced in the in the same day earlier this week. I think what same day earlier this week. I think what both of them have done really well is both of them have done really well is not get trapped into long like like not get trapped into long like like three, four, five year guaranteed three, four, five year guaranteed contracts with these guys. Sun's only contracts with these guys. Sun's only under contract through the end of 2027. under contract through the end of 2027. Then LAC have option years beyond that Then LAC have option years beyond that through June of 2029. That's that's through June of 2029. That's that's fantastic for for a player that's 33 fantastic for for a player that's 33 right now. You're not trapped into Sun right now. You're not trapped into Sun until he's 37 or whatever it is. And and until he's 37 or whatever it is. And and it's the same for Müller. Like you're it's the same for Müller. Like you're not trapped forever. I think that's not trapped forever. I think that's massive and that that maybe more than massive and that that maybe more than anything else influences how I feel anything else influences how I feel about these deals. about these deals. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I'm inclined to agree, Joe, and &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I'm inclined to agree, Joe, and I think you're you're on to something I think you're you're on to something definitely about the depth that the definitely about the depth that the White Caps have. And the I I feel like White Caps have. And the I I feel like they won't have there won't be an they won't have there won't be an expectation to play the full 90 for expectation to play the full 90 for every game. Like um what was it nine or every game. Like um what was it nine or 10 regular season games left for 10 regular season games left for Vancouver? had a great start this season Vancouver? had a great start this season and doing very well in the West as well. and doing very well in the West as well. I I think if you have him as he can come I I think if you have him as he can come on and play the final 30 minutes, cause on and play the final 30 minutes, cause some trouble, make some movement, some trouble, make some movement, psychologically, if you see Thomas psychologically, if you see Thomas Müller coming on in the 60th minute as Müller coming on in the 60th minute as an opposition defender, you're like, an opposition defender, you're like, "Okay, we got some this this is this is "Okay, we got some this this is this is changing things a little bit and it's changing things a little bit and it's it's it's they're not building a team it's it's they're not building a team around him, I think, is the point, around him, I think, is the point, right, Joe?" So, right, Joe?" So, &gt;&gt; I think I think he's much more cherry on &gt;&gt; I think I think he's much more cherry on top than he is like ice cream on the top than he is like ice cream on the Sunday, that sort of thing. Sunday, that sort of thing. &gt;&gt; Yeah, they're very good. So, in that &gt;&gt; Yeah, they're very good. So, in that case, as you say, there's there's a lot case, as you say, there's there's a lot of upside and it's quite low risk. The of upside and it's quite low risk. The one thing I am very disappointed in is one thing I am very disappointed in is that I haven't seen him in a Mounty's that I haven't seen him in a Mounty's outfit yet. Like, as a as a lover of outfit yet. Like, as a as a lover of horses and stuff, if they don't do that horses and stuff, if they don't do that with him, I don't know what they're with him, I don't know what they're doing, frankly. doing, frankly. doing, frankly. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Can you imagine how uh hard the the &gt;&gt; Can you imagine how uh hard the the Vancouver White Cap social media team is Vancouver White Cap social media team is like rubbing their hands together with like rubbing their hands together with that deal getting done? that deal getting done? &gt;&gt; What an absolute gold mine. &gt;&gt; What an absolute gold mine. &gt;&gt; Game changed. Let's do this. Yeah. I &gt;&gt; Game changed. Let's do this. Yeah. I mean already like there's so much mean already like there's so much potential for all sorts of high jinks potential for all sorts of high jinks here. You mentioned it Graeme, like he's here. You mentioned it Graeme, like he's good banter. Like he is one of the the good banter. Like he is one of the the great characters in this sport and that great characters in this sport and that is another reason that selfishly I'm I'm is another reason that selfishly I'm I'm very intrigued. very intrigued. very intrigued. &gt;&gt; There you go. Excellent stuff. Thank you &gt;&gt; There you go. Excellent stuff. Thank you Jojo Bejo for that question. We're going Jojo Bejo for that question. We're going to take one more quick break. When we to take one more quick break. When we come back we're going to talk about club come back we're going to talk about club versus country. Join us then. Total versus country. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Soccer Show. Welcome back to our listener questions. Christian CC has listener questions. Christian CC has been in touch with this one. What is been in touch with this one. What is more important, club or country? As a more important, club or country? As a dual citizen, says Christian, I would dual citizen, says Christian, I would rather see the USA or England take home rather see the USA or England take home a trophy, even if it's at the expense of a trophy, even if it's at the expense of my club. Do players feel the same way? my club. Do players feel the same way? And has this sentiment changed in recent And has this sentiment changed in recent years? Alexi Les and Harry Kane are two years? Alexi Les and Harry Kane are two who have publicly talked about who have publicly talked about prioritizing their international prioritizing their international football over their club. Now though, it football over their club. Now though, it seems the newer generation of players seems the newer generation of players put their club career ahead of anything put their club career ahead of anything else. It's a very interesting question, else. It's a very interesting question, Graham, because it does feel like there Graham, because it does feel like there is a bit, maybe it's just anecdotal, but is a bit, maybe it's just anecdotal, but a bit of a sea change among younger a bit of a sea change among younger players in the prioritization of the players in the prioritization of the international game over the club game. international game over the club game. Like back back in the day, David Beckham Like back back in the day, David Beckham always spoke about prioritizing the always spoke about prioritizing the international game, whether that was international game, whether that was kind of a PR line or not, it was kind of a PR line or not, it was something he put out there a lot and how something he put out there a lot and how important it was to him to play for important it was to him to play for England and obviously Manchester United England and obviously Manchester United too. Then you'd have someone like Jamie too. Then you'd have someone like Jamie Carrager on the other end of the scale Carrager on the other end of the scale who I think in his book said it was who I think in his book said it was nowhere near as important for him to nowhere near as important for him to play for England as it was playing for play for England as it was playing for Liverpool. So I think obviously it's Liverpool. So I think obviously it's anecdotal. It depends on the player and anecdotal. It depends on the player and I get the sense that maybe there's less I get the sense that maybe there's less incon inclination to play incon inclination to play internationally these days when there's internationally these days when there's so much riding on the top of the so much riding on the top of the domestic game when that is the pay domestic game when that is the pay masters for these young players and that masters for these young players and that is I mean a Champions League final is is I mean a Champions League final is that does that have higher stature than that does that have higher stature than uh an international tournament final uh an international tournament final these days for a young player? Maybe it these days for a young player? Maybe it does. So I think Christian's question is does. So I think Christian's question is framed from a USMT point of view here framed from a USMT point of view here because I think in a broad sense I don't because I think in a broad sense I don't know if I do agree that younger players know if I do agree that younger players are putting club ahead of country just are putting club ahead of country just because there's always been as you because there's always been as you mentioned Jamie Carrager I think back to mentioned Jamie Carrager I think back to um Paul Scholes who retired from playing um Paul Scholes who retired from playing for England very early because he just for England very early because he just didn't like going away for major didn't like going away for major tournaments and I'm sure there was some tournaments and I'm sure there was some pressure from Sal Ferguson who had a pressure from Sal Ferguson who had a knack of not just getting players to knack of not just getting players to pull out of international duty. There's pull out of international duty. There's a few cases where he got them to retire a few cases where he got them to retire early. Skoles being one of them. There's early. Skoles being one of them. There's a couple others as well that escape me a couple others as well that escape me right now, but Yapstam, did he maybe right now, but Yapstam, did he maybe retire early? And then he sold Yap Stam retire early? And then he sold Yap Stam like the following summer. Um, so yeah, like the following summer. Um, so yeah, Ferguson was an absolute menace for Ferguson was an absolute menace for that. So I don't know if in a broad that. So I don't know if in a broad sense I'd maybe need some more I don't sense I'd maybe need some more I don't know if there are any data points on know if there are any data points on this, but I need some evidence to to to this, but I need some evidence to to to go along with that thinking. For the US, go along with that thinking. For the US, I think it's just the case that a lot of I think it's just the case that a lot of those players, we can debate whether those players, we can debate whether they are better players or not, but we they are better players or not, but we can agree that a lot of the US's players can agree that a lot of the US's players are at bigger European clubs now with are at bigger European clubs now with where there's more focus and and maybe where there's more focus and and maybe that has changed some priorities. So that has changed some priorities. So like Christian Pulysic here is is is the like Christian Pulysic here is is is the elephant in the room with this with this elephant in the room with this with this question. Um refusing to call up to the question. Um refusing to call up to the Gold Cup squad in in the summer. There's Gold Cup squad in in the summer. There's a couple others as well who are at big a couple others as well who are at big clubs in Europe and maybe that wouldn't clubs in Europe and maybe that wouldn't have happened with the Alexi Lis 94 US have happened with the Alexi Lis 94 US squad because those players for them the squad because those players for them the US was the pinnacle. That was their main US was the pinnacle. That was their main focus. That was where they were getting focus. That was where they were getting the most attention. That's where they the most attention. That's where they could achieve the most in their careers. could achieve the most in their careers. Christian Pulis maybe thinks Christian Pulis maybe thinks differently. Maybe he thinks the differently. Maybe he thinks the Champions League or Seri title is where Champions League or Seri title is where he can achieve the most in his his his he can achieve the most in his his his career rather than playing in the Gold career rather than playing in the Gold Cup. So I think for the US there has Cup. So I think for the US there has been a a a sea what did you call it a been a a a sea what did you call it a change in tide or yeah sea change. change in tide or yeah sea change. &gt;&gt; Um maybe not in a in a in a broad sense. &gt;&gt; Um maybe not in a in a in a broad sense. &gt;&gt; Joe thoughts on this one. Obviously &gt;&gt; Joe thoughts on this one. Obviously there is probably some cultural there is probably some cultural differences in the US to maybe Europe on differences in the US to maybe Europe on this question too. this question too. &gt;&gt; Your thoughts? &gt;&gt; Your thoughts? &gt;&gt; Yeah I I think it's totally possible. I &gt;&gt; Yeah I I think it's totally possible. I think a lot of this is situation think a lot of this is situation dependent right. It is it's difficult dependent right. It is it's difficult for Christian Pisc this summer. of Tyler for Christian Pisc this summer. of Tyler Adams who talked publicly about how, you Adams who talked publicly about how, you know, important he thought it was to be know, important he thought it was to be there this summer and and you sort of there this summer and and you sort of have both sides of the coin here, but have both sides of the coin here, but one thing I've been thinking about with one thing I've been thinking about with this question, even I I know that's not this question, even I I know that's not like a super satisfying answer for like a super satisfying answer for Christian, but I I do think it is case Christian, but I I do think it is case dependent. Uh, one thing I've been dependent. Uh, one thing I've been thinking about is is maybe there is thinking about is is maybe there is something to this idea that even though something to this idea that even though there are still people that that would there are still people that that would go country over club, maybe there's go country over club, maybe there's something to the idea that that something to the idea that that international soccer has always been international soccer has always been sort of an exercise in elevating your sort of an exercise in elevating your brand as a player, right? I I was brand as a player, right? I I was thinking about this with Max Arson thinking about this with Max Arson actually the other day. So this is a actually the other day. So this is a recent example. I don't know if Max recent example. I don't know if Max Arson is getting to be the subject of Arson is getting to be the subject of million plus dollar bids from from clubs million plus dollar bids from from clubs in England if he's not playing for the in England if he's not playing for the US men's national team, right? MLS gets US men's national team, right? MLS gets scouted by by every team on the planet scouted by by every team on the planet maybe outside of like Real Madrid and maybe outside of like Real Madrid and some of those giant clubs. So maybe he some of those giant clubs. So maybe he is and maybe this is a bad example, but is and maybe this is a bad example, but I was thinking about this. I think it's I was thinking about this. I think it's at least more likely that Max Arson or at least more likely that Max Arson or Pat Aiman or whatever, right? These guys Pat Aiman or whatever, right? These guys make those moves on the back of breaking make those moves on the back of breaking into the national team. The national into the national team. The national team always has been a tool that players team always has been a tool that players can use to elevate their profile. And can use to elevate their profile. And now in 2025, there are a lot more tools now in 2025, there are a lot more tools that players can use to elevate their that players can use to elevate their profiles than just the national team. profiles than just the national team. And more than that, there's a lot more And more than that, there's a lot more tools now than there were 30 years ago tools now than there were 30 years ago or than 50 years ago. So, it seems to me or than 50 years ago. So, it seems to me that between club soccer taking up more that between club soccer taking up more and more of the calendar, right, where and more of the calendar, right, where now we have an entire extra tournament now we have an entire extra tournament every four years with a bunch of teams every four years with a bunch of teams that takes up the summer and takes that takes up the summer and takes spotlights off of international spotlights off of international tournaments. That's what the Club World tournaments. That's what the Club World Cup did to the Gold Cup this summer. Um, Cup did to the Gold Cup this summer. Um, when you have that and more and more when you have that and more and more games on the calendar like Enresca games on the calendar like Enresca coached 64 games or something like that coached 64 games or something like that for Chelsea this year, the club game has for Chelsea this year, the club game has ballooned in how much attention it ballooned in how much attention it takes, which means it is harder for takes, which means it is harder for players to devote that attention to an players to devote that attention to an entity that is not paying their full entity that is not paying their full paycheck like the clubs are. Yes, you paycheck like the clubs are. Yes, you might get a national team bonus, but you might get a national team bonus, but you you really are getting paid by the club you really are getting paid by the club first and foremost. So, your first and foremost. So, your responsibility, like in every job on the responsibility, like in every job on the planet, is is really primarily to the planet, is is really primarily to the people that are paying you like that. people that are paying you like that. and the the national team is not as if and the the national team is not as if your goal is to increase your brand and your goal is to increase your brand and to to give yourself more opportunities to to give yourself more opportunities to generate money and to get fame or you to generate money and to get fame or you know whatever whatever it is that you're know whatever whatever it is that you're looking for in this game. The national looking for in this game. The national team is still a tool but it is it's not team is still a tool but it is it's not the only tool now in a way that that it the only tool now in a way that that it was like closer to being the only tool was like closer to being the only tool decades ago. So that that's something decades ago. So that that's something that I was thinking about for this and that I was thinking about for this and maybe does influence a wider group of maybe does influence a wider group of people now to to say, "Hey, I don't people now to to say, "Hey, I don't fully need to go and care about the fully need to go and care about the international game in the same way." international game in the same way." Still, lots of people care about it. Still, lots of people care about it. Don't get me wrong. The World Cup is the Don't get me wrong. The World Cup is the most famous sporting event outside of most famous sporting event outside of the Olympics on the planet. Maybe even the Olympics on the planet. Maybe even more famous than that, right? It will more famous than that, right? It will always have prestige and allure and all always have prestige and allure and all these things, but maybe not quite like these things, but maybe not quite like it used to. I don't know. Just a theory. it used to. I don't know. Just a theory. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that's a really good &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that's a really good point. And the attention economy comes point. And the attention economy comes into it a little bit as well, as you into it a little bit as well, as you say, Joe. But you make a good point say, Joe. But you make a good point about the it being a stage for your about the it being a stage for your brand. Like maybe 25 to 30 years ago, if brand. Like maybe 25 to 30 years ago, if you were in a world, if if you're a fan you were in a world, if if you're a fan watching a World Cup, the other teams watching a World Cup, the other teams who weren't your nation, you wouldn't who weren't your nation, you wouldn't maybe know a lot of the players, but now maybe know a lot of the players, but now we all know all the players of all the we all know all the players of all the top teams. So because they already all top teams. So because they already all on our radar on a domestic perspective on our radar on a domestic perspective as well. But I suppose coming back to it as well. But I suppose coming back to it from a player's perspective, I can't from a player's perspective, I can't shake the feeling that if you're a young shake the feeling that if you're a young player coming through, you've played 60 player coming through, you've played 60 games in a season and then there's an games in a season and then there's an international tournament. I in the back international tournament. I in the back of your mind, I'd be thinking, I'm not of your mind, I'd be thinking, I'm not being paid for this and I'd rather go to being paid for this and I'd rather go to a beaather with Wayne Lica right now, a beaather with Wayne Lica right now, &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; We are. &gt;&gt; We are. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yes. But also, I mean, there is &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yes. But also, I mean, there is still that allure, right? Like I think still that allure, right? Like I think that is a real I think the national team that is a real I think the national team still has a real romantic pull to it. still has a real romantic pull to it. Even if it is not quite as practical as Even if it is not quite as practical as they're the one cashing my checks, like they're the one cashing my checks, like players players are getting compensated players players are getting compensated for for playing national team games. for for playing national team games. It's it's not going to be the same. It's it's not going to be the same. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um I think there will always be a drive for I think there will always be a drive for players to play for the national team. players to play for the national team. There will also always be players that There will also always be players that just want to collect their real bag and just want to collect their real bag and that don't feel the need to extend that don't feel the need to extend themselves any further. Th those things themselves any further. Th those things will always exist. you know where will always exist. you know where exactly the majority lands could shift exactly the majority lands could shift over time, but I don't know. I I would over time, but I don't know. I I would imagine still young players are pretty imagine still young players are pretty amped. Like Laminal has the world at his amped. Like Laminal has the world at his feet at Barcelona, right? He's still got feet at Barcelona, right? He's still got to be stoked to play for Spain. There's to be stoked to play for Spain. There's just there's just no way. Like this is a just there's just no way. Like this is a legendary country for this sport and you legendary country for this sport and you get to be the centerpiece of that as a get to be the centerpiece of that as a child. That is awesome. Like there's no child. That is awesome. Like there's no way he doesn't get excited about that. I way he doesn't get excited about that. I just don't I just can't believe it. just don't I just can't believe it. &gt;&gt; The Catalan relationship to the Spanish &gt;&gt; The Catalan relationship to the Spanish national team is probably another national team is probably another There's a dozen other examples that you There's a dozen other examples that you can go to. can go to. &gt;&gt; Indeed. All right, Christian, thank you &gt;&gt; Indeed. All right, Christian, thank you very much for your question there. One very much for your question there. One last one for this episode from Eric on last one for this episode from Eric on our Discord. If you woke up tomorrow and our Discord. If you woke up tomorrow and completely lost all prior emotional completely lost all prior emotional connections, positive or negative, with connections, positive or negative, with any club, but maintained your general any club, but maintained your general knowledge about their history, their knowledge about their history, their players, etc., and so on. What club do players, etc., and so on. What club do you think you'd start supporting, and you think you'd start supporting, and why? Oh, blank slate time. Joe, any why? Oh, blank slate time. Joe, any thoughts on this? thoughts on this? &gt;&gt; I mean, I I would just be a massive uh &gt;&gt; I mean, I I would just be a massive uh like oil country club fan, I guess. I like oil country club fan, I guess. I mean, I I still know something about the mean, I I still know something about the history, but I I would maybe feel less history, but I I would maybe feel less emotionally invested in some of those emotionally invested in some of those things and I'd just be a PSG Ultra, I things and I'd just be a PSG Ultra, I think, would be a a big part of this. think, would be a a big part of this. The driver for me still um outside of The driver for me still um outside of Phoenix, I suppose, to what teams I Phoenix, I suppose, to what teams I enjoy and want to be fans of are the enjoy and want to be fans of are the teams that play good ball. So, I I I teams that play good ball. So, I I I suppose maybe I'd start supporting San suppose maybe I'd start supporting San Diego and MLS and and take it that way. Diego and MLS and and take it that way. And there there maybe wouldn't be some And there there maybe wouldn't be some of the emotional ties to San Diego and of the emotional ties to San Diego and Phoenix and the USL rivalry. I I don't Phoenix and the USL rivalry. I I don't know what that would look like. know what that would look like. Barcelona would still get me good. Like, Barcelona would still get me good. Like, I don't actually think my answers would I don't actually think my answers would change dramatically in this case if I change dramatically in this case if I still know all the history and all those still know all the history and all those things, but I would be attracted to the things, but I would be attracted to the teams that are playing good ball because teams that are playing good ball because that's what I'm attracted to now. And I that's what I'm attracted to now. And I think I would still feel that in this think I would still feel that in this alternate reality that Eric has alternate reality that Eric has proposed. So Tottenham, I want to watch proposed. So Tottenham, I want to watch every Tottenham game last year. Like every Tottenham game last year. Like that was electric television and that's that was electric television and that's what I want. I want I want to be what I want. I want I want to be entertained in all these things. That's entertained in all these things. That's my answer. Just if you play good ball, my answer. Just if you play good ball, I'll uh I'll uh I'll come campaign for I'll uh I'll uh I'll come campaign for you. you. you. &gt;&gt; Okay, Graeme, your thoughts here. Is is &gt;&gt; Okay, Graeme, your thoughts here. Is is geographical connection still a geographical connection still a consideration? consideration? consideration? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So if if it wasn't, I would pick &gt;&gt; Yeah. So if if it wasn't, I would pick Ajax. I just think being an Ajax fan Ajax. I just think being an Ajax fan must be really fun because Joe's must be really fun because Joe's absolutely right. A team that plays good absolutely right. A team that plays good ball must be fun to watch. She can't ball must be fun to watch. She can't relate to that as an Albian or a relate to that as an Albian or a Scotland fan. H but that that relate Scotland fan. H but that that relate that tends to depend on whoever's that tends to depend on whoever's coaching the team at that point or you coaching the team at that point or you know what the strategy the transfer know what the strategy the transfer strategy is. AX have that continuity strategy is. AX have that continuity where they always seem to to to play where they always seem to to to play good football and last season actually good football and last season actually they deviated a little bit and then they they deviated a little bit and then they sacked their manager at the end of the sacked their manager at the end of the season of course related I presume to season of course related I presume to the fact that they uh they bottled the the fact that they uh they bottled the divvis title race in the last few games divvis title race in the last few games but I think I still need that but I think I still need that geographical connection just because geographical connection just because more fun than anything is watching your more fun than anything is watching your team in person in my opinion anyway team in person in my opinion anyway &gt;&gt; and so um Sterling Albian played hearts &gt;&gt; and so um Sterling Albian played hearts a few weeks ago and they brought a huge a few weeks ago and they brought a huge crowd they packed out fourth bank. Um, crowd they packed out fourth bank. Um, they are the largest fan-owned team in they are the largest fan-owned team in the UK, I believe. And that obviously, the UK, I believe. And that obviously, um, I I I like that. And while they are um, I I I like that. And while they are a big team, they're not dominant. Like, a big team, they're not dominant. Like, I don't know if I could ever support I don't know if I could ever support like a dominant team that's winning like a dominant team that's winning titles season after season, but they do titles season after season, but they do win a trophy every six to eight years. win a trophy every six to eight years. So, they they have that moment in the So, they they have that moment in the sun. They have also just sold a minority sun. They have also just sold a minority share to Tony Bloom who is already share to Tony Bloom who is already revolutionizing them with data analysis revolutionizing them with data analysis and exciting signings from Estonia and and exciting signings from Estonia and Portugal and all these lower leagues in Portugal and all these lower leagues in Portugal and and Slovakia and all these Portugal and and Slovakia and all these weird countries that feels um very weird countries that feels um very bright and coded. And I did think to bright and coded. And I did think to myself sitting there watching Harts myself sitting there watching Harts absolutely demolish us 4-0il in the absolutely demolish us 4-0il in the League Cup must be must be quite good to League Cup must be must be quite good to be a Harts fan right now. Um and they've be a Harts fan right now. Um and they've got a good stadium as well. I think got a good stadium as well. I think they've got the most atmospheric stadium they've got the most atmospheric stadium in Scottish football. It's a good size in Scottish football. It's a good size where it's 20,000. It's not huge, but where it's 20,000. It's not huge, but you still get that like big crowd you still get that like big crowd atmosphere. Uh, so yeah, maybe should atmosphere. Uh, so yeah, maybe should have they've got Hummel kits as well have they've got Hummel kits as well this year. So, this year. So, &gt;&gt; it should have been a jambo. Should have &gt;&gt; it should have been a jambo. Should have been a jambo. been a jambo. &gt;&gt; A jambo. &gt;&gt; A jambo. Okay, &gt;&gt; A jambo. Okay, &gt;&gt; so that's what the name of their fans &gt;&gt; so that's what the name of their fans are. The team's nickname is the Jam are. The team's nickname is the Jam Tarts. Tarts. Tarts. &gt;&gt; Oh, great nicknames as well. &gt;&gt; Oh, great nicknames as well. &gt;&gt; Is that me running for Hearts? &gt;&gt; Is that me running for Hearts? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Nice. &gt;&gt; Nice. &gt;&gt; Nice. &gt;&gt; Sold. &gt;&gt; Sold. &gt;&gt; Sold. the Homer and Barts, the watery farts, the Homer and Barts, the watery farts, as the song goes. I don't know if I as the song goes. I don't know if I should mention the last leg that you should mention the last leg that you did, but did, but did, but &gt;&gt; you did. Very good. I think uh I I think &gt;&gt; you did. Very good. I think uh I I think the geographical connection is would the geographical connection is would still be important to me as well. Um so still be important to me as well. Um so if I had no I lost all my emotional if I had no I lost all my emotional connections to my team. I think I'd connections to my team. I think I'd still want a community club. I'm I'm still want a community club. I'm I'm always fighting for the underdog. I always fighting for the underdog. I always want the underdog to win any always want the underdog to win any match that I'm watching. I'd like a team match that I'm watching. I'd like a team that's liked by everyone. revered if you that's liked by everyone. revered if you want great history of developing top 10. want great history of developing top 10. I'm just going for F Wimbledon again. I'm just going for F Wimbledon again. That's what I'm getting at basically. That's what I'm getting at basically. &gt;&gt; See, the thing is, I've said this to you &gt;&gt; See, the thing is, I've said this to you before, Ryan. AFC Wimbledon, fanowned, before, Ryan. AFC Wimbledon, fanowned, sponsored by a football manager. And sponsored by a football manager. And there's like food trucks there, right? there's like food trucks there, right? &gt;&gt; I should be a Wimbledon fan. &gt;&gt; I should be a Wimbledon fan. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Good cats. Hummel kits or not unless &gt;&gt; Good cats. Hummel kits or not unless you're lotto. you're lotto. you're lotto. &gt;&gt; Yeah, they're Italian. Now, I I want to &gt;&gt; Yeah, they're Italian. Now, I I want to shout out Football Manager, by the way. shout out Football Manager, by the way. They have sponsored a Wimbledon since They have sponsored a Wimbledon since its uh inception in 2002. Not only last its uh inception in 2002. Not only last season did they give away the shirt season did they give away the shirt sponsorship on the U away shirt to sponsorship on the U away shirt to Warchild. They just donated the space Warchild. They just donated the space because they wanted Warchild to have it. because they wanted Warchild to have it. They've donated the second kit um They've donated the second kit um advertising on the front of the jersey advertising on the front of the jersey to a different company so that Ace Woman to a different company so that Ace Woman can make more money this season. So, can make more money this season. So, they're not making anything from it. they're not making anything from it. They just sponsored a home kit. They are They just sponsored a home kit. They are lads. I'm I think they're brilliant. lads. I'm I think they're brilliant. &gt;&gt; They are lads. I'd quite like it if &gt;&gt; They are lads. I'd quite like it if they'd release a game at some point they'd release a game at some point soon. soon. soon. Considering it's been two years, Considering it's been two years, &gt;&gt; apart from doing the thing they're &gt;&gt; apart from doing the thing they're supposed to do, they're great. supposed to do, they're great. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Apart from their one job, they do &gt;&gt; Yeah. Apart from their one job, they do everything well. everything well. everything well. &gt;&gt; Graham, would you get any work done if &gt;&gt; Graham, would you get any work done if if they actually did release a game? I'm if they actually did release a game? I'm concerned. Or would you do anything concerned. Or would you do anything other than work and play football other than work and play football manager? That actually is an equal manager? That actually is an equal concern. concern. concern. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; that is a concern. Yeah, it's a few &gt;&gt; that is a concern. Yeah, it's a few times it's been close to ruining my times it's been close to ruining my life. Um, so life. Um, so &gt;&gt; Well, only a few. You got room for more. &gt;&gt; Well, only a few. You got room for more. You're fine. You're fine. You're fine. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Is is your eventual dream, Graeme, &gt;&gt; Yeah. Is is your eventual dream, Graeme, that Football Manager releases a game that Football Manager releases a game where you like Matrix style plug in the where you like Matrix style plug in the back of your spine? back of your spine? &gt;&gt; Got to be working on that. I mean, it's &gt;&gt; Got to be working on that. I mean, it's been so long since they're last released been so long since they're last released that I presume that's what they're that I presume that's what they're working on. That's my expectation level. working on. That's my expectation level. &gt;&gt; Oh, wow. There you go. Excellent stuff. &gt;&gt; Oh, wow. There you go. Excellent stuff. Well, Football Manager, pull your finger Well, Football Manager, pull your finger out. We need Graeme connected to the to out. We need Graeme connected to the to the grid. Eric, thank you very much the grid. Eric, thank you very much indeed for your question. Thank you to indeed for your question. Thank you to everybody who has submitted a listener everybody who has submitted a listener question. If you'd like to do so, you question. If you'd like to do so, you can go to totalstockshow.com/quests can go to totalstockshow.com/quests or you can visit our Discord server and or you can visit our Discord server and leave a question there, leave a question there, patreon.com/totalscc patreon.com/totalscc patreon.com/totalscc show to get our bonus content and access show to get our bonus content and access to that discord. But for now, thank you to that discord. But for now, thank you very much Joe Larry for your expertise very much Joe Larry for your expertise as always good man. as always good man. &gt;&gt; Thanks Ryan. &gt;&gt; Thanks Ryan. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much Graeme Rutland. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much Graeme Rutland. &gt;&gt; Thank you Ryan Bailey. &gt;&gt; Thank you Ryan Bailey. &gt;&gt; And thank you the most listener. We &gt;&gt; And thank you the most listener. We appreciate you. You have yourselves a appreciate you. You have yourselves a wonderful weekend. will be back on the wonderful weekend. will be back on the feed very shortly, but for now, feed very shortly, but for now, I realized midway through my answer to I realized midway through my answer to Eric's question that I actually