================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: VsEOZM1qkzc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VsEOZM1qkzc
TITLE: Tense time for Tuchel and The Club World Cup is here
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-13
DURATION: 48m 7s
VIEWS: 4,577
LIKES: 101
COMMENTS: 21
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The Club World Cup starts this weekend with the delights of Auckland City and the new time wasting rules to look forward to. Are we excited? England are humbled 3-1 by Senegal in friendly action. Is this just history repeating itself? And what will Thomas Tuchel gain from appearing to publicly criticise Jude Bellingham?

USA are also booed off after a home friendly thrashing, their 4th defeat in a row. Paul Tenorio tells us why these are tough times for Mauricio Pochettino.
We bring you the draw for the Inter Totally Cup, featuring three-time winner and current champion Michael Cox. Plus Sterling hits the side netting, Tom eats burgers and what season is it anyway?

Jimbo is joined in the studio by Duncan Alexander, Tom Williams and Tim Spiers to talk about the endless football.

Listen to the audio version of the Totally Football Show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or by following this link: https://podfollow.com/totallyfootballshow

00:00:00 Intro
00:01:22 The start of The Club World Cup
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 17,836

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally football show today. Lions of Totally football show today. Lions of Tanga three, three lions of Tuor one. We Tanga three, three lions of Tuor one. We review a Sagal England game where D'Arra review a Sagal England game where D'Arra plus England's rear ended up to a decent plus England's rear ended up to a decent description of the home side's description of the home side's performance. Also, Gulf of America. We performance. Also, Gulf of America. We catch up with the latest US collapse catch up with the latest US collapse under Mauricio Pochettino. We talk the under Mauricio Pochettino. We talk the latest transfers and look ahead to a latest transfers and look ahead to a summer tournament that one B Supreo summer tournament that one B Supreo wanted, but some say we'll push our wanted, but some say we'll push our weary stars too far. The Intertly Cup. weary stars too far. The Intertly Cup. Also, Club World Cup preview. It's the Also, Club World Cup preview. It's the Totally Football Show. Thursday the 12th Totally Football Show. Thursday the 12th of June. Hey listener, welcome to the of June. Hey listener, welcome to the show. Hi Duncan Alexander. Hi. Cuz show. Hi Duncan Alexander. Hi. Cuz you're here. So is Tim Spears. Hello. you're here. So is Tim Spears. Hello. Hello to you both. And hello to Tom Hello to you both. And hello to Tom Williams. Connie James. Connie indeed. Williams. Connie James. Connie indeed. Genkey this guy. Yes. Uh how is Genkey this guy. Yes. Uh how is everyone? everyone? everyone? Yeah. Good. Yeah. Good. All right then. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Good. All right then. So excited about the Club World Cup. I So excited about the Club World Cup. I mean, I'm not sure I can even put it mean, I'm not sure I can even put it into words, just counting down the the into words, just counting down the the minutes. Counting down the minutes. I minutes. Counting down the minutes. I mean, this is early with our Club World mean, this is early with our Club World Cup chat, but I welcome it because I am Cup chat, but I welcome it because I am quite excited by the whole kind of wacky quite excited by the whole kind of wacky races notion of all these desperate races notion of all these desperate characters thrown together in one kind characters thrown together in one kind of glorious Yeah. grabbag of of soccer, of glorious Yeah. grabbag of of soccer, summer action. It felt a bit mysterious summer action. It felt a bit mysterious a month or so ago when other stuff was a month or so ago when other stuff was happening, but as I was working my way happening, but as I was working my way through the athletics, excellent through the athletics, excellent coverage of the buildup and your group coverage of the buildup and your group guides and team guides, I actually got guides and team guides, I actually got quite excited. Did you? Yeah. It's It quite excited. Did you? Yeah. It's It may be one of those things that that may be one of those things that that excitement builds right up until the excitement builds right up until the opening whistle and then kind of there's opening whistle and then kind of there's a bit of a See, I don't feel any a bit of a See, I don't feel any excitement whatsoever. So, I'm I think excitement whatsoever. So, I'm I think I'm actually safe from that. I'm hoping I'm actually safe from that. I'm hoping that I'm going to be kind of drawn into that I'm going to be kind of drawn into the tournament. Sunday, Sunday night, the tournament. Sunday, Sunday night, PSG, Atletico Madrid, or is that not as PSG, Atletico Madrid, or is that not as exciting because you see those kind of exciting because you see those kind of teams facing each other in the Champions teams facing each other in the Champions League. Are you more excited by Bayern League. Are you more excited by Bayern Munich against Oakland FC? Very much so. Munich against Oakland FC? Very much so. Yeah, I don't I don't know. Yeah, I'm Yeah, I don't I don't know. Yeah, I'm not really sure how people are aware not really sure how people are aware Oakland City are serial winners of the Oakland City are serial winners of the Oceanic Champions League, the best of Oceanic Champions League, the best of the Champions Leagues. Um, but they are the Champions Leagues. Um, but they are a part-time team, so it's proper, you a part-time team, so it's proper, you know, the magic of Baker, right? And know, the magic of Baker, right? And their first game's against Harry Kane their first game's against Harry Kane and you know for a fact that Hurricane and you know for a fact that Hurricane Kane's going to show them no mercy at Kane's going to show them no mercy at all. So yeah, it could, we've seen, all. So yeah, it could, we've seen, we've seen like Australia, New Zealand we've seen like Australia, New Zealand in the past have been like the Cook in the past have been like the Cook Islands, 36 nil. Um, it's not going to Islands, 36 nil. Um, it's not going to be that high, but we could get a and Bay be that high, but we could get a and Bay loves stuffing amateurs because they loves stuffing amateurs because they make sure to start every season. So make sure to start every season. So they're really bringing things full they're really bringing things full circle. start off by beating a bunch of, circle. start off by beating a bunch of, you know, Bavarian you know, Bavarian 15y olds 69 nil, right? 68 nil. Could be 15y olds 69 nil, right? 68 nil. Could be that kind of score line, says Tom that kind of score line, says Tom Williams. And finishing it with, you Williams. And finishing it with, you know, something similar. The OP to power know, something similar. The OP to power rankings place the New Zealand Amateur rankings place the New Zealand Amateur side. I'm quoting actually from the side. I'm quoting actually from the Athletic Zone preview uh at 4,928th Athletic Zone preview uh at 4,928th in the world, which is how many places in the world, which is how many places below the next lowest team in this below the next lowest team in this competition, Tim? I'll tell you. It's competition, Tim? I'll tell you. It's 4,324 4,324 4,324 places. Uh they are slightly above places. Uh they are slightly above non-league Kdaminster Harriers in the non-league Kdaminster Harriers in the OPA power rankings and Mighty Tigers FC OPA power rankings and Mighty Tigers FC also. Was that your hand? Tim was Did also. Was that your hand? Tim was Did you do that? All right. Very nice. you do that? All right. Very nice. They're in a group with Bayern, Benfica, They're in a group with Bayern, Benfica, and Bocker Juniors. What could go wrong? and Bocker Juniors. What could go wrong? Yeah. In fact, Benfica Bocker is one of Yeah. In fact, Benfica Bocker is one of the first good games to look out for the first good games to look out for because you'd expect Bayern to win the because you'd expect Bayern to win the group and Oakland to probably probably group and Oakland to probably probably bow out. So Bocka Benfica on Monday, I bow out. So Bocka Benfica on Monday, I think it's probably the first game I'm think it's probably the first game I'm I'm really looking forward to. Do you I'm really looking forward to. Do you think more than say just cuz it has PSG think more than say just cuz it has PSG the reigning European champions the reigning European champions postseason friendly type feel. I'm doing postseason friendly type feel. I'm doing that one in a double header with Bayern. that one in a double header with Bayern. It's going to be really good, but it It's going to be really good, but it might have a bit of a sort of well this might have a bit of a sort of well this is this is what we're waiting to find is this is what we're waiting to find out. Will it have a postseason friendly out. Will it have a postseason friendly kind of feel or will it be kind of feel or will it be proper? You know, even the first game proper? You know, even the first game Ali against Inter Miami, you know, Al Ali against Inter Miami, you know, Al Alli are quite good and obviously Inter Alli are quite good and obviously Inter Miami got in to the tournament through a Miami got in to the tournament through a method. Um and but they've been pretty method. Um and but they've been pretty poor recently defensively, but obviously poor recently defensively, but obviously they have obviously you know who running they have obviously you know who running the running things for them. But yeah, I the running things for them. But yeah, I mean it's a huge game that because they mean it's a huge game that because they if they lose to Ali then they could be if they lose to Ali then they could be in trouble. So yeah, the 470 fans who in trouble. So yeah, the 470 fans who turn up are going to be in for an turn up are going to be in for an absolute treat. You say that, Tom, but I absolute treat. You say that, Tom, but I believe that at least 20,000 of the believe that at least 20,000 of the 60,000 capacity at the Hard Rock Cafe 60,000 capacity at the Hard Rock Cafe Stadium. Yes. Yeah. Have been sold. And Stadium. Yes. Yeah. Have been sold. And the rest are admittedly going for about the rest are admittedly going for about $4 a pop. So if you're in Miami and you $4 a pop. So if you're in Miami and you have $4, why not pop along Sunday night, have $4, why not pop along Sunday night, Saturday night, Saturday night, Sunday Saturday night, Saturday night, Sunday morning for you if you're listening to morning for you if you're listening to the UK listener. Well, there might be a the UK listener. Well, there might be a bit more chat about the Club World Cup bit more chat about the Club World Cup as we're so excited later on, but uh as we're so excited later on, but uh also on the agenda today, we've got your also on the agenda today, we've got your international action. As you know, international action. As you know, England lost their first game under England lost their first game under Thomas Tug. Their first ever game to an Thomas Tug. Their first ever game to an African opponent as well, 3-1 to African opponent as well, 3-1 to Senagle. That was on Tuesday night in Senagle. That was on Tuesday night in Nottingham. Wales lost their first game Nottingham. Wales lost their first game under Craig Bellamy. That was rather under Craig Bellamy. That was rather more excitingly 4-3 away to Belgium. more excitingly 4-3 away to Belgium. They came out from three goals down. And They came out from three goals down. And Tom Williams was there. USA lost 4-nil Tom Williams was there. USA lost 4-nil to Switzerland. That's not their first to Switzerland. That's not their first defeat under Portino. It's their fourth defeat under Portino. It's their fourth in a row. Yikes. We'll hear more about in a row. Yikes. We'll hear more about that later. Carl Angelotti got his first that later. Carl Angelotti got his first win with Brazil. They beat Paraguay win with Brazil. They beat Paraguay 1-0il to qualify for the World Cup. 1-0il to qualify for the World Cup. Angelotti fielding no less than four Angelotti fielding no less than four forwards. Venicius Martinelli Hafina and forwards. Venicius Martinelli Hafina and Matez Kunim. They got on the field. One Matez Kunim. They got on the field. One goal. They got one. Yeah. And he missed goal. They got one. Yeah. And he missed from two yards. Oh, did he? Yeah, from two yards. Oh, did he? Yeah, he's off to Manchester United. The curse he's off to Manchester United. The curse has started already. has started already. Transfer Transfer Transfer other transfer news since we last spoke. other transfer news since we last spoke. Kevin De Bruyne has signed for Napoli. Kevin De Bruyne has signed for Napoli. Man City have completed the signings of Man City have completed the signings of Tiani Reindeers, Ryan Chery, and Ryan Tiani Reindeers, Ryan Chery, and Ryan Nori. A lot of Wolves players outgoing Nori. A lot of Wolves players outgoing Tim. First team to ever sign two players Tim. First team to ever sign two players called Ryan in the same transfer. Is called Ryan in the same transfer. Is that correct? I'm pretty sure can't be that correct? I'm pretty sure can't be many. No. many. No. many. No. Wolves have banked just under 100 Wolves have banked just under 100 million from those two sales. Yeah, million from those two sales. Yeah, they've also lost Pablo Sarabia. Nelson they've also lost Pablo Sarabia. Nelson Samayed has probably gone on a free. He Samayed has probably gone on a free. He hasn't made his mind up yet. And the hasn't made his mind up yet. And the sporting director's gone as well. So, sporting director's gone as well. So, bit of an exodus. Get down the pub with bit of an exodus. Get down the pub with Victor Pereira. Victor Pereira. Victor Pereira. Man City by the way will be taking all Man City by the way will be taking all three of their new signings Rangers three of their new signings Rangers Chucky and Nori to the club world cup. I Chucky and Nori to the club world cup. I mean that is unprecedented isn't it? Is mean that is unprecedented isn't it? Is it? I think that I mean obviously we're it? I think that I mean obviously we're used to clubs used to clubs um giving debuts to new signings in like um giving debuts to new signings in like preseason friendlies but they've preseason friendlies but they've invariably been there for you know two invariably been there for you know two or three weeks had a chance to meet or three weeks had a chance to meet their teammates and stuff whereas this their teammates and stuff whereas this is going to be days after joining the is going to be days after joining the club right off the back of a very long club right off the back of a very long and quite grueling season um and pitch and quite grueling season um and pitch straight into what is you know quite a straight into what is you know quite a significant competition. So current significant competition. So current managers as well in got Ku Bon Ba Junior managers as well in got Ku Bon Ba Junior has got a new manager as well and Real has got a new manager as well and Real Madrid got Shavi Alonzo they've also got Madrid got Shavi Alonzo they've also got one of the most highly rated young one of the most highly rated young prospects perhaps their very own Lamin prospects perhaps their very own Lamin in Mastanto in Mastanto in Mastanto uh Tim did you write about him because uh Tim did you write about him because there's a good uh there's a lovely there's a good uh there's a lovely scouting guide to the players to watch scouting guide to the players to watch out for in the club world cup on the out for in the club world cup on the athletic.com. Yeah, I've chipped in on a athletic.com. Yeah, I've chipped in on a few of those, not him in particular, few of those, not him in particular, though. I did read about him and one of though. I did read about him and one of the ones I'm looking forward to the ones I'm looking forward to watching. I wrote about Milton Delgado watching. I wrote about Milton Delgado at Bocker who's sort of a new number at Bocker who's sort of a new number five who's sort of come in only this five who's sort of come in only this year actually um uh took advantage of year actually um uh took advantage of injuries and and uh cemented his place injuries and and uh cemented his place in the team in like January under in the team in like January under Fernando Gargo who who brought him in Fernando Gargo who who brought him in and he's since been sacked but Delgado's and he's since been sacked but Delgado's thought of as the next sort of hot thought of as the next sort of hot number five in Argentinian football and number five in Argentinian football and it's him and Herrera in midfield it's him and Herrera in midfield actually. What's the number five then? actually. What's the number five then? So, sort of um a a protecting playmaker. So, sort of um a a protecting playmaker. Okay. Pivot. The Argentinian version of Okay. Pivot. The Argentinian version of the number six. I see. Is a number five the number six. I see. Is a number five a thing in the way that a number six or a thing in the way that a number six or Well, depends on how far back you want Well, depends on how far back you want to go. I think it's it's a number that to go. I think it's it's a number that they give to that kind of player. Right. they give to that kind of player. Right. They Yeah, those guys. Okay. Yeah. The They Yeah, those guys. Okay. Yeah. The historical quirk in squad or team number historical quirk in squad or team number is that that they a different way. But is that that they a different way. But it does sound funny saying a classic it does sound funny saying a classic number five. Classic number five number five. Classic number five personal says Chelsea have already personal says Chelsea have already signed six players paiso signed six players paiso pendas isugo sa and dap and they've pendas isugo sa and dap and they've already spent close to 150 million who already spent close to 150 million who do you think they should sign next asked do you think they should sign next asked prasana perhaps ironically at the end prasana perhaps ironically at the end I'm not sure they've also done a weird I'm not sure they've also done a weird thing where they well not too weird but thing where they well not too weird but they brought their players back from they brought their players back from loan like sterling and Renato Vega who's loan like sterling and Renato Vega who's I think done quite well at Juventus on I think done quite well at Juventus on loan and now has come back but isn't loan and now has come back but isn't going to the club world cup with Chelsea going to the club world cup with Chelsea or Juventus who's quite a good player or Juventus who's quite a good player played a lot of football all season but played a lot of football all season but is just will not be playing for either is just will not be playing for either team at the club world cup because team at the club world cup because that's Chelsea's decision they've got that's Chelsea's decision they've got too many players some of it they must too many players some of it they must just forget about they've got so many just forget about they've got so many guys um Renato Vegas agent oh my god guys um Renato Vegas agent oh my god Renato I knew we'd miss someone off is Renato I knew we'd miss someone off is it too it's too late the deadlines go oh it too it's too late the deadlines go oh god well they also like pleas where they god well they also like pleas where they buy them so early and then they forget buy them so early and then they forget they bought something when you've they bought something when you've ordered something and then it comes like ordered something and then it comes like two months lady like what's this? Oh two months lady like what's this? Oh yeah, I remember. I've There's a young yeah, I remember. I've There's a young Brazilian lad. He says he's the new 80 Brazilian lad. He says he's the new 80 million pound. Oh, he's arrived. He's million pound. Oh, he's arrived. He's arrived today. Oh, we left him in the arrived today. Oh, we left him in the porch. Live scenes from Chelsea's squad porch. Live scenes from Chelsea's squad development. But also that highlights to development. But also that highlights to me that this is not still this season me that this is not still this season because Sterling, for example, he was on because Sterling, for example, he was on loan at Arsenal for the rest of the loan at Arsenal for the rest of the season. He's now back at Chelsea. Could season. He's now back at Chelsea. Could play the World Cup, but he isn't. But in play the World Cup, but he isn't. But in theory, he could. That's why for me it's theory, he could. That's why for me it's causing great stress. What do we say in causing great stress. What do we say in the in the football media because the in the football media because morally it's still this season. It is. morally it's still this season. It is. Yeah. So, so what's the stress? So, if Yeah. So, so what's the stress? So, if you're Arsenal M last season means 20 24 you're Arsenal M last season means 20 24 25 but if you're Chelsea you're in the 25 but if you're Chelsea you're in the club world cup last season really means club world cup last season really means 2023 24 because you're still in 2024 25. 2023 24 because you're still in 2024 25. So it's um it's a bit messy but so will So it's um it's a bit messy but so will appearance data going forward the club appearance data going forward the club world cup will count 2425? It should be, world cup will count 2425? It should be, shouldn't it? I read a piece recently shouldn't it? I read a piece recently where someone referred to 2425 as last where someone referred to 2425 as last season and it completely threw me season and it completely threw me because because I thought they meant 23 because because I thought they meant 23 24. Well, traditionally it was once you 24. Well, traditionally it was once you got to June, then it becomes last got to June, then it becomes last season, but now the Champions League season, but now the Champions League final off your traditions, Duncan. Well, final off your traditions, Duncan. Well, Man City will be taking their new Man City will be taking their new signings. They won't be taking Jack signings. They won't be taking Jack Greish or Kyle Walker. No idea what that Greish or Kyle Walker. No idea what that decision is based upon. But hey, in decision is based upon. But hey, in unrelated news, next up, let's get on to unrelated news, next up, let's get on to England. England. England. Sagal playing with a smile. Ironically, Sagal playing with a smile. Ironically, the Seneagalles, the Lions of Tanga, who the Seneagalles, the Lions of Tanga, who are 22 games now unbeaten. are 22 games now unbeaten. So, you know, you can lose them. That So, you know, you can lose them. That said, Tim Spears, they drew 1-1 with the said, Tim Spears, they drew 1-1 with the Republic of Ireland last week. So, where Republic of Ireland last week. So, where does this put things for England? How does this put things for England? How much outrage are you feeling? Not much much outrage are you feeling? Not much really. Really, you not? I mean, they really. Really, you not? I mean, they play England played a reserve team. It play England played a reserve team. It was a home friendly in June. There was a home friendly in June. There wasn't city ground at the city ground. wasn't city ground at the city ground. You know, we've we've been here before. You know, we've we've been here before. People forget England nil Hungary four People forget England nil Hungary four and then six months later England were and then six months later England were really good at that World Cup in Qatar. really good at that World Cup in Qatar. A year ago lost one nil home to Iceland A year ago lost one nil home to Iceland on the eve of the Euros had a good on the eve of the Euros had a good Euros, right? You know, under Gareth Euros, right? You know, under Gareth Southgate, both of those. Yeah. So Southgate, both of those. Yeah. So there's been a certain amount of there's been a certain amount of reaction. Fondon D, for example, writing reaction. Fondon D, for example, writing in saying, "So why did we get rid of in saying, "So why did we get rid of Southgate?" Daniel's story equally says Southgate?" Daniel's story equally says it feels insert your own sigh here like it feels insert your own sigh here like we have thrown semi-finals and finals we have thrown semi-finals and finals away for a gunfire short-term tactician away for a gunfire short-term tactician who isn't going to get anywhere near who isn't going to get anywhere near enough time to implement any of this enough time to implement any of this effectively. Sigh. Yeah, but the problem effectively. Sigh. Yeah, but the problem with Southgate was at with the problem with Southgate was at major at major tournaments England major at major tournaments England weren't tactically flexible enough. The weren't tactically flexible enough. The substitutions were were negative and not substitutions were were negative and not proactive. I thought England were a bit proactive. I thought England were a bit too defensive. We don't know about any too defensive. We don't know about any of these things yet. Yeah, they haven't of these things yet. Yeah, they haven't played a proper competitive decent game played a proper competitive decent game yet. You know, the Serbia games in the yet. You know, the Serbia games in the qualifiers will tell a hint, but we qualifiers will tell a hint, but we won't do anything really until the next won't do anything really until the next World Cup. The June friendly in a World Cup. The June friendly in a non-ournament year is the lowest EB of non-ournament year is the lowest EB of an England cycle. It really is. I mean, an England cycle. It really is. I mean, it's just the players just, you know, it's just the players just, you know, already going to the airport to go on already going to the airport to go on holiday. It's um it's it some of the holiday. It's um it's it some of the reaction was a little over the top. reaction was a little over the top. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There there are some Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There there are some concerns to to be had. I think it says concerns to to be had. I think it says he keeps picking Jordan Henderson and he keeps picking Jordan Henderson and Carl Walker like move on. Um I don't Carl Walker like move on. Um I don't know whether that's why do you think know whether that's why do you think he's doing that? I think Hendo to give he's doing that? I think Hendo to give him his real name is um good in the him his real name is um good in the dressing room, you know, which managers dressing room, you know, which managers like so tidying up. Yeah. Picking up like so tidying up. Yeah. Picking up socks. Yeah. Yeah. Um but I don't think socks. Yeah. Yeah. Um but I don't think he's he's it's a year to the World Cup. he's he's it's a year to the World Cup. He's going to be a year older. That's He's going to be a year older. That's how time works. And I don't think Jordan how time works. And I don't think Jordan Henderson is going to be lining up for Henderson is going to be lining up for England in America. So what about Kyle England in America. So what about Kyle Walker? Well, Walker? Well, Walker? Well, what about the Ivan Tony controversy what about the Ivan Tony controversy flown over from Saudi Arabia for these flown over from Saudi Arabia for these two games, Andor and Sagal? Why? What? two games, Andor and Sagal? Why? What? But that why does it matter where he's But that why does it matter where he's where he's come from? Do you know what I where he's come from? Do you know what I mean? I think if he was still playing mean? I think if he was still playing for Brenford, would people would people for Brenford, would people would people say a thing if he was still playing for say a thing if he was still playing for Brenford? Well, I think it's the same Brenford? Well, I think it's the same principle, but it was it was principle, but it was it was highlighted. It was underlined, if you highlighted. It was underlined, if you will. I did find that a curious element will. I did find that a curious element of the coverage. He's had to get on a of the coverage. He's had to get on a plane to get here. Do you know how long plane to get here. Do you know how long it is from Saudi Arabia? As if it is from Saudi Arabia? As if footballers don't spend their literal footballers don't spend their literal entire lives getting on and off planes entire lives getting on and off planes to go to fly to the city ground for the to go to fly to the city ground for the Premier League games. So, yeah. You Premier League games. So, yeah. You know, rest of them probably flew there know, rest of them probably flew there as well. Right. Well, we're a bit short as well. Right. Well, we're a bit short on outrage. Tom, can you help out? Well, on outrage. Tom, can you help out? Well, no. I was just going to say I didn't no. I was just going to say I didn't watch this game with a huge amount of watch this game with a huge amount of enthusiasm. Sleepy end of season England enthusiasm. Sleepy end of season England friendly in June actually thoroughly friendly in June actually thoroughly enjoyed it. Um found it a lot more enjoyed it. Um found it a lot more entertaining than I was expecting to. Uh entertaining than I was expecting to. Uh and I thought Sagal were excellent. You and I thought Sagal were excellent. You look at their starting 11 and they look at their starting 11 and they should be like they're packed full of should be like they're packed full of good players. you know Premier League good players. you know Premier League Stalwarts Stalwarts Stalwarts um you know some of the guys who play um you know some of the guys who play regular regularly in Liga Lamin Camar regular regularly in Liga Lamin Camar midfield Habib Diarro scored one of the midfield Habib Diarro scored one of the goals Krepandiata the right back who's goals Krepandiata the right back who's at Monaco uh I thought Ilman and Di was at Monaco uh I thought Ilman and Di was fantastic on the right the left back fantastic on the right the left back Elhaj Malik Du who I'd not heard of I Elhaj Malik Du who I'd not heard of I thought was brilliant um the only player thought was brilliant um the only player who really kind of messed up at all was who really kind of messed up at all was was Edward Mendy on the on the goal the was Edward Mendy on the on the goal the name of the right back again the right name of the right back again the right back is Krepata oh Okay. So, what was back is Krepata oh Okay. So, what was the next player you mentioned? Elhaj the next player you mentioned? Elhaj Malik Duf. And I looked him up and he Malik Duf. And I looked him up and he was born in 2004, so he is almost was born in 2004, so he is almost certainly named after the great Elhaj certainly named after the great Elhaj Du. Wow. Um, but yeah, they were Du. Wow. Um, but yeah, they were brilliant. Um, and you know, deserved brilliant. Um, and you know, deserved winners. Um, and winners. Um, and I mean, yeah, I'm not sure how much of a I mean, yeah, I'm not sure how much of a how much of an achievement being the how much of an achievement being the first African team to ever beat England first African team to ever beat England feels like to them. I suspect it feels like to them. I suspect it probably feels, you know, pretty probably feels, you know, pretty significant. And I think it's gone to a significant. And I think it's gone to a team, you know, who are who are decent team, you know, who are who are decent and and, you know, deserve to be deserve and and, you know, deserve to be picking up, you know, accolades to be picking up, you know, accolades for the for the quality of their for the for the quality of their football. Excellent. What's England's football. Excellent. What's England's next game, Tim? I was just say we forget next game, Tim? I was just say we forget that there were so many of these games that there were so many of these games under South Kate and we forget because under South Kate and we forget because they were so forgettable, but they they were so forgettable, but they happened all the time. I like I don't happened all the time. I like I don't have huge concerns. He hasn't had a have huge concerns. He hasn't had a honeymoon period which is and the honeymoon period which is and the players don't look completely harmonious players don't look completely harmonious which might be a bit of an issue but which might be a bit of an issue but buildups of tournaments like the Terry buildups of tournaments like the Terry Venibals before E96 England were awful Venibals before E96 England were awful for about two years they drew every game for about two years they drew every game pretty much it was just loads of turgid pretty much it was just loads of turgid friendlies at Wembley but I mean they friendlies at Wembley but I mean they weren't that great at Europe but apart weren't that great at Europe but apart from against the Netherlands but you from against the Netherlands but you know it has no bearing on the on the No know it has no bearing on the on the No it doesn't the Southgate thing just it doesn't the Southgate thing just annoys me this far too soon to be annoys me this far too soon to be talking about that where you can compare talking about that where you can compare him with Southgate and where what I him with Southgate and where what I really don't like what he's done is his really don't like what he's done is his comments about Bellingham in an comments about Bellingham in an interview yesterday saying suggesting interview yesterday saying suggesting that his behavior on the field can be that his behavior on the field can be repulsive now he's speaking in his repulsive now he's speaking in his second language so you got to maybe cut second language so you got to maybe cut some slack on that and I'm I've read it some slack on that and I'm I've read it not heard it so I don't know if it's not heard it so I don't know if it's taken out context but it's a very strong taken out context but it's a very strong word to use and the the general vibe is word to use and the the general vibe is that he's having a having a knock at his that he's having a having a knock at his onfield behavior which is the first sign onfield behavior which is the first sign of him being abrasive with his players of him being abrasive with his players and he falls out with his players and and he falls out with his players and that doesn't bode well for me. I I I that doesn't bode well for me. I I I find the comments quite disappointing find the comments quite disappointing actually. Again, maybe they've been actually. Again, maybe they've been taken out of context, maybe not. But to taken out of context, maybe not. But to start criticizing your pretty much your start criticizing your pretty much your best player in public, I just don't I best player in public, I just don't I don't understand what what he's going to don't understand what what he's going to achieve from that really other than achieve from that really other than annoy Bellingham, which I'm sure he has annoy Bellingham, which I'm sure he has done. Yeah. And to use his mom as the done. Yeah. And to use his mom as the sort of conduit to do it as well, which sort of conduit to do it as well, which is a bit strange. Yeah. And that's where is a bit strange. Yeah. And that's where South SK would would never do that. We South SK would would never do that. We talked about his own, wasn't he? Two talked about his own, wasn't he? Two rather than rather than rather than Yeah, that would have been worse. But Yeah, that would have been worse. But does any does is there any good from a does any does is there any good from a manager doing that in any sort of manager doing that in any sort of workplace, you know, calling out your workplace, you know, calling out your your top performer and saying their your top performer and saying their behavior is a bit repulsive? It's a behavior is a bit repulsive? It's a really I suspect repulsive was was really I suspect repulsive was was probably a I think something's been lost probably a I think something's been lost in translation slightly. in translation slightly. I don't think he meant repulsive in the I don't think he meant repulsive in the way that we understand the word way that we understand the word repulsive. I suspect he was looking for repulsive. I suspect he was looking for a word to reflect a word to reflect a kind of behavior that people find a kind of behavior that people find slightly repellent perhaps. Maybe that slightly repellent perhaps. Maybe that was the word he was looking for. And he was the word he was looking for. And he ended up with but he also said oh he ended up with but he also said oh he sort of intimidates his his teammates. I sort of intimidates his his teammates. I mean is that is that true? Is that fair? mean is that is that true? Is that fair? I mean he's but look at what he's doing I mean he's but look at what he's doing in his in his career. you know, he's in his in his career. you know, he's he's one of Real Madrid's best players. he's one of Real Madrid's best players. He's one of the best players in Europe. He's one of the best players in Europe. Why are we trying to change him already? Why are we trying to change him already? And you can see this creeping into the And you can see this creeping into the media as well. And this always happens. media as well. And this always happens. Well, there was the reaction to his Well, there was the reaction to his reaction to the disallowed goal, which reaction to the disallowed goal, which across various papers amounted to him across various papers amounted to him going full cantonar kung fu kick on a on going full cantonar kung fu kick on a on a water cooler. But doesn't seem to be a water cooler. But doesn't seem to be when you watch the footage, you seem when you watch the footage, you seem pretty reasonable about that. Exactly. pretty reasonable about that. Exactly. But he's he's clearly got a winners But he's he's clearly got a winners mentality, which is something that mentality, which is something that England have lacked in many many areas. England have lacked in many many areas. It's repulsive, isn't it? No. I don't It's repulsive, isn't it? No. I don't know. It's it's not a good sign for me. know. It's it's not a good sign for me. And that that's where you do miss And that that's where you do miss Southgate because I hear you. Yeah, I Southgate because I hear you. Yeah, I hear you. Woof. Anyway, there you go. Uh hear you. Woof. Anyway, there you go. Uh England's next game will be against England's next game will be against Brave Andura. That'll be at Wembley on Brave Andura. That'll be at Wembley on the 6th of September, very much in next the 6th of September, very much in next season by then, of course. Uh, with that season by then, of course. Uh, with that in mind, what else happened in mind, what else happened internationally? Well, Tom, you went off internationally? Well, Tom, you went off to Brussels to Brussels to Brussels as a civilian to watch Belgium, Wales. as a civilian to watch Belgium, Wales. What prompted that trip? Um, What prompted that trip? Um, the desire to go and watch Wales away uh the desire to go and watch Wales away uh in a a pleasant Wales, European capital. in a a pleasant Wales, European capital. This may have come up before, Duncan. This may have come up before, Duncan. Yes. Uh, and a friend of mine was going, Yes. Uh, and a friend of mine was going, my friend Dom, um, sort us out with my friend Dom, um, sort us out with tickets and yeah, it was it was a very tickets and yeah, it was it was a very enjoyable trip and it momentarily looked enjoyable trip and it momentarily looked as if we were about to witness something as if we were about to witness something truly historic. Before that, it wasn't truly historic. Before that, it wasn't quite as enjoyable because you were you quite as enjoyable because you were you found yourself 3-0 down in short. 3 down found yourself 3-0 down in short. 3 down inside 27 minutes. an extremely soft inside 27 minutes. an extremely soft penalty which Romelo Romelo Lukaku penalty which Romelo Romelo Lukaku scored a really nicely taken Yuri scored a really nicely taken Yuri Tieleman's goal and then a very poorly Tieleman's goal and then a very poorly defended Jeremy Dou goal and Belgian defended Jeremy Dou goal and Belgian hadn't really had to do much they hadn't hadn't really had to do much they hadn't had to push all that hard Wales were a had to push all that hard Wales were a bit too open Craig Bellamir talked about bit too open Craig Bellamir talked about how they were going to you know going to how they were going to you know going to go on the attack um and yeah 3-0 down go on the attack um and yeah 3-0 down less than half an hour on the clock less than half an hour on the clock wondering how bad it's going to get wondering how bad it's going to get Wales reduced the Aras in first of first Wales reduced the Aras in first of first off stoppage time Harry Wilson penalty off stoppage time Harry Wilson penalty uh and then scored a beautifully uh and then scored a beautifully constructed goal. Uh Sora Thomas teed up constructed goal. Uh Sora Thomas teed up by Harry Wilson uh six minutes into the by Harry Wilson uh six minutes into the second half and suddenly the Wales end second half and suddenly the Wales end is just you know sort of full of belief. is just you know sort of full of belief. uh Brennan Johnson teed up by Sora uh Brennan Johnson teed up by Sora Thomas equalizes 20 minutes from the end Thomas equalizes 20 minutes from the end and if you'd called fulltime there like and if you'd called fulltime there like I think every Wales fan would have taken I think every Wales fan would have taken it to come from 3-0 down away from home it to come from 3-0 down away from home hardest game in the group and we've got hardest game in the group and we've got this good record against Belgium so this good record against Belgium so there's always that belief that you know there's always that belief that you know there's a chance of of doing something there's a chance of of doing something Belgium go back on the attack Lukaku has Belgium go back on the attack Lukaku has a goal ruled out um because the ball had a goal ruled out um because the ball had gone out of play after like a V stoppage gone out of play after like a V stoppage of about 4 minutes and I must admit I of about 4 minutes and I must admit I very rarely go to top level matches as a very rarely go to top level matches as a fan these days. I think there were maybe fan these days. I think there were maybe four or five V reviews during the game. four or five V reviews during the game. Um and they just killed it. I mean every Um and they just killed it. I mean every single time I think like four or five of single time I think like four or five of the seven goals, you know, had to be V the seven goals, you know, had to be V reviewed anyway. 3-3 couple minutes left reviewed anyway. 3-3 couple minutes left to go. Wales clear a corner, don't to go. Wales clear a corner, don't defend the second ball. Kevin De Bruyne defend the second ball. Kevin De Bruyne goes in at the back post and tucks it in goes in at the back post and tucks it in left foot. I mean that beautifully taken left foot. I mean that beautifully taken goal, Belgium four, Wales three. Uh but goal, Belgium four, Wales three. Uh but yeah, a very enjoyable excursion yeah, a very enjoyable excursion nevertheless. Just on the subject of VI, nevertheless. Just on the subject of VI, you'll be excited to know that for the you'll be excited to know that for the Club World Cup, FIFA have announced Club World Cup, FIFA have announced among the innovations that VAR images among the innovations that VAR images will be played out on the screens in the will be played out on the screens in the stadiums. They'll also be speeding up stadiums. They'll also be speeding up the process with a brand new the process with a brand new semi-automated but even more automated semi-automated but even more automated offside. Okay, that sounds positive. It offside. Okay, that sounds positive. It does, doesn't it? Are the refs going to does, doesn't it? Are the refs going to be announcing this? That feels like the be announcing this? That feels like the kind of thing they will the refs will be kind of thing they will the refs will be announcing their decision. Still announcing their decision. Still semi-automated if it's even more semi-automated if it's even more automated. It's kind of 3/4 automated. It's kind of 3/4 very automated I think is the official very automated I think is the official tag. The the referees will also be tag. The the referees will also be sporting eye level cameras. So there sporting eye level cameras. So there will be eyele ref cam available once the will be eyele ref cam available once the footage is reviewed. Other innovations footage is reviewed. Other innovations include the fact that goalkeepers will include the fact that goalkeepers will have slightly longer to hold on to the have slightly longer to hold on to the ball before they Yeah. Do you want to ball before they Yeah. Do you want to Yeah, you handle that then. Nan, further Yeah, you handle that then. Nan, further to our what season is this chat, to our what season is this chat, IFAB are bringing they're seeing this as IFAB are bringing they're seeing this as 2526 because they're bringing in the new 2526 because they're bringing in the new uh time wasting rule for this tournament uh time wasting rule for this tournament which is which conversely allows which is which conversely allows goalkeepers longer to hold on to the goalkeepers longer to hold on to the ball. Well, yes. Before it was 6 ball. Well, yes. Before it was 6 seconds. Now it's eight seconds. Um, now seconds. Now it's eight seconds. Um, now if they do breach the 8second mark, if they do breach the 8second mark, which the referee should be telling them which the referee should be telling them by making his arm look like a clock. So by making his arm look like a clock. So excitingly, he's going to he's going to excitingly, he's going to count to five in his head with his hand count to five in his head with his hand aloft. And once he gets to five, he's aloft. And once he gets to five, he's going to start doing the old Ted Rogers going to start doing the old Ted Rogers 3 2 1 with his fingers. And apparently 3 2 1 with his fingers. And apparently that's going to be a feature of every that's going to be a feature of every single game. I'm in favor of this. When single game. I'm in favor of this. When they when they first brought in the 56 they when they first brought in the 56 second law, keepers did get done for it. second law, keepers did get done for it. And it was and it was tremendous because And it was and it was tremendous because the fans were just there. How many the fans were just there. How many seconds? 5 6 7 But um what happens here seconds? 5 6 7 But um what happens here if the 8-second mark is breached? Yes. if the 8-second mark is breached? Yes. You get a corner. The other team get a You get a corner. The other team get a corner. And corner. The other team get a corner. And that's funny because someone's going to that's funny because someone's going to score from one of those corners and a score from one of those corners and a manager is going to lose his man. Oh manager is going to lose his man. Oh yes. Wait. Take it all back and we watch yes. Wait. Take it all back and we watch every single game. Yeah. There you go. every single game. Yeah. There you go. You're going to need decent eyesight to You're going to need decent eyesight to see the 321 from like the halfway line. see the 321 from like the halfway line. You know, if you're short, I mean, You know, if you're short, I mean, short-sighted goalkeepers aren't that short-sighted goalkeepers aren't that prevalent at the top level. I don't prevalent at the top level. I don't think you're gonna have other issues. think you're gonna have other issues. I'm thinking I prefer like the the I'm thinking I prefer like the the countdown in in countdown in in the arms the position of the arms of the the arms the position of the arms of the clock. No, but just no countdown only clock. No, but just no countdown only has one one arm. If they play the has one one arm. If they play the countdown theme over through the video, countdown theme over through the video, then it would be clear then it would be then it would be clear clear clear would be corner. would be corner. There you go. Go. Well, that's one for There you go. Go. Well, that's one for Pujicina Pujicina Pujicina and I ifab to consider. Anyway, sorry. and I ifab to consider. Anyway, sorry. We were talking about your exciting trip We were talking about your exciting trip to Brussels, which ended on a to Brussels, which ended on a bittersweet note, but still a terrific bittersweet note, but still a terrific night. Yes, I got over my disappointment night. Yes, I got over my disappointment by going back to the same burger store by going back to the same burger store that I'd been to pregame and ordering that I'd been to pregame and ordering the same burger. What? I didn't mean to the same burger. What? I didn't mean to order a burger. I was hoping for some order a burger. I was hoping for some chips, right? Cuz I've been to I've been chips, right? Cuz I've been to I've been in Brussels. What language are they in Brussels. What language are they speaking? Honestly, I mean like it speaking? Honestly, I mean like it should have been straightforward, but by should have been straightforward, but by the time I got to the burger stall, they the time I got to the burger stall, they were out of everything. They had one were out of everything. They had one burger left and it was the same burger. burger left and it was the same burger. Not the exact same Not the exact same place you can buy food in Brussels. No, place you can buy food in Brussels. No, but I, you know, I'd had a good time but I, you know, I'd had a good time there first time around. They had a there first time around. They had a sauce called Brazil sauce that I never sauce called Brazil sauce that I never encountered before, which I think had encountered before, which I think had pineapple in. Oh, well, I've been to pineapple in. Oh, well, I've been to many bike races in Belgium and the array many bike races in Belgium and the array of mayonnaisees and sauces. Impressive of mayonnaisees and sauces. Impressive is world leading and yeah, they some of is world leading and yeah, they some of them have m like samurai sauce and all them have m like samurai sauce and all sorts of stuff. Brazil sauce. I think it sorts of stuff. Brazil sauce. I think it was it was quite a sweet I think I think was it was quite a sweet I think I think they said there was pineapple in it. they said there was pineapple in it. Anyway, I had that on this hamburger and Anyway, I had that on this hamburger and it was great twice. It's even better it was great twice. It's even better second time around cuz I was second time around cuz I was disappointed by then in it. There you disappointed by then in it. There you go. Which stadium was that? What ground go. Which stadium was that? What ground was that? This is the was this high. was that? This is the was this high. This is the the the King Badawin This is the the the King Badawin Stadium. Okay. So, if you're in the area Stadium. Okay. So, if you're in the area stadium, but if you're looking for a pre stadium, but if you're looking for a pre or postgame pickme up, perhaps both or or postgame pickme up, perhaps both or Yeah. And all right, let's um let's just Yeah. And all right, let's um let's just catch up on one or two other bits of catch up on one or two other bits of international news. Memphis Depay, like international news. Memphis Depay, like Tom's Burger, is on a roll. He became Tom's Burger, is on a roll. He became Netherlands alltime joint top scorer Netherlands alltime joint top scorer with a brace against Malta on Tuesday. with a brace against Malta on Tuesday. Depay on a roll. So we can get that one Depay on a roll. So we can get that one up. up. up. Depay scored the first two in an 8-nil Depay scored the first two in an 8-nil victory over the Maltes. That was part victory over the Maltes. That was part of World Cup qualifying. Poland's record of World Cup qualifying. Poland's record goal scorer. Robert Leandowski has goal scorer. Robert Leandowski has forced a regime change with his national forced a regime change with his national team. He quit the national side over his team. He quit the national side over his uh disagreements with Mikuel Prubots uh disagreements with Mikuel Prubots who'd taken the captaincy from him. who'd taken the captaincy from him. Possibly used the word repulsive. I Possibly used the word repulsive. I don't know. given said armband to Petra don't know. given said armband to Petra Zalinski Zalinski Zalinski and without Leandowski who was sitting and without Leandowski who was sitting it out in assault Poland went and lost it out in assault Poland went and lost to Finland. Uh Puitz has now taken the to Finland. Uh Puitz has now taken the decision to step down. What else? We decision to step down. What else? We mentioned Brazil's win earlier. If you mentioned Brazil's win earlier. If you haven't seen the phenomenal Lewis Deia's haven't seen the phenomenal Lewis Deia's run and strike for Colombia in their run and strike for Colombia in their clash with Argentina, clash with Argentina, which finished 1-1 in a rematch last which finished 1-1 in a rematch last summer's Cooper America final, I urge summer's Cooper America final, I urge you to go and seek it out. Any other you to go and seek it out. Any other goals that were really great? equalizer goals that were really great? equalizer in that in that game. Thiago Armada of in that in that game. Thiago Armada of uh Leon uh I mean not a Luis Diaz level uh Leon uh I mean not a Luis Diaz level goal but a nice finish and he uh will be goal but a nice finish and he uh will be taking on the mantle from the now taking on the mantle from the now departed Ryan Shaki at Lyon next season. departed Ryan Shaki at Lyon next season. So one to keep an eye on unless they get So one to keep an eye on unless they get administratively relegated to league dur administratively relegated to league dur and have to settle that. Is that still and have to settle that. Is that still um very much in the balance? Could still um very much in the balance? Could still happen. There is a there is a meeting happen. There is a there is a meeting with the with the French football with the with the French football financial watchdog coming up in the next financial watchdog coming up in the next Fortnite I think. Okay. Listeners to our Fortnite I think. Okay. Listeners to our Euro show will know all about this. Can Euro show will know all about this. Can you sum it up in two sentences for you sum it up in two sentences for anyone who hasn't in a word in a noise? anyone who hasn't in a word in a noise? But so basically Leon's books uh have But so basically Leon's books uh have not quite added up uh and they were not quite added up uh and they were issued with a sort of provisional issued with a sort of provisional administrative relegation to the French administrative relegation to the French second tier at the end of the season and second tier at the end of the season and given a few months to get their you know given a few months to get their you know finances in order and obviously we you finances in order and obviously we you know we don't know whether or not they know we don't know whether or not they have they managed to sell quite a few have they managed to sell quite a few players you know various other things players you know various other things but yeah we are still awaiting the final but yeah we are still awaiting the final verdict. It was quite a beefy game verdict. It was quite a beefy game actually. Argentina Columbia Lion Messi actually. Argentina Columbia Lion Messi and Hammers Rodriguez had some open well and Hammers Rodriguez had some open well I say open beef but they had their I say open beef but they had their mouths covered by their hands like Tom mouths covered by their hands like Tom with his open beef. His beef wasn't open with his open beef. His beef wasn't open too much beef. And uh there was some too much beef. And uh there was some studs high beef from Enzo Fernandez who studs high beef from Enzo Fernandez who basically kicked someone in the head and basically kicked someone in the head and got sent off. Um it was sort of like the got sent off. Um it was sort of like the uh the Dong World Cup final one. So uh the Dong World Cup final one. So Howard Webb would have given a yellow Howard Webb would have given a yellow card but the guy was riding around in card but the guy was riding around in agony and you kind of went exaggerating agony and you kind of went exaggerating and then he sort of stands up and he's and then he sort of stands up and he's got a huge bump on his head and like it got a huge bump on his head and like it looked absolutely disgusting. And then looked absolutely disgusting. And then um yeah, Fernandez obviously sent off. um yeah, Fernandez obviously sent off. So yeah, it was quite a lot of beef in So yeah, it was quite a lot of beef in that game. It was good fun. Italy news that game. It was good fun. Italy news uh the Italians managed to win a game. uh the Italians managed to win a game. They beat Muldo 2-0 on Monday night in They beat Muldo 2-0 on Monday night in what was that man Spellet's final game what was that man Spellet's final game in charge. It won't be Claudia who's in charge. It won't be Claudia who's taking over. James Horncastle breaking taking over. James Horncastle breaking this decision down for us on the this decision down for us on the Athletic saying that basically if Athletic saying that basically if Claudia wanted to stay as a manager, he Claudia wanted to stay as a manager, he would have just continue with Roma. would have just continue with Roma. Thank you very much. And he let the Thank you very much. And he let the federation know this. The Gazette are federation know this. The Gazette are very much the opinion that it was the very much the opinion that it was the evil Freakkins, the American owners of evil Freakkins, the American owners of Roma who'd got in his ear over this. But Roma who'd got in his ear over this. But it now looks in fact this may even be it now looks in fact this may even be confirmed today Thursday as though confirmed today Thursday as though Ginaro the Growler Gatuso will be taking Ginaro the Growler Gatuso will be taking over. Anyway, all very exciting for over. Anyway, all very exciting for Italy who rock it up to third place in Italy who rock it up to third place in their group still nine points behind the their group still nine points behind the leaders Norway leaders Norway leaders Norway ahead of their next game which is ahead of their next game which is against Estonia on the 5th of September. against Estonia on the 5th of September. Remind reminds me of my favorite ongoing Remind reminds me of my favorite ongoing stat which is that since Italy won the stat which is that since Italy won the World Cup in 2006 they've won one single World Cup in 2006 they've won one single match at a World Cup and it was against match at a World Cup and it was against Roy Hodgkins England in 2014. Good lord. Roy Hodgkins England in 2014. Good lord. It's mad, isn't it? That is mad. What a It's mad, isn't it? That is mad. What a game that was. In Manouse in the the game that was. In Manouse in the the steamy Amazon burger. Yes, almost steamy Amazon burger. Yes, almost certainly. Crocodile cracking scran certainly. Crocodile cracking scran actually in Brazil just across the actually in Brazil just across the board. Yeah. and Clauddio Marisio with board. Yeah. and Clauddio Marisio with the goal from a lovely Andrea Pillo the goal from a lovely Andrea Pillo dummy. That was the game where Raheem dummy. That was the game where Raheem Sterling Yeah. famously hit the side Sterling Yeah. famously hit the side netting. If you said to someone, "Name netting. If you said to someone, "Name the most famous side net hit in the most famous side net hit in football." I think that would it was I football." I think that would it was I mean it was very exciting. Yeah. The pub mean it was very exciting. Yeah. The pub that I was in in Birmingham, the big that I was in in Birmingham, the big screen, the celebrations were so wild screen, the celebrations were so wild that the big screen sort of collapsed. that the big screen sort of collapsed. It was like a standalone one. So that It was like a standalone one. So that went down and we're all celebrating very went down and we're all celebrating very noisily and how long we had no idea that noisily and how long we had no idea that it was disallowed until play was like it was disallowed until play was like well restarted. It was Yeah. What a well restarted. It was Yeah. What a story Tim. There's a long read in that story Tim. There's a long read in that surely. Just just thinking that. Um by surely. Just just thinking that. Um by the way I'm just moved to point out that the way I'm just moved to point out that I had one of the greatest burgers of my I had one of the greatest burgers of my recent uh experience on Monday recent uh experience on Monday in uh Preittita Park Cafe and Grill. in uh Preittita Park Cafe and Grill. It's called the Fire Burger and it was It's called the Fire Burger and it was insanely good. Asked for it as raw as insanely good. Asked for it as raw as possible and my word it was raw but just possible and my word it was raw but just juicy as heck. How how spicy? There was juicy as heck. How how spicy? There was a bit of jalapo in there. Yeah. Okay. a bit of jalapo in there. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was great. You Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was great. You don't need this in there. No. No. I was don't need this in there. No. No. I was enjoying that. I was about I was about enjoying that. I was about to open it up to Duncan Dunin and T. to open it up to Duncan Dunin and T. Where's the greatest burger you've had Where's the greatest burger you've had of late? of late? of late? Uh Burger and Beyond and Shortitch. Uh Burger and Beyond and Shortitch. Good. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Yeah. Rating burgers. I haven't had a burger Rating burgers. I haven't had a burger for some time. Have you not? Sorry. I for some time. Have you not? Sorry. I used to love a burger called the Cliff, used to love a burger called the Cliff, but I don't know if they still make them but I don't know if they still make them anymore. I think that was Burger Beyond, anymore. I think that was Burger Beyond, actually. actually. actually. Anyway, England weren't the only team Anyway, England weren't the only team beaten heavily at home in a friendly and beaten heavily at home in a friendly and booed off by their own fans on Tuesday. booed off by their own fans on Tuesday. By the way, there was also the USA, By the way, there was also the USA, Mauricio Puchino's USA, who lost 4-nil Mauricio Puchino's USA, who lost 4-nil to Switzerland in Nashville, the Swiss to Switzerland in Nashville, the Swiss scoring all four goals in a 23-minute scoring all four goals in a 23-minute spell in the first half against a spell in the first half against a national team of the USA who have now national team of the USA who have now lost four games in a row for the first lost four games in a row for the first time in 18 years. We caught up with the time in 18 years. We caught up with the Athletics Paul Tonorio after the game Athletics Paul Tonorio after the game and we began by asking him where after and we began by asking him where after four straight defeats in charge, this four straight defeats in charge, this leaves big Mauricio. Yeah, I think it's leaves big Mauricio. Yeah, I think it's fairly serious because he's kind of fairly serious because he's kind of battling on multiple fronts right now. battling on multiple fronts right now. Going into this summer, it became Going into this summer, it became complicated because then, you know, complicated because then, you know, Christian Pulysic asked for the summer Christian Pulysic asked for the summer off. He felt he needed rest after off. He felt he needed rest after playing 50 games for Milan for the playing 50 games for Milan for the second season in a row and Anthony second season in a row and Anthony Robinson got a knee surgery and Wes and Robinson got a knee surgery and Wes and McKenna and Tim Way are at the club McKenna and Tim Way are at the club World Cup and Sergino Dest knee is not World Cup and Sergino Dest knee is not 100% ready yet. Well, Ballagan uh is out 100% ready yet. Well, Ballagan uh is out injured. So all of these regulars injured. So all of these regulars started to drop off the team and so more started to drop off the team and so more and more of these kind of B or C team and more of these kind of B or C team players came into the group and so now players came into the group and so now kind of the idea of injecting one or two kind of the idea of injecting one or two or three or four personalities into the or three or four personalities into the team to send a message I think has team to send a message I think has backfired right because this group the backfired right because this group the way that they lost yesterday they were way that they lost yesterday they were they were not up to the to the level of they were not up to the to the level of Switzerland the the players that were on Switzerland the the players that were on the field and and to be clear also I the field and and to be clear also I should note Pochettino rotated nine new should note Pochettino rotated nine new players into the team from the group players into the team from the group that lost 2-1 to Turkey and and those that lost 2-1 to Turkey and and those players the players who started against players the players who started against Turkey are are the more likely to quote Turkey are are the more likely to quote unquote push the West and Mckennis and unquote push the West and Mckennis and the Ununis Musas and and and those types the Ununis Musas and and and those types you know but but it still sends the you know but but it still sends the wrong message I think and and they wrong message I think and and they didn't have that energy and emotion and didn't have that energy and emotion and so now you get to a point again where so now you get to a point again where you're fighting on multiple fronts where you're fighting on multiple fronts where the message you're trying to send your the message you're trying to send your best players is falling flat because best players is falling flat because they're looking at that performance they're looking at that performance saying, "We're not really concerned saying, "We're not really concerned about these guys pushing us." The about these guys pushing us." The message to the fans is falling flat message to the fans is falling flat because you've now lost four in a row because you've now lost four in a row and it was a listless performance last and it was a listless performance last night against Switzerland. You know, night against Switzerland. You know, where is the hope coming from? And where is the hope coming from? And Pochettino, you know, I don't think Pochettino, you know, I don't think feels fully comfortable in this job yet. feels fully comfortable in this job yet. you know, he gave this interview with you know, he gave this interview with Andreas Canour, the famous broadcaster, Andreas Canour, the famous broadcaster, um, who's based here in the US, does um, who's based here in the US, does Telmundo, the famous gold calls, uh, Telmundo, the famous gold calls, uh, here in the US. Canour is an Argentinian here in the US. Canour is an Argentinian just like Pochettino. And as part of just like Pochettino. And as part of that interview, he talked about some of that interview, he talked about some of the discourse of, you know, does the discourse of, you know, does Pochettino understand the culture of Pochettino understand the culture of American soccer? And it was clear American soccer? And it was clear Pochettino had heard that and was Pochettino had heard that and was offended by that. and he spoke about, offended by that. and he spoke about, you know, of course we know the culture you know, of course we know the culture and the culture of football is and the culture of football is universal. It's global and it just seems universal. It's global and it just seems like he is kind of trying to put out like he is kind of trying to put out fires left, right, and center. And I I fires left, right, and center. And I I don't really know where he gets out of don't really know where he gets out of it. You know, the the hope would be, of it. You know, the the hope would be, of course, that the US puts a little bit of course, that the US puts a little bit of a run together this summer's Gold Cup a run together this summer's Gold Cup with this with this kind of piece with this with this kind of piece together team, but really it it puts an together team, but really it it puts an enormous amount of pressure on Maicio enormous amount of pressure on Maicio Pochettino for September, October, and Pochettino for September, October, and November in those friendlies where you November in those friendlies where you hopefully get kind of the full team hopefully get kind of the full team together and and start really trying to together and and start really trying to do something that builds anything do something that builds anything positive ahead of the World Cup. Mhm. positive ahead of the World Cup. Mhm. Well, the Gold Cup gets underway this Well, the Gold Cup gets underway this weekend. 16 teams, including the US, of weekend. 16 teams, including the US, of course, and Saudi Arabia, who've been course, and Saudi Arabia, who've been invited as special guests, which is invited as special guests, which is heartwarming. Also starting this heartwarming. Also starting this weekend, we got the Club World Cup also weekend, we got the Club World Cup also taking place in the United States. At taking place in the United States. At least that's been a roaring success so least that's been a roaring success so far, with the tickets to the opener um far, with the tickets to the opener um hard to give away. Is that right, Paul? hard to give away. Is that right, Paul? Yeah, I mean, look, I I expect that the Yeah, I mean, look, I I expect that the knockout rounds of this tournament are knockout rounds of this tournament are going to be well attended. I think going to be well attended. I think people will get excited by some of these people will get excited by some of these games as the tournament moves on, but games as the tournament moves on, but right now, you know, they're not. There right now, you know, they're not. There are matchups that aren't that appealing. are matchups that aren't that appealing. I think the the decision to place Inter I think the the decision to place Inter Miami games in Miami, if you're worried Miami games in Miami, if you're worried about selling tickets, was the wrong about selling tickets, was the wrong idea. Messi sells out stadiums all idea. Messi sells out stadiums all around the country and you stuck them in around the country and you stuck them in the biggest stadium in the home market the biggest stadium in the home market where people can go watch them every where people can go watch them every single weekend for $30 and expect him to single weekend for $30 and expect him to buy these tickets for 100, 200 is where buy these tickets for 100, 200 is where the prices started. and that just kind the prices started. and that just kind of fell on its face. I think you know of fell on its face. I think you know this summer is so important for me in in this summer is so important for me in in kind of some of the institutions to kind of some of the institutions to recognize recognize recognize um you know what this American market is um you know what this American market is about. You know I'm writing a book about about. You know I'm writing a book about the Messi effect and and the book is the Messi effect and and the book is about Messi's arrival here but it's about Messi's arrival here but it's really about where the sport is in this really about where the sport is in this country. There is an enormous appetite country. There is an enormous appetite for football in the US. Enormous. But for football in the US. Enormous. But you know these fans are also they're no you know these fans are also they're no longer kind of new to it. We can watch longer kind of new to it. We can watch any Premier League game on the weekend. any Premier League game on the weekend. Literally any game. We can watch the Literally any game. We can watch the Bundesliga, the La Liga, Champions Bundesliga, the La Liga, Champions League. Every single competition there League. Every single competition there is, we have access to it by the push of is, we have access to it by the push of a button. And fans want the best and a button. And fans want the best and they they want good product. And so I they they want good product. And so I think there is going to be a moment here think there is going to be a moment here where, you know, FIFA has a reckoning of where, you know, FIFA has a reckoning of of kind of what the expectations are, of kind of what the expectations are, the saturation of the sport in the the saturation of the sport in the market, where the prices should be. I market, where the prices should be. I think major league soccer is going to think major league soccer is going to have a reckoning and seeing its teams go have a reckoning and seeing its teams go up against some of the better teams in up against some of the better teams in the world and and some of the better the world and and some of the better teams in this hemisphere and I think US teams in this hemisphere and I think US soccer is getting a reckoning as well soccer is getting a reckoning as well and Maisio Pochettino in terms of the and Maisio Pochettino in terms of the strength of its pool. I it's an strength of its pool. I it's an enormously important summer for kind of enormously important summer for kind of looking in the mirror I think for for looking in the mirror I think for for American soccer. Paul last summer was an American soccer. Paul last summer was an important one too with the corporate important one too with the corporate America in the states and prices were America in the states and prices were were a problem then as well as pitches were a problem then as well as pitches and policing. Very briefly, do you think and policing. Very briefly, do you think this summer's tournament is going to this summer's tournament is going to suffer from those same issues as regards suffer from those same issues as regards the last two or or have lessons been the last two or or have lessons been learned? Well, I think the, you know, learned? Well, I think the, you know, the biggest difference between last the biggest difference between last summer and this is that FIFA staging summer and this is that FIFA staging this tournament whereas KMA bowl staged this tournament whereas KMA bowl staged the Copa America and that's where I the Copa America and that's where I think the trouble started. Come bowl, think the trouble started. Come bowl, you know, looked at the success of the you know, looked at the success of the Copa America Centennio in 2016, which Copa America Centennio in 2016, which was run not by Come Bowl, but by Conqua was run not by Come Bowl, but by Conqua Cafe, uh, Major League Soccer's Cafe, uh, Major League Soccer's marketing arm, Soccer United Marketing, marketing arm, Soccer United Marketing, and US Soccer. Well, what they saw was and US Soccer. Well, what they saw was that those companies made a tremendous that those companies made a tremendous amount of money on a KOM ball amount of money on a KOM ball tournament. So, KO ball took over tournament. So, KO ball took over operations. They had very little operations. They had very little experience staging a tournament in this experience staging a tournament in this country. And I think that's where you country. And I think that's where you saw issues with kind of the ticket saw issues with kind of the ticket prices. I think certainly that's where prices. I think certainly that's where you saw issues with security in the at you saw issues with security in the at the Copa America final and the pitches I the Copa America final and the pitches I think will be a non-issue completely think will be a non-issue completely because this is being used as a test run because this is being used as a test run for next summer's World Cup. The pitches for next summer's World Cup. The pitches that are being put together here in this that are being put together here in this country are being shipped to the country are being shipped to the stadiums where that are going to host stadiums where that are going to host World Cup games next year. There's a World Cup games next year. There's a much different way to put the field onto much different way to put the field onto over top of the plastic turf. Um it it over top of the plastic turf. Um it it should play much differently. It did in should play much differently. It did in March in the Nations League in Los March in the Nations League in Los Angeles. So I don't think there will be Angeles. So I don't think there will be a repeat of last summer and I think I a repeat of last summer and I think I hope Come ball maybe learned some hope Come ball maybe learned some lessons as well about it's not so simple lessons as well about it's not so simple to stage a tournament. Now again it was to stage a tournament. Now again it was an enormous financial success for Come an enormous financial success for Come Ball which I think is what they they Ball which I think is what they they were mostly concerned about. But you were mostly concerned about. But you know that'll be the case with the know that'll be the case with the tournaments this summer too and with tournaments this summer too and with next summer again there is this enormous next summer again there is this enormous appetite for the sport in this country. appetite for the sport in this country. People are going to go to these games. People are going to go to these games. They're going to pay top dollar once we They're going to pay top dollar once we get to the knockouts to go watch teams get to the knockouts to go watch teams like Real Madrid and Bayern Munich. But like Real Madrid and Bayern Munich. But the logistical side of things, it's the logistical side of things, it's still complicated. And I think an still complicated. And I think an organization like FIFA, you know, we'll organization like FIFA, you know, we'll have a better grip of that than Kball have a better grip of that than Kball did. All right, Tom, now that you're did. All right, Tom, now that you're fully excited about the Club World Cup, fully excited about the Club World Cup, anything else that you're eager to see anything else that you're eager to see in this 32 team in this 32 team event? I mean, it's a classic World Cup event? I mean, it's a classic World Cup format, except instead of national format, except instead of national sides, you've got clubs, haven't you? sides, you've got clubs, haven't you? clubs from six continents and 20 clubs from six continents and 20 countries. Oo, competing countries. Oo, competing for a total prize pool of inserts index for a total prize pool of inserts index finger $1 billion. Play. I mean, I'm yeah, intrigued as to Play. I mean, I'm yeah, intrigued as to how PSG will get on as newly crowned how PSG will get on as newly crowned European champions. And again, one of European champions. And again, one of the novelties of this tournament is that the novelties of this tournament is that they are not putting this title on the they are not putting this title on the line, but they are putting their freshly line, but they are putting their freshly acquired status as Europe's best team. acquired status as Europe's best team. and erggo, the world's best team on the and erggo, the world's best team on the line, you know, a matter of days after, line, you know, a matter of days after, you know, after scaling the the mountain you know, after scaling the the mountain uh of the Champions League at long last. uh of the Champions League at long last. Uh and yeah, I'd like to go Madrid in Uh and yeah, I'd like to go Madrid in the first fixture. There are easier the first fixture. There are easier opening games to have to contend with. opening games to have to contend with. Usman Dembele is with the squad, but is Usman Dembele is with the squad, but is injured. He's got a thigh injury, so I injured. He's got a thigh injury, so I don't think he'll be involved against don't think he'll be involved against Atletico. Um and I think they'll be Atletico. Um and I think they'll be hoping that he can he can play some part hoping that he can he can play some part later on. Um but yeah, it's sort of later on. Um but yeah, it's sort of interesting to see how the particularly interesting to see how the particularly the big European clubs approach it. Is the big European clubs approach it. Is there a potential advantage for there a potential advantage for particularly the South American clubs at particularly the South American clubs at the European clubs coming off the back the European clubs coming off the back of you know a long season that of you know a long season that historically these kind of historically these kind of intercontinental tournaments you've intercontinental tournaments you've tended to see super motivated South tended to see super motivated South American clubs and big European clubs American clubs and big European clubs you aren't really sure how much they you aren't really sure how much they care about it. Um, so yeah, Chelsea, by care about it. Um, so yeah, Chelsea, by the way, begin their campaign on Monday the way, begin their campaign on Monday against Olivia Giru's LFC. against Olivia Giru's LFC. Also in that group are Espirans Tunis. Also in that group are Espirans Tunis. Who else is in that group? Flamingo. Oh, Who else is in that group? Flamingo. Oh, Flamingo out of Brazil. That's quite Flamingo out of Brazil. That's quite exciting. Man City, you have to wait exciting. Man City, you have to wait until Wednesday, Tom, to see them. until Wednesday, Tom, to see them. They'll be up against Wad as any child They'll be up against Wad as any child will will say many times. There you go. will will say many times. There you go. Why did Why did Why did out of Morocco? Yeah, that's Wednesday. out of Morocco? Yeah, that's Wednesday. Also in their group are Juventus and Also in their group are Juventus and Alain Alain Alain of the United Emirates who are winners of the United Emirates who are winners of the Asian Champions League the season of the Asian Champions League the season before last or possibly last season before last or possibly last season depending upon your viewpoint. 23 24 depending upon your viewpoint. 23 24 anyway anyway anyway criy. Well, there's loads to look criy. Well, there's loads to look forward to and there's loads of it. It's forward to and there's loads of it. It's all free to air on the zone and lots of all free to air on the zone and lots of it will be on channel 5 as well it will be on channel 5 as well particularly at weekends. Tim and there particularly at weekends. Tim and there are some good legends. Um Cavani is are some good legends. Um Cavani is going to be there for Baka Juniors. going to be there for Baka Juniors. Sergio Ramos were there for Montter. Sergio Ramos were there for Montter. Thiago Silva's going to be there as well Thiago Silva's going to be there as well for Limenz and Messi Suarez. Obviously for Limenz and Messi Suarez. Obviously Di Maria. This is his this is his last Di Maria. This is his this is his last shot. Sort of a big Thomas Mller's last shot. Sort of a big Thomas Mller's last games with Bayern. Yeah, a few nice games with Bayern. Yeah, a few nice narratives. There you go. But no, he's narratives. There you go. But no, he's got Carson for City. So, you know, got Carson for City. So, you know, that's a blow. Listener, here we go. that's a blow. Listener, here we go. Into totally Cup time. Is it this Into totally Cup time. Is it this season's or next season's into Totally season's or next season's into Totally Cut? We just don't know. What we do know Cut? We just don't know. What we do know is that producer Charlie has just been is that producer Charlie has just been into the studio with a bowl and some into the studio with a bowl and some pieces of paper. Pieces of paper pieces of paper. Pieces of paper containing names. Now, I can reveal that containing names. Now, I can reveal that among those names is our very own Duncan among those names is our very own Duncan Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Mr. Quiz. That's what they say. That's Mr. Quiz. That's what they say. That's what they call him. And a man who's what they call him. And a man who's looking to reach the final for the third looking to reach the final for the third year running. Tim, a man by the name of year running. Tim, a man by the name of Tom Williams. Oo. And Tim, you yourself Tom Williams. Oo. And Tim, you yourself will be doing the draw for us by will be doing the draw for us by reaching into that bowl and pulling out reaching into that bowl and pulling out some of those pieces of paper in some of those pieces of paper in timehonored fashion. Do you want to say timehonored fashion. Do you want to say a few words first or just get into it? a few words first or just get into it? No, just just really What about you, No, just just really What about you, Tom? Do you want to say a few words? You Tom? Do you want to say a few words? You want to wait and see who you get in the want to wait and see who you get in the draw? Yes. I don't want to preempt draw? Yes. I don't want to preempt things. I mean, it could be literally things. I mean, it could be literally anyone at this straight. Anyone you want anyone at this straight. Anyone you want to avoid or No, we'll we'll take them to avoid or No, we'll we'll take them all. You know, we're happy to be here all. You know, we're happy to be here once. You've got to beat the best if you once. You've got to beat the best if you want. Content here a little bit. Anyone? want. Content here a little bit. Anyone? Um I think I' I'd like to get Benji Um I think I' I'd like to get Benji early. Yeah. Why? Just get in his head, early. Yeah. Why? Just get in his head, I think. Yeah, he'll overthink it. Tim, I think. Yeah, he'll overthink it. Tim, there are eight names in the bowl. Let's there are eight names in the bowl. Let's see who gets whom. Just give him a good see who gets whom. Just give him a good stir. That's making a strange noise that stir. That's making a strange noise that is one's on fire. Weird. First one out is one's on fire. Weird. First one out is number seven. Number seven, Duncan is number seven. Number seven, Duncan Alexander quiz home draw. Got him a home Alexander quiz home draw. Got him a home draw draw draw against number two. Number two, producer number two. Number two, producer Charlie, winner of this very event and Charlie, winner of this very event and shadowy supreo of the entire thing, but shadowy supreo of the entire thing, but winner of this entire event in 2023. winner of this entire event in 2023. Wow. How'd you feel about that, Duncan? Wow. How'd you feel about that, Duncan? It's a tough draw. Um, we'll do our It's a tough draw. Um, we'll do our best, but I mean, you're up against the best, but I mean, you're up against the system. you're up against Big Quiz in system. you're up against Big Quiz in the form of the man who can edit the the form of the man who can edit the literal podcast that this is broadcast literal podcast that this is broadcast on. So, yeah, I'll do I'll just do what on. So, yeah, I'll do I'll just do what I can. I'll have a pre-match burger, I can. I'll have a pre-match burger, maybe a postmatch burger, and see how we maybe a postmatch burger, and see how we go. Excellent. All right, on with the qu go. Excellent. All right, on with the qu on with the draw, Tim. Next up is number on with the draw, Tim. Next up is number three. Number three, Michael Cox, winner three. Number three, Michael Cox, winner in 2020, 2021, and 2024. in 2020, 2021, and 2024. Who'll be getting Coxy? Number eight, Who'll be getting Coxy? Number eight, Daniel's story, the winner in 2022. So, Daniel's story, the winner in 2022. So, you got the men who picked up four out you got the men who picked up four out of five into totally cups going of five into totally cups going headto-head in the opening round. Blime headto-head in the opening round. Blime me. It's extraordinary, isn't it? Wow. me. It's extraordinary, isn't it? Wow. What's next, Tim? Next up, number five. What's next, Tim? Next up, number five. Number five, Tom Williams. It's you, Number five, Tom Williams. It's you, Tom. Runner up in 2023 and 2024. Got you Tom. Runner up in 2023 and 2024. Got you both a home draw. It's all you can ask both a home draw. It's all you can ask for. against number one Charlie for. against number one Charlie Echoshshire runner up in 2022. Tom, the Echoshshire runner up in 2022. Tom, the two fellows who've been runner up in for two fellows who've been runner up in for three years straight. How do you feel? three years straight. How do you feel? Yeah, they're calling it the the Clash Yeah, they're calling it the the Clash of the Bridesmaids. of the Bridesmaids. Um I think I did I beat Charlie? I think Um I think I did I beat Charlie? I think I feel like I've beaten Charlie at some I feel like I've beaten Charlie at some point. Do you? Maybe last year possibly. point. Do you? Maybe last year possibly. I don't think you've ever faced Charlie. I don't think you've ever faced Charlie. You've never faced Charlie's producer. You've never faced Charlie's producer. Much attention I've been paying. Who' Much attention I've been paying. Who' have who'd have thought that Charlie have who'd have thought that Charlie Eckles and I two such do of the qu of Eckles and I two such do of the qu of the football quiz game could have the football quiz game could have managed to avoid each other up to now. managed to avoid each other up to now. Could see another 5-nil as well. Hey, Could see another 5-nil as well. Hey, watch this space. All right. Well, that watch this space. All right. Well, that only leaves two names to be drawn out of only leaves two names to be drawn out of the hat. So, but let's do them. the hat. So, but let's do them. Number four. Number four is Julian Number four. Number four is Julian Lance, who's the player who has competed Lance, who's the player who has competed in the most inter totally matches in the most inter totally matches without ever winning the competition. without ever winning the competition. And he will, And he will, if everything's gone to plan, let's hope if everything's gone to plan, let's hope there's only one left. Oh, yeah, there there's only one left. Oh, yeah, there is. And he will be up against Benji is. And he will be up against Benji Liardo. Number six, Benji Linardo, who Liardo. Number six, Benji Linardo, who was runner up in 2021. Extraordinarily was runner up in 2021. Extraordinarily storied and and and uh that's not the storied and and and uh that's not the phrase, is it? Extraordinarily highass phrase, is it? Extraordinarily highass lineup here, Tim. No. Yeah. And a good lineup here, Tim. No. Yeah. And a good draw, I think. I think some good ties draw, I think. I think some good ties there. Yeah. You got a niche one. You there. Yeah. You got a niche one. You got a super classicalico. You've got a got a super classicalico. You've got a those draws again. Michael Cox facing those draws again. Michael Cox facing Daniel Story. Four titles between them. Daniel Story. Four titles between them. Julian Laurance against runner up in Julian Laurance against runner up in 2021, Benji Lenardo. 2021, Benji Lenardo. Duncan Alexander, who was eyeing up Duncan Alexander, who was eyeing up Benji, but instead will be taking on Benji, but instead will be taking on producer Charlie. And Tom Williams producer Charlie. And Tom Williams facing Charlie Echos. Krikey. The first facing Charlie Echos. Krikey. The first matchup will be taking place next week matchup will be taking place next week in either our Tuesday or Thursday show in either our Tuesday or Thursday show and I'm not going to say which list. So and I'm not going to say which list. So you have to listen to both to find out you have to listen to both to find out unless it's in the Tuesday show which unless it's in the Tuesday show which wait for the TV schedules to come out wait for the TV schedules to come out first and then see which one it's going first and then see which one it's going to be. You're I think Duncan Charlie got to be. You're I think Duncan Charlie got sort of Sunday 4 p.m. real on over it. sort of Sunday 4 p.m. real on over it. That's the Yeah. key prime time slot. That's the Yeah. key prime time slot. Yeah. Woof. Excellent. Good for now. Yeah. Woof. Excellent. Good for now. Many many thanks to producer Charlie, to Many many thanks to producer Charlie, to producer Liam, producer Liam, producer Liam, to Duncan Alexander, Tom Williams, Tim to Duncan Alexander, Tom Williams, Tim Spears, and above all you listener Spears, and above all you listener and uh do have a great weekend. We'll and uh do have a great weekend. We'll catch up with you soon. For now, from catch up with you soon. For now, from all of us here, it's goodbye. Harrah. all of us here, it's goodbye. Harrah. The Totally Football Show podcast is The Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a week, bringing available three times a week, bringing you all the football news you could you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care about. reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of the best got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around. And the whole football writers around. And the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the all the usual places by clicking on the link below.