================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: KufUuiJfZp4
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KufUuiJfZp4
TITLE: Arsenal edge past impressive Man United on opening weekend
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-17
DURATION: 1h 2m 25s
VIEWS: 16,349
LIKES: 352
COMMENTS: 42
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The Premier League is back and Arsenal's narrow victory over Manchester United takes top billing. United lost, but were their green shots inspired by new signings Bryan Mbeumo and Matheus Cunha?

There was also wins for Liverpool, Manchester City, Spurs and - most notably - Sunderland as the Black Cats returned to the big time with a bang.

Listen to the audio version of the Totally Football Show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or by following this link: https://podfollow.com/totallyfootballshow

Get in touch with the show:

Email: totally@theathletic.com
X: @thetotallyshow
Instagram: @totallyfootballshow
TikTok: @thetotallyshow
BlueSky: ‪@totallyshow.bsky.social‬

The Totally Football Show is with you four times a week this season, giving you all the football news you need to know - and plenty that you don't. We've got views, stats and analysis from the very best football writers around. It's smart, it's funny, and it's totally free – so listen to us on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,784

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Tony football show today big match day one verdicts gunners win at Old Trafford City bring in a new Trafford it's K Zar Serara at Liverpool the Blacksats are feline fine while Hammers Mats Herman Manson play more like Marilyn and with Frank putting his stamp on Spurs there's lots to talk about in this totally football show. Not not get any music there with that at all, friends. Hello on on the live stream. It's us. It's us. Just making a little podcast for you on a Sunday night. Woohoo. Going to tweak some buttons here. Didn't hear any of that music though. No, when you played it before, but now this time I didn't hear any at all. So, okay, great. But the whole point is I need to hear it too. Yeah. Yeah, it it came out. It came through on here though. I know, but I'm in here. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, just um anyway. All right. And we'll pick it up here. Totally football show all the way live for you on a Sunday night on YouTube all the way through the season. It's very exciting. Today it's Sunday the 17th of August. Got Daniel Story here with us. Hey, Daniel. Good evening, James. All right, Daniel. Good evening to you. Matt Davis Adams, fresh back from Stamford Bridge. Back from Stanford Bridge. Not very fresh, but yeah. Okay. Adrien Clark is in as well. Yeah. Adrian, you were all over Man United Arsenal. Tough watch. Okay. Adrian, you're also now a YouTuber. Yeah. In your own right. I know. It's exciting, isn't it? It is. Tell us about your channel. Can't believe it. Well, I just thought, let's have a go this summer. Let's let's make a channel. So, yeah. I've just been talking about Arsenal and lots of people seem to be watching which is brilliant. Wow. So, um hopefully doesn't have to be exclusively Arsenal, but at the moment that's that's where we're at. I'm so excited because we're going to be getting you on uh well the Arsenal performance against Man United, also the Man United performance against Arsenal. Right. Daniel course is chief football writer of the Eye. Daniel, where were you focused this weekend? I watched Forest earlier in Manchester United Arsenal actually went to Morham on Saturday. A parody of myself went to a postponeed match on the second weekend of the season. Um but yeah, we've heard on Sunday evening as we record that their takeover has gone through. So the headline is Morham FC have been saved which is great. Excellent. Well, there you go. Start off with nice but little bit of good news. Matt Davis Adams. And on the subject of good news, you're now the host of the Athletics the Athletic FC's Tony Football Show rivaling Friday preview podcast. Different days, same theme. So yeah, I I you know, we we there's some crosspollination there. We have Tim Spears on on the debut show Friday. Yeah. But um no, yeah, do do check it out every Friday. Looking forward to the big game. Excellent. in the Premier League which disappointed massively this weekend but yeah hopefully better to come okay throughout the season. Which one of the previews was most befuddled by the events that ensued over the last couple of days? Um I think we were trying to big up Manchester United versus Arsenal whilst all the time acknowledging that this was the biggest game of the weekend maybe 101 15 years ago and now is a game of the weekend which is steeped in history if not quality. Certainly on the evidence of what we saw on Sunday. There was lots of other nice things the weekend. It was good to welcome the Premier League back. Daniel, what was the most significant thing for you of the last couple of days? It was Sunderland winning. I think everybody as a as a relative Premier League neutral is wanting one, two or or all three of the promoted clubs to put up a better fight than last season. And Sunderland were bestowed with a fixture that looked better and better as the game went on and an opponent that looked worse and worse, but they were everything we wanted the opening day to be for them. It was, you know, stadium light was rocking. Some of the new signings look brilliant at driving forward and carrying the ball. Granite Jackie was holding up midfield. They scored three in the second half. So, yeah, that felt like the Premier League needed that as well as all of us. Excellent. Adrian, there was so much to enjoy, wasn't there? There was new faces, new music on Sky Sports, some great goals. It was brilliant. Yeah, I did cocoms on Liverpool, Warmouth. Very exciting game. Very exciting game to work on. Um, obviously it there was a real stain in that game, an awful incident involving Semeno and and the horrible racist abuse that that was aimed in his direction, but I thought it was an absolute triumph for his character and for his ability to sort of park that for the rest of the game and go out and, you know, single-handedly, you know, torment Liverpool for for long spells of that game. It was a it was a brilliant match and uh yeah, I kind of hoped that the rest of that Premier League weekend would follow with as much excitement. It didn't quite live up to it, but but it was a great start. Okay. A weekend that saw innumerable heartfelt tributes to Diego Jotto, not least at the Anfield game. Also the Wolves Man City match as well. A lot of really spectacular knee slides which Duncan Alexander on Thursday was suggesting were very much a thing for the winter, but not according to this weekend. Also, and this is one thing I like about the new season. It's the first use of the new year. So, as of this season, 2026 is now a reality. And I find that exciting when you first start talking about the season 2526. It sounds future. Well, everything's viewed through the prism of the World Cup, right? Isn't it? So and so needs a move because it's a World Cup. Yeah. He'll be desperate to impress because it's a World Cup year. You want to avoid injury because it's a World Cup year. So, yeah, 2026 big for that. But I mean it it feels like it sort of progressively got worse the the weekend as it went on, didn't it? From Friday through to Sunday, but some brilliant goals and now this podcast. Um I mean TBC, but sure. But yeah, um yeah, I mean some some fantastic goals that Rinders scoop pass. That was the first kind of moment of the season, wasn't it? Yeah, plenty to enjoy. And there's a menu solo run reminiscent of some other classic ones of yesterday year. Just briefly before we actually get into the the games on the basis of the 2.3% of the season we've had so far, who's it going to be a long campaign for? Daniel, I think in our preview shows we said that if promoted clubs were going to kick on and show something more than they have in the last couple of years, then the triumvirate of Wolves, West Ham, and Brenford were the most the three clubs most at risk and they lost by an aggregate of 10-1 this weekend. Uh Wolves will will slightly forgive because they played a brilliant Manchester City team that suddenly looks like, you know, oh yeah, remember us. Uh but West Ham and Brenford were both uh appalling and there is already like it's the it's the ultimate damination with faint praise or from cocoms. They say, well, you know, it's too early to be making snap judgments and then go into absolutely laying into the team that they're watching. Pat Nevin did it in typically eloquent fashion on five live on Saturday afternoon about West Ham and he's absolutely right because it might only be one game. It might only be 2.3% but if West Ham keep playing like that they'll go down. So things need to change and and also it's not just one game with West Ham is it right? It was the start of last season under Litei and then the second half of last season and that was a continuation of that. So yeah I mean you could say Burnley as well based on what we saw on Saturday but their expectations are quite different to West Ham. So yeah, West Ham for me. All right, results this afternoon, Sunday as we record. It was 1-0il to the Arsenal at Old Trafford. Intriguingly, the Gunners last seven victories at that grand have all been by that same score line. Elsewhere, Palace continued their excellent form, holding world champions Chelsea to a goalless draw. There were big wins for Man City, 4-0 at Wolves. Spurs 3-0 against Burnley. Sunderland also 3-0 against West Ham. and Forest 3-1 on Sunday against Brenford. Liverpool 42 winners against Bournemouth but conceding two goals for the third game in a row including the preseason matches and thus needing late late strikes from Kza and Salah to secure the three points and there were draws for Brighton and Fulham and Villa and Newcastle and of course yes Chelsea and Palace. All right, Leads going to be up against Everton on Monday night at Ellen Road which could see a possible toffee debut for Jack Greish and maybe also for Leads Dominic Cat Lewen against the club he's just left. So that'll be exciting. Anyway, that's to come. Hopefully it bucks the downward trend that Matt was just referencing. Let's begin though with the Nadir so far which was Man United Arsenal. And then a bit of coms. Is it Califury with the goal? Yeah, it is lovely stuff. Thank you, Charlie. Okay, Ricardo Califury there from the Declan Rice corner, Arsenal winning. But if it wasn't for the the three points dropped and the fact that he generally seems quite a miserable guy, you'd say Ruben Amaran would be the happier man at the end of this game, would you, Adrian? Oh, happier with the performance. Yeah, Manchester United deserved probably to win the game, didn't they? I This was not a good performance from Arsenal. If we start with United, Yeah. I they were more aggressive um which was which was good. They made life much more uncomfortable for Arsenal than they have done in in recent visits to Old Trafford. Uh and Burma and Kuna have obviously upgraded them and I think both had some really good moments in the game. I mean this they were finding them Burma a lot weren't they particularly in that first half. Um I still think the center midfield is garbage really. um without the ball. I just think they're so easy to play against. It's crazy. Even Arsenal playing, I would say this was a three or four out of 10 Arsenal performance. Even playing at that level, sliced through their midfield on numerous occasions. You think Erdigga, how many times Erdigard got the ball in the little pockets with space to run forward. So, they just didn't make best use of it. So, there's work to do. Um but they look uh they look punchier this time around, don't they? Amazing stat the producer Charlie mentioned. Matt, 22 shots for Man United, which is the most the Red Devils have had against Arsenal since they beat them 8-2. Yeah. And and you can take comfort from that and you can say that David Rya played well and you know and Burmo and Kuna when they settle into their new team then maybe they'll be able to hit the target rather than hit the goalkeeper or shoot wide. But it's the midfield that's the issue, right? This is what we were speaking about on the preview from the Athletic on Friday that they've spent 200 million pounds on attacking players. We also talked about just to mention on our Thursday Yeah. Yeah. Both both day early. Um but yeah, we're in we're in the final year of of Casemiro's massive bountiful contract, aren't we? And he probably wasn't the biggest issue for United today. But certainly at that age, he made things much easier for for Arsenal to kind of work around him, I think. And and it does feel strange that that's been so neglected, that area of the pitch for them, whether they think that Ugate is still going to come good at some point. Well, I I thought Gant put in a a truly dreadful substitute performance in what was what was a promising display for Manchester United overall. But I do think without the ball, I think there are still um big improvements to make for for United. You worry about the midfield. You worry perhaps about the man who took Onana's place between the posts. Ruben Amarim confiring before the game that both Onana and Hland were fit but were not going to be taking any part in the uh in the match against the Gunners who won with a goal which I think Bander by Popent had some kind of culpability for. Yeah, definitely. I mean they were probably asking for a foul but there wasn't a foul there. I think Cibba was there. They were sort of all bundling each other. Civa was actually maybe fouled himself. Um, yeah, he messed it up. Not in a Gary L sense, I hope. No, definitely not. No, but yeah, Kal Fury couldn't miss. And Cal Fury actually um I was pleased with the selection because I think inside both boxes he's got the height, but he's also a buccaneering spirit, isn't he? And I think that he he sort of did take Arsenal upfield quite nicely in that first half in particular. And yeah, he's an exciting player to watch. He's quite a fun Califier and it was nice to see him score again. All of his goals for Arsenal have come on the road. Um, so yeah, no, it was it was a set piece goal. Surprise, surprise for Arsenal, but but yeah, in open play, Arsenal have to pass the ball much better. They have to uh be less flustered really in possession. I thought I thought they were surprisingly shaky, put under some duress by by Manchester United. Um, why do you think that was? Was it United's aggression from the start? In part, definitely in part early season rustiness, I think. Yeah, they just weren't really at it. Um, felt a bit sorry for Victor Yokarez. First time he didn't have a shot in a league game um since he played for Coventry. So, it goes back I think 69 league appearances. He's at least had at least one shot on goal in this game. He didn't nothing fell fell his way. He fed off scraps really. So yeah, you're sort of scratching around for positives from Arsenal's performance. You're probably looking at David Ryer. I actually producer Charlie disagrees with me on this, but I actually thought Zuba Meni played played quite well. I think he was one of Arsenal's better performers. He felt that Zuba Meni was the biggest disappointment in what was No, I didn't. Yeah, I just didn't. I just thought I thought he he passed it nice and quickly. He brought Erdigal into the game a lot. Broke up play quite well. Didn't really give it away. I just thought he he was he was pretty good, but the the bar was low today. Arsenal didn't play great. Okay. All the new faces on display, Daniel, were part of the attraction of this this fixture between Kunan and Bummer and and Zuba Mendi and Goyz and Chesco. What What did you make of of the various debuts? I thought of of the crop. I thought was probably the best in certainly in how he managed to pick up space in the first half, find those pockets. My my concern for Manchester United is I think there's a way they had 22 shots as as you mentioned earlier which is the most in a long time against Arsenal but the total xG was only 1.6 six which you know very basically suggests that they had lots of shots but not very many big chances and they didn't have a single big chances defined by OPA and I just worry maybe Cesco changes that when he settles in and they will hope so I just worry that with Bruno in that position the temptation for him and I fully get it is he's used to playing higher at the pitch so Manchester United having lots of the ball and lots of shots but not creating big chances if you're Bruno Fernandez you think well all I need to do is go 15 yards higher at the pitch here and I can be the one to create a big chance and he probably would. But that then leaves Manchester United being broken on and Casemiro if he's going to be first choice is not the guy to be a one-man midfield. And I think what disappointed me most about Arsenal actually was how they didn't make the most of those counterattacking opportunities. The run the run or the pass just seems slightly off or slightly slowing down the move. If a team gets that right and we watch what Palace did at Anfield, we'll come on to that. But it sorry if we watch what Bournemouth did at Anfield on Friday night which we'll come on to. If you've got Semeno playing as he did at Anfield against that Manchester United team with Bruno caught high up the pitch they'll lose two or three nil because it's so easy to slice through. That's my concern. Maybe Cesco that presence in the box. It felt like a lot for the lot of the game Manchester United had not enough players in central midfield and also no players in the penalty box. I was trying to kind of work out where all their players were. Again, maybe Cesco changes that. He is certainly a presence, but he'll need to be. Maybe one or two other players might change that, whether it's Bela out of Brighton or Adam Warton from Crystal Palace or or somebody else for the midfield. Early doors anyway for Man United, but three points for Arsenal. Sunday's other games were both played at 2:00. Chelsea's goalless draw with Crystal Palace and Forest 3-1 win against Brenford. Matt, you were at Sanford Bridge for the goalless draw. uh which did see a brilliant free kick from Eber Ezier which was disallowed for reasons. Can you explain those reasons? Not familiar with law 13. Pretty obvious, isn't it? Um apparently uh and I wasn't until Darren England came on the mic, which is the first time I've been in a stadium to hear the referee talk, which is was kind of fun. Um but Mark Girie, who was trying to move a Chelsea player out the way, ended up getting too close to the original wall. have this thing nowadays where there's a wall here. Opposition players can't be too close to it. So they often form a separate wall in trying to create a bit of space for the shot. He ended up pushing himself too close to the Chelsea wall. So he was within a meter of it, which is why the goal was disallowed. Initially, we assumed it was for a foul by pushing encroaching on Chelsea's wall, which is designed to stop the free kick. I didn't know that was a thing. No, I I mean, you suspect that we'll never see it again in an league game. It was a real oneoff, but yeah, it was a very, very strange thing. I mean, it saved Robert Sanchez blushes because initially when I looked at it, I thought, "Wow, he's hit that really hard. Nobody would save that." But it was straight at the Chelsea goalkeeper and he should have saved it. But it was a foul, though, wasn't it? I I I think it probably was the right decision. Yeah, I'm not sure it was a foul, but he was definitely too close to the wall. So, for for one way or another, the goal was correctly disallowed, I think. But, um, yeah, unfortunate for Palace, who were excellent in the game. Really, really impressive. Yeah, you know, they've been on this fantastic run from from the back end of last season, obviously going through to the FA Cup final and the Community Shield, but just a brilliantly organized team um with one real flare player and one creative fulcrum in Walton and obviously as you mentioned James both have been linked with with moves away but um yeah hugely impressed with Palace all over the pitch from Mateta to to Muny to Gay to Eza um just just fantastic. fantic probably will feel that they could and should have won this game even though Chelsea had all the ball they were they're a bit toothless in attack today and as is going to be the case I think throughout the season at the start of the season people will say well this is because Chelsea haven't had a preseason and the later we get into the season they'll say it's because they went all the way in the club World Cup and now they're tired so yeah excuses at the ready I would say they definitely missed having either Levi Colewell or to punching some passes into midfield and helping start things from there Palmer pretty anonymous today in this game and and yeah, Palace just really effective at shutting down Chelsea and we'll be disappointed that they didn't win the game. But for what has been one of the most one-sided fixtures in Premier League history, I think Chelsea won 13 on the spin against Palace. Now they failed to beat them three times in succession. So bit of a redressing of the balance there. Wow. Colin Miller pointing out as you were referencing Crystal Palace's last 10 games have included Arsenal away, Liverpool away, Chelsea away, Spurs away, an FA Cup semi-final against Villa, an FA Cup final against Manchester City, and a Community Shield against Liverpool. And in those 10 games, they are unbeaten and have won two trophies. Oliver Glassner, ladies and gentlemen, Daniel, were you able to see much of this game? No, you were watching. Yeah, I watched You did? I watched extended highlights afterwards. Yeah. between the two games. Yeah, I mean in in terms of Glasnner, I just I just think the the greatest achievement of today was managing to deflect all attention away kind of dealing with the game in its own bubble outside of all the noise around transfers and the emotion around the UEFA and cast verdicts. It it sounds like Eberzi was pretty close to not playing today. It sounds like there are still noises around Marahhei. Uh, and even if he does stay, I think he's probably made it quite clear he he would leave on a free next summer. That's not easy to deal with as a manager, particularly when you're a manager who you see Glaz the videos of Glas in the dressing room. That togetherness and that spirit is pretty much what this is founded on as well as some pretty decent players. So to manage to kind of park all that to one side, fair play to Eberzi for playing and playing well because um there are other players in the Premier League who are linked with moves that haven't happened who haven't played this weekend. So good on him for doing that. It did look at fulltime a bit kind of thank you and goodbye, dare I say, which is a shame. Um because they are half the team without az. It's going to be really difficult to to replace that kind of creativity and that kind of Crystal Palace spirit, that kind of you are one of us, we're all together that you just don't get that the same I don't think when you buy a player with a week left in a transfer window. Right. Where do you think it might be going? Arsenal and Spurs of late increasing. Yeah, I doubt both. Um but um yeah, I mean Spurs were Spurs see seemed to have pretty obviously stolen a march. When we heard that he might well not be playing on Sunday, it was because of a deal agreed with Spurs. I don't know if there's a hitch in that or we don't know if EZ would have just preferred to have the game, play the game, not be seen to have pulled out from his potential last palace appearance uh and then the move go through this. It might well be that it gets done in the next two or three days. uh he will go with fans blessing which is very rare when a player leaves for a player of his quality leaves for what 50 60 million. Um he's a fabulous footballer and he will be missed but he's gone about things the right way. He's a brilliant player. He's absolutely outstanding and if he does go to missing I mean that'll be perfect for Arsenal. I would love him at Arsenal. I think uh 99 out of 100 Arsenal fans would love him there. I think his his shirt would sell out. I don't know if this is a silly question, but the one that wouldn't. Is there a reason why you think? I think the reason at the moment Arsenal haven't gone in for him is that they think an more of an out and out winger is what they need rather than a central attacking midfield player. Now, he can play on the left. We know that. And he can drift in and make things happen. And if he played for Arsenal at Old Trafford today, I'm pretty sure that on those counterattacks, he would have made better decisions and he would have split that defense and he would have been maybe the match winner. He's sensational and I want I would love to see him in an Arsenal shirt. There's a feeling that Mikuel Artetta and the board are potentially worried about blocking pathways for Ethan Waneri who's just signed a new contract, plays as a number 10, brilliant prospect. And of course, Max Dowman, 15year-old, who's just a phenomenon, he also really plays in that same number 10 position. So, if that's where they see as a playing, I get why they wouldn't go for him. But potentially losing him to Spurs would be be pretty gutting, I think, for a lot of Arsenal fans. I think he would be a big upgrade even if it was if he was to play on the left. I just think he would make a difference because of his quality. All right. It will be pretty gutting for Palace fans to see him go wherever his destination is. Daniel Nottingham Forest against Brenford then. What a lovely start to the season for Forest. Tell us. Yeah, it it was it was it was more dominant than any supporter could have wished for. It's been a slightly odd preseason for Forest, not least because they only scored one goal in seven games and drew five of them nil nil. And then this week we had the interview with Bay Nuno with Sky Sports in which he he kind of just said, "It's really worrying. I wanted players in early. They know I like getting players in early. We had them last year when we went to Spain. We haven't had any of that this year. We're miles off it." Uh and then on the opening day, everyone sort of goes, "Yeah, well, don't worry about it. Real business has started now." The quick explanation for that is I think Nuno played two up top in in all of preseason because he wanted Forest to be able to be more dominant on the ball this season. He thinks that maybe they got worked out a little bit in the second half of last season. And by going back to last season's formation, but being more comfortable on the ball, Forest looked better than last season, quite frankly, albeit against a very weak Brenford team. And I went back and looked because Forest had 55% of the ball today. The last time they won a league game with more than with 55% the ball or more was against West Brom in the Championship in April 2022. So, it has always been about soak up pressure and counter. And what Nuno wants and with the players they've bought, he wants to be able to be comfortable on the ball because he's got in Elliot Anderson and Morgan Gives White, two of I think two of the top 20 players in the country on the ball and both were absolutely magnificent to date. For those who haven't seen Elliot Anderson's kind of intercepto pass assist for the third goal, this is Matt Davis's favorite moment of the weekend. Yeah, I actually made Jimbo come and sit by my laptop to watch and and and Jimbo, you were wondering whether a pass can be rifled and if ever there was this was it. Yeah, he's I mean he has got to be in the England squad, hasn't he? Ellie Anderson. My goodness me. Having conducted things for the under21s at the Euros. Um he is just sensational. And Daniel mentions preseason there. I had the misfortune to commentate on five of Forest preseason games and they were absolutely atrocious. And the whole mood around the club felt very different to how it did 12 months ago, but he has been the standout throughout. Okay. Earning the plaudits as well in this game was Chris Wood who scored a brace. He's now scored more non-penalty goals in the Premier League than anyone since Nuno took charge at the City ground. Dan Doy fresh in from Bologna. He was on the end of I think Gibbs White's uh brilliant assist as well. Yeah. And yeah and Doy who got the winner for Bologna in the copper Italian final right and and all of a sudden with Amari Hutchinson as well you go from picking up Macki. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting to see where Matei is going to play. But I think with having lost Alanganger and now it looks like Callum Hudson Ado is going to extend his contract rather than leave at the end of the season. It seems like Forest have gone from being depleted in wide areas to almost having an embarrassment of riches. But I mean other than West Ham, I think Brenford the team you want at home on the opening day of the season with, you know, Keith Andrews might turn out to be great, but he is the guy who went for the MK Dons job a couple of months ago and didn't get it. And he was a set piece coach last season and they conceded a goal after six minutes of this game from a corner. So that's suboptimal, I would suggest. Daniel, the other thing Matt talks about the rotation and and Forest were knackered towards the end of last season. and they were running in in trial and they do have the Europa League this season. They will have eight group games. I think what playing with more of the ball allows you to do and Adrian probably know is more into the tactical side of this than I am. But to my mind, playing with the ball makes it easier to rotate because players are I think it's easier to bring a player in when you're used to playing with possession than when you're having to be perfect without possession because any lapse of concentration effectively can cost you a big chance against you. So I think what Nuno wants to be able to do is get them used to playing with more possession and then if you do bring in you know Makati for Gibbs White or Hutchinson for Adoi or a new central midfielder for Ibrahim Sangari who was who was excellent today. I think it just feels easier to do and Forest see themselves now rightly or wrongly as a team that can dominate against weaker teams in the league and Brenford seem to be one of those weaker teams. So for various reasons this felt like a pretty important afternoon at the city ground as Matt says there was some negativity but early goal and suddenly everyone takes a breath and some of the I mean some of the kind of one-touch play between Gibbs White and Anderson and Hudson Adoi on that left hand side was like it was football that forest didn't produce last season because last season was all about three passes from our own box to the opposition box. This was more in you know in irre I'll get the right word. This was infinitely more pass and move than Forest have done in years basically with the caveat that Brenford were absolutely terrible and yeah and and and Keith Andrews is going to have to like he's obviously going to have to improve but Brenford also going to have to support him because their attackers today were aged 20 22 24 I think they've got about 65 Premier League starts between them and Lewis Potter is is about 55 of those. It was they looked so raw. They looked spooked. Keller looked a bit spooked on the ball. The wing backs didn't look right. Coyote and Rico Henry. Henry was better, but they just looked like a they looked like a newly promoted team. Actually, that's they look like a team who got looked overed by the level, which is pretty worrying when you've been in this Premier League for four or five years. Well, huge opening day win then for Nottingham Forest. Next up, let's look at another team that had a potentially hugely significant home win this weekend. The black hats tony football show European edition is out first thing on Tuesday first one of the new season we got James Horn Castle in Julian Lon's Paul Baloo Seb Stafford Liger discussing the opening weekend there and in La Liga where Marx Rashford made his debut for Barcelona. In Germany, there was a Super Cup. Lewis Diaz scoring for Bayern as they dispatch Stoodgot. Anyway, there'll be all that kind of chat on Tuesday morning. Should mention as well that with the return of the Euro show, we're now at four shows a week because we've now got this new totally extra show, the first of which went out on Saturday, but you can listen whatever you want because it's completely not in any way connected with the week's events. is just a bit of chat about stuff. Super Mario was the talking point. Super Mario Balotelli Adrian was the big talking point this this weekend in and around that. There was some other important discussions. Sounds amazing. Yeah. Do you think have a have a listen Adrian perhaps you'll enjoy it. You know, there's a bit of pasta chat, some nostalgia. Just talking about things that make us happy. Is that wrong? I don't know. Check it out anyway. Perhaps or or or don't. about to tell he's 35. I know. Oh, man. Why does that You think that's old? Yeah. I mean, it's older than he was, but he's he's been a thing for a while. I know. I know. But just I don't know. Footballers age is always something that depresses me. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we were talking about Harry Maguire. I shocked you with Harry Maguire, having been shocked myself in the past. Um, anyway. Anyway, let's talk about Sunderland, one of the big winners this weekend. a team that hadn't had a Premier League win, hadn't had a Premier League match in a long time, but hadn't had a Premier League win for a significant time before even that. Coming up with a mighty 3-0 thumping of West Ham on Saturday afternoon. Glorious pre-match uh display at the Roker End. Don't know. I I wasn't aware of the legend of the uh the lamp worm. Were you aware of the lamp worm? the lamp was getting stuck uh by a I'm not sure who the knight in question is, but there was a big thing saying the man the man who wins is the man who thinks he can. And you know what? They're not wrong. They thought they could and and they did. Sorry, I'm rambling here. How big a win was this for the Black Cats? It it the reason that it's so big is because of what happened to the three promoted teams last season and specifically their home form, right? Ipsich and Southampton won one home game each all season and Sunderland are one from one now it's a great fixture for them but coming up at the stadium like they got Brenford Villa Wolves Everton so potential for them to rack up some points early on and you feel it's easy to say this now that they've won 3-0 and Burnley got beaten lease haven't played as as we record but you feel like with them there's a stability in terms of the manager that the other two promoter clubs might not have or baggage at least know Daniel Farer and Scott Park have both been relegated from the Premier League before. I think um received wisdom is that Daniel Farer is up against it in terms of keeping his job anyway. Whereas Reis Lebrris walks on air at Sunderland, right? And and they kind of came up not via the back door cuz they were in the playoff places for ages, but their form tailed off dramatically toward the end of the season. They snuck through against Commentary, didn't they, in the semi-final and then were kind of second favorites against Sheffield United in the um playoff finals. They've come up on good vibes and then massively invested in their squad without going away from the kind of model that's taken them to promotion in the first place. I.e. primarily signing young players but then chucking in a bit of granite jacer in there as well. And it all seems quite joined up to me from Sunderland. And yeah, one result early days etc. But the fact that they spent a load of money and then got three goals from their three key men last season can only bode well as well. I think got to love that, haven't you? one of those clubs that outside of Newcastle, nobody's got a problem with Sunderland, right? Most people are pleased to see Sunderland. I think especially Premier League, I think especially after so long away and because they form a companion piece to the Magpies for for most of us. So yeah, should this result though have a kind of Brenfordesque asterisk next to it because West Ham and the West Ham keeper played no small part in it. Mad Mads Herman Manson Daniel. Yeah, I mean every West Ham player bar Jared Bowen played a part in in being terrible. Um Graeme Potter set up this 352 which asks a lot of the wing backs uh in terms of creativity and they had loads of touches those wing backs in the final third but barely did anything with it. And as a complete contrast, Tri Hume and Ray Nildo for for Sunderland were playing as fullbacks and didn't get forward anywhere near as much and yet we're putting brilliant crosses into the box and creating chances. Um, if you if you play a 352, the wing backs need to get high and your wide players ahead of them need to tuck in and create. And Jared B was just a one-man attack. Nicholas Fulkra barely impacted the game for Sunderland. I thought Abby Diara was really good because one thing they're going to miss and and Matt and Adrian know this from their EFL work is Joe Bellingham last season was really good at picking up the ball and just driving straight forward and Habara basically took on that mantle on Saturday. He just every time he picked the ball nobody could you just can't catch him as soon as he gets on the ball. The decision- making was slightly off and that will come, but he looked a really direct threat. And West Ham, yeah, they just had nothing. And look, the the the back three central defenders for West Ham cost £ 105 million. And two of the goals came from just not simple marking errors in the box. And that's like you can talk about managers needing time and managers setting things up wrong, but at some point players, international footballers have to kind of work it out between themselves. and West Ham were just terrible. It looks it looks pretty bleak because as Matt said at the top of the show, this is not one game in isolation. This has been coming for a while and and I think the squad has got weaker over this summer. Although they have got Pakatar back and and available for selection now. Yeah. Yeah. They'll have to play better to get him on the ball and and make him effective. Look, they've got good individuals. Pakitar Bowen and Fulkr will will have their moments, but football's a team game and you've got to work hard as a team and you've got to do the dirty work and you've got to run hard and harry the opposition and make runs and and Sunderland were easily the best team in that department. There's a stat called pressures that they now sort of give us in terms of like making a run to go and pressurize the opponent. Um, Sunderland had 121 in the middle third, right in the mid in in the engine room there. 121 pressures. West Ham had 44, you know. So, 44. Um, Ward Prow and Ga Rodriguez, they can't get around the pitch well enough. They're they're pedestrian, slow. And this and even a Granny Shaka is not quick. that midfield of Sunderland, a brand new midfield, never played together in a Premier League game before, absolutely dominated through effort and you know, you know, making life difficult and running hard. So, I think for West Ham to to improve, they're going to have to improve their physical output as much as anything. Okay. Is it Burnley next up for Sunderland? Is it? I think it is. Yeah, Burnley, who themselves were involved in a 3-0 this weekend, but the uh the wrong end of it Saturday afternoon away at Tottenham, who picked up a win for Thomas Franken, his debut home match in the Premier League and a clean sheet as well. Brilliant game for him. A brilliant man, brilliant game as well for the footballer that Elas Burke calls one of the Premier League's most exciting enigmas. He's referring to Rashard, of course, as Elias points out, a player who's led the line for Brazil at the World Cup, has scored 13 goals in 16 Premier League starts, but still splits opinion within the Tottenham Hotspur fan base, is regarded as a social media joker with possibly the most goofy celebration in England. And yet could could just be the answer to Thomas uh Frank's questions about who to field up front. What what do you think is Rashard the man? Well, he's certainly going to put pressure on Dominic Sanki. Um which is all that Thomas Frank can ask. He said after the game on Saturday, I want two top class strikers. And you know, he sort of intimated maybe maybe I've already got them. Um, I think with Charison because of his can be kind of come across as quite sulky. I think people overlook that he is like a really really hard worker off the ball. He will chase things down. If anything, he can almost do that a little bit too much and waste quite a bit of energy. Um, because if something goes wrong when he's on the ball, he tends to sort of sprint from side to side to make up for it. Um, slightly immature in that way tactically. But that really works for a Thomas Frank team. That's what he wants of a striker. He wants them to be able to harry down players and then also have the confidence when in the box to take your chances. And we've not I know Elias says that the goal record when starting is pretty good, but we've not seen that Richard Allison for a long time that it's kind of touch bang or I'm spotting opportunity and acrobatic bang goal. That's new. That's new. I don't know if it's new under Thomas Frank. I don't know if it's new just for Rich Allison feeling more confident and having a fresh start, but it's certainly new and it really really helps Thomas Frank because suddenly that front line can work in different ways. You know, he can play Richalison off the left and he can play Kudu centrally or he can play Richison and Salanki if he wants to. He can he's got different options for different opponents. I thought Brennan Johnson was also good at the weekend. He's he's almost not quite the same, but he's almost in that sort of oh yeah, they've got Brenon Johnson as well category. Uh and his goal record is really good for Spurs. He was top scorer last season. So when Dejan Koski comes back, they've really got some options there. They're all I don't think any of them are top bracket options, but as a unit, I think it can probably work really effectively. Cudas could become a top bracket option. I I think Mohamed Cudas is class when he's on it. And I saw a few games West Ham last year, one at Arsenal. He was unreal. Couldn't knock him off the ball. He he runs hard. He's a brilliant dribbler. Obviously in this game, I think where he got two assists, didn't he for five chances created had Porro down that side as well who had a good game. So everything was coming down Spurs right. It was it was really impressive. You got the you know the asterisk that it's Burnley. It's a newly promoted team. But but they looked good against PSG a few days before. They did. No, it's been a good start, I think, for for Thomas Frank. They're going to be harder working, more industrious, they're tougher to be, tougher to score against. So, yeah, I I think um they they should feel quite confident. But yeah, Cudas and Rashison were were fab in this game. I Yeah, as an Arsenal, I feel quite quite annoyed that they managed to pick up Cudas because I do I do think he's capable of um of being a a real gamecher for them. as well to go with it. Just stop it, Matt. I don't want to think about it. I think on Burnley quickly. Oh, sorry. Go on. Go on, man. You go. Daniel, on Burnley, did you say on Burnley? Yeah, I was just going to say Scott Parker's answer to losing Egan Riley and Trafford and being really good at defending last season seems to have been to try and be even more defensive. He played a 5221 on Saturday and they were actually pretty good between Spurs's first and second goals. But Hannibal and L Foster are were two of Burnley's most attacking players on Saturday. And between them, they touch the ball every four minutes on when they're on the pitch. If Burnley are going to play that defensively and try and soak up pressure and concede one goal a game rather than the three that they did on Saturday, they are going to have to be incredibly the attackers that come into that team are going to have to be incredibly efficient with their chances if they're to pick up points because that is, you know, we talked about Jogger dealing with scraps. That really was scraps if you don't really touch the ball. And there wasn't really an outlet other than other than Anthony uh on the left. And yeah, I I understand why Parker almost is saying I want to be stay by being boring, but as soon as they go one nil down, I'm going to look out for Burnley all season to work out how many points they pick up from losing positions basically because they looked on on at the weekend like a team that as soon as they go one nil down, I think I don't really know how you're going to get back into this game. Yeah, they need more punch up front definitely. Buyer obviously is there so he might provide it. I think they could probably do with more. I don't think they'll play back five every week. I think it'll be a horses for courses. A little bit like Thomas Frank when they play the tougher teams. He'll go back five and and and he'll play back four in the other games. Who, by the way, had Michael Oliver on their bingo card, be the first to punish a goalkeeper for the 8 for the 8-second rule. I I think that was nailed on. He must have been a very short price. Yeah, he loves I'm excited by this is I like it though. It's good. I like it too. Today in the Old Trafford game I I found myself counting the seconds which you needed something. We're all doing that from the second half onwards to be fair. Indeed. Indeed. You know it's that extra extra touch of jeopardy. I reckon they should Yeah. Get the most out of that way because give it three weeks. All right. Let's move on ourselves then because there are other big games to discuss. You got Man City beating Wolves 4n. Daniel, you said you thought they look terrific there. Liverpool with a slightly more complex performance to decipher in their 4-2 victory over Bournemouth. Which do you fancy having a chat about? We should talk about City, shouldn't we? That was that was a brilliant. Yeah. Well, yeah. Well, definitely both, but but it was a brilliant performance. Obviously, one of the best debut performances in in the Premier League for a long time from Tani Rinders. I thought he was fabulous. uh great energy but also superb decision making on the ball. He's going to it's going to add a lot I think to to to their midfield. What stood out to me as well was City how good they were without the ball. I think last couple of years they've definitely got a little bit lazier. Just not quite as much effort in terms of winning that ball back. As soon as they used to lose it, bang, they were on you and they'd win it back. And I think they've gone away from that bit in this game. They were good at it. Pressurized Wolves well. And I looked at the running stats. Wait for this. Wolves ran 108.06 km respectable. Okay. City ran 117 6 km which is exceptional. So they this is a really committed athletic effort I think for from Manchester City that kind of just lays down a marker to to your Liverpools and Arsenals to say we we mean business this time round. There was some sumptuous football in there, wasn't there? Very good. Very good. Yeah, I love the goal where Trafford cl had the bravery because obviously Edison's amazing at that. But Trafford, he's a modern keeper, but he's no Edison. But he had the confidence to just clip that ball into space for uh for Rinders to to then go off and mar forward and and they helped set up that goal for De Bruyne. So that was that was a brilliantly worked goal cuz because they meant it, right? Yeah. Like the the wing back was on the touch line, striker was right up front. They created that space for him to clip it into. It was perfect. James Trafford was given his City debut after resigning for the club that he was uh previously in the academy of as a 12year-old. That's seen by many as a sign that Edison will be heading off now from Manchester City. Talk of him moving to Galataseray. Also talk of Man City being in for Gigi Donar Rumor who's getting frozen out uh from PSG for his troubles. It doesn't sound the most obvious match that Gigi Donaruma and Pep Guardiola, but who's who's to say anyway? There were four Norwegians starting in this match. Did you know that, Daniel? I do now. Uh well, yeah, you know one of them. Well, I do. I was actually about to Well, coincidentally, yeah, I will name try and name all four. Len Yeah. Harland, Bob and Wolf, is it? Yes. Yes. Um I was going to say about Oscar Bob. I mean, the cliche of early new season of like a new signing. I'd forgotten he was there. um he spent so long out injured last season and just the way in which those younger city players look like little Pep Guardiola robots means that like it's good in of itself in the starting team but it also means that when they bring on players you know Phil Foden wasn't in the squad at the weekend Ryan Shery came on and looked really good um Omar Moosh came on and looked really good so it means that it's almost like a placeholder in the team which is not an insult it's a compliment it means they they immediately look comfortable with what they're doing. And yeah, he looked excellent and yeah, it was as as Adrian says, it was a it was absolutely a marker to the rest of the league because you could pick a pretty decent 11 with Edison not in the team there of of City players who didn't start. You know, AK, Aanji, Gavardio, Edison, Rodri, Gundowan, you know, it's Marmu, Sheri, Foden, like it's it's a phenomenal second choice team that didn't even play against Wolves. And that's that strength and depth is like nothing else in the Premier League. Good lord. Good lord. Well, it's Liverpool, the team that they are chasing, 42 winners at uh against Bournemouth, at home to Bournemouth on Friday evening. So, this was very impressive in phases, was it? Actually, let me introduce this a different way. Um, sorry. Yeah, absolutely terrific. Um, all right. City have lost their title of course to Liverpool who also scored four goals this weekend in that tremendously thrilling 4-2 performance against Bournemouth back on Friday. Let's get on to that match next. Bit of coms. Is it Is it the Enrico Kza? Feder Rico. Yeah. Yeah. Wrong one. Okay. Yeah. Federrico Kza. Woo. His first Premier League goal. Still ringing in my ears. That's the Dean Martin. Yeah. Gorgeous, isn't it? Really enjoyable. Can we hear that? We There's a little bit of it there for you. Yeah. And and let's enjoy it now before it gets kind of bastardized by every other club in the Premier League. And this is the way it always goes with Chance, isn't it? But yeah, really really enjoyed that, especially after, but it's it's when I was good. Um Yeah. And yeah, all all the sweet of the fact that he hooked in a lovely goal that after on commentary Jamie Carrager had said don't get this substitution at all. As he came on, he then accused him of of basically uh I'm not what's the word I'm looking for when you he basic he also accused him of kind of scuffing it and then on the replay he said no actually that's brilliant finish off the outside of his the goals in this game were absolutely sensational they all six of them. Yeah, you had uh Echitik who opened the scoring, Cody Gako with another lovely goal after a glorious kind of move involving various components of this pretty phenomenal Liverpool front line. But then as Adrian was mentioning before, a Semeno dragging Bournemouth back into it and uh leaving the score line at 2-2 in the 88th minute win. Enrico Kza put that one in. Yeah, look, I I think Liverpool are just going to outscore teams, aren't they, this season. That's that's the aim of the game. When I when I saw the starting 11 land, I was like, this looks ultra attacking. You know, it's almost Aussie Ardelz levels, wasn't it? Um, in it like who on that starting 11 would classify themselves as a defensive player? You'd probably say Canate and Van Dijk. That's it. Fullbacks aren't. So isn't Mallister really is is better going forward. You know, he could do very well um off the ball as well, but none of them really are defensive. So it was s super attacking. So therefore, should we be that surprised that that Bournemouth were able to to slice through them so easily on the counter? I don't think so. Um that's what they do best. Um that it's just something they're going to have to work on. Grab Bear will obviously tighten them up a bit, but but yeah, look, it was a thrilling game. absolutely intoxicating. And just very quickly on on on Liverpool, Hugo Ekitique massively impressed me. I thought thought he was brilliant. His link play was class. Um got a bit lucky with the run of the ball for his goal, didn't he? But I thought it was a a top performance from him, which bodess well. And it does make you think, you know, they re what happens if if they do get ESAC like see this guy have to go on the bench, you know, it's but I suppose that's that's what strength and depth is all about. But he looks good enough to lead the line for a title chasing Liverpool team to me. Palace fan Ruben Pinder calling this game a great one for Mark Gay's market value, although as you referenced possibly not for Alexander Isac. Daniel. Yeah, I was going to say on the the Liverpool kind of lack of defensive balance between the start of last season and winning the league or having the title confirmed, Liverpool played 17 home league games last season. And in that over those 17 home league games, they allowed 17 chances with an xG of higher than 0.2. Against Bournemouth, they allowed four of those chances in 70 minutes. So, it is completely different to last season. It is chaos football for now. And I'm sure Anna Slot will be trying to work out ways of you know keeping the good stuff without you know keeping as much of the good stuff as he can but he cannot be happy at seeing a team with a two-nil lead given the whole thing last season was control right he cannot be happy at the way that has 40 yards of space to run into because the fullbacks are 30 yards behind him and can get nowhere near him. that is going to become a problem at some point because uh it's very unusual for a a defending champion to know their weakness so early in a season. It normally takes us a while to work that out, but we kind of saw it against Palace in the Community Shield and in preseason because all of that was televised as well. Like this is the weakness and teams will work it out. This was the most debutons by the way part of this whole transition feeling that a reigning champion has ever named in a Premier League starting 11. no less than four new faces in there which given the way Liverpool performed last season is remarkable. A lot of it forced on them by the most tragic of circumstances and other player moves like uh Lewis Diaz and that. What do you think after you what do you think after doing your big uh season preview on Friday? Where do you where do you feel now about the balance with Liverpool and Man City? I think it it was interesting that for all the new faces who we've spoken about Canate and Van Dijk both look like the weak links for Liverpool, don't they? So you wonder if the purchase of Gay might have been accelerated because of that and whether that might be a difference maker for them. Um but Liverpool didn't play in the club World Cup for half of the summer and that might end up being a fairly significant factor. It's hard to retain the Premier League title, isn't it? And we don't know whether ESAC's going to end up there and that's a a great unknown as well at the moment. But, you know, for for all that we're criticizing the way they defended at times in this game, they were breathtaking going forwards. They scored four goals like Manchester City did and they played a better team than Manchester City did as well. And it's probably worth praising And I who goes into this game without what probably his three best players last season in in Heisman, Zabani, and Kirk and still manages to put forward a pretty impressive performance anyway. So, yeah, I I make Liverpool still favorites to win the league um ahead of City. I think we need to see a bit more The forward line were brilliant, weren't I? I think Fz was a little bit quiet. He had a lot of the ball, but it didn't impact the game as much. But they they did look dynamite. Um you referenced Daniel the the backup at Man City. Gomez, Endo, Kza, Jones, Elliot, Amadeshily, Robertson, Naonei, Enamoa, all good players, but it's not City depth, is it? It's not even remotely close to city depth. So that they are last year they kind of got they did they did lose players to injury but not too many they're relying a little bit on that aren't they this time around if they lost key players in their team at the moment they do not have the depth I don't think to so they do need exactly well one one of those key players I I think more more so at the back I think they need depth in defensive positions definitely these forwards are they're all brilliant aren't they and ESAC would just obviously add to that, but it's just do they need another topline striker? You can never have too many, I guess. I'm just Yeah, I don't know what I'm saying really. Of course, of course, you know, they have a right to go for Isac, but but I don't think their depth is as good as City's and it's not as good as Arsenals either. Okay. Isak who wasn't part of Newcastle's game Saturday lunchtime away as Villa. Newcastle had 16 shots in this match. The home side had three. Nobody scored any goals whatsoever. Uh this is the first time no point losing did any home team failed to have a shot in the first half of Premier League. Yeah. Any goals whatsoever. Newcastle though have since the match announced the signing of Jacob Ramsey from Villa in a deal worth 39 million uh with a further 5 million in add-ons potentially etc and so on. So there's that. Of course there's going to be loads more of these moves announced. We got what a week left in the transfer window. Is it a little bit more? I think little bit more. Yeah. I mean I think they played well in the game but better than Villa. Yeah. Newcastle were better than Villa and not many people were expecting that ahead of the game. So that Eddiehow got a tune out of them. They reminded everyone that you know they're a decent enough outfit and I think that they do have the players to cause Liverpool problems next time out. We talk about the Smeno but Alanga is rapid isn't he Gordon Barnes that and they got a strong midfield as well. So that's going to be a tough one I think for Liverpool. Newcastle up next for Liverpool. Is that on Monday night? Monday week. Monday week it is. And the other game this weekend, Brighton drawing 1-1 with Fulham. Fulham equalizing in the 96th minute. Criy. This is so that's so bright, isn't it? I feel like most of the games of the AMX last season, you're just watching away limbs as they concede a late equalizing goal. Apparently, they let the lead slip five times at home last season. And like Fulham have been one of the bad vibes clubs over the summer, right? Marco Silva complaining about not getting any players and felt quite significant that they didn't start their season on a downer. Having got a 96minute equalizer, that could be big in terms of a mood shift. Although from a player who might well be heading heading out, it is said. We shall see. As you see, two weeks of transfer potential moves still to go. Matt and Adrian, you are you going to be doing a what the EFL this week amongst your many other activities? We we sure are. Yeah. Um yeah, we're hoping to take that onto YouTube, aren't we? We're going to try and do that. What's the what's the you know, for our Totally Football Show listeners who are busy people? What's the gist from, you know, round two, weekend two in the the football league? Yeah. Rexom two defeats out of two. We try not to be too Rexom focused. It's easy to be quite Rexom focused, I think. Um I think we we're we're kind of beused by Stoke not being all doom and gloom at the start of a season. Remember Stoke Premier League long throws at the moment Stoke City which is which is which is nice for them. Birmingham are flying. I was at their game at the weekend. Um I'll probably do a little scout and report on on a West Brom play. You were at Blackburn. You went all the way to Blackburn. I went all the way to Blackburn and it took a long long time to get to Blackburn. You were rewarded a fantastic winning the perfect winning goal. What's you just sort of describe the most dramatic winning goal? It would be it's it's level peg in the team throat. They have a cornerake. They throw everyone up for the corner. They're desperate to score the goal. The corner's rubbish. It's cleared. Yes. And they race up the other end and score with the last kick of the game. It was uh Yeah, it was very exciting. Excellent. All right, so Birmingham, they're doing well. Stoke as you mentioned West Brom, Ryan Mason's West Brom. They're doing well. Yeah. Uh but you tell me what's going on. What What are the other headlines? All about the West Midlands really then, isn't it? I mean, Coventry not too far away from big win for them. I predicted that would be a very drab lowscoring draw on a different podcast. Not a draw, but a lowscoring game. 5-3. Stokes top of the table had a um what was their win against Sheffield Wednesday? Three. They won 3-0 away to Yeah, they've got a guy on loan from two goals. Oh, yes. From a player with a great name. You want to say it? Yeah. No, you do cuz I I don't know how to pron is he Millian Manhof. Million Manhoff. Yeah, it's pretty good, right? And Divine Mama got their other goal in that game. Yeah. So, sensational work. Jonathan Walters is their um what is he director of football? They've just signed Steven and Zonzi back. There's there's a lot to enjoy there basically. Fantastic. Daniel, anything else you want to chuck in? uh fresh back from Morham as you are from uh the football league. No, that's that piece will be out on Tuesday about Morham. I am at Leads Everton on Monday evening. Oh, lovely. Which I'm looking forward to as well. Back to the Premier League. And you're going to be here in the studio next Sunday on the totally football show, which we're Yes, I'm at the um looking forward to I'm at the Cast Derby uh at South Park between Palace and Forest on Sunday afternoon. All right. Wearing your half and half scarf. Lovely. Lovely. I look forward to that. I think that's where we'll wrap it up for this edition of the Totally Football Show. As mentioned, Tuesday there'll be the first Euro show of the season with you. So, do join us for that. And then on Thursday, we'll be having a look forward to the weekend in the Premier League. And Matt, you'll be doing that on the Friday as well because you can never have too many previews like strikers really. Yeah. So, that's grand. Uh anyway, uh hope you've enjoyed tonight's show, whether you've been live streaming it on YouTube or listening to it at your leisure. Many, many thanks to Adrian, to Matt, to Daniel, to Jake and producer Charlie in the booth, and above all you listener stroke viewer. Do hope you'll join us again next time. For now, from all of us here, it's goodbye.