================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 0mmGLvpllRk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0mmGLvpllRk
TITLE: Arsenal, Tottenham, Succession And Serious People | Libero 055
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-23
DURATION: 1h 6m 6s
VIEWS: 2,344
LIKES: 138
COMMENTS: 12
TAGS: football, podcast, soccer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Two of the biggest Premier League stories in September came away from the pitch, and specifically in the boardrooms of Tottenham Hotspur and Arsenal. First was the sacking of Daniel Levy, Tottenham’s seemingly all-powerful chairman, after 24 years running Spurs in his own unique way. Then, one week later, came the removal of Tim Lewis, Arsenal’s executive vice-chair, who had run Arsenal for the last few years.

On today’s Libero, Jack Pitt-Brooke, Miguel Delaney and Tariq Panja look at these moves and explain why exactly Levy and Tim Lewis were fired. Was it because of performance? Or was it because a new generation of owners want to operate their clubs differently?

These two stories have been compared to ‘Succession’, and both point to the tension between the ultra-wealthy owners of these generational assets and the executive class who run them. So is this the central tension that defines modern clubs? And are we - as Miguel suggests - now in ‘the age of the owner’?

Produced by: Tom
... [truncated]

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 12,431

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hello and welcome to Libero, the podcast about the most important of the least important things. As Peter Hillwood once said. My name is Jack Pitbrook. I'm from The Athletic. As ever, I'm going to start today's episode by saying please, please, please like, share, subscribe, comment on our on our content. You can find us on X, on Blue Sky, on Tik Tok, on Instagram. It all makes a difference. Now, I'm joined today by TK Panga from the New York Times and by Hi, TK and by Miguel Laney from the Independent. Is it too late to say happy birthday Miguel? It never is. Never is. It will be the second time on the show I've been wished happy birthday. So, that's that's that's quite nice. Did you have a nice birthday weekend? Yeah. Yeah, I did. I did. I talked the other day about having my birthday in Bill Ba itself. And on Friday, yeah, I went a few drinks around uh London Bridge. People bought me shots, which I'm a bit old for now. and don't really have have a good good effect. Yeah. How many Libero members were at your birthday? Um, four, including myself. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Tar party a party in two countries. I think that's a it's a fairly great birthday week, Miguel. And then the I guess the highlight of your birthday weekend was Arsenal one, Manchester City won. Um, yeah, you could say that. No, it was I mean it was a strange game but an absorbing game. Like I didn't think it was a very Maybe this is a lot of modern football given what we discuss a lot on the on the podcast as a as a pure football match. I it wasn't great in terms of things that happened and things that excite you as a sort of a vehicle for storylines and how developments you know played into story lines I thought was fascinating. You know obviously there's been a big debate about you know Artetta and where he is. I I that's I thought the most interesting thing about the match was this historical break of Guardiola doing something that 15 years ago or in the middle of that inter Barcelona match you could never have imagined because in this case he was inter Milan and I think there's like the lads touched on this recently in terms of the post pep world h and I think this all ties in with how kind of you know Arsenal's focus on long throws all of that but it does feel like that after an era where everyone plays some derivation of the Guardiola way and that has tied in with the spread of technology and analytics to the point there where you know people were taking short corners because the analytics said it was better to keep possession that's why we weren't seeing as many long shots. I think that all ties in now with coaches and particularly I suppose coaches who think a lot like Guardiola and Arta looking for any advantage they can. So suddenly Artella has obviously gone for a lot of setpiece play that Donnaruma counted and Guardiola is now as everyone as a changed world does some version of what he did before he now does something else. So it's both the most anti-guardiola thing possible and arguably the most uh you know Guardiola thing possible and in the middle of all that Arsenal draw allow Liverpool to go five points clear. I thought it was that was like Miguel was really interesting. The Arteta part I think was quite predictable unfortunately this like the Liverpool game and the first half against City both teams at Arsenal if they had the right perhaps right mindset and you can feel it with the fans as well. It was a I don't know Miguel if you were there it felt a bit flat like he's he's named this team not the team maybe that he could could have named and they felt nervy and edgy and the fans of that ground for some reason more than other places they can quickly turn I think for Arteta in in the long term that's going to be something to to look for because this is the season they're going to have those fans really are on a knife edge every game and and the team is as well they looked um that first half just if they just go for it. They've got a chance and it's like something is holding them back and I think it's probably it's it might it might be the coach but the most interesting thing there was was Guardiola. Then I was thinking you reckon he might be a bit bored and he said you know what I'm just going to do something completely different here and see if I can do this. Well this is the amazing thing right is that he's brought back the big number the big athletic powerful number nine. He's brought back the goalkeeper that doesn't kick and now he's um he's playing Mourinho ball basically. It's the you could say it's it's the ultimate triumph of Mourinho of Guardiola. Miguel, do you just quickly do you buy this? There's a kind of narrative out there now which is that Arteta's Arteta is in these big games he's too reliant on marginal gains rather than relying on the quality of his individual players. uh and that that is going to really like hinder their Arsenal's ability to win these big matches. We've seen at Anfield, we've seen it against City and it's going to cost them the league. Do you buy that that narrative? I think there's there's a truth to it. I don't think it's wholly true and I think that was maybe the latter was be signified by how to be fair at Halime he did switch up. He did go for it. I I think my main issue yes I think maybe more than going for marginal games I think Artetta he thinks about his preparation every match so much he's quite Guardiola like in that in that sense and I think can sometimes overthink and I think that was a case yesterday where he went he went for a midfield that um prioritized uh technical possession and then suddenly that was a game where they didn't need technical possession to the same degree they needed game breakers because City sat back so deep and congested. So they need the players to open and he left most of his players that would open a team on the bench uh from not just EZ or Saka but also Miles Lewis Skellyy who could who could drive at City in a way a player I don't think they had. So I think he did rectify it second half and I think it's going to be one of the kind of dynamics to this season I suppose now that Arsenal they have to chase Liverpool but they have to like they have to definitely chase him with force. It's almost that that little bit of a kind of a a Klopp Guardiola dynamic now from 5 years ago. Yeah. I think part of the narrative too is that squad is incredible. Whichever way you look at it, it is so stacked with great attacking players and they they they can do it. I think that's what like man for man they've got three players in every position and particularly the forward positions. Then when you see the approach with that squad, I think people will then ask, well, why why don't you unleash this? Obviously, he he he knows what he's doing. But the other Mourinho Guardiola aspect in that game was City just lumping the ball up field knowing that Drogba, in this case Harland, is going to get every ball and occupy the entire back four. It was really interesting to watch that. It felt felt like Chelsea 2006,7 whenever whenever that was. Yeah. I I I wrote this in my in my piece for the independent. It didn't just remind me of interfer. That was obviously the main comparison, but also an element of and Guardiola will love this one, I'm sure. Real Madrid 2004, Casillas keeping them out, Ronaldo sticking them in. That was it was basically Donnaruma and Harland. And Harland actually spent a lot of the game as well just whacking the ball clear from City's area. But it was I thought it was striking as well that Donna in in a way I haven't seen with Arsenal set pieces, Donnaruma met everything. Uh and I wonder like Sasha Gorinov raised the point about whether Sepi's coaches are now forcing evolution in a goalkeeper. Just be before we move on just to pick on one thing TK said as well. I do I do think that the weight around Arsenal is now it's tangibly affecting their games. You could really feel that the flatness went to agitation in the first half. could really feel it before Halime then to be fair when Arteta brought on Eza and Saka it was like the crowd and okay now that's finally and you you could feel the tone change um and then I suppose that's why the late goal was a little bit of a narrative buster I just want to before we move on one final question for Miguel and Arsenal do you worry that that that weight and pressure on the Arsenal players and on Arteta do you think that will be more of an impediment to their winning the league than even the fivepoint deficit to Liverpool at the moment. So I I I think it has the potential to to amplify the effects of a five-point deficit because I think now already they're in a situation where if they go to Newcastle next week or whoever or any home game and they're not winning, what they should just be doing is obviously going through the process, trust themselves, they have the squad, they have the talent, but we'll be able to feel that kind of that um it's beyond urgency. It's this kind of um this rush to try and get something done when it and maybe there was an element of that to yesterday's game as well. And I think we've discussed this show before. I think one of the fascinating elements this season is going to be what wins out. Liverpool investing in a great a higher level of individual quality on the whole or Arsenal investing in depth. I I actually I given how taxing three a game every three days is, I'd lean towards Arsenal's depth. But the danger for them is we could have a situation like last season where by the time that matters, Liverpool are have a decisive lead. Yeah. But just just with with Liverpool, I think you're you're right here. with all that recruitment and you watched the games this season, those last minute um victories, it's they've looked so vulnerable and this is with all of the talent fresh at the moment and obviously he's at coming in but it's in positions where they're where they're well loaded the the with Liverpool you you look at this and you think if Graven is injured there isn't depart when his hamstring goes which it will at some point because it most seasons for a few weeks or whenever you you you're down to make just Gomez and there was a was it two or three seasons ago you've got these two kids who you know you haven't seen them in the Premier League again being the two central defenders for Liver Liverpool's recruitment has been been quite exciting but I I I don't know it they just seem a lot more vulnerable than Arsenal through through a season. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be really interesting. So on today's episode, we want to take a look at things that happening away from the pitch with particular reference to Arsenal who had a huge week last week, even before the Manchester City game with the news coming out on Friday morning, that Tim Lewis has left his job as executive vice chair after three years effectively running Arsenal, been a director before then. um managing d managing director Richard Garlic has been promoted to CEO as part of this big boardroom shakeup at Arsenal. And this news obviously came two weeks after Daniel Levy, who was Tottenham chairman for almost 25 years, was sacked by the majority shareholding Lewis family, bringing to an end a working partnership between the Lewis family and Levy that really defined Tottenham Hotspur in the 21st century. So, it's been a really busy week in the boardrooms of North London and one that I think underlines the fact that now in 2025, we are very much in the age of the owner, you could call it, in modern football, or at least the age of the boardroom. Um, before we get on to Daniel Levy, we're going to talk about Tim Lewis. U Miguel, can you just explain to our listeners who who Tim Lewis is and what he did at Arsenal over the years? Yeah, and I will just preface that by saying so the line from within the arsenal about all this is that a bit of spring cleaning evolution I think that is very much underplaying um the one figure at the club who has been sorry a better way to phrase it is um the most powerful figure at the of the club if not the most important given that's obviously now Artetta essentially the figure who empowered Artetta And even at rough moments in Artetta's early years and you could even say maybe some of the doubt of the last two years uh Lewis has be has been willing to back him. The very factor in this situation comes from Lewis being put in there in 2020 and engaging and in the middle of co let's let's not forget as the club was a basket case at the time um and you know engaging in what was described by people within the club as open heart surgery which is what they needed. A lot of those decisions were popular and controversial like the kind of you know this the streamlining of staff which is obviously a very generous description of something like that. Um there was a change to approach including say you know Raul San Ley who'd been you know been seen as kind of indecisive in a big signing like Pepe he was moved on parameters were set around transfers they essentially went for a while for Barushia Dortmund model the entire the entire outlook of the club was changed really and everything was centralized around Arteta and I mean without putting too fine a point of it I mean he was essentially the Kroners representative on earth the Kroners representative in London he was their voice. Um, which is why I think this is this is a really significant change with the irony being that while the official explanation within Arsenal is evolution, there is a perception outside that this is actually about the idea that Arsenal had been sort of like if not quite a fully autonomous entity within the Kron Empire. They've been very much Arsenal, you know, who are part of the Kronas. Whereas now the the suggestions seem to be or what people think is that this is an attempt to kind of bring Arsal into not quite a multi- club model but this kind of multisports franchise model and I think at least that is pointed to by the presence of so many uh Kroner figures on the board now and also the fact that Josh Krona is he's much more visible around the club. I was at the PFA awards a month ago and Josh Kroner was there. Uh this was this was at a moment where unbeknownst to everyone at the time Arsenal were actually negotiating for Eberzi. Krona was involved in that. H obviously Tim Lewis I mean just another example was um was central DAP and there's a lot of talk about how a deal got done because of Lewis's relationship with Steve Parish the Crystal Palace chairman. Um so yeah we we are talking about this immensely significant figure in Arsenal's modern history. He had a reputation for abrasiveness. He could be forthright. He wasn't afraid to say what he thought. That earned him a reputation with Premier League meetings. But as someone else said to me this weekend, you know, well, relationships between City and Arsenal were already very frosty. H partly as a consequence of Tim Lewis um that they and they probably wouldn't have been too um too upset to not see him this weekend, but I don't think there was much of a relationship anyway. But as someone said, yeah, he he was one of the people in the Premier League who was quote unquote willing to stand up to City. He had very strong opinions on state ownership and how this affects the dynamics of the game. He was very strong in regulation. And it's to a certain degree on issues like that, him and Levy kind of two sides of the same coin. Levy was never as abrasive or outspoken with it as as Lewis, but he had kind of his own strong opinions. And some of that I suppose is kind of like just um underscoring meetings whereas it was it was Lewis who was willing to uh to go out there and you know say what he felt needed saying. And it is is a it's a it's a big change both to you know the gravitational forces within Arsenal and within the Premier League. The interesting thing one of the interesting things I think about Tim Lewis right is his background. You know he was a M&A lawyer by trade. He was a partner at Clifford Chance for 12 years. So, you know, right at the top of the magic circle, he um he initially ad he was he advised Stan Kroni on his initial share purchase at Arsenal, right? Back in I think it was 2006 and 2007. Yeah. So, like 2007 back in that kind of like will it be Kroni will it be Usmanov era which sort of dominated Arsenal in the sort of I guess the second half of the Wenger era perhaps. So he and I guess what's interesting to me, right, is that now the the person who will be who ran Arsenal for years was somebody from a really kind of like high-end professional services background. Terry, does that does that tell us a lot about, you know, how the how big big modern Premier League club has to operate? Yeah, a little bit. And also about relationships in a way. The story goes that he was in the um taxi, the black cab with Stan Kroni to ITV whose shares they initially bought, I think was 45 million pounds. and he's there and often these these wealthy guys or these outsiders if they want they they're either they're from overseas anyway don't know anything about the industry or even then the person who helped pave the way for the deal who was side by side in the tough negotiations a bond is built in in those moments and so it's not the first one uh I can remember two and two pretty um big figures in the Premier League era First would be say Bruce Buck. He was working for Scadan, another big American law firm uh in London when Roman Abramovich bought Chelsea. He was Abramovich's lawyer effectively. Um and you know he's made chairman at Chelsea and a huge figure in the Premier League. He was a guy negotiating you know Richard Scooter with former chief executives bonuses and stuff and he was on the remuneration committee. He was like Chelsea, you know, Bramitch man on on on on earth if you want or in football. And then the other the other one um is Ed Woodward at Manchester United. So Woodward was a JP Morgan banker who helped finance, you know, extremely controversial leverage buyout by the Glazer family. They owe they owe millions if not billions to to that deal. It's perhaps one of the, you know, from a financial point of view or profit point of view, probably one of the most successful ever investments in sport on that on a money basis. Obviously, it was seen as as awful and gross and there won't be a lot of people arguing about that and that's probably for another pod, but in that they have this guy who they have this bond with him and him with them and you you you place these people in. But to to your point, this is huge business now. You know, football teams are an asset class in themselves. Just this week, you hear, you know, Apollo, another private equity firm in America, have got this 5 billion sports fund and that they're looking to take control of Atletico Madrid. is the financers taking control of football and then introducing all of these complexities in a way financial complexities into the game that allow them to do as we're seeing with Chelsea things that you know a lot of people aren't comfortable with. I I thought on exactly that. I completely agree TK Sam Wallace made an excellent point in his column for the Telegraph on Sunday where look I look football is obviously massive business now. I think that that's something that's self-evident. it one of the reasons I would of one of many reasons I've object objectives or objections to this is because football is a sport primarily and it you know it's always been the two but now it's just how much is governed by the business side but that is now having a kind of an alternative effect which I think Sam touched on is while yes it's business and so much is going to be dictated by pure financial results actual sporting results bring a completely different dimension to that and suddenly you have business decisions or what would you would see as potentially business decisions affected by the massive PR that comes with what happens on a football pitch and I think that's a really interesting dimension like you know from speaking to people who who work on this they they talk about how one of the biggest issues that they see and so I had this conversation two years ago so it pre precedes a lot what's happened now but it was from someone who works in all that who's worked in kind of takeovers of private equity said what they really see is that you have the sensible and responsible business people possible. And once they're in football, it's like they can't help ego taking over because suddenly and and it's why so so many of them start to get like, you know, involved in they love the you know the wheeling and dealing of transfer decisions. They like how suddenly that a business decision that they make is responsible for the happiness of millions of people and like obviously and that that of course will will be addictive. So while it's obviously had a massive effect on football, I I think it's just as interesting how it's had an effect on, you know, the other side of it. Do you think that's because if you've I mean if you look at the backgrounds of a lot of these people who go into running football like as as Tarret says like they've either been you know they're corporate lawyers who've been instructed by people who are rich enough to buy a football club or like Ed Woodward they've been you know wealth managers basically who have been running the money who've been managing the wealth of people who are rich enough to buy a football club. And so I guess you if you're a younger listener out there and you're wondering how can I run a football club one day, maybe that's maybe these are the career decisions you should make. Maybe you should try and get a training contract at at a city law firm. But um when when people from those backgrounds then go into football clubs, Miguel, do you do you think that just the sheer fun of not having to worry about investments or contracts or whatever, but thinking I'm going to go and buy somebody from Benfica for €7 million. That's what that's far more fun than than just managing money all day. Do you think that that kind of hooks them? It just has to be an element. They can't like it's human nature and even the very I mean this is a simple compartment and you know no one celebrates really or sorry you you don't get a a stadium of 70,000 people celebrating the signing of a contract for a merger and acquisition. You do when a signing that you've been responsible for scores the winning goal in the derby. Uh, and I I just that that has to start um shaping people. Even even if it's subconscious, it has to have some sort of I I know I got on to this, but I um I remember one of the things I was always told about Levy, and I'm like, Jack, you know this better than anyone, but was basically that at around 2017 and 2018, Tino wanted to sell players to he wanted to do what Liverpool did, sell his overperforming players for big money and take the squad to the next level with new signings. and Levy refused because he didn't think that's what a big club does. Now, what is that if not getting okay, maybe not Levy's personal ego, but even the obsession with the idea of like being a big club rather than necessarily kind of seeing what was the most logical, you know, transfer rationale here. There's also there's human nature to it as well. like all the other deals. I think Miguel said no one's celebrating a merger and acqu maybe the shareholders obviously made a load of money probably but they're not you know all over Twitter in a football stadium. So I think the human nature and the ego is bound to play a role in this because you suddenly from being a gray suit. You become an immensely public figure, right? You are almost a figurehead for all of these people. Each of these clubs is big ones almost like leading a religion, right? You are like leading this group of people and leading this this organization with the manager and all the rest of it. And with the pivotal chance of you've got the pen in your hand to sign the player thumb up, thumb down, it's quite a lot of power. And it, you know, in a way I don't know the addiction addiction point Miguel raised probably apt as well. People who there is an element of gambling as well in that as well. If I we drop 70 million on on this this guy, we're going to could could we go up? Could I be a hero? Could we be big? And you know, I challenge anyone. And I know not we've not done this but you know how many weeks until it takes for you to go native in in this in this environment. So it takes a very very strong kind of um level of restraint I guess not to have football and the football um you know the the environment of football take over your being from being a sensible accountant or lawyer or or financier or etc. The irony with Lewis actually I I felt from what I know that that restraint was still there. He's he's a hard-headed figure in that way and obviously as Jack's pointed to the legal background I don't think he was um from what I know uh subject to these forces in in the same way but I can't say that for certain obviously. Uh and maybe that's about what kind of maybe there are a few echoes of Spurs there just in the sense of where the club want to go next. I mean the very fact they've changed indicates some sort of change in direction. Uh maybe not as pronounced as Spurs or obviously Spurs have wanted to move from this uh kind of very macro uh business focused approach to one that actually where they start to win more on the pitch. Yeah. I want to move on to to talking about Spurs now because um two weeks before Tim Lewis's departure from Arsenal was I think one of the biggest off-field stories in the Premier League in recent years which was the quite sudden and shock um removal you could even you call it sacking I suppose of Daniel Levy by the majority shareholding Lewis family at Tottenham Hotspur. I mean, you got you got to remember here that Levy was not just he was not just the longest running chairman of the pre of this Premier League era. You know, he'd been there for uh he Enoch bought their stake from Alan Sugar in late 2000. Daniel even became the chairman in early 2001, but also he was the most I think he was the most powerful single executive at any Premier League club over that time span. He was a kind of he he was more than just a chairman. He he basically ran the club like he was famously uh across all the details. Some people called him a micromanager. This you know when they built the stadium he was across all the details of the stadium. When they were negotiating for players in the market he would always take a lead on that. He was very busy with decisions around recruitment and managers and directors of football and so on. He he certainly got through a lot of managers and a lot of directors of football over the course of his his time running Spurs. was really it felt like his club. It it almost felt as if he was the owner, which of course he wasn't. It almost felt like he was the founder, you know, just in that sense of very personal control. And he ran Tottenham with two very, you know, with basically in a closed circle, the Holy Trinity, him and two other people who were very close to him for such a long time, and then out of the blue, he's gone. Um, I don't really I can't really think of an equivalent in the Premier League, an equivalent story to to this. And I think he is, you know, whether you think he was a success or not as as Tottenham chairman, I certainly think he had a lot of successes and, you know, as well as some big gaps on the CV when it comes to success on the field. Miguel, it's hard to argue that he's one of the most significant figures of the Premier League era, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, another thing that's been said a lot within the I mean the debate around Levy is that it often felt like he was more respected among his peers outside the club anywhere any than anywhere else which is I mean in to some degree considerably I suppose testament to him really I suppose you you could say that people who really know what they're talking about in this and really know the challenges appreciate the job he's done. Um, of course, Levy isn't just answerable to those, not answer to those people at all. But I think there is a significant there's certain truth to that because when when you stand back what Levy has been responsible for is from incrementally moving Spurs from this sort of upper midtable basket case who are not really occasionally they'd have a season of glory and it was in a different era two in an era where football has never been more financially stratified something we've spoken about a lot in the pod where Spurs probably shouldn't have been at that level. They certainly shouldn't have been involved in talks for Super League and Levy incrementally moved them to that level. That is to his credit, but then it's offset by the fact I think and this is always the tension with Levy and that it sometimes felt he he too often focused on the macro, the wider financial running of the club h and wasn't good enough on the micro which actually undermined the macro. So there were there were specific moments and one of them is the midpointed and Pochettino era where Spurs had the chance to leap to another era and he didn't take it because they I think they were too anchored to a previous approach and it wasn't just then it was sorry just with with Levy I just think the most interesting thing in a way is he he's kind of built a hugely successful business and maintained a fairly average football team along along this pathway. Because if you look at that stadium project, everyone hands down says this is the best stadium in Europe. He's he's built that on on fairly sound financial footing through the pandemic. He's got that done. Got all those NFL contracts. He's built an entertainment business without the main the main source of this entertainment, the football team. Actually, you know, Jack, you've se see them probably more than anyone else, but from from from my experience from my my childhood to Tottenham now as a as a football team, they're kind of where they were when I was a kid between they fell to the depth a little bit, you know, mid 2000s, but six fifth, that's where Spurs have been. But he's built a business around that that is generating what 600 million pounds. Some of that is obviously down to the success of the Premier League, this juggernaut and the TV rights and everything else. Um, some of it down maybe to being in London, but a lot of the success has to be down to the planning of building this thing. However, you know, if you're a Tottenham fan, decades have gone by and your team has effectively stood still. You've had the the moment of takeoff potentially Champions League final. Pochettino, very exciting football. the team could have won the league. Was it 2015, the year Leester won? They were so close and needed to just do something. And this thing that Levy and Tottenham have been um keen to stress is how how stable they are financially, but they're almost too stable. The the that that issue or the thing that they are celebrating is the fact that we only spend 45% of our revenue on on wages. Yeah. But the thing is, you're not an island. You're not in isolation. You've got this huge um ceiling u above you. You don't need to get to 70%, you can get to 60 65%. And you can imagine, as Miguel has said on many pods, wages often dictate how successful a football team is going to be. And I think if I'm a Tottenham fan be like, we can do this. Why are we not doing it? And it has happened I guess year after year after year. and and something snapped. It's kind of ironic that he's pushed out just at the end of the transfer window like this period where he is I guess one of the most famous figures. That's what he's also remembered for Daniel Levy in a transfer window. You two points on that actually there's a question I want to ask Jack at the end of this I think there's absolutely something there and stuff I heard over the summer. There was certainly a perception among among other clubs that it was like to this Tottenham didn't know how to spend big money now they suddenly had it or now they could spend it that that that was an interesting thing also in the point about kind of um you know making making the leap when they were second or so I mean maybe that that is almost an element where that's where you need to make a decisions that are guided by a feel for football rather than a feel for there is an element of speculating to accumulate about it just rolling the dice it still matters because it is sport and obviously it has to be within a kind of responsible framework but what are Tottenham if not a responsible framework um and I suppose this is where like maybe a question to you Jack in this because I think from what Tar has said there and for all the praise that Levy has uh got for kind of transforming the club financially is there an element actually that if you're a club in London in the Premier League with a bit of history, it's actually a no-brainer that you should be this financial juggernaut. In theory, I see what you mean, but I think that, you know, like I can think of other clubs in London who have not not massively cashed in in the in recent years, you know, I mean, West Ham being a great example, West Ham were gifted a stadium and they're kind of going they're basically going nowhere. Whereas I think what what I think is most impressive about the Levy era at Tottenham is that even though they had this, you know, the kind of theory billionaire benefactor, it's not as if they were ever getting billionaire benefactor cash injections, right? Like they were and if you think about the Levy era, right? the the Levy era started. He was sat around the Premier League table at these chairman's meetings with people which pe with with characters who now feel like they're from a completely different era like Peter Hillwood, David Moors, Doug Ellis, Rert Low, all these David Bernstein, all these guys. And now like 25 years and then over the course of his time he saw Abramovic coming to Chelsea. He saw Tax and Shinowatra coming to Manchester City and then replaced a year later by Shape Mansour. you know, he saw Newcastle United go to Saudi Arabia eventually. He saw the Glazers coming into Manchester United and obviously everything all the change that that meant. So he saw the financial landscape completely transform and he had to off the basically off his and he was he had to off his own back really try and create the conditions for Tottenham to compete in a stable way with teams who suddenly had far far more money than Spurs did. And I and he built them the training ground in 2012, built open stadium in 2019. And I think all of that he did is incredibly impressive and does give Tottenham the basis to compete where he fell down. I think and this is the point you made about feel for football is I don't really think he ever really knew what made a good team. He sort of you mean you could argue that I mean Pochina was clearly a great appointment in 2014. You could maybe argue there's a degree of good fortune that you know Harry Kane came through the academy at that point and Pochino was able to to turn him then some other good buys into great players. But I think that where I think he really fell down and this maybe shows that perhaps he he was at the club for too long in or whether he had that particular role that he had for too long is that in the last basically since the stadium opened in 2019 I felt like Spurs have had a little bit of an identity crisis and they've their decisions I think were too much guided by well what would a big club do and Miguel referenced that earlier with not selling players like Delhi Ali and Danny Rose when when they were at their peak under Pochettino which is obviously what he wanted to do. You sell the players, you refresh them with new players to come in. You you kind of you manage to keep the keep the vibe going in the sort of way that Atletico Madrid do for example. But then s even since then you know looking at the appointments of Mourinho the appointments of Conte the you know even getting in the Amazon documentary signing up to the Super League like too much of what Spurs have done I think was too it was too guided by oh we're a big club now we're going to act like one rather than thinking how do we what is the best way for us to compete with teams who do have more more money and more resources than we do. Is it is it also knowing what you don't know and being comfortable with that again ego here because all the things you've mentioned there are things maybe a football person you would bring in to say look you be my partner whether it's director of football or just some football brains within the operation to say look I've given us this stable footing I've given us this arena this is what we would like to be I don't have the expertise I'm not the guy for for this stuff. Yeah, I think come in and do it. I think that's a good point and they and they tried that at points. You know, Tottenham did often have a director. You know, they the mo the most famous one being when they brought in Fabio Parati as managing director of football uh from Juventus in 2021. But then less than two years later, he had to resign after he was banned from football uh for for things that happened over the course of his time with Juventus. And obviously he's still been around in the background since then, which is all, you know, consistent with with his ban. But even then, when they have had directors of football, the director of football's often found that, you know, Daniel Daniel Levy's hands are on the steering wheel when it comes into the transfer window. And I think that there has never really been a consistent strategy other than the manager. Like the the the strategy was basically we'll have Jose Mourinho as manager. The strategy was we'll have Parachi and Conte or rather then it was the the strategy was we'll have an cogloo. So that there was never really and because of that because the managers get sacked every 18 months, two years anyway effectively like that means your strategy only lasts for 18 months or two years and that's been I think one of the big stories at Spurs in in the last sort of six seven years and just in terms of the money you're right Jack I mean he's done this flat effectively. So they bought the club in what 2000 2001 2001 so Eno bought Alan Sugar stake in December 2000. Okay. Right. So since then well we're to 2025 24 years the the the capital kind of in investment from from ENIC in that period is I think just less than 150 million or around 150 million pounds and you you you add inflation in that period of time as well and like they really haven't put anything in and Joe Lewis um is is a billionaire and until honestly until this court case where I mean this is the other aspect where where Tottenham's Tottenham have been under scrutiny is the fact that Joe Lewis had to plead guilty to insider trading in America. Had to give up control of Tavveristock Group, the company that uh owns Eno to to his family and to the trustees there. Um that's one of the reasons we all know Daniel Levy really well as well because maybe the actual owner, he was kind of so invisible um until very recently. I I don't think anyone could point out um what Lewis Joe Lewis looks like in a lineup until until some of this. So there is a bit of figureheading here. He was kind of um certainly from from a visible point of view seemed quite hands off at least. Coming up after the break, we will ask which HBO drama does this all remind us of? I know it's a big cliche, but all of these boardroom boardroom dramas, especially the ones we've spoken about at Arsenal and Tottenham, does feel a lot like succession. Um, I don't think that's an original observation. Sam Wallace actually wrote a really really good column in the Telegraph the other day, which I would recommend people reading if they can, about the comparisons between between succession and the and these scenarios. Um, and it I mean it makes me think a few things. The first is that it's a bit of a sadness to me that to understand how football works in the modern era, you do need to understand a little bit about corporate governance just like you need to understand about debt financing or the politics of the Gulf or competition law or you know the political status of Western facing Russian oligarchs. But I'm afraid that is just the world we're in. Um, but I think what what particularly makes me think about succession in these two cases, right, is the way that one of the main well I mean like one of the central tensions of succession is that you've got the family who own the company and then you've got the executives who effectively run the company, but they never there's all, you know, those two groups are effectively always separated, right? And there's kind of constant politics going on between both between and within the family and between and within the executive group, the executive class. Um and they're always, you know, that one is always trying to play one play them off against the other. Um Miguel, when you look at this, do you feel like this just shows you that in both the Arsenal and Tottenham cases for as much as we we and people might talk about the executives, it's the family, right? It's the family. It's the family who call the shots. And if you look at the the really really big developments in football, I mean, one of the most telling lines I've ever ever heard was when it came down to the Super League, you know, the the description was quote unquote it was an owner thing that it happened way above and obviously they needed some of their executives to act on it. But then strikingly, it was the executives that had to take, you know, had to um carry the can when it all went wrong because you can't you can't get rid of an owner in that way. Now, it's interesting actually that the um we're going down a world where the new independent football regulator, one of the workshops that's working now is you know what what potential reasons could force an owner to to divest from an English football club. Now I'm about to greatly deviate from that and kind of I suppose make an almost socopolitical point about football but this is all of this is exactly why I do find it a madness that cultural institutions that football clubs are especially in a country like England aren't some form of trust or fan ownership look I'm wearing an Oasuna shirt one of four fanowned clubs in Spain um and but and I mean whatever about the look it's not perfect it's not a panacea But it does ultimately mean that clubs are self-contained entities without the same pressures from outside. As soon as you open it up to this wider world, a club can really go anywhere. And it's a big thing. All right. So, while fans might love the idea of a big billionaire benefactor owner who loves the club, like this is almost seen as an ideal. Well, one of the obvious problems there that you know is so touched on by these stories is well the next generation just mightn't see it in the same way and then suddenly the club faces the same other problems as ownership and as soon as you're into that world where clubs can be traded and sold in that way. This is the problem you get into and hence the game becomes imshed with all these forces. I mean it is in some ways a madness if you if you're drawing up a way to run a sport. It just it just wouldn't go down these lines. Yeah. Well, the skin in the game is like you said, it's their money. So eventually, if it's a decision, like you said, like Super League, it's it's going to come to tell that it's my money. I'm if it's something that material, it will ultimately be the owner that that's going to decide. And in terms of ownership models, it's probably a pod for another day, but you know, at le the the risk of the other models, say the the the FO models you've seen with Laora at Barcelona, etc., and Bartameo, is when you're spending other people's money, you can go completely wild and also almost bankrupt the team out of populism and things like this. But football teams need a a type of protection, um, don't they? Because, as you said, they are they aren't just a biscuit company or a rivet maker. there is a bigger thing and people need to think about this what that model is going to look like I don't know but the succession the succession story is is is apt here isn't it because also it's these kind of family dynamics which are often you know at play here um my grandfather built this my father built this um legacy I I need to own this because it's my turn and all all the things like this and the thing now with the Premier League the teams uh the numbers we're talking about what Chelsea went for 2.5 billion Tottenham the numbers that they're talking about are in in in the realms Manchester United's now valued at what four five billion pounds so these numbers now are at levels that are kind of unheard of in England but the NFL the the big American league is has kind of kind of ahead here in terms of obviously size of business they've been valued these these numbers for quite some years and also have seen this family turmoil between um generations changing. There was a big big one in in 2012 um which involved the New Orleans Saints and um the owner was um guy called Tom Benson and um he put his granddaughter Rita Blanc LeBlanc no Rita Benson LeBlanc um to to to run the club and he was kind of grooming her to to take over and um we'd come across her at one of those leaders in football events so she was kind of um presence in the UK as well and Then in in 2012, um the grandfather had enough of her and said, you know, and accused accused her and her mother and um a brother of being entitled and tore up his will um and handed the club over to I think his his now third wife now runs all of this. And this is the type of family drama that is is not unique to New Orleans Saints. I think it's happened at other NFL clubs and and um in in the NBA as well with the Premier League teams with valuations like these and the types of owners and the types of families. I think it's something to keep an eye on. We might be seeing some of this type of succession drama to come on these shores. It's interesting, you know, Miguel Josh Kroni, he seems to really want to own Arsenal, seem to like Arsenal. I I wonder how much someone like him wants to say, "Right, I I want to have a go now. Dad, you've built these things because don't forget um Stan Kroni also owns or the Kroni Entertainment Group owns the LA Rams and the the Denver Nuggets who most recently have actually won championships. The LA Rams in in 2022 finally after 20 years spit like Arsenal win win the um Super Bowl. the the Nuggets first time ever win um the NBA championship. Arsenal is the one that hasn't won anything. Is this is this the moment that they they they want to say, "Right, Dad, let me have a go." Yeah, it's it's hard. Sorry. Do you want to go on? No, go. It's hard not to see it exactly like that. Even like there was um funny I just speaking to the second captain's lads earlier. The point was made that on the day that Arsenal um beat Real Madrid, Josh Krona was talking about having to h change manager another one of the franchises. He talked about as a you know as a day of two halves which is really striking as to where this is going at the way I mean and this points exactly to this you know discussion about how Arsenal had previously been autonomous and now they're seen as you know something more central to the Kroners and would point to a figure like Josh you know I mean he he's definitely much more visible at the he's become increasingly visible and it's gone from almost you know zooms in the co era with staff naturally enough to now he's like suddenly There he was at the PFA awards at a big Arsenal contingent and Josh Krunka at the center. I mean, what does that like in in the most visible and tangible terms that is more hands-on and I think that's maybe where there's a slight discontinuity between the Tottenham and Arsenal examples, right? Is that the the Lewis family are not really expected to be as as hands-on. You know, they traditionally they've always taken a step back. They've now, you know, clearly they've they've got very involved over uh in recent months, but they Vin Vances is the CEO. The Lewises have their their man Peter Charington as the new non-executive chairman, and I don't think we're expecting to see any kind of Josh Cony like developments at at Tottenham Hotspur. Um, I just want to move on to what what do you think the the dep these departures the departure of Tim Lewis, the departure of Daniel Levy mean for Premier League politics, Miguel? Because they're obviously two of well Levy, as I said, is the he's the kind of link between the generations, right? He's the link between all those kind of big 1990s names, the kind of David Sheep Shanks era that we were talking about earlier. Tim Lewis has only been in in situ. I mean, he was only running Arsenal for what, three years. stayed on the board for five or six years, but he's, you know, during that time he obviously he rose up to being one of the most significant Premier League execs. What does the what does that kind of Premier League table look like now in in an era without Daniel Levy, without Tim Lewis? So, it's lost its loudest voice and its longest serving voice. So, they they are two big changes already. uh for on the Levy one I think it's particularly significant because as I was I was talking to uh an executive very relevant to these clubs uh recently enough and they were saying that one of the big changes over the past few years is that after the big six era where the figures at these tables were so known we suddenly entered into this era of transition where you had a lot of new people not necessarily as familiar with the politics and that um and it it it did it did create this it created a much more fragmented era and I think that's probably why someone like Steve Parish say who like Crystal Palace obviously aren't one of the quotequote old big six but Parish has become one of the biggest voices in the Premier League and I do know him and Lewis even beyond issues like the the Ez transfer they spoke a lot um and I do just wonder though this is me very much speculating now But whether we're about to enter into a new era of Premier League politics, we've gone from the big six to now this obviously transition period. A transition period that's actually been largely framed by the wait for the city charges. There's an expectation that the city charge could finally come. um maybe the October international break which is what 2 weeks from now although I've heard we've heard this before about certain dates but it is interesting I think that just as we potentially approach this date it does feel like the temperature on the whole city thing has been taken down a bit by a settlement in the AP case that no one expected and I'm not saying these things are linked in any way uh I don't think they are but say if you have there's a settlement in that. Then on the other side, you've got Lewis who'd been so so vocal about state ownership. He isn't in the meetings anymore. Levy, who wasn't as vocal as um as Lewis, but very strong views on on regulation. Whe whether the Premier League almost enters a kind of a basically a a PAX Premier League era now after this once the once the charges are done and we see what happens next, although I mean, who knows? That could just cause chaos again. But it it does feel like things are maybe trending in a certain direction. But certain at the very least the uh the arguments that are being going to be put forward in meetings are going to be different principally because uh Levy and Lewis aren't there. So the tone the tone of the meetings will change but the fundamentals of the clubs are still I guess the same. you know, the the idea of state investment versus, you know, the the American model is still is still going to kind of be there, I guess. So, it' be interesting to see to see how this plays out. I also wonder if everyone's just a bit tired. If you look at if you look at the Manchester City saga in isolation, the the charges date back to like, you know, there's eight or nine years worth of charges and almost eight years of now investigation in case that it's not good for any league or any competition, whether it's for Manchester City or the Premier League or anybody else, even for us as the media. You know, it is a is a sorry story that has dragged on and on and on. And I wonder, you know, even City would want this to be put put to bed because it it's just it can't it can't be fun. Um, and it feels like a new era maybe at Manchester City as well. The club perhaps I mean you guys are closer to it than me, but feels a bit different to when things were really really spiky. Um, and you know, and they were I guess crushing everyone as well on the field and off the field. It just feels like a a different moment. Is does is that fair? Or maybe maybe I'm I might be wrong. And on that as well, I mean, does that potentially mesh with the next stage in ownership, which is basically I mean, one of the biggest developments in the last years is basically sovereign wealth funds in investing into private equity. And what is that if not a kind of an intertwining of football's evolution? All obviously I mean like Wilson's spoken about this what like the 1880s to 1945 was the year of the player because the player was central and obviously so much of that round kind of wages then naturally players were organized into a team so the manager became the big thing until 2003 where a bramovich the RG the bravich takeover changes everything and while it's still going to be the era of the owner is this the next stage in the era of the owner where you know and we are talking especially as you mentioned the the the prices that clubs would command Now their valuation which is with sort we're basically only at a certain level only sovereign wealth funds or massive private equity funds can actually own them. Uh and we might even be moving away of this of the kind of this era of patriarchs and and Chelsea might be an illustration that where you've got it is a fund and yes while Bley and Bedadali are visible they are only representatives really of I mean or they're they're co-owners of wider funds. Yeah, I think that's a really interesting point, right? Is like certainly it's true that the valuations of the big clubs now mean that vanishingly few people can afford to buy them, right? like it has to be either a sovereign wealth fund or you know a consortium put together by you know various kind of private equity back types like like we saw in Chelsea and certainly there's clubs I mean most clubs really are to an extent on the market but there's lots of clubs who are very much known to be on the market who have not been sold right because the because the valuations are so high but do you think it sounds like from what you're saying Miguel like do you think that these kind of discussions are the discussions we're going to be having more and more because the people the the idea of the chair you know this is why Daniel Lever was such a throwback right is he was a chairman he was a minority shareholder but he was the chairman who also ran the club but if you're if the owners are going to be someone on the other side of the world then it's the kind of professional services types who they appoint to run the club the people like Tim Lewis who are like those are the going to be the decisions that really define whether a club sinks or swims. Yeah, absolutely. And to bring this full circle because it is worth saying we are ultimately a football podcast. But I do given how we opened this chat and we're talking about the extreme levels of control of that coaches like Guardiola and Arteta are responsible for and how that stands as both a kind of a juxosition and also a contrast to you know so it's it's this intense micromanagement against a game that is actually how it's played in the pitch is shaped by forces way beyond it and like like obviously we've seen this and say issues like how you know how only a certain strand of super clubs can win. It's one of the reasons why managers only go to certain clubs. So I realize that's kind of a wider point, but I do think it kind of links this links this together a bit and yes points to kind of where next. But then you you do wonder then is the Premier League going to be a contest of well already is I guess competing um private equity funds with you know a hundred billion in assets from wherever and from whoever. I think Miguel's point it'll be interesting. it will be brought to bear maybe some point in the future we're going to find out and it will be through journalism rather than anything else because the lack of transparency in all of this is is remarkable. I mean I suppose the clues in the name is private equity who's invested in who and where the money's come from and could there be a point where god we suddenly find out six Premier League teams have exactly the same overgards because they they've invested in in in a bunch of funds. It is a it is a crazy departure um from as as as Jack said the the eras that uh Daniel Levy straddled. you know, he came in what the eighth year of the Premier League where you have, you know, local boy done good was still owning most of the teams and now we're talking in ways of multi-billion trillion investment funds based in the Middle East and in the US. And that that is the Daniel Levy um period is his his two feet in each of these camps. And and that's such a fascinating thing as well. I mean like Lee Levy straddled an era where for all the wealth of local boy done good you could still feasibly see them in the street. You could see them driving the car and famously there are photos of Levy coming out of a Premier League meeting and waiting on a bus whereas that now we have a strand of owner that you're just not going to get close to. And not only you just not going to get close to you you have no idea how they're really thinking. And I remember this was something that came up a lot when I was writing on the Super League stuff that it was described to me as real masters of the universe stuff and like someone who's who worked centrally with them made the point to me that you do have to understand that when people reach a certain level of wealth. It does kind of almost influence your psychology. You you obviously you think about all this sort of stuff in a totally different way. Yeah. And this is this I think is one of the reasons why Levy is such a fascinating and important figure, right? is that he was both he was a local boy. He was a Tottenham fan. He went to he was from Northeast London. Went to White Hart Lane as a child and so on. He he did well in his career, became chairman in his 30s and ran the club in a very tight way. That is such a classic model, but at the same time he was running the club on behalf of Eno. You know, Eno was a company founded by Joe Lewis. Joe Lewis is a kind of legendary veteran Bahamas based currency trader and so on. So even the Levy era was kind was both the very it was a very traditional model but it was also the traditional model with one foot in the kind of global 1% of the 1% which is what modern football's like and it makes me think that more I think I mentioned this earlier like more and more the the the most important thing and so many of these clubs will be who who do these kind of global global super super super rich people choose to run the clubs like people people laugh when City fans had their their Lord panic banner when he was t when he was kind of employed by the club to to to argue on their behalf but in future Premier League football will be decided by which famous law fir which magic circle law firms are instructed by our clubs. So on that exact point someone made someone said to me recently that you can track the evolution of the Premier League in football as well by the figures chosen to be chief executives. So for a while it was marketing, then it was accountants and now it's lawyers. Um, so sorry, sorry, lawyers or I mean as we said earlier, it's either lawyers or wealth managers. You know, the kind of Ed Woodward route, you know, we've been talking about Tottenham, the new Tottenham non-executive chairman, Peter Charrington, is a wealth manager. He was CEO of City Private Banking. Um, and he worked for City for a he worked for City Private Banking for a long time. He was the global head of it. and then he went off to become a senior partner at Nexus which is the Lewis family's l kind of luxury resort business. So that is almost the other route if you're not a corporate lawyer that is the other route into running a football club. The one thing just and I've actually put this to tar on to say it um as we've been discussing this and remember when we were discussing it when the Levy story broke about whether we should do a podcast on it cuz what I really it's the way these stories obviously ownership stories have always been part of the media but they would have like say Eno buying from sugar in December 2000 that just wouldn't have created the same way I can't remember it creating the same waves all this stuff now it's basically treated like just the next level rung down from transfers. Now that's that's the kind of noise. Look at Lewis the weekend and I suppose a just a question of how that's happened even within the context of being the ownership era and why we should care about it in that way. Why these are big stories like the obvious is this affects what happens in the pitch but it does feel like it's a bit it's almost a bit more than that now as well. Yeah, because these figures now as you said one one thing is the numbers are so big two the Premier League is so big added that add that add those things together and you you are taking control of 20 of the most important or some of the most important things in sport right and that the profile all of it and the like why does Manchester why does the UAE or shake Mansaw want to own Manchester City there's a there's a reason and that is a story Newcastle with Saudi Arabia and also from a from a football point of view the transformation ational impact of owners is different to to the era then like from sugar to eno and the types of money involved it was quite flat like wasn't huge then Roman Abramovic arrives at Chelsea for example and effectively blows up football in a way that we've not seen I mean people could say with with maybe with Blackburn um and you know it's a Jack Walker it was a micro version of this but the who owns your team has a massive difference from a political point of view, from performance point of view, from how we talk about what football club is, which we've done I guess throughout this this this podcast today and you know and the and the the family stuff just to go back to that is really really interesting because the the the and the ego another thing we've spoken about and there is a the Netflix podcast now on on Matroom the Hearn family business It's a it's a bit of a cringy watch, but you know, all throughout it's laced with Eddie Hearn, the the the the son wanting to make his father Barry proud of him. And the only way he can do this is he's saying is by taking this very successful business global or to the next level. And if I can't do that, I haven't achieved. So the chippiness of being a child of someone who's been successful is is also really really interesting because you know in this case this this guy was driven to school um in a in a limousine and silver spoon pillarid for it and told you've been given everything. So when you get your hands on on the on the club or the business keeping it at the same level of success isn't successful. And that plays to the psychology. All of this is is really fascinating. And luckily for them um and you know is Saudi Arabia for example and this is the element again that we've talked about that there you know the show ends with Saudi Arabia offering according to the Hearns 1.5 billion pounds which the kid Eddie has somehow convinced this shake to to to part with. The deal's not been done. I don't think it'll be done. But that's that's the the story. Dad, you built this company in Brentwood in Essex at the top of a snooker club with a 100 pounds in your pocket and look what we've done and look what I've done for you. And and these are the levels that we're talking about with the Premier League as well. Well, as Kendall Roy famously said, I am the eldest boy. And uh I wonder if that's something that we'll be hearing in a Premier League boardroom at some point soon if it hasn't been said already. Uh we've gone over time, but thank you so much to Tar Miguel. Thank you so much to producer Tom. Thanks to everybody who's listened this far and thanks to everyone who replies, comments, likes, shares, subscribes, and so on. Please keep it coming. And we'll be back again later this week. Powered by Riverside FM.