================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: BKUNceep19Y
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKUNceep19Y
TITLE: The 25 Best Movies of the Century: No. 18 - ‘Before Sunset’ | The Big Picture
CHANNEL: Ringer Movies
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-18
DURATION: 42m 27s
VIEWS: 11,425
LIKES: 280
COMMENTS: 81
TAGS: Movies, Film, Cinema, The Ringer, Ringer, Rewatchables, The Rewatchables, Big Pic, Big Picture, Bill Simmons

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sean and Amanda return to continue their yearlong project of listing the 25 best movies of the 21st century so far. Today, they discuss ‘Before Sunset,’ the second installment of Richard Linklater’s beloved romantic trilogy starring Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. They talk about why this film is their favorite of the trilogy and the official selection from Linklater’s career, discuss what its legacy is at large, and how its performances helped shape the most romantic, emotionally incisive film of the century.

Hosts: Sean Fennessey and Amanda Dobbins
Producer: Jack Sanders

This episode is sponsored by State Farm®️. A State Farm agent can help you choose the coverage you need. Like a good neighbor, State Farm is there.®️

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RINGER CHANNELS
The Ringer-Verse YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@ringerverse
The Bill Simmons YouTube channel: youtube.com/billsimmons

CONNECT
Shop: https://theringer.com/shop
Website: http://theringer.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ringer

... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 15,906

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Daven. And I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Daven. And this is 25 for2, a big picture special this is 25 for2, a big picture special conversation show about Before Sunset. conversation show about Before Sunset. And baby, you are going to miss that And baby, you are going to miss that plane. Today we are talking about one of plane. Today we are talking about one of the most romantic movies ever made. It the most romantic movies ever made. It is directed by Richard Linkl. It is is directed by Richard Linkl. It is written by Richard Linklair, Julie written by Richard Linklair, Julie Delpy, and Ethan Hawk. And it stars Delpy, and Ethan Hawk. And it stars Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawk. Now, Amanda, Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawk. Now, Amanda, I must tell you, yes, I very recently I must tell you, yes, I very recently did a rewatchables episode about this did a rewatchables episode about this movie. You guys did before Sunset. We movie. You guys did before Sunset. We did. We did before Sunrise. I listened did. We did before Sunrise. I listened to Sunrise before. I missed Sunset. I to Sunrise before. I missed Sunset. I never I didn't listen to it. So, never I didn't listen to it. So, unfortunately, I did listen to the first unfortunately, I did listen to the first one. I'm a fan of the rewatchables. one. I'm a fan of the rewatchables. That's wonderful. Um I am as well. Um I That's wonderful. Um I am as well. Um I I have talked about this movie at great I have talked about this movie at great length recently, okay? So, I don't want length recently, okay? So, I don't want to bore you. I want you to be in charge. to bore you. I want you to be in charge. Okay. Well, what was the what did you Okay. Well, what was the what did you guys learn from your rewatchables before guys learn from your rewatchables before sunset episode? I I kind of just poured sunset episode? I I kind of just poured my heart out a little bit. Okay. And you my heart out a little bit. Okay. And you know, I I I greatly identify with all of know, I I I greatly identify with all of both of the characters in these films both of the characters in these films and I'm a longtime disciple of the Linkl and I'm a longtime disciple of the Linkl project and project and project and this might just be my very favorite this might just be my very favorite movie he's ever made. I think it's mine, movie he's ever made. I think it's mine, too. And I think that it's notable that too. And I think that it's notable that it's mine over before sunrise. So, tell it's mine over before sunrise. So, tell me why. So, and I I rewatched both me why. So, and I I rewatched both Sunrise and Sunset for this project just Sunrise and Sunset for this project just because I hadn't seen Sunrise in a while because I hadn't seen Sunrise in a while and because and because and because um it's a um it's a it is a deep pleasure just like to be in it is a deep pleasure just like to be in this world. Uh at least the first two. I this world. Uh at least the first two. I noticed notably I did not revisit Before noticed notably I did not revisit Before Midnight and I have not revisited Before Midnight and I have not revisited Before Midnight for the rewatchables or for Midnight for the rewatchables or for this. Maybe it's maybe it's the best one this. Maybe it's maybe it's the best one and we're just too scared. Um we are and we're just too scared. Um we are currently in the before midnight era of currently in the before midnight era of our lives. Yeah. So, but I was thinking our lives. Yeah. So, but I was thinking to myself, if Before Sunrise were to myself, if Before Sunrise were eligible for this project, would we pick eligible for this project, would we pick Sunrise or Sunset? And I know that I Sunrise or Sunset? And I know that I personally would pick Sunset because I personally would pick Sunset because I think it's both think it's both a like a just a richer text um and also a like a just a richer text um and also a more of a cinematic and a more of a cinematic and performance feat because the the first performance feat because the the first one which is if you haven't seen Before one which is if you haven't seen Before Sunrise, I really don't know what you're Sunrise, I really don't know what you're doing listening to this podcast or you doing listening to this podcast or you know living out in world, but that's know living out in world, but that's okay. It's about two young people, early okay. It's about two young people, early 20s, who meet on a train on the way to 20s, who meet on a train on the way to Vienna, and one is an American, um, Vienna, and one is an American, um, Jesse played by Ethan Hawk. The other is Jesse played by Ethan Hawk. The other is a French woman play Seline played by a French woman play Seline played by Julie Delpy. and they're thrown together Julie Delpy. and they're thrown together on a train or they, you know, meet each on a train or they, you know, meet each other on the train and they decide to other on the train and they decide to um spend the night together in Vienna, um spend the night together in Vienna, walking around Vienna before Jesse has walking around Vienna before Jesse has to catch his plane back to the US. to catch his plane back to the US. And I mean, it's like a um And I mean, it's like a um a landmark film, right? And it changes a landmark film, right? And it changes and it is one of the key independent and it is one of the key independent films of the 1990s in America. Yes. Uh, films of the 1990s in America. Yes. Uh, and it really is just two young people and it really is just two young people talking in a very specific '9s way, link talking in a very specific '9s way, link later way. um and taking all of the later way. um and taking all of the ideas and emotions and philosophical ideas and emotions and philosophical nonsense that in their is in their heads nonsense that in their is in their heads and it's certainly in your heads if you and it's certainly in your heads if you are um like a hyper educated 20some in are um like a hyper educated 20some in the '90s and putting it into words and the '90s and putting it into words and putting it on on screen and making it putting it on on screen and making it very natural and very natural and you know memorializing not just like the you know memorializing not just like the connection that two people can have connection that two people can have for like one magical moment in time, for like one magical moment in time, which is the setup of that movie and which is the setup of that movie and what's magical about it, but also kind what's magical about it, but also kind of just like what two people talking at of just like what two people talking at each other can can really really each other can can really really accomplish. You know, it's like it is a accomplish. You know, it's like it is a how it can be cinematic to just watch how it can be cinematic to just watch people talk. Yeah. And and also that people talk. Yeah. And and also that that it can be like a real emotional that it can be like a real emotional connection. Like it is an achievement. connection. Like it is an achievement. It's one for the talkers. You know, It's one for the talkers. You know, there's it's not a coincidence that we there's it's not a coincidence that we love these movies. So it is professional love these movies. So it is professional yappers. Yeah. Exactly. And and people yappers. Yeah. Exactly. And and people were like more words are better, right? were like more words are better, right? Um, Um, Um, so you know it in it invents this so you know it in it invents this franchise, it invents the language. It franchise, it invents the language. It there is something like there is something like so they're so young and it is like you so they're so young and it is like you know first love magical moments. The way know first love magical moments. The way the movie ends very famously is that the movie ends very famously is that they don't exchange um information and they don't exchange um information and they agree to meet in six months on the they agree to meet in six months on the same train platform and you know if they same train platform and you know if they show up and if they don't show up they show up and if they don't they don't and you don't know right. Uh, they don't and you don't know right. Uh, so there is something like wonderfully so there is something like wonderfully romantic just like like a perfect movie romantic just like like a perfect movie which makes the fact that the sequel is which makes the fact that the sequel is so amazing and maybe even better like so amazing and maybe even better like even better somehow to me. Um, here's even better somehow to me. Um, here's the thing. The first film Yeah. has no the thing. The first film Yeah. has no conflict. conflict. conflict. Sure. They maybe they don't always get Sure. They maybe they don't always get along or see exactly eye to eye about along or see exactly eye to eye about things, right? But it is a wander. It is things, right? But it is a wander. It is a it is a long discussion. Yes. And of a it is a long discussion. Yes. And of two people who learning who the other two people who learning who the other person is, right? And and learning who person is, right? And and learning who they are as well. They're like two very they are as well. They're like two very unsure young people in the world. unsure young people in the world. Figuring out who they are and being Figuring out who they are and being guided by the laws of attraction, right? guided by the laws of attraction, right? That's really what drives that movie. That's really what drives that movie. It's an amazing movie. I think it is. It's an amazing movie. I think it is. It's sublime. very important to me and It's sublime. very important to me and as I know it is to you and uh I think as I know it is to you and uh I think it's critical in the Ethan Hawk story it's critical in the Ethan Hawk story you know even though he had been in big you know even though he had been in big movies before this as a child actor like movies before this as a child actor like it totally reshapes I think his kind of it totally reshapes I think his kind of heartthrob persona um all men fell in heartthrob persona um all men fell in love with Julie Dale I don't know any love with Julie Dale I don't know any straight men that don't want to have a straight men that don't want to have a family with Julie Deli like she is just family with Julie Deli like she is just such an intoxicating person the second such an intoxicating person the second film though is simply one of the great film though is simply one of the great movies ever made about relationships and movies ever made about relationships and love. It is astounding how deep it is love. It is astounding how deep it is and it's an incredible like incredible and it's an incredible like incredible setup which is that nine years later setup which is that nine years later Jesse has written a book about this Jesse has written a book about this night and is giving a reading in Paris night and is giving a reading in Paris at the end of the um at the end of the at the end of the um at the end of the book tour and Seline shows up at book tour and Seline shows up at Shakespeare and Co. And once again, like Shakespeare and Co. And once again, like they wander before he has to take his they wander before he has to take his plane back to um but it's two people who plane back to um but it's two people who had one magical night and then it didn't had one magical night and then it didn't work out or it didn't and it didn't come work out or it didn't and it didn't come back together and so suddenly it's back together and so suddenly it's people later in life lost love, lost people later in life lost love, lost connections, the road not traveled, um connections, the road not traveled, um dissatisfaction with their current life, dissatisfaction with their current life, just like this incredibly just like this incredibly um deep so much to work with stuff that um deep so much to work with stuff that is like miraculously like built in is like miraculously like built in because they have the first movie like because they have the first movie like it's it's it's it's magical. The it's an ingenious way it's magical. The it's an ingenious way of telling a story. There have been of telling a story. There have been other movies that have attempted to do other movies that have attempted to do this kind of thing. The most famous this kind of thing. The most famous example is probably the documentary example is probably the documentary series seven up which found people every series seven up which found people every seven years caught up with them and seven years caught up with them and talked like sort of showed what their talked like sort of showed what their lives were and they talked about their lives were and they talked about their experiences of the world and the way experiences of the world and the way that time passing can change a person that time passing can change a person and change how they see the world or and change how they see the world or what how they are walking through it but what how they are walking through it but to have a narrative structure right that to have a narrative structure right that doesn't really have to think too much doesn't really have to think too much about plot and then the other thing that about plot and then the other thing that I think elevates this movie over the I think elevates this movie over the first film is even know Hawk and Delpy first film is even know Hawk and Delpy clearly contributed to their characters clearly contributed to their characters in Before Sunrise. They are credited in Before Sunrise. They are credited screenwriters on this movie and they are screenwriters on this movie and they are both putting big parts of their real both putting big parts of their real lives into these characters and the the lives into these characters and the the words that they are saying and I'm not words that they are saying and I'm not saying that that necessarily saying that that necessarily makes the movie better per se, but it makes the movie better per se, but it makes it more meaningful to me. Yeah. makes it more meaningful to me. Yeah. Because I a lot of times when you're Because I a lot of times when you're watching a movie you're like actors this watching a movie you're like actors this is a construct. This came from some guy is a construct. This came from some guy sitting alone in a room. He had an idea. sitting alone in a room. He had an idea. He banged it out on a typewriter. He He banged it out on a typewriter. He hand they handed it to actors on the hand they handed it to actors on the set. They learn their lines and then set. They learn their lines and then they say the lines and then they go they say the lines and then they go home. This is a way more personal form home. This is a way more personal form of mainstream movie making. And that of mainstream movie making. And that level of emotionality, you know, Hawk level of emotionality, you know, Hawk famously going through a divorce, right, famously going through a divorce, right, during the making of this movie, so many during the making of this movie, so many of the things that Jesse is saying about of the things that Jesse is saying about these ideas of like obligation and the these ideas of like obligation and the version of myself that I think I should version of myself that I think I should be versus the version of myself that I be versus the version of myself that I want. It's like for him to be so close want. It's like for him to be so close to the bone on stuff like that in a to the bone on stuff like that in a movie that would open in thousands of movie that would open in thousands of movie theaters is is such a fascinating movie theaters is is such a fascinating like hot experience of of and the same I like hot experience of of and the same I think goes for Julie Delpy and her deep think goes for Julie Delpy and her deep feelings of like the inability to love feelings of like the inability to love and not believing in love anymore and and not believing in love anymore and not really finding the person that makes not really finding the person that makes her feel the way that she wants to feel her feel the way that she wants to feel and she feels other people may have felt and she feels other people may have felt about her. And there's just this kind of about her. And there's just this kind of like desperation in these two people like desperation in these two people that is has always been from the moment that is has always been from the moment I saw it. My wife and I saw it, we were I saw it. My wife and I saw it, we were not married when it came out in 2004. Um not married when it came out in 2004. Um I think we saw it at the Angelica. Okay. I think we saw it at the Angelica. Okay. We had been living in New York at that We had been living in New York at that time for a few months. And I remember time for a few months. And I remember vividly the trains, you know, the trains vividly the trains, you know, the trains shaking at the Angelica. You can always shaking at the Angelica. You can always feel the subway. Um and when the movie feel the subway. Um and when the movie ended, this movie is 80 minutes long. I ended, this movie is 80 minutes long. I mean, more than one person screamed out mean, more than one person screamed out like, "No, like I don't want this to be like, "No, like I don't want this to be over. Like, I can't this can't be over. Like, I can't this can't be finished. I need to know what happens finished. I need to know what happens next. I need to follow these people." next. I need to follow these people." It's such a vis visceral movie going It's such a vis visceral movie going memory for me because everyone who was memory for me because everyone who was there and obviously it was an angelic there and obviously it was an angelic audience when we'd all seen Before audience when we'd all seen Before Sunrise, but Sunrise, but Sunrise, but we were so invested. Yeah. You know, we were so invested. Yeah. You know, true. It's rare to be that invested in a true. It's rare to be that invested in a movie. I mean, I get it. You don't want movie. I mean, I get it. You don't want it to be over, though. I do find I like it to be over, though. I do find I like this is the greatest movie ending of our this is the greatest movie ending of our lifetimes. Maybe I rewatched it with my lifetimes. Maybe I rewatched it with my husband again the other night and it was husband again the other night and it was just like silent wrapped. You know when just like silent wrapped. You know when you're watching at home with someone you're watching at home with someone else, you know, someone's got to go like else, you know, someone's got to go like do something or checking the, you know, do something or checking the, you know, answering a text message or whatever. answering a text message or whatever. And I was just like the two of us like And I was just like the two of us like sitting in darkness like holding our sitting in darkness like holding our breath through the the entire last breath through the the entire last scene. There's and it's like and so scene. There's and it's like and so simple and electric and simple and electric and um the power of Julie Delpy is is um the power of Julie Delpy is is palpable but it's not ambiguous to me at palpable but it's not ambiguous to me at least. I don't know maybe you feel least. I don't know maybe you feel differently. You don't want it to end differently. You don't want it to end because it's so magical but also unlike because it's so magical but also unlike before sunrise I don't feel like I have before sunrise I don't feel like I have any like questions about about where any like questions about about where things are headed. things are headed. Did you feel that way before before Did you feel that way before before before midnight? Because the big the before midnight? Because the big the great reveal of Before Midnight, if you great reveal of Before Midnight, if you haven't seen it, I'm sorry, but it's haven't seen it, I'm sorry, but it's like they not only got together, but like they not only got together, but they got together and stayed together they got together and stayed together and they got married and they had a and they got married and they had a family, right? And I guess I mean you family, right? And I guess I mean you wanted that to be true after Before wanted that to be true after Before Sunset. You wanted them to consummate. I Sunset. You wanted them to consummate. I I'll be honest, like I'm not really I'll be honest, like I'm not really thinking about whether they have a thinking about whether they have a family at the end of Before Sunset in family at the end of Before Sunset in like in like a happy way, but they allow like in like a happy way, but they allow each other to be together. Um, yeah. each other to be together. Um, yeah. Because you think so. Okay. Well, Because you think so. Okay. Well, continue. Well, I mean, it's just it continue. Well, I mean, it's just it it's all right there. The baby are going it's all right there. The baby are going to miss that plane. And then his smile to miss that plane. And then his smile and and and it's like it's like it's like in in that moment. It's like, you know, in in that moment. It's like, you know, that they're going to like try to be that they're going to like try to be together and and I'm I'm from romcom together and and I'm I'm from romcom training, you know, like I don't training, you know, like I don't actually need to think about the happily actually need to think about the happily ever after. You know, we're good. Yeah. ever after. You know, we're good. Yeah. Um, but you know that and and and as Um, but you know that and and and as Before Midnight teaches us, like you Before Midnight teaches us, like you don't really want to all of the time. don't really want to all of the time. But but there is like an assurance in But but there is like an assurance in that ending that they're in the moment. that ending that they're in the moment. They're together. There is for the most They're together. There is for the most part. And I think that people screamed part. And I think that people screamed no in the angelic not because they no in the angelic not because they needed to know what happened next needed to know what happened next specifically, but because they just specifically, but because they just didn't want this feeling to end. Right. didn't want this feeling to end. Right. Right. Right. Right. They didn't want to Right. Right. Right. They didn't want to no long the certainly the final roughly no long the certainly the final roughly eight minutes of the movie once we get eight minutes of the movie once we get into Selen's apartment are into Selen's apartment are uh they just teleport you to another uh they just teleport you to another place and I I totally relate to like I place and I I totally relate to like I would say roughly the minute they get would say roughly the minute they get into the van to head back to Sel's into the van to head back to Sel's apartment that stretch of the movie the apartment that stretch of the movie the final whatever 20 or so minutes is just final whatever 20 or so minutes is just insanely brilliantly written staged insanely brilliantly written staged performed it it is it I'm I'm never more performed it it is it I'm I'm never more locked into a movie than those sequences locked into a movie than those sequences I think you can say like this movie is I think you can say like this movie is 18 on our list. Why is it not number one 18 on our list. Why is it not number one based on how rapturously we're talking based on how rapturously we're talking about the movie? It is a small film is a about the movie? It is a small film is a modest movie. It's its aims are very modest movie. It's its aims are very discreet. I would say it nails all of discreet. I would say it nails all of them. Um I think just in terms of its am them. Um I think just in terms of its am ambition and its intimacy, like it does ambition and its intimacy, like it does everything that it wants to do. everything that it wants to do. It's weird. I'm weird. I weirdly am a It's weird. I'm weird. I weirdly am a little lower on it now that Before little lower on it now that Before Midnight has come around because what it Midnight has come around because what it has made me do is see the ways in which has made me do is see the ways in which their love was flawed in this movie. So their love was flawed in this movie. So because they have a tumultuous marriage because they have a tumultuous marriage and we know that a lot of the things and we know that a lot of the things that I can see in revisiting the film that I can see in revisiting the film and this is you know this doesn't take and this is you know this doesn't take away from the quality of the movie but away from the quality of the movie but it's my relationship to it. Well yeah it's my relationship to it. Well yeah also this is like your materialist like also this is like your materialist like spreadsheet hat coming on a little bit. spreadsheet hat coming on a little bit. A little bit perhaps. Um, but in this A little bit perhaps. Um, but in this movie, Jesse is is desperate to sleep movie, Jesse is is desperate to sleep with Seline and he is he is so horny and with Seline and he is he is so horny and like so forward throughout the film. And like so forward throughout the film. And he is like that in the first film, too. he is like that in the first film, too. But he is really hot for her in this But he is really hot for her in this movie in part because he says he hasn't movie in part because he says he hasn't been laid in a really long time. Right. been laid in a really long time. Right. And you can see that that's actually not And you can see that that's actually not ultimately a good motivator for making ultimately a good motivator for making making big changes in your life. Yes. making big changes in your life. Yes. And she is a person who has lost the And she is a person who has lost the ability to feel like she can love ability to feel like she can love anymore. And so this occurrence that she anymore. And so this occurrence that she allows to happen by going to Shakespeare allows to happen by going to Shakespeare company, right, is her like kind of company, right, is her like kind of desperate attempt, it's kind of like her desperate attempt, it's kind of like her last ditch effort in a way to be like, last ditch effort in a way to be like, can I find the the sort of romantic love can I find the the sort of romantic love that I truly seek? And it's ill- fated that I truly seek? And it's ill- fated in a way. Yeah, sort of. I I mean, I in a way. Yeah, sort of. I I mean, I think so. I mean, he did also like write think so. I mean, he did also like write a book about her, you know, so totally. a book about her, you know, so totally. It's her just and she's like she says It's her just and she's like she says she read the book twice and I was like she read the book twice and I was like it really screwed me up and also you it really screwed me up and also you idealized it so I need to come like idealized it so I need to come like confront Do you believe that? See I cuz confront Do you believe that? See I cuz I feel like she's just playing a game I feel like she's just playing a game the first 60 minutes of this movie with the first 60 minutes of this movie with him cuz she doesn't want to reveal him cuz she doesn't want to reveal herself. She's embarrassed. She's herself. She's embarrassed. She's annoyed by what he did. I think the game annoyed by what he did. I think the game is ungenerous. I think that she is is ungenerous. I think that she is protective to your to your point of she protective to your to your point of she has just cut herself off from the world has just cut herself off from the world and is like an also an intensely and is like an also an intensely neurotic French person. Um and indeed so neurotic French person. Um and indeed so is not letting any emotions is not letting any emotions come out and I mean like and also like come out and I mean like and also like is a character like she is just you know is a character like she is just you know yeah she's kooky baddy and kooky and in yeah she's kooky baddy and kooky and in the most mesmerizing enchanting way. Um the most mesmerizing enchanting way. Um but so it's not until the car ride that but so it's not until the car ride that she really that either of them actually she really that either of them actually let their like guard down. What does he let their like guard down. What does he call her? A mag depressive communist. call her? A mag depressive communist. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um Um Um game is probably ungenerous, but game is probably ungenerous, but particularly her for failing failing to particularly her for failing failing to remember that they had sex that night. remember that they had sex that night. Right. Well, yeah. Purposeful and she Right. Well, yeah. Purposeful and she was like this is something women do. was like this is something women do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She's seeking to kind of control the She's seeking to kind of control the temperature of the engagement for sure. temperature of the engagement for sure. And And And she's trying to do that so that she can she's trying to do that so that she can protect herself, right? But deep down we protect herself, right? But deep down we know that she wants something because know that she wants something because she says she can no longer access she says she can no longer access something. And so I think what I'm something. And so I think what I'm saying is this is an obvious point and saying is this is an obvious point and I'm sorry to belabor it, but the I'm sorry to belabor it, but the sourness of the third film, which is a sourness of the third film, which is a really good movie, yeah, has taken really good movie, yeah, has taken something away from my first experience something away from my first experience of this movie. And that was the of this movie. And that was the intention of Before Midnight. intention of Before Midnight. They did the thing that they meant to They did the thing that they meant to do. But I was so stareyed at the end of do. But I was so stareyed at the end of this movie the first time I saw it and this movie the first time I saw it and so swept away by that feeling. And so swept away by that feeling. And despite whatever like spreadsheet king despite whatever like spreadsheet king stuff you want to say or whatever like stuff you want to say or whatever like cynical stuff like I am ultimately very cynical stuff like I am ultimately very romantic at I was also going to say but romantic at I was also going to say but that's your high school sweetheart like that's your high school sweetheart like absolutely coming in as well. there is absolutely coming in as well. there is there you know you contain multitudes there you know you contain multitudes multitudes but so I think that it like multitudes but so I think that it like it has made me just a little embittered it has made me just a little embittered about how is like is the takeaway like about how is like is the takeaway like none of that is real that like actually none of that is real that like actually and of course it is like that's the most and of course it is like that's the most mature sophisticated way of thinking mature sophisticated way of thinking about it is there are no great you know about it is there are no great you know subjects of sonnetss and there is no subjects of sonnetss and there is no true you know soulmateish experience in true you know soulmateish experience in the universe we're all we're doing the the universe we're all we're doing the best with what we have a thing that best with what we have a thing that really stuck out to me on this rewatch really stuck out to me on this rewatch when seen this movie a bunch of times. when seen this movie a bunch of times. Um was just was the Julie Delpelpia of Um was just was the Julie Delpelpia of it all in this movie and it all in this movie and um I mean he he is obviously great and um I mean he he is obviously great and wonderful but this movie is centered wonderful but this movie is centered around Seline is like the one that got around Seline is like the one that got away quote unquote which is like a away quote unquote which is like a timehonored you know film music timehonored you know film music literature trope. Yep. to the point that literature trope. Yep. to the point that he has literally written a book about he has literally written a book about the one that that got away. And this the one that that got away. And this movie in a lot of ways is in her movie in a lot of ways is in her character and her like kookiness and her character and her like kookiness and her uh closed offness and uh closed offness and um um um everything that Julie Delby is doing is everything that Julie Delby is doing is like maybe not like undermining it but like maybe not like undermining it but forcing the Jesse character to enact, forcing the Jesse character to enact, you know, enact interact with the real you know, enact interact with the real version of the one that got away which version of the one that got away which is sort of like an interesting there's is sort of like an interesting there's movies and then there's real movies and then there's real And there's like how you imagined it in And there's like how you imagined it in your head and then like how it is. So your head and then like how it is. So for me it's not that it turns sour or for me it's not that it turns sour or something. It's that I think that the something. It's that I think that the the movie and the construct has some the movie and the construct has some idea of idea of idea of what happens in real life versus what what happens in real life versus what happened in the movies. But then the happened in the movies. But then the neat trick of it is that it also then neat trick of it is that it also then does give you like a truly romantic like does give you like a truly romantic like just in the movies ending which is like just in the movies ending which is like what we all want you know like that is what we all want you know like that is like why we go to the movies. So I guess like why we go to the movies. So I guess I don't feel like it's taken away from I don't feel like it's taken away from me just because me just because things you know real life happens in things you know real life happens in Before Midnight because real life like Before Midnight because real life like is sort of happening in this movie too. is sort of happening in this movie too. I mean they're both kind of losers you I mean they're both kind of losers you know. It's an interesting way to think know. It's an interesting way to think about it. Like I think that this movie about it. Like I think that this movie does a really good job of showing that does a really good job of showing that one person can be many things. In the one person can be many things. In the case of Jesse, case of Jesse, he is he is he is a successful novelist. He wrote a book. a successful novelist. He wrote a book. It got published. He's on a book tour in It got published. He's on a book tour in Europe, right? That's pretty good. In Europe, right? That's pretty good. In 2004, though, sure. I mean, you know, a 2004, though, sure. I mean, you know, a different scene, but yeah. Yeah. I mean, different scene, but yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, no judgment on the publishing you know, no judgment on the publishing industry in 2025. Um, but I he did what industry in 2025. Um, but I he did what he set out to do, which is to be a he set out to do, which is to be a writer, and he published a novel, right? writer, and he published a novel, right? Um, he's also Um, he's also seemingly a bad husband. Yeah. And has like real classic like Texas horn has like real classic like Texas horn dog instincts. At least around this dog instincts. At least around this woman. Yeah. He's also clearly like a woman. Yeah. He's also clearly like a very sincere father. Mhm. very sincere father. Mhm. He might be a bad writer. He might be a bad writer. Yeah, that's in play. Yes. But I think Yeah, that's in play. Yes. But I think he's also a pretty sophisticated thinker he's also a pretty sophisticated thinker about the experience of life. Well, about the experience of life. Well, yeah. And both of those things can be yeah. And both of those things can be true. And so he's just he's a he's a true. And so he's just he's a he's a full person. He's not. And the exact full person. He's not. And the exact same thing is true of Seline. Seline is same thing is true of Seline. Seline is incredibly nervy. incredibly nervy. incredibly nervy. She is a little bit emotionally distant She is a little bit emotionally distant at this stage of her life. She's also at this stage of her life. She's also wildly empathetic and thinks of the wildly empathetic and thinks of the world and people beyond herself, right? world and people beyond herself, right? She's artistic and creative, She's artistic and creative, principled and she's ethical. Yeah. And principled and she's ethical. Yeah. And she's also like kind of a pain in the she's also like kind of a pain in the ass and a little bit nuts. Yeah. Yeah. ass and a little bit nuts. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he's morose and depressive and Yeah. And he's morose and depressive and she's baddy. Right. she's baddy. Right. And yet when I look at them, I'm like, And yet when I look at them, I'm like, these are the ideal partners. Like these these are the ideal partners. Like these are this is like this is the the are this is like this is the the masculine and feminine ideal and it does masculine and feminine ideal and it does it results in like you said I thought it results in like you said I thought you put that perfectly. It's just like you put that perfectly. It's just like it still gives you the the perfect movie it still gives you the the perfect movie magic ending right even though when magic ending right even though when you're watching the movie I'm like this you're watching the movie I'm like this is crazy like you know and I'm is crazy like you know and I'm like Jesse is like he's got to get out like Jesse is like he's got to get out of his own head. This is pathetic. Yeah. of his own head. This is pathetic. Yeah. Um and I think that that makes them Um and I think that that makes them relatable and also perfect and the kind relatable and also perfect and the kind of like pedestalling that we like to do of like pedestalling that we like to do with movie stars and with great with movie stars and with great characters like this like it all characters like this like it all applies. And it's also done applies. And it's also done really really in a really sophisticated really really in a really sophisticated way filmmaking wise where lots of long way filmmaking wise where lots of long takes, long walk and talks. There are takes, long walk and talks. There are walk-in talks in the first film, but walk-in talks in the first film, but there's much more cutting, right? It there's much more cutting, right? It doesn't feel like this. It feels much doesn't feel like this. It feels much more documentary style in this movie to more documentary style in this movie to me. Um, me. Um, me. Um, and I don't know, it feels it honestly and I don't know, it feels it honestly feels like they're having the feels like they're having the conversation. That's the thing that I conversation. That's the thing that I take away from this is it does not feel take away from this is it does not feel performed. It feels like they are just performed. It feels like they are just saying what's on their mind. And that saying what's on their mind. And that idea that what's in their lives was idea that what's in their lives was pumped into the dialogue of the films, pumped into the dialogue of the films, right? Makes me feel like I'm watching right? Makes me feel like I'm watching their podcast. their podcast. their podcast. Yeah. Sure. Sure. But in Paris. I mean, Yeah. Sure. Sure. But in Paris. I mean, because that's the other thing that it's because that's the other thing that it's literally just Should we do that? Should literally just Should we do that? Should we relocate the pod to the streets of we relocate the pod to the streets of Paris? I would love to. It would be Paris? I would love to. It would be great. great. great. Um, but I mean, yeah, it's just Um, but I mean, yeah, it's just international landmarks pop up in the in international landmarks pop up in the in the background of literally like half the background of literally like half the scenes. It's a miracle. It's really the scenes. It's a miracle. It's really very special. Yeah. He's like, "Oh, very special. Yeah. He's like, "Oh, not." Yeah. Well, they get on to Batau not." Yeah. Well, they get on to Batau Moosh. Yeah. And she's like, "Oh, I've Moosh. Yeah. And she's like, "Oh, I've never done this before." It's been a never done this before." It's been a long time since I've been in Paris. long time since I've been in Paris. Yeah. You're going soon. I am. Yeah. Yeah. You're going soon. I am. Yeah. When are you going? Uh, end of August. When are you going? Uh, end of August. Right before I go to the Venice Film Right before I go to the Venice Film Festival. It's very exciting. I know. Festival. It's very exciting. I know. I'm really really quite excited. I'm really really quite excited. This episode is brought to you by State This episode is brought to you by State Farm. Life is all about choices. For Farm. Life is all about choices. For example, what happens when you show up example, what happens when you show up at the movies and you're not totally at the movies and you're not totally sure what you want to see. Maybe Final sure what you want to see. Maybe Final Destination Bloodlines, maybe Lilo and Destination Bloodlines, maybe Lilo and Stitch. You've got to make a choice. At Stitch. You've got to make a choice. At State Farm, their goal is to help you State Farm, their goal is to help you make decisions that you feel good about. make decisions that you feel good about. That's why with the State Farm personal That's why with the State Farm personal Price Plan, you can choose the right Price Plan, you can choose the right amount of coverage to help create a amount of coverage to help create a competitive price. Talk to a State Farm competitive price. Talk to a State Farm agent today to learn how you can choose agent today to learn how you can choose to bundle and save with the personal to bundle and save with the personal price plan. Like a good neighbor, State price plan. Like a good neighbor, State Farm is there. Prices are based on Farm is there. Prices are based on rating plans that vary by state. rating plans that vary by state. Coverage options are selected by the Coverage options are selected by the customer. Availability, amount of customer. Availability, amount of discounts and savings, and eligibility discounts and savings, and eligibility vary by state. vary by state. Do you have road not taken thoughts? Do you have road not taken thoughts? Do you mean romantically or I don't think so. Not really. It's of I don't think so. Not really. It's of energy. Yeah. Everything I've done is energy. Yeah. Everything I've done is correct. I was just trying to think correct. I was just trying to think about like I guess there's like like one about like I guess there's like like one other person like I could have married other person like I could have married but like then I would be like I don't I but like then I would be like I don't I don't know that would that would be a don't know that would that would be a bad scene and I might live somewhere bad scene and I might live somewhere that I don't want to offend anyone that I don't want to offend anyone listening but like I don't know like listening but like I don't know like it's Wow, your ex is listening to this it's Wow, your ex is listening to this show. It's pretty wild. No, I met like show. It's pretty wild. No, I met like the people wherever other people live. I the people wherever other people live. I think I would be living and I would be think I would be living and I would be like a little more trad like a little more trad Georgia. No, no, no, no. Um Abs never. Georgia. No, no, no, no. Um Abs never. You don't go to Georgia next week. I You don't go to Georgia next week. I know. Yeah. Yeah. And you will be know. Yeah. Yeah. And you will be staying in Cobb County because you love staying in Cobb County because you love it and you love the people there. That's it and you love the people there. That's not the case. I'll be staying near not the case. I'll be staying near Truist Park watching the New York Mets Truist Park watching the New York Mets combat the Atlanta Braves. Do you have combat the Atlanta Braves. Do you have any Road Not tickets? any Road Not tickets? No, I I I dated a couple people in a No, I I I dated a couple people in a very short term time before my wife and very short term time before my wife and I got back together. But um I got back together. But um No, I was never really invested in No, I was never really invested in anything else besides that. I mean, anything else besides that. I mean, professionally, I probably have like a professionally, I probably have like a thousand. thousand. thousand. Yeah. Well, sure. Like it's really this Yeah. Well, sure. Like it's really this is a real one in a million where I is a real one in a million where I landed in my life. So in that in that landed in my life. So in that in that respect with with my personal life, no, respect with with my personal life, no, I mean have kids, not have kids, that's I mean have kids, not have kids, that's like another example that's an element like another example that's an element of this movie is that Hawk having a of this movie is that Hawk having a child, right? His character Jesse having child, right? His character Jesse having a child makes him feel confined to this a child makes him feel confined to this life that he's chosen, which is a crazy life that he's chosen, which is a crazy thing to say out loud because he of thing to say out loud because he of course has two children with a woman who course has two children with a woman who he's no longer married to, right? Um, I he's no longer married to, right? Um, I might al also argue that just in the might al also argue that just in the context of the character, like don't context of the character, like don't don't say it out loud even if you feel don't say it out loud even if you feel that way. That's what it is. Is that that way. That's what it is. Is that both characters keep saying things out both characters keep saying things out loud that you're not supposed to say loud that you're not supposed to say which is which is how a movie works. It which is which is how a movie works. It is, but somehow this is better. Yeah. Do is, but somehow this is better. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? I don't know why you know what I mean? I don't know why it's better. Is it better writing? Is it it's better. Is it better writing? Is it better performance? I think it's both. better performance? I think it's both. Is it these movies came to us at the Is it these movies came to us at the right time in our lives? I I guess so. right time in our lives? I I guess so. We're like 10 years behind them every We're like 10 years behind them every single time, which I think is helpful. I single time, which I think is helpful. I remember that. I know. I told my dad remember that. I know. I told my dad that before Sunset was the next one. He that before Sunset was the next one. He audibly groaned. Uh because it's not audibly groaned. Uh because it's not Barry Levenson's 10 men. Sorry, Dad. Ten Barry Levenson's 10 men. Sorry, Dad. Ten Men. Men. Men. Uh we we we talked about this with Bill Uh we we we talked about this with Bill on the on the before pods and you know, on the on the before pods and you know, Bill is roughly the same age as as as Bill is roughly the same age as as as Hawk and I think Linkl's a little older Hawk and I think Linkl's a little older than him, but he was watching these than him, but he was watching these movies as they these things were movies as they these things were happening to him, right? And I I think he like related to Jesse. I I think he like related to Jesse. Yeah. But sometimes it can be like too Yeah. But sometimes it can be like too close whereas like it was easier for me close whereas like it was easier for me to be like idealize who that person was. to be like idealize who that person was. You know, it's like when you meet like You know, it's like when you meet like an older kid in school and you're like, an older kid in school and you're like, "How does that kid know how to do all "How does that kid know how to do all that stuff?" Right. Right. Right. Um and that stuff?" Right. Right. Right. Um and do I want to do it that way or can this do I want to do it that way or can this happen? But when you get older than happen? But when you get older than these people, these characters, and they these people, these characters, and they stay this age forever. Yeah. You're stay this age forever. Yeah. You're like, "Why is this guy such a loser? I like, "Why is this guy such a loser? I didn't think he was a loser in 2004. didn't think he was a loser in 2004. Loserish. Yeah, I don't think I really Loserish. Yeah, I don't think I really did either. And well, I think I probably did either. And well, I think I probably thought of him more in the in the story thought of him more in the in the story Ethan Hawk tradition of um of Troy and, Ethan Hawk tradition of um of Troy and, you know, just like hot losers, you you know, just like hot losers, you know, and where like being a loser is know, and where like being a loser is like part of the especially like in the like part of the especially like in the 90s, you know, not like totally having 90s, you know, not like totally having your act together is part of the charm. your act together is part of the charm. Yeah. I never could. I I Yeah. Yeah. I never could. I I Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And and like ultimately it's Yeah. Yeah. And and like ultimately it's not my thing, but like if they he worked not my thing, but like if they he worked that appeal and so you could see it, but that appeal and so you could see it, but now he's just a loser. Zach I saw before now he's just a loser. Zach I saw before Midnight like right when Zach and I Midnight like right when Zach and I first got together. Mhm. So that's like first got together. Mhm. So that's like well that like won't happen, you know? well that like won't happen, you know? That's like they they they made some bad That's like they they they made some bad choices. Uh yeah, but I have not seen it choices. Uh yeah, but I have not seen it since. So I don't know. I guess it does since. So I don't know. I guess it does happen. I gotta go back to Before happen. I gotta go back to Before Midnight. Um, what if we watch it and Midnight. Um, what if we watch it and we're like, "Oh, it should have been we're like, "Oh, it should have been before midnight." before midnight." before midnight." Well, let's talk about the Link Later Well, let's talk about the Link Later movies that we didn't pick because movies that we didn't pick because it's pretty safe to say there was always it's pretty safe to say there was always going to be a Link Later movie on this going to be a Link Later movie on this list. You know, his probably his most list. You know, his probably his most iconic films to this show are this iconic films to this show are this trilogy and Days and Confused. So, Daz trilogy and Days and Confused. So, Daz and Confused obviously not eligible, and Confused obviously not eligible, right? But then you look in the 2000s right? But then you look in the 2000s and this is an interesting time to be and this is an interesting time to be talking about him because he's got two talking about him because he's got two movies coming out this year. movies coming out this year. Let's just go through his movies. Why Let's just go through his movies. Why not? Waking life, Tape, School of Rock, not? Waking life, Tape, School of Rock, Before Sunset, Bad News Bears, Scanner Before Sunset, Bad News Bears, Scanner Darkly, Fast Food Nation, Me and Orson Darkly, Fast Food Nation, Me and Orson Wells, Bernie, Before Midnight, Boyhood, Wells, Bernie, Before Midnight, Boyhood, Everybody Wants Some, Last Flag Flying, Everybody Wants Some, Last Flag Flying, Where'd You Go, Bernardet, Apollo 10 and Where'd You Go, Bernardet, Apollo 10 and a Half, and Hitman. Now, he's been a Half, and Hitman. Now, he's been incredibly active in this time. He's incredibly active in this time. He's made almost 20 movies in this century. made almost 20 movies in this century. And some of them are just clear like And some of them are just clear like misses, you know, like didn't totally misses, you know, like didn't totally turn out the way that they Fast Food turn out the way that they Fast Food Nation Orson Wells, those movies have Nation Orson Wells, those movies have things to recommend about them, but things to recommend about them, but they're not in the upper echelon. School they're not in the upper echelon. School of Rock is his biggest hit. Okay. Um, of Rock is his biggest hit. Okay. Um, and I think it's probably the movie that and I think it's probably the movie that he is best known for in the generation he is best known for in the generation below us. below us. below us. It was recently recommended to me that I It was recently recommended to me that I show Knox School of Rock and that that show Knox School of Rock and that that movie really does hit with the children, movie really does hit with the children, which makes a ton of sense given your which makes a ton of sense given your son's musical gifts. Well, oh, thank son's musical gifts. Well, oh, thank you. That's very kind. But just also you. That's very kind. But just also that it is for people younger than us, that it is for people younger than us, it matters. Small children, it matters. it matters. Small children, it matters. It very much matters. Um, and I like it It very much matters. Um, and I like it perfectly fine. Um, Boyhood's the most perfectly fine. Um, Boyhood's the most acclaimed movie that has made this acclaimed movie that has made this century. I wasn't really going to make a century. I wasn't really going to make a bid for Boyhood, though I know I like it bid for Boyhood, though I know I like it a lot more than you do. Yeah. I a lot more than you do. Yeah. I haven't revisited in a while, but I have haven't revisited in a while, but I have a similar feeling when I watch that a similar feeling when I watch that movie as what I what I feel when I watch movie as what I what I feel when I watch Before Sunset, which is that this feels Before Sunset, which is that this feels very real to me. Well, sure. And it's I very real to me. Well, sure. And it's I mean it's a similar undertaking in that mean it's a similar undertaking in that it is an experiment with how to it is an experiment with how to demonstrate time and someone's life and demonstrate time and someone's life and maturing like overtime on film. Yep. And maturing like overtime on film. Yep. And you know the project with Boyhood was you know the project with Boyhood was that they just they filmed it every year that they just they filmed it every year and released it all at once versus and released it all at once versus before the before trilogy which they're before the before trilogy which they're doing it every nine years. But same doing it every nine years. But same idea. I just think that the before idea. I just think that the before trilogy turned out better. Um, you know, trilogy turned out better. Um, you know, I just Is there any other movie in that I just Is there any other movie in that run? Everybody wants them. I think that run? Everybody wants them. I think that that's the one that you like annotated that's the one that you like annotated on the list cuz you you had a phase on the list cuz you you had a phase where we had a list and then you were where we had a list and then you were just playing devil's advocate. Yeah. And just playing devil's advocate. Yeah. And your devil's advocate was Everybody your devil's advocate was Everybody Wants. I would never say I like Wants. I would never say I like Everybody Wants more than Before Sunset, Everybody Wants more than Before Sunset, but it's powerful. It is very powerful. but it's powerful. It is very powerful. Yeah. Um, to me it is the origins of Yeah. Um, to me it is the origins of Glenn. Oh, Glenn Glen. That's where we Glenn. Oh, Glenn Glen. That's where we met him, right? Yes. Uh, I met him on, met him, right? Yes. Uh, I met him on, uh, what was that Fox show? Scream uh, what was that Fox show? Scream Queens. That was the first time I ever Queens. That was the first time I ever saw him. Yeah. Which he was very funny saw him. Yeah. Which he was very funny on that show. Not Spy Kids 3. Not I on that show. Not Spy Kids 3. Not I probably Jack, you Spy Kids 3? Not Spy probably Jack, you Spy Kids 3? Not Spy Kids 3 specifically, but I am a fan of Kids 3 specifically, but I am a fan of the Spy Kids franchise. Okay, good. Good the Spy Kids franchise. Okay, good. Good to know. Um, And this is pretty pretty pretty And this is pretty pretty pretty comfortably the right choice. It was not comfortably the right choice. It was not not a big fight. Not a lot of So what not a big fight. Not a lot of So what what really is its legacy then? Because what really is its legacy then? Because it's obvious why it made the list, it's obvious why it made the list, right? It's these these performers at right? It's these these performers at their best. It's this great their best. It's this great screenwriting. It's this very simple but screenwriting. It's this very simple but gorgeously executed direction, gorgeously executed direction, right? It's a movie that speaks to a lot right? It's a movie that speaks to a lot of people in a very deep way. But like, of people in a very deep way. But like, is it a big movie is it a big movie forever? I don't know. Well, this is the forever? I don't know. Well, this is the movie that turns the Before Trilogy from movie that turns the Before Trilogy from just like a a romantic '9s movie to an just like a a romantic '9s movie to an actual like to a project, a proper actual like to a project, a proper trilogy, but it also brings in the trilogy, but it also brings in the larger ideas of what if you follow these larger ideas of what if you follow these people over time and what if you watch people over time and what if you watch it at different phases of your life and it at different phases of your life and um so um so um so and like he does this before boyhood and like he does this before boyhood even though I guess they had been even though I guess they had been filming Boyhood for a while anyway that filming Boyhood for a while anyway that it introduces this type of Barry it introduces this type of Barry Linklater style experiment of film Linklater style experiment of film making and this interest of his both in making and this interest of his both in his film making and you know people his film making and you know people haven't ripped this off exactly but haven't ripped this off exactly but there's a lot of movies where people are there's a lot of movies where people are talking together and falling in love talking together and falling in love what do you mean we're about to see what do you mean we're about to see Robert Downey Jr. another Marvel film. Robert Downey Jr. another Marvel film. It's been a 15-year odyssey of following It's been a 15-year odyssey of following Tony Stark turned Victor Von Tony Stark turned Victor Von but this like has become a reference for but this like has become a reference for other people making movies. Um yeah, I other people making movies. Um yeah, I agree. I think he kind of found the agree. I think he kind of found the perfect vessel for his ideas of time and perfect vessel for his ideas of time and time's passage. The Before Midnight was time's passage. The Before Midnight was 2013, so it had been nine years between 2013, so it had been nine years between sunrise and sunset and 9 years between sunrise and sunset and 9 years between sunset and midnight, right? And now it sunset and midnight, right? And now it has been 12 years and there's no sign has been 12 years and there's no sign right that another movie is coming. In right that another movie is coming. In fact, Linklator one has another movie fact, Linklator one has another movie with Hawk, his first since boyhood blue with Hawk, his first since boyhood blue moon coming out later this year. And moon coming out later this year. And two, he's in the middle of another two, he's in the middle of another durational movie project. Right. Right. durational movie project. Right. Right. Right. Merrily, we roll. Yes. Which is Right. Merrily, we roll. Yes. Which is taking place over 20 years. And I don't taking place over 20 years. And I don't know what's up. What's up with Selene know what's up. What's up with Selene and Jesse? What is their I'm at peace and Jesse? What is their I'm at peace not knowing. I'm opposite of the not knowing. I'm opposite of the Angelica people. Yeah, because don't you Angelica people. Yeah, because don't you want to know how to live in your 50s? want to know how to live in your 50s? No, man. I feel like I just No, man. I feel like I just got to get through it and then I'm on got to get through it and then I'm on lock, you know, if if I make it to 55 or lock, you know, if if I make it to 55 or I don't know how old I'll be when Sai I don't know how old I'll be when Sai goes to college. God bless him. Um, will goes to college. God bless him. Um, will they have 55? Will they have colleges they have 55? Will they have colleges then? You don't know. You won't be able then? You don't know. You won't be able to afford them. That's really the to afford them. That's really the question. Honestly, maybe Sai will be a question. Honestly, maybe Sai will be a prodigy. Okay, that's a good point. Um, prodigy. Okay, that's a good point. Um, if he's Doogie Hower, that's a great if he's Doogie Hower, that's a great that's great news. Yeah, that's great that's great news. Yeah, that's great news for everyone. Uh, no, I feel I feel news for everyone. Uh, no, I feel I feel like like like it'll be cool. And if it's like And if it'll be cool. And if it's like And if it's not cool in You think being in your it's not cool in You think being in your 50s will be cool? 50s will be cool? Yeah. To your point about Before Sunrise Yeah. To your point about Before Sunrise having no conflict, like what will the having no conflict, like what will the conflict be once the kids are gone and conflict be once the kids are gone and the logistics are out? That's when it the logistics are out? That's when it all really starts. He he talks about all really starts. He he talks about this in the movie, I guess. I don't He this in the movie, I guess. I don't He says, "I don't want to be one of those says, "I don't want to be one of those guys who gets divorced at 52 and spends guys who gets divorced at 52 and spends all my time thinking about what was it all my time thinking about what was it all for? What did what did I do with my all for? What did what did I do with my life?" Yeah. Well, I mean, I agree with life?" Yeah. Well, I mean, I agree with him. If you're going to get divorced, him. If you're going to get divorced, get divorced earlier. Why is that get divorced earlier. Why is that important? Because then you haven't important? Because then you haven't wasted all the time. But like, you know, wasted all the time. But like, you know, at at 50 at 58 or however I'll be. If at at 50 at 58 or however I'll be. If Zach and I want to like be doing Zach and I want to like be doing different things, then I think we should different things, then I think we should just like go do different things and just like go do different things and have dinner at the end of the day. And have dinner at the end of the day. And that'll be nice. You know, I'm not too that'll be nice. You know, I'm not too stressed about it. Interesting. Okay. So stressed about it. Interesting. Okay. So you guys will not be like parasailing you guys will not be like parasailing together every I will never learn to together every I will never learn to golf. Let me say that right now. I will golf. Let me say that right now. I will literally never learn to golf. Let me literally never learn to golf. Let me ask you a question. Yeah. Why? Uh it ask you a question. Yeah. Why? Uh it seems boring and I don't like being bad seems boring and I don't like being bad at things. Well, you know that. Let's at things. Well, you know that. Let's put it in the right order, please. Do put it in the right order, please. Do you think that that's a you think Do you think that that's a revelation that we're making that I revelation that we're making that I don't like being bad at things? No. I don't like being bad at things? No. I just like hearing you say it out loud. just like hearing you say it out loud. Yeah, I don't. So that seems and that's Yeah, I don't. So that seems and that's the point of golf as I understand it. is the point of golf as I understand it. is like be outside with your friends and like be outside with your friends and then just like to be eternally then just like to be eternally frustrated by it. That seems like the frustrated by it. That seems like the point worst plan ever. But how nice is point worst plan ever. But how nice is it to be outside with your friends? That it to be outside with your friends? That is nice. But I will just have a is nice. But I will just have a cocktail. Okay. Would you ride along in cocktail. Okay. Would you ride along in the cart with him? No. Why? What's wrong the cart with him? No. Why? What's wrong with that? No. I Listen, I wish that you with that? No. I Listen, I wish that you would be together. No, that's what I'm would be together. No, that's what I'm saying. He can go do his thing and then saying. He can go do his thing and then I'll go do my thing and then we'll have I'll go do my thing and then we'll have a nice dinner and talk about our day. a nice dinner and talk about our day. Okay, that seems good. That's That's Okay, that seems good. That's That's great. I feel that you need Before Dawn, great. I feel that you need Before Dawn, which is the final installment of this which is the final installment of this film, so you can know how to live in film, so you can know how to live in your 50s. I think I'm doing okay. Okay. your 50s. I think I'm doing okay. Okay. Um, what else? Like legacy? You made Um, what else? Like legacy? You made such a beautiful list. Oh, I thought you such a beautiful list. Oh, I thought you were doing um the movies if you like. were doing um the movies if you like. Oh, well, we'll get there momentarily. Oh, well, we'll get there momentarily. Um, any other like legacy notes for this Um, any other like legacy notes for this film? You know, Delpy has not really film? You know, Delpy has not really been right terribly present. She's very been right terribly present. She's very present at the Hollywood Farmers Market present at the Hollywood Farmers Market where I see her on a fair occasion. Um, where I see her on a fair occasion. Um, but you know, she's made she's directed but you know, she's made she's directed a few films in the last 10 years. Um, a few films in the last 10 years. Um, Two Days in Paris. Is that what it's Two Days in Paris. Is that what it's called? She did Two Days Day in Paris called? She did Two Days Day in Paris and Two Days in New York. Yeah, Two Days and Two Days in New York. Yeah, Two Days in New York. In Paris was very funny. in New York. In Paris was very funny. Yes, Two Days in New York was the Chris Yes, Two Days in New York was the Chris Rock movie. That sounds right. Um, she's Rock movie. That sounds right. Um, she's directed a couple films that I don't directed a couple films that I don't think were released in the United think were released in the United States. Uh, but she has not really been States. Uh, but she has not really been as much of a lynch pin in Hollywood as much of a lynch pin in Hollywood productions. productions. productions. Hawk's interesting. He's he's had quite Hawk's interesting. He's he's had quite an arc. Um, we talked about him a little an arc. Um, we talked about him a little bit during our Paul Newman Hall of Fame bit during our Paul Newman Hall of Fame episode because he directed that episode because he directed that six-part documentary about Newman and six-part documentary about Newman and Woodward's life. Woodward's life. Woodward's life. Still obviously a huge part of movies Still obviously a huge part of movies and television right now. He's in that and television right now. He's in that very short list of greatest podcast very short list of greatest podcast guests in the universe. I was honestly guests in the universe. I was honestly about to say one of the greatest watch about to say one of the greatest watch guests. He's all awesome talker. Yeah. guests. He's all awesome talker. Yeah. And And And I mean the documentary in a lot of ways I mean the documentary in a lot of ways is like video podcasts with a lot of is like video podcasts with a lot of archival research. Him riffing with archival research. Him riffing with Billy Curtup and and um his other acting Billy Curtup and and um his other acting buddies. buddies. buddies. I is he underrated as an actor, I is he underrated as an actor, overrated? overrated? overrated? I don't even know how to think about him I don't even know how to think about him because he didn't do the thing where he because he didn't do the thing where he was like um was like um I need to be at the center of every I need to be at the center of every movie, right? you know, he didn't pursue movie, right? you know, he didn't pursue that traditional mainstream stardom that traditional mainstream stardom thing. He was always willing to take thing. He was always willing to take chances. He was always willing to play chances. He was always willing to play number two to some big stars training number two to some big stars training day being the most famous example. Got day being the most famous example. Got himself an Oscar nomination. He's going himself an Oscar nomination. He's going to be this year in the Black Phone 2, to be this year in the Black Phone 2, right? And he has had this tradition of right? And he has had this tradition of making What's the setup of that again? making What's the setup of that again? Uh he plays a child murderer who locks Uh he plays a child murderer who locks kids in his basement. But then what is kids in his basement. But then what is the black phone? Where the black phone? Where the black phone sends a call out into the black phone sends a call out into the into into the world into the and in the into into the world into the and in the second film I think it's like into the second film I think it's like into the the world of the undead. Oh. Um he the the world of the undead. Oh. Um he he met a grizzly end in the black phone. he met a grizzly end in the black phone. Okay. And so I think he's being Okay. And so I think he's being connected to whatever from hell. The connected to whatever from hell. The black phone calls him. black phone calls him. Uh we'll see. We'll have to we'll have Uh we'll see. We'll have to we'll have to check out the film. But he's been to check out the film. But he's been using these horror movies to kind of using these horror movies to kind of like Yeah. fund his directorial projects like Yeah. fund his directorial projects or his TV stuff. And um I mean he like or his TV stuff. And um I mean he like Linklater Linklater Linklater came of age in the '9s like indies scene came of age in the '9s like indies scene and even you know in reality bites which and even you know in reality bites which was a more mainstream but he plays like was a more mainstream but he plays like the Houston like angry like deadbeat the Houston like angry like deadbeat really hot loser um and has like sort of really hot loser um and has like sort of stayed stayed in that lane. I mean even stayed stayed in that lane. I mean even as as he is in big budget movies or as as he is in big budget movies or whatever he's not a superhero. He's whatever he's not a superhero. He's never been like a now I will like have never been like a now I will like have my Carrie Grant moment. He's still sort my Carrie Grant moment. He's still sort of, you know, 90s slacker, but not not of, you know, 90s slacker, but not not like slacker in a He's very ambitious like slacker in a He's very ambitious and works a lot, but is staying on the and works a lot, but is staying on the edge of things. I think you're edge of things. I think you're forgetting his role in the TV series forgetting his role in the TV series Moonight. I never saw that, so it Moonight. I never saw that, so it doesn't exist to me. Okay. He played uh doesn't exist to me. Okay. He played uh Arthur Harrow. Is that the one? That's Arthur Harrow. Is that the one? That's not a superhero. That's right. No, no, not a superhero. That's right. No, no, no. It's It's Marvel. He was a cult no. It's It's Marvel. He was a cult leader and an avatar of Amit. Was he a leader and an avatar of Amit. Was he a superhero though or a villain? He was a superhero though or a villain? He was a villain, I think. If But they blurred villain, I think. If But they blurred the line in Moonnight. Kind of an the line in Moonnight. Kind of an anti-hero situation. Yeah. There we go. anti-hero situation. Yeah. There we go. You know, only the most complex work for You know, only the most complex work for you know who played Moonnight? Oscar you know who played Moonnight? Oscar Isaac. That's right. Yeah. No, I mean Isaac. That's right. Yeah. No, I mean that was part of You should go home that was part of You should go home today and watch every episode of today and watch every episode of Moonnight. See how it goes. Let me know Moonnight. See how it goes. Let me know if you enjoy it. I'll meet you at the if you enjoy it. I'll meet you at the potluck afterwards. I think playing a potluck afterwards. I think playing a villain is different than playing the villain is different than playing the superhero, you know. Fair enough. superhero, you know. Fair enough. Recommend it if you like. You did made Recommend it if you like. You did made such a wonderful little list of all my such a wonderful little list of all my favorite movies. So why don't you just favorite movies. So why don't you just read them? I will do that. Brief read them? I will do that. Brief Encounter, David Lean's Masterpiece. Uh Encounter, David Lean's Masterpiece. Uh very important movie for my wife and I. very important movie for my wife and I. No surprise. This is a big one for No surprise. This is a big one for Before Sunset Heads. Jules and Jim, of Before Sunset Heads. Jules and Jim, of course. Yeah. I wrote The Notebook. Mhm. course. Yeah. I wrote The Notebook. Mhm. You know, if you're just a a basic boy You know, if you're just a a basic boy and you know about The Notebook, but you and you know about The Notebook, but you don't know about Before Sunset, give don't know about Before Sunset, give this movie a whirl. Basic. You're open this movie a whirl. Basic. You're open to your emotions if you know about the to your emotions if you know about the book. only read People magazine and this book. only read People magazine and this is your first ever podcast. Welcome to is your first ever podcast. Welcome to podcasts. Welcome to the big picture. podcasts. Welcome to the big picture. Congrats on having seen the notebook. Congrats on having seen the notebook. Give Before Sunset a try. Uh Past lives. Give Before Sunset a try. Uh Past lives. Yeah, we've just spoken about Yeah, we've just spoken about materialists on this podcast. Uh and materialists on this podcast. Uh and that's a good fit. Pride and Prejudice. that's a good fit. Pride and Prejudice. The Joe Wright 2005. That was the the The Joe Wright 2005. That was the the one I was thinking of. You know, you saw one I was thinking of. You know, you saw they're remaking it as a film. I think they're remaking it as a film. I think as a they're doing a TV series again on as a they're doing a TV series again on Netflix after the BBC series with Colin Netflix after the BBC series with Colin Fur and Jennifer Elie. I know. I I Fur and Jennifer Elie. I know. I I agree. agree. agree. Sleepless in Seattle. Great. Great call. Sleepless in Seattle. Great. Great call. Francis Ha. Love it. Anything else you Francis Ha. Love it. Anything else you want to add to that? It's a pretty want to add to that? It's a pretty robust classic. I mean, no, cuz I was robust classic. I mean, no, cuz I was just like, well, that's every movie I just like, well, that's every movie I love, basically. Who are these people love, basically. Who are these people who are like, I'm really into Francis who are like, I'm really into Francis Hob, but I've never heard of Before Hob, but I've never heard of Before Sunset that I've imagined. Do they Sunset that I've imagined. Do they exist? Maybe. And then what a wonderful exist? Maybe. And then what a wonderful day for them, you know. So, there's a day for them, you know. So, there's a scene in this movie and I did talk about scene in this movie and I did talk about this um on the rewatchables episode, but this um on the rewatchables episode, but just kills me every time, which is just kills me every time, which is they're in the van in the back of the they're in the van in the back of the van and she's just had a really like van and she's just had a really like very frustrated moment where she's mad very frustrated moment where she's mad at him and she wants to get out of the at him and she wants to get out of the car. He convinces her to stay and she car. He convinces her to stay and she has her moment and then it shifts to him has her moment and then it shifts to him and he's in a real sadness and he starts and he's in a real sadness and he starts talking about his dreams, right? He has talking about his dreams, right? He has two recurring dreams with her. Oh my two recurring dreams with her. Oh my god. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he's like, god. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he's like, you're at the train station, you're on you're at the train station, you're on the platform, and you go by and you go the platform, and you go by and you go by and he starts telling by and you go by and he starts telling the story of the other dream, right? the story of the other dream, right? Which is that she's naked in bed, Which is that she's naked in bed, pregnant, right? And he touches her pregnant, right? And he touches her ankle. Yeah. And he turns and he looks ankle. Yeah. And he turns and he looks out the window and she reaches for the out the window and she reaches for the for him to touch him. Yeah. And just as for him to touch him. Yeah. And just as he she's about to make contact with him, he she's about to make contact with him, he turns back and she pulls her arm he turns back and she pulls her arm away. And when I saw it the first time away. And when I saw it the first time and when I saw it last night, Yeah. I and when I saw it last night, Yeah. I was like, this is the most emotionally was like, this is the most emotionally powerful thing I've ever seen in a powerful thing I've ever seen in a movie. Yeah. I am devastated by this movie. Yeah. I am devastated by this tiny little action and I to me like that tiny little action and I to me like that is the ultimate legacy of the movie is is the ultimate legacy of the movie is that in these small moments it that in these small moments it communicates something so strong communicates something so strong that hits you like I was crying thinking that hits you like I was crying thinking of Julie Delp like 40 times you know of Julie Delp like 40 times you know Julie Delpy's face in that moment and Julie Delpy's face in that moment and she that also like tears up and looks she that also like tears up and looks like a little like shocked but is like like a little like shocked but is like hit by the emotional blunt force of the hit by the emotional blunt force of the it's it's really amazing. This is a it's it's really amazing. This is a great film. Yeah. Um, is it too high on great film. Yeah. Um, is it too high on the list or too low? Whatever. What's the list or too low? Whatever. What's done is done. done is done. Very well. Thank you to Jack Sanders for Very well. Thank you to Jack Sanders for his work on this episode. Later this his work on this episode. Later this week, we will watch the zombies of 28 week, we will watch the zombies of 28 years later. We'll see you then.