================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: raqHT5YNvek
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=raqHT5YNvek
TITLE: The 25 Best Movies of the Century: No. 20 - ‘Melancholia’ | The Big Picture
CHANNEL: Ringer Movies
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-14
DURATION: 39m 49s
VIEWS: 10,876
LIKES: 274
COMMENTS: 110
TAGS: Movies, Film, Cinema, The Ringer, Ringer, Rewatchables, The Rewatchables, Big Pic, Big Picture, Bill Simmons

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sean and Amanda return to continue their yearlong project of listing the 25 best movies of the 21st century so far. Today, they discuss Lars von Trier’s ‘Melancholia,’ the deeply upsetting 2011 science fiction drama, which stars Kirsten Dunst and Kiefer Sutherland and features one of the greatest opening scenes of all time. They discuss Dunst’s astounding performance, explain why this was such a critical project for von Trier’s career, and revisit the infamous controversy at the Cannes Film Festival and consider what it means for the legacy of the film.

Hosts: Sean Fennessey and Amanda Dobbins
Producer: Jack Sanders

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RINGER CHANNELS
The Ringer-Verse YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@ringerverse
The Bill Simmons YouTube channel: youtube.com/billsimmons

CONNECT
Shop: https://theringer.com/shop
Website: http://theringer.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ringer
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ringer
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ringer

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 14,575

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Davis. And I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Davis. And this is 25 for 25, a big picture special this is 25 for 25, a big picture special conversation show about conversation show about melancholia. The earth is evil. We don't melancholia. The earth is evil. We don't need to grieve it and nobody will miss need to grieve it and nobody will miss it. Is that how you feel right now, it. Is that how you feel right now, Amanda? Sure. Yeah. No, but yes. I'm so Amanda? Sure. Yeah. No, but yes. I'm so excited that we're doing this. I was excited that we're doing this. I was like and and so this is I I mean this is like and and so this is I I mean this is you agree with me. We agreed on all of you agree with me. We agreed on all of these, but this was just like an elated these, but this was just like an elated Amanda pick and I'm like almost giddy. Amanda pick and I'm like almost giddy. And I've been telling people in our And I've been telling people in our life, we were even talking with Jack life, we were even talking with Jack before we started and everyone's like, before we started and everyone's like, "Wow, what a depressing movie. O, you've "Wow, what a depressing movie. O, you've got to watch that right now." And I have got to watch that right now." And I have to be honest, it's obviously incredibly to be honest, it's obviously incredibly dark, but I find it exhilarating. Let's dark, but I find it exhilarating. Let's talk right away about why that is. So talk right away about why that is. So the film is directed by Lars von Trier. the film is directed by Lars von Trier. Yeah. Um it's a you know full 2530 years Yeah. Um it's a you know full 2530 years into his career. Uh the famed Danish into his career. Uh the famed Danish filmmaker. It's a critical movie in a filmmaker. It's a critical movie in a lot of ways. It's a movie that sort of lot of ways. It's a movie that sort of signals his arrival to even though it signals his arrival to even though it this film was not made in Hollywood and this film was not made in Hollywood and in fact he's never been to America a in fact he's never been to America a kind of American and English movie kind of American and English movie movie. Um, he had previously worked movie. Um, he had previously worked with, you know, Nicole Kidman and and with, you know, Nicole Kidman and and Bork and Emily Watson, but this is a an Bork and Emily Watson, but this is a an American movie star and Kirstston Dunst American movie star and Kirstston Dunst and a largely English-speaking cast. and a largely English-speaking cast. Stellin Scarsgard, Alexander Scarsgard, Stellin Scarsgard, Alexander Scarsgard, Charlotte Ginsburg, of course, French Charlotte Ginsburg, of course, French stars as her sister, uh, your boy Brady stars as her sister, uh, your boy Brady Corbet, number of other actors, the Udo Corbet, number of other actors, the Udo Kir, Charlotte Rambling, Kefir Kir, Charlotte Rambling, Kefir Southerntherland in American, Southerntherland in American, and it feels like a classic Lars movie and it feels like a classic Lars movie and yet a totally different kind of Lars and yet a totally different kind of Lars movie. So, contextualize it for yourself movie. So, contextualize it for yourself for us. When did you see it? How did it for us. When did you see it? How did it impact you at the time? impact you at the time? I I do think I saw it the I I do think I saw it the first around the time that it came out first around the time that it came out because I would have been in New York because I would have been in New York and you know I was like in my art house and you know I was like in my art house era. Um but I honestly I think I really era. Um but I honestly I think I really came to this movie because my dad loved came to this movie because my dad loved it so much which is also just an an it so much which is also just an an incredible We'll come back to him. Yeah. incredible We'll come back to him. Yeah. Yeah. and um and the Kirstston dens of Yeah. and um and the Kirstston dens of it all. And I think what you said about it all. And I think what you said about it being both a quintessentially Lars it being both a quintessentially Lars voner movie and also a departure. The voner movie and also a departure. The departure is what brings me into it. departure is what brings me into it. Everything from the you know the staging Everything from the you know the staging the the like the sumptuous lush like the the like the sumptuous lush like it's you know the first half of the it's you know the first half of the movie is at a wedding um at some like movie is at a wedding um at some like ridiculous estate and everything is ridiculous estate and everything is beautifully designed. Well, the whole beautifully designed. Well, the whole movie is the first half is the wedding. movie is the first half is the wedding. The second half is just like, you know, The second half is just like, you know, people dealing with, you know, space and people dealing with, you know, space and the internet and doom. the internet and doom. Um, it uses uh Vagner's Tristan and his Um, it uses uh Vagner's Tristan and his old in this memorable and old in this memorable and really oporatic, pun intended, like over really oporatic, pun intended, like over the the top way, but there is just there the the top way, but there is just there is something is something is something um big and lavish um big and lavish and like and and showy about what it's and like and and showy about what it's doing and not doing and not like grimy and perverted in the way that like grimy and perverted in the way that the many other Vontrier movies can can the many other Vontrier movies can can be. And so the the the open where the be. And so the the the open where the openness or the the difference is kind openness or the the difference is kind of what brings you in to then what is an of what brings you in to then what is an incredible movie about his signature incredible movie about his signature subject which is depression and the subject which is depression and the world uh being awful. Yes. A place of world uh being awful. Yes. A place of pitiles despair. So, this movie, which I pitiles despair. So, this movie, which I assume many listeners of the show have assume many listeners of the show have heard, but many have also not seen, um, heard, but many have also not seen, um, is now streaming on Netflix and Tuby. is now streaming on Netflix and Tuby. So, if you'd like to watch this movie, So, if you'd like to watch this movie, we highly recommend it. We're going to we highly recommend it. We're going to talk about some of the details of the talk about some of the details of the story. Um, it is what it says on the story. Um, it is what it says on the label. It is a story about deep, deep, label. It is a story about deep, deep, deep sadness and pain and also a kind of deep sadness and pain and also a kind of metaphorical pain that comes in the form metaphorical pain that comes in the form of a planet um that is hurtling towards of a planet um that is hurtling towards Earth. It's on a collision course. and Earth. It's on a collision course. and two sisters. Or is it? Well, we can talk two sisters. Or is it? Well, we can talk about that. We can talk about the about that. We can talk about the literalism or lack thereof in the movie, literalism or lack thereof in the movie, but the two sisters, Dunston Ginsburg, but the two sisters, Dunston Ginsburg, one of them is trying to cope with her one of them is trying to cope with her depression or is engaging with her depression or is engaging with her depression, depending on how you read depression, depending on how you read the movie, and the other the movie, and the other is kind of having a hard time accepting is kind of having a hard time accepting the destiny of these two characters. And the destiny of these two characters. And it's a kind of a bifurcated movie that, it's a kind of a bifurcated movie that, you know, says it is about these two you know, says it is about these two women, but I find that it is ultimately women, but I find that it is ultimately very much about the Kirstston Dun very much about the Kirstston Dun character and her pain and also her character and her pain and also her sense of sense of sense of wisdom. Yeah. And whether or not wisdom. Yeah. And whether or not depression is actually the act of the depression is actually the act of the wise is an interesting question of the wise is an interesting question of the movie. Um, Dun's character shares her movie. Um, Dun's character shares her name with the title figure in Marquita name with the title figure in Marquita Assad's 1787 novel, Justine, about a Assad's 1787 novel, Justine, about a virtuous woman who endures a crucible of virtuous woman who endures a crucible of suffering and after being reunited with suffering and after being reunited with her sister is fatally struck by her sister is fatally struck by lightning. Right. Yeah. Off to an lightning. Right. Yeah. Off to an auspicious start. That's not a auspicious start. That's not a coincidence. There are many, many coincidence. There are many, many literary and artistic homages and literary and artistic homages and illusions throughout this movie. It illusions throughout this movie. It opens with this, as you use the word opens with this, as you use the word sumptuous. I couldn't agree more. This sumptuous. I couldn't agree more. This kind of gorgeous fantasia of pain at the kind of gorgeous fantasia of pain at the very beginning. It it is like an very beginning. It it is like an overture and it's set to the prelude overture and it's set to the prelude from just Andy's old. And it's like from just Andy's old. And it's like living paintings is like the best way living paintings is like the best way that that you can describe it. It that that you can describe it. It features the actors in the film and and features the actors in the film and and scenes and really does set out for you scenes and really does set out for you what is going to happen in this film what is going to happen in this film including the ending which Fontrier has including the ending which Fontrier has talked about and his reasoning for that talked about and his reasoning for that is that it's important for you the is that it's important for you the viewer to not be wondering like is it viewer to not be wondering like is it going to collide or is it not going to going to collide or is it not going to collide like you need you actually need collide like you need you actually need to know the ending in order to to know the ending in order to understand what he wants you to understand what he wants you to understand about these characters and understand about these characters and the way they're seeing the world and the the way they're seeing the world and the choices that they that they make, which choices that they that they make, which is sort of his way of saying that um he is sort of his way of saying that um he wants you to understand that the wants you to understand that the depressed person is right. Uh which is depressed person is right. Uh which is like amazing. like amazing. like amazing. And this so this movie is very is funny And this so this movie is very is funny on its on its face like there are on its on its face like there are actually comedic moments. Um, but to me actually comedic moments. Um, but to me there is I I guess it's the way I there is I I guess it's the way I respond to like nihilism and this like respond to like nihilism and this like deep depression. I'm I'm just like it it deep depression. I'm I'm just like it it is actually hilarious to me that he just is actually hilarious to me that he just makes this like makes this like entire like opera about how how how the entire like opera about how how how the depressed person is the only person seen depressed person is the only person seen clearly. It's it's or should who should clearly. It's it's or should who should at least be listened to or who's like at least be listened to or who's like whose journey towards acceptance is whose journey towards acceptance is rational in some ways because the the rational in some ways because the the feeling of depression is so irrational feeling of depression is so irrational and that those who are not kind of in and that those who are not kind of in sync with someone who is feeling sync with someone who is feeling depressed are often approaching them depressed are often approaching them like what is wrong with you? What is like what is wrong with you? What is wrong with you? So this idea of like wrong with you? So this idea of like orienting the truth inside of the person orienting the truth inside of the person who is illogical is such a smart concept who is illogical is such a smart concept and the only way to actually like to and the only way to actually like to find peace and to to make it through find peace and to to make it through whatever is left of the world, right? whatever is left of the world, right? It's I mean it's audacious and and and It's I mean it's audacious and and and funny to me. I think it is because it's funny to me. I think it is because it's so depressing that I don't know how else so depressing that I don't know how else to respond to it. Yeah. I think all of to respond to it. Yeah. I think all of Voner's movies have a sense of humor Voner's movies have a sense of humor about them because they he takes about them because they he takes bleakness to their their absolute bleakness to their their absolute furthest extent. I think one thing that furthest extent. I think one thing that one reason that this movie I feel is one reason that this movie I feel is differentiated and is ultimately my differentiated and is ultimately my favorite of all of his films is he makes favorite of all of his films is he makes a choice to not make the lead female a choice to not make the lead female character like a humiliated victim. She character like a humiliated victim. She is a person in pain, but I think there is a person in pain, but I think there is an incredible sensitivity to her pain is an incredible sensitivity to her pain and that idea of like her being right is and that idea of like her being right is something that you don't necessarily something that you don't necessarily feel in Breaking the Waves or in Dancer feel in Breaking the Waves or in Dancer in the Dark. there's like a punishing in the Dark. there's like a punishing quality to those movies and Dogville quality to those movies and Dogville Manderlay like all of these movies that Manderlay like all of these movies that he's made especially those sort of more he's made especially those sort of more the English ones are the English ones are um are really hard to sit through and um are really hard to sit through and accept and when you arrive at the end of accept and when you arrive at the end of them you say the same thing that you say them you say the same thing that you say at the end of this movie but when you at the end of this movie but when you say it at the end of this movie you can say it at the end of this movie you can say like well I guess we're [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] say like well I guess we're [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] instead of like we are [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Yeah. And instead of like we are [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Yeah. And even though he doesn't necessarily shift even though he doesn't necessarily shift his to totalizing view of the world, the his to totalizing view of the world, the energy that he brings to it and the I energy that he brings to it and the I think the sort of like sensitivity that think the sort of like sensitivity that he has to these characters is a little he has to these characters is a little bit different, which I find really bit different, which I find really interesting. Like I'm not even sure what interesting. Like I'm not even sure what brought him to this stage in his career. brought him to this stage in his career. He's such a controversial filmmaker and He's such a controversial filmmaker and the there's a lot of controversy the there's a lot of controversy embedded in the release of this movie. embedded in the release of this movie. Some self-sabotage for sure. And we can Some self-sabotage for sure. And we can talk about that in a little while. But talk about that in a little while. But um I I just find it to be a bit um I I just find it to be a bit different from any other Vontrier movie. different from any other Vontrier movie. We'll mostly talk about Kirsten Dunst I We'll mostly talk about Kirsten Dunst I think with reason and this is Kirstson think with reason and this is Kirstson Nun's movie and she is I think the Nun's movie and she is I think the Vontrier standin for lack of a better Vontrier standin for lack of a better word. But the Charlotte Ginsburg word. But the Charlotte Ginsburg character is a is like is really character is a is like is really important uh both important uh both in when I watched it again for this in when I watched it again for this podcast I was like oh so one's podcast I was like oh so one's depression and one's anxiety which is a depression and one's anxiety which is a really like fascinating you know and and really like fascinating you know and and and I struggle with both so it's it's it and I struggle with both so it's it's it are two prongs of the same experience he are two prongs of the same experience he there must be some of him in her in there must be some of him in her in Gainesburg character as well um but the Gainesburg character as well um but the Gainesburg character is Gainesburg character is there showing there showing there showing both a lot of empathy for the the dense both a lot of empathy for the the dense character and is kind of the the vehicle character and is kind of the the vehicle for everything you're saying about if for everything you're saying about if not punish not punishing the person at not punish not punishing the person at least trying to accommodate um you know least trying to accommodate um you know and she gets frustrated with the dense and she gets frustrated with the dense character as well but it's someone else character as well but it's someone else who like understands that this is an who like understands that this is an illness that's one thing that she says illness that's one thing that she says to keeper Southerntherland's character to keeper Southerntherland's character like she's ill but then the other thing like she's ill but then the other thing that the Charlotte Ginsburg character is that the Charlotte Ginsburg character is doing doing doing is she she is providing is she she is providing fighting. She is a hopeful person or fighting. She is a hopeful person or she's not hopeful but she wants it to she's not hopeful but she wants it to work out. She is there in opposition to work out. She is there in opposition to Kirsten Dun's whose character who's Kirsten Dun's whose character who's literally just like the world is evil literally just like the world is evil and it's good that it's going to die and and it's good that it's going to die and she is so she provides that sort of like she is so she provides that sort of like human um connection of wait no actually human um connection of wait no actually we don't like not every not all of us we don't like not every not all of us wants not all of our human person wants wants not all of our human person wants this wants this to turn out this way this wants this to turn out this way even if it's going to and I think that even if it's going to and I think that makes it like a little and a little less makes it like a little and a little less less not like closed off, I guess. Mhm. less not like closed off, I guess. Mhm. Yeah. I think it also just makes it feel Yeah. I think it also just makes it feel to me a little bit less like an to me a little bit less like an experiment. A lot of his movies often experiment. A lot of his movies often feel like exercises in endurance and I feel like exercises in endurance and I feel like this movie is just much more feel like this movie is just much more sort of gorgeous and even when things sort of gorgeous and even when things are turning really bad in the third act are turning really bad in the third act of the movie and you know the hail storm of the movie and you know the hail storm begins, it's just a beautiful image. begins, it's just a beautiful image. Beautiful. and he he's always been a Beautiful. and he he's always been a filmmaker with a strong filmmaker with a strong eye, but he usually shoots, you know, in eye, but he usually shoots, you know, in the dog 60 uh dog 95 style, which is the dog 60 uh dog 95 style, which is this like really kind of grainy, intense this like really kind of grainy, intense digital format. And it's very a lot of digital format. And it's very a lot of close-ups. It's a lot of handheld. It's close-ups. It's a lot of handheld. It's a it's like a very unforgiving style of a it's like a very unforgiving style of film making. And this is a style of film film making. And this is a style of film making that is using all the same tools, making that is using all the same tools, but is trying to paint with them. And it but is trying to paint with them. And it just makes for a different kind of just makes for a different kind of movie. And if you look at the later movie. And if you look at the later Vonur movies, you can see that this Vonur movies, you can see that this movie is kind of a turning point for movie is kind of a turning point for him. Like Nyomaniac, another insane him. Like Nyomaniac, another insane movie that is like very unpleasant movie that is like very unpleasant through much of it, but is a bit more through much of it, but is a bit more gorgeous to look at, even though it is gorgeous to look at, even though it is um lots of depraved sex acts for three um lots of depraved sex acts for three and a half hours. Um so it's a critical and a half hours. Um so it's a critical movie for him. It's a it I thought it movie for him. It's a it I thought it was a critical movie for Kirsten Dunst. was a critical movie for Kirsten Dunst. And I'm not sure if that's actually true And I'm not sure if that's actually true because it's a it's a big breakthrough because it's a it's a big breakthrough for her. It gets her out of Mary Jane for her. It gets her out of Mary Jane and being typ cast as the cute bubbly and being typ cast as the cute bubbly blonde, you know, post Bring It On and blonde, you know, post Bring It On and or even as as a teen because with or even as as a teen because with Sophia, she's working, you know, in the Sophia, she's working, you know, in the and she's she's amazing in it. But Marie and she's she's amazing in it. But Marie Antuinette, which is still just like, Antuinette, which is still just like, you know, what if a significant you know, what if a significant historical figure were just a teenager, historical figure were just a teenager, right? And so it is I I guess it's her right? And so it is I I guess it's her first true adult role, but it does not first true adult role, but it does not trigger I the after effects of this trigger I the after effects of this movie are fascinating to me and like movie are fascinating to me and like what parts she took and what movie she what parts she took and what movie she made and how certainly how you view her. made and how certainly how you view her. I mean I think it's fair to say she's I mean I think it's fair to say she's your favorite actress probably. Yeah. Um your favorite actress probably. Yeah. Um and she's I think pretty widely beloved and she's I think pretty widely beloved and respected. Has had really good taste and respected. Has had really good taste for the last 20 years but doesn't have for the last 20 years but doesn't have like seven melancholyas on her resume. like seven melancholyas on her resume. You know what I mean? Do you know what You know what I mean? Do you know what I'm saying? Like I think I was a little I'm saying? Like I think I was a little surprised like reading so much about her surprised like reading so much about her at this time. There's a big feature at this time. There's a big feature about her from uh about her in the New about her from uh about her in the New York Times in the aftermath of the York Times in the aftermath of the release of this movie in part because of release of this movie in part because of the can press conference for the when the can press conference for the when the film premiered and they're writing the film premiered and they're writing about her as though she is about to be about her as though she is about to be Kate Blanchett I would say right you Kate Blanchett I would say right you know like this is a you know young know like this is a you know young actress who's emerged from the chrysalis actress who's emerged from the chrysalis and is about to take over the art house and is about to take over the art house forever more. forever more. forever more. And it took a while. It took a while for And it took a while. It took a while for her to get into Power of the Dog and her to get into Power of the Dog and Civil War. And you know, now she's gonna Civil War. And you know, now she's gonna be, what is her next? Oh, she's going to be, what is her next? Oh, she's going to be in the entertainment system is Down, be in the entertainment system is Down, the new Austin movie, right? She's in the new Austin movie, right? She's in Roofman and Roofman. So, those four Roofman and Roofman. So, those four movies to me feel like the four movies movies to me feel like the four movies that would come in the immediate that would come in the immediate aftermath of melancholy, but it doesn't aftermath of melancholy, but it doesn't quite happen. And I wonder if maybe quite happen. And I wonder if maybe people either didn't see this movie or people either didn't see this movie or didn't quite like weren't ready to didn't quite like weren't ready to accept her as this kind of a performer accept her as this kind of a performer quite yet. I don't know. What do you quite yet. I don't know. What do you what do you think? I mean, she wins best what do you think? I mean, she wins best actress. It can uh which is not always a actress. It can uh which is not always a predictor of uh mainstream American predictor of uh mainstream American success. In fact, like it rarely is. Uh success. In fact, like it rarely is. Uh but it does at least usually give you but it does at least usually give you some attention. I I do think the the some attention. I I do think the the Lars venture of it all around this movie Lars venture of it all around this movie just really limited um its its reception just really limited um its its reception and certainly its American, you know, and certainly its American, you know, crossover. I mean, this is like a a crossover. I mean, this is like a a deeply dark like weird European film, deeply dark like weird European film, you know, that that I we both love, but you know, that that I we both love, but it's not like, you know, go see the it's not like, you know, go see the star, bring it on in like, you know, star, bring it on in like, you know, doing her best of like what it's it's doing her best of like what it's it's it's not commercial to begin with and it's not commercial to begin with and then I think it was so easy after the then I think it was so easy after the dumb press conference to to kind of dumb press conference to to kind of write it off for a bit. You know, I write it off for a bit. You know, I don't know why more directors aren't don't know why more directors aren't working with her in those few years working with her in those few years afterwards. I mean, you're right. It's afterwards. I mean, you're right. It's like almost 10 years. I know she has like almost 10 years. I know she has kids uh during this time as well, and kids uh during this time as well, and she's doing TV. She was on Fargo. That's she's doing TV. She was on Fargo. That's where she met Jesse Plemens, but it is where she met Jesse Plemens, but it is it's pretty confusing how the next 5 it's pretty confusing how the next 5 years don't have anything really of years don't have anything really of note. It's not that the work is bad. note. It's not that the work is bad. It's just, you know, she took It's just, you know, she took Bachelorette, which is a great movie, Bachelorette, which is a great movie, right after this, such a fun comedy. Um, right after this, such a fun comedy. Um, but then it's like the two faces of but then it's like the two faces of January. She's got a modest part in January. She's got a modest part in Midnight Special, a modest part in Midnight Special, a modest part in Hidden Figures. She makes The Beguiled Hidden Figures. She makes The Beguiled with Sophia, which is a good movie, but with Sophia, which is a good movie, but like I cast her in like you're 35 now. like I cast her in like you're 35 now. These are the kind of parts you have to These are the kind of parts you have to play. It's my least favorite of the play. It's my least favorite of the Sophia movies. Um, and then Woodshock Sophia movies. Um, and then Woodshock she makes with her friends, but um the she makes with her friends, but um the uh is it the Malvi sisters? Yes. Um, and uh is it the Malvi sisters? Yes. Um, and and then and then now I felt like Power and then and then now I felt like Power of the Dog kind of reset her trajectory of the Dog kind of reset her trajectory as like this is one of our great as like this is one of our great American actors and deserves these American actors and deserves these parts. You're right that Fargo is pretty parts. You're right that Fargo is pretty significant in that respect too, but I I significant in that respect too, but I I I think this is up I think this is up there with her best work. I mean, this there with her best work. I mean, this is like you could say Marian Twinette is like you could say Marian Twinette and The Virgin Suicides are obviously and The Virgin Suicides are obviously hugely critical. This movie does hugely critical. This movie does something very similar to those two something very similar to those two films, which is that it doesn't have her films, which is that it doesn't have her speak much. And particularly in the speak much. And particularly in the first half of this movie, her character first half of this movie, her character does not have a lot of dialogue. So, she does not have a lot of dialogue. So, she has to has to has to convey all of this pain while also convey all of this pain while also performing her at her own wedding. And I performing her at her own wedding. And I think we all know that feeling when think we all know that feeling when you're at a big event. Yeah. Yeah. And you're at a big event. Yeah. Yeah. And the attention is focused on you and you the attention is focused on you and you are like not happy but you need to are like not happy but you need to pretend to be happy. And just the way pretend to be happy. And just the way like the her smile fluctuates and there like the her smile fluctuates and there are like you know 4,000 different are like you know 4,000 different versions of it as she versions of it as she is reacting to really all of the is reacting to really all of the different absurd things. I mean, this is different absurd things. I mean, this is an amazing wedding and the wedding from an amazing wedding and the wedding from hell. And I I had forgotten the opening hell. And I I had forgotten the opening with that lovely scene in the stretch with that lovely scene in the stretch limo between her and Alexander limo between her and Alexander Scarsgard, you know. And there are one Scarsgard, you know. And there are one of the most painful parts about this of the most painful parts about this movie is all the moments of like beauty movie is all the moments of like beauty and love and like nice things that are and love and like nice things that are there for a fleeting moment before she there for a fleeting moment before she like she but she can't hold on to them. like she but she can't hold on to them. whether it's her uh her nephew Leo. Poor whether it's her uh her nephew Leo. Poor I mean tough for Leo. Uh it's it's it's I mean tough for Leo. Uh it's it's it's not not an ideal life. I don't I don't not not an ideal life. I don't I don't think that I had seen this movie since I think that I had seen this movie since I had kids and once again just like oh I had kids and once again just like oh I did like how the movie is kind of did like how the movie is kind of constantly circling back to what about constantly circling back to what about Leo? What about Leo? Which is what it's Leo? What about Leo? Which is what it's like when you're a parent, you know? like when you're a parent, you know? You're kind of like always circling back You're kind of like always circling back to what's going on with your kid. And to what's going on with your kid. And and also the Justine is locked in on and also the Justine is locked in on that too. Yeah. that too. Yeah. Um, but then you know the wedding is Um, but then you know the wedding is just a nightmare in all of the ways. just a nightmare in all of the ways. There are stupid wedding uh tr you know There are stupid wedding uh tr you know games like the beans. The parents are games like the beans. The parents are not behaving. There's a schedule and a not behaving. There's a schedule and a mean wedding planner. Yes. U he he gets mad because Justine can't U he he gets mad because Justine can't handle it. Has to take a break. And he handle it. Has to take a break. And he just walks around the rest of the movie just walks around the rest of the movie like this with one hand up. He's like, I like this with one hand up. He's like, I can't look at her. She ruined my wedding can't look at her. She ruined my wedding and commits to the bit through half of and commits to the bit through half of this movie. That is hilarious. Stellan this movie. That is hilarious. Stellan Scarsgard gets mad and just starts Scarsgard gets mad and just starts smashing a plate at the catering. Well, smashing a plate at the catering. Well, before that, he gives her work at her before that, he gives her work at her wedding. He asks her to write. Excuse wedding. He asks her to write. Excuse me. Well, he gives her the promotion and me. Well, he gives her the promotion and he's like attached to this promotion is he's like attached to this promotion is you will give me a tag for this ad you will give me a tag for this ad campaign during the wedding. Sure. Which campaign during the wedding. Sure. Which is, you know, and there are series of is, you know, and there are series of perversities. That's a very perversities. That's a very vantrieresque uh addition and also like vantrieresque uh addition and also like whatever tagline like you know there's whatever tagline like you know there's just some like very perverse sexual BDSM just some like very perverse sexual BDSM image that needs the tagline. So, you image that needs the tagline. So, you know, Vontrier is still still doing his know, Vontrier is still still doing his thing very much so. Um, but yeah, thing very much so. Um, but yeah, everyone I would say with the exception everyone I would say with the exception of Alexander Scarsgard, who I think is of Alexander Scarsgard, who I think is portray who portrays a very kind of portray who portrays a very kind of sensitive thoughtful like they're in sensitive thoughtful like they're in love. They care about each other but the love. They care about each other but the magnitude of her depression is so magnitude of her depression is so profound that there's something profound that there's something shielding her from him and he can't shielding her from him and he can't quite get to where she is feeling and quite get to where she is feeling and how she is feeling as hard as he tries. how she is feeling as hard as he tries. the I think that the movie managing to the I think that the movie managing to balance something like that that balance something like that that sensitive, you know, impossible to sensitive, you know, impossible to illuminate distance between two people illuminate distance between two people who are so close while also showing you who are so close while also showing you all of the outlandish, ridiculous, all of the outlandish, ridiculous, silly, like punishing, foolishness of silly, like punishing, foolishness of daily life is part of the genius of the daily life is part of the genius of the movie. But then it's compounded movie. But then it's compounded significantly by this interstellar significantly by this interstellar ecological disaster, right? which is ecological disaster, right? which is that this planet that this planet Melancholia is we think racing towards Melancholia is we think racing towards Earth but might miss Earth and well Earth but might miss Earth and well that's what certain characters are that's what certain characters are saying but we know that's the thing saying but we know that's the thing because we've watched the Overure and it because we've watched the Overure and it collides like beautifully by the way collides like beautifully by the way like it's just again it's really really like it's just again it's really really for a lowbudget European artist make for a lowbudget European artist make sci-fi make it look like this I know I sci-fi make it look like this I know I know there's something to that for sure know there's something to that for sure using the Kefir southern character John using the Kefir southern character John um Gainesburg's character's husband as um Gainesburg's character's husband as the know-it-all rich guy [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] who's the know-it-all rich guy [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] who's like, "Don't worry, everything's going like, "Don't worry, everything's going to be fine. I know what I'm talking to be fine. I know what I'm talking about. You have to read the news. You about. You have to read the news. You don't know what you're talking about." don't know what you're talking about." Is also just like such a precise trope Is also just like such a precise trope like he has identified a guy in the like he has identified a guy in the world. Maybe I am that guy sometimes, world. Maybe I am that guy sometimes, right? Um unfortunately, he's also given right? Um unfortunately, he's also given the line, "Have you been going online the line, "Have you been going online again?" Which is that listen, good again?" Which is that listen, good point. You know, even the idiots speak point. You know, even the idiots speak truth sometimes. It's true. He's he's truth sometimes. It's true. He's he's got a point there. I think that this got a point there. I think that this movie is the internet existed in 2011 movie is the internet existed in 2011 and it was toxic at that time, but it and it was toxic at that time, but it really also preages where our negative really also preages where our negative energies go when something bad is energies go when something bad is happening and how we kind of like happening and how we kind of like amplify those things back and forth to amplify those things back and forth to each other. That being said, in this each other. That being said, in this case, you know, the planet really was case, you know, the planet really was going to hit. Yeah. going to hit. Yeah. This is just an absolutely gorgeous This is just an absolutely gorgeous movie. Um, do you think all life on movie. Um, do you think all life on Earth is evil? Earth is evil? No. No. No. Is it is it two is it just a Is it is it two is it just a manifestation of the sadness the way manifestation of the sadness the way that she takes it to the extreme of that she takes it to the extreme of thought? Yes, I think so. And it's like thought? Yes, I think so. And it's like and and and it's she's giving over to depression. it's she's giving over to depression. you there's a there's an amazing scene you there's a there's an amazing scene where um as Melanchalia is approaching where um as Melanchalia is approaching uh Justine goes out in night and then I uh Justine goes out in night and then I guess like sunb moon bays planet bays um guess like sunb moon bays planet bays um in like the blue glow of melancholia in like the blue glow of melancholia uh and you know and it looks like a uh and you know and it looks like a Renaissance painting and but Justine is Renaissance painting and but Justine is like feeling some sort of like release like feeling some sort of like release or joy or it's and to me or joy or it's and to me it's, you know, giving in to melancholia it's, you know, giving in to melancholia and what's going to happen, but it's and what's going to happen, but it's like this this sadness, this uh this like this this sadness, this uh this illness that you can't keep at bay and illness that you can't keep at bay and that you've been fighting for so long, that you've been fighting for so long, you just like let it let it take over. you just like let it let it take over. Um, and there is like release in that, Um, and there is like release in that, right? Because depression is something right? Because depression is something that you are like fighting against. I that you are like fighting against. I speak from experience. And so I think speak from experience. And so I think that the I I don't think that I don't that the I I don't think that I don't even think the movie thinks the world is even think the movie thinks the world is all bad because it has the Charlotte all bad because it has the Charlotte Ginsburg character. It has Leo. It has Ginsburg character. It has Leo. It has the moment between Alexander Scarsgard the moment between Alexander Scarsgard and Kirsten Dun, the apple trees um and Kirsten Dun, the apple trees um before she just leaves the photograph. before she just leaves the photograph. Even like her idea of her father and her Even like her idea of her father and her father kind of slipping through her father kind of slipping through her fingers as John heard in the movie. You fingers as John heard in the movie. You know, there's like there's real love and know, there's like there's real love and connection or lost connection that she connection or lost connection that she feels like is is important to her. So feels like is is important to her. So it's not that it's this is not it is not it's not that it's this is not it is not nihilism I don't think no it but I think nihilism I don't think no it but I think you're right though that the this the you're right though that the this the moon bathing is the acceptance of the moon bathing is the acceptance of the darkness right that it is like this is darkness right that it is like this is happening and I we cannot beat it and so happening and I we cannot beat it and so I have to embrace it which is a extreme I have to embrace it which is a extreme one of the darkest point of views you one of the darkest point of views you could ever have it is truly the nature could ever have it is truly the nature of suicidal tendency like that is of suicidal tendency like that is exactly what he is located but he's exactly what he is located but he's doing it with contrasting it with like doing it with contrasting it with like literally one of the most beautiful literally one of the most beautiful women on the planet women on the planet completely nude. Mhm. Painted on screen completely nude. Mhm. Painted on screen in like in in a sci-fi glow. It's just in like in in a sci-fi glow. It's just an amazing image making. Amazing. Yeah. an amazing image making. Amazing. Yeah. Um but then he Um but then he also the end of the movie once Justine also the end of the movie once Justine has that acceptance and then she you has that acceptance and then she you know gives there's the speech that she know gives there's the speech that she gives to Claire Charlotte Ginsburg gives to Claire Charlotte Ginsburg character which is you know all life on character which is you know all life on earth is evil. earth is evil. um I don't want to go like have a glass um I don't want to go like have a glass of wine with you on the terrace while of wine with you on the terrace while the like while the planet hits and the the like while the planet hits and the world ends. Um but he still gives you world ends. Um but he still gives you Leo and the and the child character and Leo and the and the child character and there is that moment even as Kirstson there is that moment even as Kirstson nuns has like nuns has like accepted has like given in to the to the accepted has like given in to the to the dark side of the force. I guess I was dark side of the force. I guess I was just listening to your Star Wars just listening to your Star Wars rewatchables. rewatchables. rewatchables. um she's she's made to confront Leo and um she's she's made to confront Leo and so they they embrace and she like does so they they embrace and she like does try to reassure him and she tries to try to reassure him and she tries to make the end of the world okay for him make the end of the world okay for him but that last shot it's Claire who's but that last shot it's Claire who's freaking out and it's Justine but also freaking out and it's Justine but also Leo who are like very calm and the in Leo who are like very calm and the in the in the magic cave as as they call it the in the magic cave as as they call it and there is something to me the the and there is something to me the the darkest thing is is Leo's like calmness darkest thing is is Leo's like calmness in that moment. Um, you know, he it's in that moment. Um, you know, he it's the world is ending and also his parents the world is ending and also his parents are pretty absent. So, I you know, I get are pretty absent. So, I you know, I get it. And an underdisussed theme of this it. And an underdisussed theme of this movie is your parents can really really movie is your parents can really really [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you up. [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you up. Yeah. Uh, [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you up. Yeah. Uh, Charlotte Rambling all all Charlotte Rambling all all time 15minute uh three days on set time 15minute uh three days on set performance. Yes. Well, she plays a performance. Yes. Well, she plays a mother who a a classic narcissistic mother who a a classic narcissistic personality disorder person who has made personality disorder person who has made the event of the marriage all about her the event of the marriage all about her and her discontent with the idea of and her discontent with the idea of marriage and rejecting it in part marriage and rejecting it in part because her marriage dissolved to John because her marriage dissolved to John Hurt who is this kind of like you know Hurt who is this kind of like you know carousing party man who's kissing carousing party man who's kissing various Betty's and uh embarrassing various Betty's and uh embarrassing himself and embarrassing his family and himself and embarrassing his family and but she stands up at the wedding and was but she stands up at the wedding and was like I didn't go to the church cuz I like I didn't go to the church cuz I hate weddings. things that I hate hate weddings. things that I hate everyone here. It's really, but she's everyone here. It's really, but she's incredibly well cast. Charlotte Rambling incredibly well cast. Charlotte Rambling is the dark side of the force. And then is the dark side of the force. And then Kefir Sutherland, I also I've got some Kefir Sutherland, I also I've got some notes for him, for John. Well, as a dad, notes for him, for John. Well, as a dad, you know. Yeah, sure. total denial and you know. Yeah, sure. total denial and then uh then uh then uh finds takes all of Claire's like special finds takes all of Claire's like special pills and but for a movie with like such pills and but for a movie with like such big gestures and such kind of like big gestures and such kind of like purposefully overstated imagery I just purposefully overstated imagery I just find his ability to locate the truth in find his ability to locate the truth in people's real actions like the people's real actions like the archetypes are so real you know the mom archetypes are so real you know the mom making it all about her at a wedding the making it all about her at a wedding the overconfident overconfident overconfident um husband and who will not accept that um husband and who will not accept that anyone could be feeling anything other anyone could be feeling anything other than his truth. You know, the kid who than his truth. You know, the kid who like retreats in moments of fear. Like like retreats in moments of fear. Like they're they're they're very very they're they're they're very very nuanced portraits of very specific kinds nuanced portraits of very specific kinds of people operating inside of a genre of people operating inside of a genre movie that is movie that is also, you know, has homage to like last also, you know, has homage to like last year Marian Bad and this broad tradition year Marian Bad and this broad tradition of existentialist European cinema, of existentialist European cinema, right? And it's just a masterful right? And it's just a masterful synchronization of all of his interests synchronization of all of his interests and also bringing something new to the and also bringing something new to the table that it's really really exciting. table that it's really really exciting. I read a lot about this movie in the I read a lot about this movie in the run-up to this. And AO Scott in his run-up to this. And AO Scott in his review of it, which is an excellent review of it, which is an excellent review of this film, um, notes that review of this film, um, notes that Robert Alman, Noah Bombach, and Jonathan Robert Alman, Noah Bombach, and Jonathan Demi had previously used quote the angst Demi had previously used quote the angst and pomp of a wedding to zero in on the and pomp of a wedding to zero in on the fragility of the human condition. And fragility of the human condition. And there is something to that. You know, my there is something to that. You know, my theory about weddings. thought of you as theory about weddings. thought of you as I rewatched. Uh, any movie that opens I rewatched. Uh, any movie that opens with a wedding is probably a masterpiece with a wedding is probably a masterpiece and any movie that closes with a wedding and any movie that closes with a wedding probably tripe. Um, does this count as probably tripe. Um, does this count as opening? I think so. Okay. Yeah. I mean, opening? I think so. Okay. Yeah. I mean, there she's in a wedding dress on the there she's in a wedding dress on the way to the wedding at the start after way to the wedding at the start after the overture. Yeah. Yeah. And she's in a the overture. Yeah. Yeah. And she's in a wedding dress for some of the overture wedding dress for some of the overture as well. So, I just didn't know whether as well. So, I just didn't know whether the overture disqualifies. I do think the overture disqualifies. I do think the overture is one of the great the overture is one of the great openings in cinema. It's like I had openings in cinema. It's like I had totally forgotten about it before I sat totally forgotten about it before I sat down to watch this again. It's like it's down to watch this again. It's like it's it is the like total opposite, but it's it is the like total opposite, but it's up there with the first 10 minutes of up there with the first 10 minutes of up. You know, one is just like here is up. You know, one is just like here is the possibility of life and one is here the possibility of life and one is here is the impossibility. That's a fabulous is the impossibility. That's a fabulous comparison. And no, 2009 is up. I was comparison. And no, 2009 is up. I was going to say they come out in the same going to say they come out in the same year, but both are about the acceptance year, but both are about the acceptance of death. Yeah. In so many ways. Uh of death. Yeah. In so many ways. Uh what is this movie's legacy? what is this movie's legacy? Well, I guess we'll talk about the press Well, I guess we'll talk about the press conference now. So, at at the at this conference now. So, at at the at this movie uh premiered to movie uh premiered to Caner and they gave Lars a microphone Caner and they gave Lars a microphone and he he made some comments with that and he he made some comments with that he now says were a joke and maybe they he now says were a joke and maybe they were at the time. were at the time. Um saying that he was a Nazi some other Um saying that he was a Nazi some other you know some some stuff that he was you know some some stuff that he was kind to Hitler in some of his comments. kind to Hitler in some of his comments. Not ideal not what you want. It's it's Not ideal not what you want. It's it's really not good. And it was it was not really not good. And it was it was not received well. you know, people were received well. you know, people were appropriately outraged and he was banned appropriately outraged and he was banned from can for a while and seven years he from can for a while and seven years he was banned and but there there was a was banned and but there there was a real stink before anyone could ever see real stink before anyone could ever see this movie. Um and this movie. Um and whatever mitigation they tried to do of whatever mitigation they tried to do of being like well it's Lars Vontrier he being like well it's Lars Vontrier he can't get you know he gets in his own can't get you know he gets in his own way it it didn't didn't work out. So, I way it it didn't didn't work out. So, I do feel like it took a while for the do feel like it took a while for the majesty of this movie to be separated majesty of this movie to be separated from the roll out. Yeah, I I it's hard from the roll out. Yeah, I I it's hard to know how much this specifically to know how much this specifically impacted his career because, you know, impacted his career because, you know, he was he Infammania came out two years he was he Infammania came out two years later. That was a very big movie, drew a later. That was a very big movie, drew a lot of stars to it. Um, and then he made lot of stars to it. Um, and then he made The House That Jack built in 2018 with The House That Jack built in 2018 with Matt Dylan, a serial killer Matt Dylan, a serial killer movie. And he hasn't made any films movie. And he hasn't made any films since then. I guess Atudes is another since then. I guess Atudes is another movie that he's going to have coming at movie that he's going to have coming at some point, but he's been very sick. Um some point, but he's been very sick. Um I believe is it was it Parkinson's that I believe is it was it Parkinson's that he was diagnosed with? I can't recall he was diagnosed with? I can't recall what the the malady was that he's what the the malady was that he's currently battling, but it has made it currently battling, but it has made it extremely difficult for him. Yes. extremely difficult for him. Yes. Um yes, it is Parkinson. So I mean he's Um yes, it is Parkinson. So I mean he's he's historically been a very a he's historically been a very a struggling person. He has a fear of struggling person. He has a fear of flying. He has anxiety. Sure. He flying. He has anxiety. Sure. He obviously obviously struggles with obviously obviously struggles with depressed um and in 2022 he was depressed um and in 2022 he was diagnosed with Parkinson's and so like diagnosed with Parkinson's and so like this movie is kind of the culmination of this movie is kind of the culmination of his career in a lot of ways too and the his career in a lot of ways too and the fact that it is marred by that press fact that it is marred by that press conference that you're talking about conference that you're talking about which was happening and Kirstston Dunce which was happening and Kirstston Dunce was sitting directly to his left and was sitting directly to his left and there's this famous post on 44 rich there's this famous post on 44 rich Jazuak's blog that I remember vividly at Jazuak's blog that I remember vividly at the time of can 2011 that is a series of the time of can 2011 that is a series of gifts like a wall of gifts of her gifts like a wall of gifts of her reaction reaction reaction to everything that Boner was saying at to everything that Boner was saying at this press conference which is really this press conference which is really just like heinous and not funny. No. just like heinous and not funny. No. And it's a it's a performance unto And it's a it's a performance unto itself. I mean it what her what she is itself. I mean it what her what she is doing in that space where she is reviled doing in that space where she is reviled half laughing trying to shrink away from half laughing trying to shrink away from his sentiments. There's a moment when his sentiments. There's a moment when she clearly turns to him and tries to she clearly turns to him and tries to tell him to stop. You know she like tell him to stop. You know she like pulls him aside. And I think she's pulls him aside. And I think she's quoted in the Times as saying that she quoted in the Times as saying that she said, "Lars, this is terrible and not said, "Lars, this is terrible and not funny. Please stop." And then he funny. Please stop." And then he continued on for another 20 minutes. But continued on for another 20 minutes. But it's relevant because it's like it's it's relevant because it's like it's almost like the urges of the movie almost like the urges of the movie coming to life at the press conference. coming to life at the press conference. Like it feels so intertwined with all of Like it feels so intertwined with all of the darkness that is inside of this the darkness that is inside of this movie that I can't help but see the movie that I can't help but see the metatext and the real text colliding at metatext and the real text colliding at the same time. The same way that the the same time. The same way that the planets collide in this movie. Yes. I planets collide in this movie. Yes. I mean he mean he mean he is a a provocator like you know which is is a a provocator like you know which is a overused and kind of annoying word a overused and kind of annoying word word but it is true in that sense that word but it is true in that sense that there is something that he is not just there is something that he is not just like poking at but he is very like like like poking at but he is very like like bluntly and bluntly and bluntly and aggressively putting like the ugliness aggressively putting like the ugliness of that is inside him of that is inside him in his art. But you know I guess also in in his art. But you know I guess also in his daily you know in his daily life and his daily you know in his daily life and just I I just I I think in the confines of a movie you think in the confines of a movie you know it it works very well. It works know it it works very well. It works very well, but you know it it comes from very well, but you know it it comes from a place of of struggle and and a place of of struggle and and you know ugliness and it the two they you know ugliness and it the two they like sometimes artists do this you know like sometimes artists do this you know it's we talk about it all the time right it's we talk about it all the time right like separating the art and the artist like separating the art and the artist and can you and what fuels art you love and can you and what fuels art you love can also be really really unsemly in can also be really really unsemly in real life. I mean, Bork made some very real life. I mean, Bork made some very strong accusations of uh misconduct on strong accusations of uh misconduct on the set of Dancer in the Dark that the set of Dancer in the Dark that didn't seem to meaningfully affect his didn't seem to meaningfully affect his career. He was still casting world career. He was still casting world famous actors and actresses in his famous actors and actresses in his movies. It's unclear like what actually movies. It's unclear like what actually happened in that circumstance. happened in that circumstance. Vontrier also I think at least in the Vontrier also I think at least in the context of this list represents a strain context of this list represents a strain of European cinema that is this blend of of European cinema that is this blend of like the anguished artist the cynicism like the anguished artist the cynicism of the world and the provocator troll of the world and the provocator troll right and there are a lot of other right and there are a lot of other filmmakers who could have made this list filmmakers who could have made this list exactly why Brady Corb is in this movie exactly why Brady Corb is in this movie in a cameo role which we didn't talk in a cameo role which we didn't talk about but it's like it's not you know about but it's like it's not you know yes he he learned at the at the feet of yes he he learned at the at the feet of the masters he did I mean I when he was the masters he did I mean I when he was on the show I asked him did you like go on the show I asked him did you like go seeking out these filmmakers seeking out these filmmakers specifically to like learn how they made specifically to like learn how they made this confrontational cinema because you this confrontational cinema because you know the other artists I'm thinking of know the other artists I'm thinking of are like Gasparoi is one of them but you are like Gasparoi is one of them but you know he worked with Michael Hanukkah on know he worked with Michael Hanukkah on the English remake of funny games Noi the English remake of funny games Noi and and Hanukkah and Vontrier and maybe and and Hanukkah and Vontrier and maybe Brady Brady Brady Corb from Corb from Corb from he's you know he's clearly he has been he's you know he's clearly he has been schooled uh and and responds to the the schooled uh and and responds to the the film making it's funny to see him in film making it's funny to see him in this film I mean He he seems like such a this film I mean He he seems like such a small young boy in this movie. He does small young boy in this movie. He does have a very funny part where he's have a very funny part where he's basically like assigned to Kirsten Dunst basically like assigned to Kirsten Dunst after her promotion and she's the new after her promotion and she's the new art director and she uses him. Yes, art director and she uses him. Yes, there's a hilarious sex scene in a sand there's a hilarious sex scene in a sand track. track. track. I have to say all of the the golf course I have to say all of the the golf course scenes are used for great visual comedy. scenes are used for great visual comedy. Like her just like driving off alone in Like her just like driving off alone in the golf cart in her wedding dress in the golf cart in her wedding dress in the middle of the night like an like out the middle of the night like an like out andout gap for me. And really just like andout gap for me. And really just like how I feel a lot. I was like, "Oh, I how I feel a lot. I was like, "Oh, I feel seen." And like this is this is the feel seen." And like this is this is the meme of me, which is just like goodbye. meme of me, which is just like goodbye. Do you think Do you think Do you think I just I'll cherish that. Do you think I just I'll cherish that. Do you think Voner golfs? I don't. I don't think so. Voner golfs? I don't. I don't think so. No. I think he probably has contempt for No. I think he probably has contempt for golf and that's why he's setting so much golf and that's why he's setting so much of this pain and anxiety. I know. John, of this pain and anxiety. I know. John, the Kefir Southerntherland Kefir the Kefir Southerntherland Kefir Southerntherland character keeps saying, Southerntherland character keeps saying, "How many golf holes do we have?" 18. "How many golf holes do we have?" 18. Nobody else asked that. Nobody else asked that. Okay, cool. Um, I think that this is a a Okay, cool. Um, I think that this is a a a very special movie and a very special movie and it's it's not quite they don't make them it's it's not quite they don't make them like they used to anymore because they like they used to anymore because they never really made anything like this, never really made anything like this, but it isn't a to me a perfect reason to but it isn't a to me a perfect reason to do this list and a perfect convergence do this list and a perfect convergence of our tastes. Yeah. You know that like of our tastes. Yeah. You know that like I am artouse genre guy and you are I am artouse genre guy and you are Kirsten Dun's depression girl and we had Kirsten Dun's depression girl and we had we now have you can be art house we now have you can be art house Kirstston Dun depression girl and I can Kirstston Dun depression girl and I can be depression girl too. It's that we be depression girl too. It's that we share some of these traits, but it is it share some of these traits, but it is it is fun to find something, you know. I I is fun to find something, you know. I I felt very similarly to you when I saw felt very similarly to you when I saw this movie. I was like, "This is a this movie. I was like, "This is a masterpiece. This is like exactly where masterpiece. This is like exactly where I would hope this." If Ivancher made I would hope this." If Ivancher made another movie that was just handheld another movie that was just handheld close-ups on a sad actress's face, but close-ups on a sad actress's face, but with like in the real world while a man with like in the real world while a man abused her, I'd be like, "All right, abused her, I'd be like, "All right, come on, man. Like, we've seen this. come on, man. Like, we've seen this. We've seen this so many times." This is We've seen this so many times." This is an escalation and elevation of those an escalation and elevation of those ideas and very beautiful. Um, recommend ideas and very beautiful. Um, recommend it if you like. Mhm. This is where we it if you like. Mhm. This is where we recommend movies that you may want to recommend movies that you may want to watch if you enjoyed this film. watch if you enjoyed this film. Um, you know, I haven't said Tarovski Um, you know, I haven't said Tarovski yet. yet. yet. Famous Russian filmmaker who is um a Famous Russian filmmaker who is um a lighthouse for Vontrier in many ways. lighthouse for Vontrier in many ways. Another person who constantly wrote Another person who constantly wrote about and made films about about and made films about the desolation of existence. And he also the desolation of existence. And he also was a filmmaker who routinely would take was a filmmaker who routinely would take pieces of science fiction and pieces of pieces of science fiction and pieces of that drama of despair and kind of smash that drama of despair and kind of smash them together without overexlaining very them together without overexlaining very much. You know, Stalker and Solaris, much. You know, Stalker and Solaris, these are like two movies that feel very these are like two movies that feel very synchronized to this movie. So, I would synchronized to this movie. So, I would recommend those. If you're a voner fan, recommend those. If you're a voner fan, obviously Breaking the Waves, I think, obviously Breaking the Waves, I think, is that was widely considered his is that was widely considered his masterpiece up until this point. I think masterpiece up until this point. I think The Idiots is another movie that you The Idiots is another movie that you could think about when watching this, could think about when watching this, though that movie is more fun, for lack though that movie is more fun, for lack of a better word. What What else? What of a better word. What What else? What else would you recommend? So, we each else would you recommend? So, we each put down one of the wedding movies. You put down one of the wedding movies. You know, Rachel getting married, which is know, Rachel getting married, which is the Jonathan Demi, I did Margot and the the Jonathan Demi, I did Margot and the Wedding, the Bombach, which you know, Wedding, the Bombach, which you know, tough tough sits at family at beautiful tough tough sits at family at beautiful family locations, both of them. Two family locations, both of them. Two movies about women who are not getting movies about women who are not getting married who are terribly depressed and married who are terribly depressed and difficult. Uh, and then I think the difficult. Uh, and then I think the virgin suicides is a real what you know virgin suicides is a real what you know it is obviously like Kirstson dunce in a it is obviously like Kirstson dunce in a different life phase but navigating different life phase but navigating similar themes and it's I I would say similar themes and it's I I would say it's a different take on depression but it's a different take on depression but and um something like unknowable and and and um something like unknowable and and strange lurking and what she can strange lurking and what she can communicate without saying very much. I communicate without saying very much. I think it's a good shout. Um and then I think it's a good shout. Um and then I think birth too would be an interesting think birth too would be an interesting one. Jonathan Glazer's film and another one. Jonathan Glazer's film and another Kidman movie where she's lost and birth Kidman movie where she's lost and birth isn't on our list, but spoiler. So, isn't on our list, but spoiler. So, well, we're allowed to do that. Are we well, we're allowed to do that. Are we sure? What if we slotted it in in place sure? What if we slotted it in in place of something else? Yeah, that's true. I of something else? Yeah, that's true. I guess there's time. I mean, Birth is guess there's time. I mean, Birth is absolutely amazing. I love Birth. Uh, absolutely amazing. I love Birth. Uh, any closing thoughts? Uh, this is my any closing thoughts? Uh, this is my favorite movie. Can I tell my Can I tell favorite movie. Can I tell my Melancholia story now? You remember my Melancholia story now? You remember this? Yes, I do. Uh, I was there. Well, this? Yes, I do. Uh, I was there. Well, you weren't actually there at this you weren't actually there at this moment. Um, but I the this movie holds a moment. Um, but I the this movie holds a special place in my heart because um I special place in my heart because um I got married in 2016 and as my dad and I got married in 2016 and as my dad and I were standing like a in, you know, were standing like a in, you know, waiting to walk down the aisle like Zach waiting to walk down the aisle like Zach had left and it was just me and my dad. had left and it was just me and my dad. And my dad turns to me with great wonder And my dad turns to me with great wonder and love and like true joy in his eyes and love and like true joy in his eyes and he says to me, "This is just like and he says to me, "This is just like the wedding in the wedding in Melia." That is a that is like a true Melia." That is a that is like a true thing. That is the greatest my dad story thing. That is the greatest my dad story of all time. And I want you to know I of all time. And I want you to know I also I received it with the love and the also I received it with the love and the happiness. The wedding really did not happiness. The wedding really did not look like the wedding in Melancholia. It look like the wedding in Melancholia. It was in a wonderful wedding and it was was in a wonderful wedding and it was very beautiful. Zach planned it all and very beautiful. Zach planned it all and did a great job. Um and the world is did a great job. Um and the world is still going and I am also still married still going and I am also still married which is you know some signature which is you know some signature differences as well. Uh but just I think differences as well. Uh but just I think I think my dad you know really felt the I think my dad you know really felt the love in the mo in that moment and that's love in the mo in that moment and that's how he shared it and that is why he's a how he shared it and that is why he's a legend. He was trying to be connected to legend. He was trying to be connected to you even more, which is really nice. Um, you even more, which is really nice. Um, and we're going to stay connected cuz and we're going to stay connected cuz the planet, this planet is not going the planet, this planet is not going anywhere. Okay. For now. Yeah. For now. anywhere. Okay. For now. Yeah. For now. There is no incoming planettoid that There is no incoming planettoid that will smash into us. The melancholia will smash into us. The melancholia curve is like a genius bit of writing curve is like a genius bit of writing that is also a genius bit of uh anxiety that is also a genius bit of uh anxiety manifested that's going to haunt me, you manifested that's going to haunt me, you know, of just being like, well, you know, of just being like, well, you think you're safe, but you know, there's think you're safe, but you know, there's the second loop. It's just that I mean the second loop. It's just that I mean that is literally how anxiety works. But that is literally how anxiety works. But I the the diagram will stay with me. I the the diagram will stay with me. Stay with us. Yeah. On 25 for 25. What's Stay with us. Yeah. On 25 for 25. What's Oh, I know what's next. Yeah. Yeah. I'm Oh, I know what's next. Yeah. Yeah. I'm excited about what's next. I missed the excited about what's next. I missed the chance to see this movie on the big chance to see this movie on the big screen recently and I feel sad. I did as screen recently and I feel sad. I did as well cuz I, you know, I wanted I wanted well cuz I, you know, I wanted I wanted to do right by it, but uh that's okay. to do right by it, but uh that's okay. I'm excited for us to have that I'm excited for us to have that conversation. Thank you to Jack Sanders conversation. Thank you to Jack Sanders for his work on this episode. Please for his work on this episode. Please stay tuned to the big picture because stay tuned to the big picture because later this week we will be conducting a later this week we will be conducting a very very very important draft. It's the very very very important draft. It's the Tom Cruz movie draft. Do you feel Tom Cruz movie draft. Do you feel prepared for that? I thought I did and prepared for that? I thought I did and then you introduced some new rules and then you introduced some new rules and characters and I mean I'm emotionally characters and I mean I'm emotionally been waiting my whole life but I got I been waiting my whole life but I got I got to do some homework. This will be a got to do some homework. This will be a fascinating one. We'll see you then.