================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: gfhV8gAl3eY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gfhV8gAl3eY
TITLE: Opendoor CEO: Building the Amazon for Homes
CHANNEL: a16z
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-07
DURATION: 55m 54s
VIEWS: 5,676
LIKES: 0
COMMENTS: 89
TAGS: a16z, andreessen horowitz

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Opendoor is trying to make it easier to buy a home. Kaz Nejatian just joined as CEO to help them succeed.

In this episode, a16z General Partners Alex Rampell and Erik Torenberg sit down with Kaz to cover all things real estate and marketplaces. They cover Kaz’s vision for Opendoor, the problem with copying the hedge fund model, how to build through economic downturns, and the importance of ambition and long-term thinking.

Timecodes:
00:00  Introduction 
00:25  Becoming Opendoor CEO: Mindset & Mission
01:51  The Opendoor Origin Story & Market Dynamics
04:43  The Real Estate Marketplace Problem
09:15  Real Estate Agents & Industry Misalignments
12:00  Attempts to Disrupt Real Estate
14:13  Agency Problems & Transaction Frictions
16:49  Financing, Insurance, and the Home Buying Chain
20:54  Lessons from Other Industries: Cars, Amazon, eBay
26:39  Regulations and Networks
33:02  Opendoor’s Business Model Evolution
33:40  Market Shocks: Interest Rates & Company Response
40:28  Learning fr
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,581

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
There are things you have to deal with in a public company that are uh amplified. Like in a private company, these problems are discussed with your VCs at a board table. In a public company, they're discussed on Reddit and it's cut in the Wall Street Journal. So like if you care a great deal about what's said about you in the Wall Street Journal, running a public company is incredibly difficult. It's just very difficult. Luckily, I just don't care. Cass, welcome to the podcast. Thanks for having me, man. I feel like you're the man of the moment. You recently took over as open door CEO. It's been a few weeks, a month. Uh it's day 16, I think. Day 16. And I feel like you're pioneering a new way of being a public company CEO. What was your mindset sort of first? What got you excited about the opportunity? And then, you know, coming into it, what was your mindset going into how you're going to be CEO of this company? Look, I I I think Open Door will become like this generational company because I think people do a lot of like when they when like when you go to business school, they're like you shall have a business plan and it should be 17 pages and it should have like Porter's five courses on it and that's how it's going to work. And that's just like generally not how great businesses are built at least not that many of them. I think it's important that like great businesses start with a very like simple statement that people can buy into or disagree with, right? Like it's that that's actually important that you're saying something. Yeah. I think like home ownership is good for the world. The more people that can own a home, the better off we are. This is objectively a broken process so we can fix it. So I think I was just like generally excited by the mission uh of the company. Yeah. and uh just I've just been a fan of it for a while and looking from the outside in. I'm like I this is like a this feels good type of problem that I can help with. So you know we're 16 days into this journey. Let's find out that ends up being true. Wow. Well, let's let's trace a little bit of the of the history. Alex, you led our investment into the company. What was the the thesis or vision that that got you so excited about it? Well, I'm gonna I'm gonna talk for a little bit of the background and I'm going to start with Amazon and then I'll get to Open Door. Um, so I remember I met Eric Woo uh when he had first started Open Door with Keith and I think they had they had flipped maybe like 70 80 homes in like right around Phoenix. Um, and the reason why Phoenix is a very interesting market is there there's a term that I'm sure you're intimately familiar with called cap rate or capitalization rate. And think of it as like the income of some asset divided by the price of the asset. So um, the Bay Area has very low cap rates. So you could buy like a $20 million house in Pack Heights. If you wanted to rent it, it might rent for like $10,000 a month or 20, which is a lot, but not as a percentage of the price of the asset. Like, that is very, very low yield. And a place like Phoenix, all the homes are pretty similar. I'm exaggerating for so don't I'm not trying to people live in Phoenix. Um, but you would have like a $200,000 house that might rent for $20,000 a year. So like a 10%. So the the net operating income divided by the asset like that's your cap rate 10% you can actually make a lot of things work because there's always a default buyer of somebody who will say I can arbitrage this. I'm holding a house. I don't have to sell it to another person that wants to buy a house. I can now rent it out. And because I can get a mortgage from a bank for like 5% like I can make the whole math work. So Eric had started flipping homes in Phoenix and made money on most of them. But I was like, ah, you know, I don't know. Flipping homes seems kind of challenging. I mean, it sounds great when all prices go up. But what I was really drawn to, uh, is the vision that he laid out. And when I finally invested, I thought he was pretty along um, towards getting that vision become a reality, which was, this is what I mentioned. I'm going to talk about Amazon. Amazon started off in the 90s basically selling every book in the world, hence Amazon, in like Jeff Bezos's garage or basement or, you know, the warehouse or something. And by selling every book, like having infinite supply of books, he got all of the demand. Um, and then because he got all of the demand, he could say, "All right, I want to now sell something that isn't books. I'm going to sell CDs and DVDs." That was next, but also still stock those in the warehouse, but eventually it's like, "I'm going to sell TVs. I'm going to sell something else. I'm not going to stock them, but I already have all the demand." Um, and I got the demand because I had all the supply for something else. So, I start because this is the chicken and egg problem. Like, do you start off with supply or do you start off with demand? And marketplaces we know are very very valuable but you have to start somewhere because nobody wants to sell if nobody wants to if nobody's buying nobody wants to buy if nobody's selling. So the Amazon model was like find something in like one niche use that to get all of the demand and then once you get all the demand now you can actually attract the supply in a non-principal risk-taking way. So fast forward to open door. So I remember when Eric was flipping all the homes in Phoenix. I was like, "That's clever, but like I don't know." Like I know other people that flipped homes in at in Phoenix. Um, but I think it got to the point where in one of the markets, I think it was Charlotte, if I remember correctly, almost 10% of homes in Charlotte that were under a certain price, call it like $600,000 homes, which actually got buys you a lot of houses in Charlotte. Um, 10% of the homes were bought by Open Door. So now imagine that I want to go buy a house in Charlotte. I can go to the multiple listing service, the MLS, which is you see that on Zillow, Redfin, all of these other sites kind of they just mirror the MLS, but that's only going to show me 90% of homes for sale. The other 10% are only on this thing called openendo.com. So, you don't have to get 100% of the homes in order to get 100% of the users. You get 10% of the homes. You get 5%. It's kind of like the laugher curve. can't exactly define what it is, but there's some quantum and I would call it 10% where if you get 10% of all of the supply, you get 100% of the demand. And once you have 100% of the demand, now you could break this all you could break this like horrible monopoly. Uh, and I I did this whole video on it, which I know I said to you, this horrible monopoly of real estate agent dumb and you can say you can list your house on open.com and we'll charge 1%. And if you pull that off, it's the biggest market in the world. And that's what made me so excited because eBay is a marketplace for everything except for homes. Um, and it's a $45 billion company. Um, there aren't actually big companies in residential real estate. It's kind of strange. Like the biggest ones are Co-Star and Zillow. Um, there's no hundred billion dollar plus company in residential real estate, which is kind of bonkers because it's a bigger asset class than like everything sold on eBay. And so why is that? Why is that? Because it's so hard to aggregate the supply and the demand. And what Zillow and others do is they just do lead generation. It's a terrible business model from a consumer perspective. Like it should have like negative 100 NPS because they're just you're just getting called all day by real estate agents. You're not actually improving the value proposition. And Open Door, it's not about flipping homes. I maybe it is you're you run the company. It's about how do you build a marketplace, the biggest marketplace in the world. I mean to give you a sense of how crazy this is, there's a company called Copart um public company. You know what they do? It is auctions for like not used cars but for like total cars. So if you get into a car accident and State Farm's like, "Oh, that's a total loss." What do they do with the car? They sell it on Copart. Copart, I think it has like a $70 billion market cap. Who buys it? Uh, who buys it? Like people in Russia. Well, no, no, Russia anymore, but like all sorts of like I buy it for parts or I'm going to go fix it up. But Copart is a bigger company than Zillow, right? How is that possible? And it's just because nobody's tackled this. It's the biggest market in the world, but you have to build hopefully a capital-like marketplace. I think this is actually like a very like I think open doors are deeply in the center as a company. Like I think you have to think about companies as like category problems are real in public market investing. Like I remember like when I first joined Shopify in 2019, I think it was like among the highest most shorted stocks on Wall Street because people made a category mistake uh about Shopify. They're like, well, it's another e-commerce company. Like what are the odds it will build all the warehouses that's going to like like that's it's Shop does e-commerce not e-commerce company. Like just the very real the the the the leverage point for Shopify does not come from e-commerce. It obviously comes from software like the software. I think that's actually a problem that that open door has had is that like externally and for admittedly for some time internally the company thought of itself as essentially an investor in real like real estate as an asset class which is not job the company like this is not that's not what the company does. It's a software company designed to solve that problem. I think if you if you attack it like that, you just fundamentally do different things, right? Like if you look at I mean it's a publicly traded company. You actually look at the uh numbers. The company has repeatedly been buying fewer and fewer homes every year, right? Because they're like cool I'm going to buy an asset class. You only buy homes that are mispriced. But turns out not that much in the world is mispriced for a very long time. Yeah. Right. And that just becomes a it may become a good business just won't become a big business. Um and that's I think a fundamental mistake the company has made in the past few years. Yeah. Let's understand this problem a bit a bit deeper. Maybe Alex you could share a couple points from the talk that you gave or maybe explain more sort of the monopoly you know real estate agents have or give some more context here. So, real estate agents um for a very very long time, there are about two million registered real estate agents in the United States of America. And and the the stat that I quoted a couple years ago, I assume it's still the stat, but it is I looked it up. Um so, if you remember mean, median, mode, mean is the average, median is the one in the middle, and mode is the most frequently occurring number. The mode number of transactions per agent per year is zero. So, of the It's kind of like, well, I'm an actor. Oh, well, what was the last film that you're in? Well, I'm kind of a waiter right now. I'm waiting to get a film job. And like that's what a lot of real estate agents are. So even the really good ones, they don't do that many transactions per year and they fundamentally are misaligned with their customers because if I'm a buyside agent, um the more money you spend, the more the more commission I get. So I'm I normally get two and a half to 3% as a buy side agent. So normally you have five to six% as a commission pool. Half of half of which goes to the sellside agent, half of which goes to the buy side agent. And um there have been numerous numerous lawsuits some of which have gone to the Supreme Court attacking this as this kind of like evil not igopoly but this monopoly behavior. And there's an expression that I love um it's by the playwright George Bernard every profession is a conspiracy against the leoty and it's very very hard to deal with problems of concentrated benefit and diffuse harm. So there's a concentrated benefit to the two million real estate agents, you know, small number of whom actually do active transactions, but they conspire, literally conspire to keep these commissions very very high because you buy a house once every 10 years. And you are absolutely harmed because if you're a buyer, well, wait a minute, like the more that you convince me to pay, you get more of that. And then why is it misaligned as a seller? Because the seller gets more like the sellside agent is getting more if you sell for more because they just want to move on and get their check tomorrow. So, if I say, "Okay, you're selling a $10 million house. That's a that's a lot of money." Um, and then there's another seller who will offer you 10 million, $10,000. Well, the the sell side is like, "Well, I get 3% of that. I don't really care." But like, you get an extra $10,000. Like, you really do care about that. So, there's just this is where the whole uh the ph the phrase uh principal agent problem doesn't come from this, but it's like this is a personification or like a real life version of the principal agent problem. So, there were just so many things broken um where it's like every other auction is fair. It's like I see, okay, I want to go list at I can I can sell a used car on eBay. They actually do a pretty good job of that. And I see there are 24 bids. Here's my reserve price. And like it's just very opaque. Um and because it's a very infrequent transaction and you have concentrated benefit and diffuse harm. Um there have been so many attempts to like really really violently disrupt this industry and and one of them and I I should I should um say I'm on the board of Rocket Mortgage which bought Red Fin and Glenn Kelman is an amazing guy started Red Fin and really wanted to disrupt real estate um and said okay we're going to we're only going to charge you 1%. Actually let let me take a step back. The funny thing about real estate agents I've bought many houses. I've never used a real estate agent. Actually that's not true. I did use a real estate agent one time to buy a house. I was trying to say, "I don't want to use a real estate agent to buy a house because you're going to charge me money." He's like, "No, no, no. You don't pay me. The seller pays me." And I'm like, "Where does the seller get the money from?" They're like, "Well, from their bank account." I was like, "No, no, no. I send the money to the escrow agent and then the seller gets the money from the escro agent and then pays you." No, no, no. It's different money. It's like, and I I remember like talking this is what I bought a house at Paul Alter. I told the real estate agent, I will I will not name and shame him. I was like, uh, you know, with all respect, or maybe whenever you say that, you mean no respect, but with all due respect, either I mean, all due respect, yes, with all due respect, of which I give you none, you must think I'm an idiot or I think you're an idiot. And like those are the only two options because it's like it's just absurd to say that like it's free to be represented by a buyside agent. So what Redf fin started doing and this actually did have like a very very positive impact on the industry was like why don't we bring down the 3% buy side fee to 1% by rebating part of it back to the to the the consumer. But you know the state of Oregon bans that going back to every profession as a conspiracy against the lady. If I say hey use use me Eric and not Cass to buy your house and I'm going to take that 3% that's that's advertised as a commission and I'm going to share it back with you. Nope. You'll go to jail. can't do that. It's like that's absurd. So, uh, and then even if you say, I'm going to do buy side representation for 1%. Well, the seller still has to pay 4% now, right? Because if it's a 3% listing arrangement and then 1%, you know, maybe it's 6% all in, but like of the 3% 2% goes back to you. The whole thing is messed up. So, the only way to really violently change this is to have your own marketplace. my my my perspective. I I think actually the the key part here is like transactions that happen incredibly infrequently usually end up being full of fraud. Like there's a reason why car needs leave town. That's a real thing, right? This like I got your money. I'm out of here. Like the odds are you're going to buy maybe two homes in your lifetime. And the odds are you're not going to use the same process to buy both of them. And it's like people people intuitively understand this about used car dealers, right? They're like, "Hey, like I'm not going to go to a used car dealer that doesn't offer certified pre-owned cars because I don't like I don't trust a carer party. I need someone else to certify this thing." Right? That's a very real thing. Um this is why like by the way is software we have a very hard time understanding this problem because in software like most of us get paid every month someone uses our product. It's a long-term relationship, right? Like the more you use it, the more money I make. Um, but it didn't also used to be proven software. And back then, software was also had this problem. Like you kind of want to the best way to align counterparties is to take the transaction and stretch it out over time. To make sure that I'm interested in you liking me 10 years from now. And if you do that, most of these problems tend to get solved. But in order to do that, you need a counterparty or at least a third party to certify that this thing is good that has an interest outside that one transaction immediately. Um, and it's why like Amazon works seemingly well like you buy things from Amazon, you don't like it, you can return it. Which by the way, we launched this yesterday at Open Door in Dallas, Texas. You buy a home from Open Door, you don't like it, you can return it. Like you can move in early. Yeah. Try it out. Don't like it, return it. Wow. And this is like no one would do that. Like this, it don't ever happen regularly with a regular real estate transaction, which is why if you've ever bought a house, your agent has said something along the lines of this. Oh, they just turned down an offer exactly like that. Or, oh, they have another offer coming on Tuesday. They never have another offer coming on Tuesday. They didn't just turn down an offer like that. So I think there's a very real thing that like you just need to a have a counterparty who is interested in the long term, right? Start out a transaction and b remove the I make all my money from this one thing transaction right now thing. And that's both of those things just tend to in any market lead to bad outcomes where there are agency problems that lead to terrible outcomes. Yeah. Well, there's a correlary to that as well which is on the financial services side. So part of it is like, well, if you if I only make a transaction happen every once every 10 years, I don't know it that well. But if you're only doing two of these a year, candidly, you don't know it that well. Yeah. And then you have this other complicated thing like how do you buy a house? How do you afford a house? And to me, it's kind of crazy that like the financing stuff is totally divorced from like the buying and selling, which is like I mean part of how we we became friendly is through a firm, right? Where how do you divorce buying and selling from financing? They are one and the same. And like I can't I can't buy a house until I sell my current house. And like the real estate agent is not going to help me with that. They don't have a big checkbook. No, I think the agency problem better for the agency problem that exists in real estate is actually multiplied uh along the chain because there's usually an agent involved in the mortgage. There's usually an agent involved in the insurance. There's usually like like in every single thing you do sometimes even escrow like there's usually like so you have like like let's say one principal agent problem is a bad one in a real estate transaction usually have five. Yeah. So it's multiplied and let's say one person making money off you once and never seeing you again is bad in a real estate transaction usually have at least five sometimes bigger number like the guy who does the inspection for your house you're never going to see that guy again like like it's a very and I think that actually is I think people can have very good people along this chain of the whole chain and you end up with very terrible outcomes right uh because the system is basically designed to not lead to good outcomes. Well, and the thing is you have a lot of these subscale things that actually are pretty cool that have never been productized and rolled out. So, uh if you are an English professor at Princeton or Stanford, you probably can't afford to buy a house, right? The university helps you buy a house or they will subsidize a mortgage. Um or uh you know, one of my favorite examples is uh there's something called seller financing. So, every now and then you'll see a house sold by a very rich person who was like, "You know what? Uh, I don't need all the cash right now. You can pay me overtime." It's like like BNPL. I mean, a mortgage is BNPL, but like this is somebody saying, "I will be your financing option and not a bank." These are all really interesting ideas, but like you know only Stanford and Princeton and other schools do that for their English professors and only really rich people do this for homes where you could see oh here's a home that's listed for sale that has this like special financing and that's done in like the brickandmortar like retail world every day. That's called like every day that ends in Y. It's like oh we want to sell more stuff like Proctor yeah we want to sell more stuff here's a coupon. um or Xbox wants to sell more things or you know Lexus wants to sell more cars you know 0% financing 0% APR Labor Day sale like doing that for homes makes so much sense but like the real estate agents are not they just don't know what they're doing there is one area in real estate where I think actually there's far fewer of these problems which is when you buy a brand new home from a builder yes when you buy a brand new home from a builder like when you walk into a LAR community and buy a home from them like they've solve most of these problems. The production one, I know exactly what they're like. Yeah, everything is bundled. You you have very few agency problems. You have some still even then if you shop with your own financing, but the odds are you shouldn't just take that financing because like optimized for you. Um and this is I think the second like a very classical problem in basically it's a marketplace problem that you have to solve and I agree with you the way to solve it is um you need to just gather significant inventory uh and make it possible for counterparties to like make it desirable for counterparty to come to you to buy it. Right? This is like we spend so much of our time in the first 16 days of this like me being this company working on buyer stuff because like it must be beneficial to buy a home from us in a way it wouldn't be somewhere else. So you can actually start the flywheel. Yeah. And you said a company that could do that will be one of the biggest in the world. Has a company like Amazon or or other big companies tried to do something like this or is it just so far field that they would would never? Well, the other thing that's I think very unique about this industry is it's so fundamentally local. So if you say I want to beat the MLS, there is no MLS Inc. It's not like I'm going to go beat those guys and the commander's intent of the general is like take that hill. You it's every market is different. And that's the thing. It's like just because like you could dominate Charlotte and that does not make a single dent at all in Hawaii. Um, and actually the one case where I I used a real estate agent to buy my house was in Hawaii. I have a house in Hawaii and they don't use the MLS there. It's just like this captive system where it's just like they make sure that you go through and like those agents do so well because like it just shows the value of a marketplace, but you could have a company that decides I'm going to go run the table in XYZ place and it doesn't show up in a different geography. what what you do see going back to these kind of pockets of esoteric you know products either financial or or real estate um executive moving this is actually like a big thing so imagine that you're hired as actually I have a friend who was hired as the CMO at Home Depot and uh she and her husband lived in New York and guess what Home Depot is not in New York they're in Atlanta they're like okay we will buy your old house from you um and we'll pay like top dollar cash we'll help you buy a house over here. We'll put you up in an apartment for two months. We'll do all of these things. Why? Because they want to get this person hired as the CMO of Home Depot. And they bundle in all these other things. They're not trying to say, "I want to go disrupt the MLS." I mean, they should. I mean, I would hope that eBay, and I I don't know the the history on this. I'm sure you probably have looked into it. Like I know eBay has tried doing real estate and there's another company called auction.com that really got into the distressed commercial real estate space and some distressed residential because if it's distressed like you haven't paid your property taxes government seizes your home need government doesn't want to hold on to home and pay its own property taxes to itself so it auctions it off and it needs to close within five days like that's what like something like auction.com is like very well situated to do but I find that you have some of these bespoke products for as an example executive moves and those were done in the very very first class way like why can't this is the cool thing about technology it's like would you rather be the richest person in the world in 1900 with no penicellin and no iPhone and no Netflix or a middle lower middle class person in 2025 with penicellin and you know Netflix and I'd much rather be the lower middle class person than the richest person in the world in 1900 what technology often does is it helps diffuse these amazing products down to everybody like everybody gets the education of a billionaire like that's the I think that's the motto of of Alpha Score, right? Like let's do all of these things. So you have some of these products um for executive moves and I kind of point to that as an example and you have had attempts at like kind of taking parts of the market and turning it into like an actual you know either open outcry English auction or what's called a second price auction, a victory auction like do all these cool things that are known to work that know that are known to maximize the price but they'll work for one market. Um and then just because I got one market it doesn't help me at all. And then by the way, you have like two million people but call it a subset of those two million people who are like I want you dead and I will vote to change the law in Oregon to like ban this product. So like this is this is what everybody's up against. Yeah. I I think actually is a hard look I think it's a hard problem which is why no one's solved it and like lots of smart people have worked on this problem or at least some parts of it. But I think like there's been three like structural flaws that have basically killed every attempt to solve this. The first one is like let me solve a part of it. let me solve the tiniest like most profitable part of it first which objectively has failed like every single time it's been tried like like when Amazon started they didn't say hey let me sell like selling books is not that profitable but it's a really good way to get inventory right you can get all inventory of all books a PDF you get and has literally every book so like the first problem has been like essentially like narrowing yourself down to one thing the second problem has been basically a channel problem which is that like hey I'm going to solve this problem through the traditional channels and that objectively just has failed like I think miserably like every single time and the third problem is she's like some people have gone like relatively large there are like some relatively large businesses that do this in some pockets of the world but they all essentially tip over and fail because they've solved it by throwing human beings and treating like an operational problem like next three bucket of problems why no kind of solved this um and for I think before like Carvana solved it for cars this exact same problem was like the exact same set of problems same way was existed for cars it's a very I'm corona is like what 3% US car market I don't know how much like probably somewhere around there so I think there's a very real like parallels of like there are things that probably could not have been solved in a way that was affordable and efficient like 10 years ago. Like I generally think it's actually a real thing. Um and there were other problems that were solved the wrong way because for a brief period of time money was free. Yeah. And like everyone made all the wrong decisions they possibly could. But I do think we're in this like special time, this window where like basically all the tools you need to solve this problem kind of exist. We just get deeper there for a sec. How much is real estate like healthcare where sort of the regulatory landscape has distorted the the market and prevented um you know mass mass and feel free to quibble with that framing of healthcare but or is it just a hard is it like immer the the market dynamics you were describing is that just emergent in how real estate sort of works uh so I think that I think it's far more similar to uh automobiles than healthcare I agree like it's just like basically identical honestly like if you look at like how cars cars were sold basically till Tesla everyone had a dealer network because once you had a dealer network one was required but Tesla's like hold on a second if I don't have one dealer I don't have to have any dealers and the answer is yes outside New Jersey I think right and I think Texas you're not allowed to buy a car unless it's sold at a car dealer so like again regular couple of places so for example in uh North Carolina uh Georgia and Louisiana I think those three states you can't close a real estate transaction digitally. You have to have wet signature. That's kind of annoying. That's a real thing. But but it's not at all like the healthare system. It's much more similar. Like there are regulations, some of them good, some of them terrible. Um but they're in nature much more similar to how cars were built. How come we've solved this in cars? And it's just because it's Well, we hadn't sold this in car. We had not saw this in car until like five years ago. Like we saw this car for new cars. Tesla saw this and for used cars, Carbono saw this. Um, and keep like those actually like they're very real operational challenges that Carvana has that don't exist for homes, right? Like Carvana moves every single car they buy. Like Open Door does not move homes. Like homes stay where they are. Yeah. Um, so there's a very real like there are upsides to trying to solve this problem in homes that cars obvious downsides too. Um, but I think there's like a very real and underwriting for what it's worth is like similarish. The underwriting of a car is as is difficult underwriting of a home is difficult. They're not they're similarish difficult like different problems but similar is well this is the main thing is that you can really subsegment the market. And the reason why I I can we could talk for like 10 hours about why healthcare is messed up, but fundamentally there are no prices. Yeah. It's like how much does this cost? Like the doctor doesn't even know and then like oh well we're going to bill your insurance company this much. They won't pay it. And then because they won't pay it like the doctor charges more. It's like the whole thing is messed up. And here you have price transparency for sure. Like I know exactly how much everything is going to cost. You get a little bit misled by some of the agents who say like oh buy side is free because the seller pays blah blah blah. But um there are you could you could chop this up into different markets right? I mean, this is what's very helpful to understand like selling $50 million luxury homes and like how to price those. Like a $50 million house that's a speck home could sell for 25. Like there's not really but this is the cool thing like for real estate because you are almost more so than cars. Real estate people need to live somewhere and they either rent or they own. And then of course there are different models in between. You can like you know rent to own. um you can uh you can you can like get your friend to like give you a free spot and not charge you anything but um you either rent or you own and then the floor on valuation is what's the rental price and how does that compare going back to like cap rates like how does that compare to the cost of capital so um the vast majority of homes in America number one they qualify for what are called conforming mortgages so there already is this idea of it's like where they're like really expensive homes you get like a jumbo mortgage and then there's like everything else and the pricing of everything else is a lot more like cars. It's actually transparent too. It's far more transparent than cars. Like this is a very real like you don't like this a very like with cars. There's a very real thing about repair of cars where like it's very opaque. They can't really know like just very hard like structural damage. Structural damage I call like or like like your fan belt. I don't know what a fan like this very there's things are like difficult and there's OEM like this whole thing like like an OEM part not OEM part. there's like a variety of like things that the decision matrix is much bigger whereas for homes it's relatively transparent and by the way like to open doors credit this is a thing open door is exceptionally good at pricing renovations and change like just they have just like like zero credit to me they've dialed this in um and like in a way that's actually surprisingly good So, which makes sense because who's going to get a better shipping rate with UPS, right? Me who ships one package a year or like Amazon who eventually got such a good shipping rate that they couldn't get any better unless they started their own shipping network called Amazon delivery, right? So, you have economies of scale that never go to the agent, that never go to the customer, but that should go to a company. Yeah. I guess the real thing and this is like actually like the real thing. This is like I'm I'm relatively um ideological about this like I think you can make it such a like open door is an exceptionally good business and the average person pays less for a house and average person sells a house for more like I think you can l it's actually not the math here is not that difficult. Um how do you do that? Well there's so much friction out like if just just let me just give you an example. If open doors does nothing else than help you time your closing of your new house with buying your new old like selling up your old house to closing of your new house like if just if that's all open door does you now have avoided on average about three mortgage payments like like who was getting paid that money like why like why why like and that's a real thing that everyone like everyone pays at least one extra mortgage payment or one extra rent payment and it's frequently more that's just like one thing and not it's like a service that open door can deliver to most people even without buying their house like there's a very real thing. So like I think there's a bunch of these things that exist and like the the agency problem is real um the very real thing on cost of capital which like when you aggregate lots of homes your cost capital tends to be lower. Therefore like that's a real thing. The very real thing about like the level of underwriting you can do on warranties, like the reason Open Door can offer, you know, a 7-day trial of a home is because we own lots of homes. Like, you don't like this one. If we take it back, the odds are you're going to buy another house from us, right? So, this is like there's all these frictions in that exist because the system everywhere is subscale. One, two, because there's so many principal agency problems, right? the second one and third because there's so many of these transactions are onetime transactions. Yeah. Okay. Let's zoom back into the company for a second. So Alex, you you make the investment and you've got this vision for the company uh and the opportunity. What have we learned about the feasibility of the opportunity based on the company performance is another way of asking like for people who haven't been following the company trajectory, you know, how have things gone? What have we learned? What have the ups and downs been etc. Well, so uh there was a point in time where open door was such a good idea. Um you know there there's a saying that we use a lot of venture capital is like you know you want to invest in a bad idea that something that looks like a bad idea that's actually a good idea because if it looks like a good idea that it becomes a bad idea. Um and open door was somewhere in between the two of these because Zillow was like oh my god like you know Rich Barton comes back to Zillow Spencer leaves and it's like I have to go do what Openoro does. Um, everybody was getting into ibine and offerpad, you know, popped up, but like Zillow was the big one and um, they couldn't do it. Uh, well, so but but here's why they couldn't do it. It's an interesting story and like the other part of the story is like Ben Thompson wrote a post that almost like kind of summarizes in a more eloquent form like what I was talking about with like, you know, if you get all the supply or just a small sliver of proprietary supply, you get all the demand. And once you have all the demand, then you can have your then supply just comes to you and that's how you finally build a marketplace. And I think rumor has it that Rich Barton reads Ben Thompson uh as as everybody should because Ben Thompson is very very smart. Like, holy we have to do this. Yeah. Um so they start doing this and they're making infinite money. Um but this is where cohort math is so important because the first homes to sell are the positive selection homes. So imagine that, you know, what is it? It's October right now. Cass and I buy a thousand homes today. The best homes will sell tomorrow. Um, and then the homes that we're stuck with two years from now, like you know, there are ghosts that live in those homes or like the termites, like they're like mega termites. Like there are things that are wrong with it. So Zillow thought as a public company operating the public limelight, they're like, "We're making so much money on I buying because we're holding everything that hasn't sold at NAV, a net asset value, and then we're yielding profits all along the way." But you have to let the whole cohort cure as the term goes. And then it's like uh oh, we lost a lot of money on that cohort. So what happened was Open Door now is getting outbid by because this was such a good idea. Everybody thinks it's a good idea. Kind of started becoming a little bit of a bad idea pre-marketplace. Um Zillow starts paying more. In fact, Zillow even had like, "Hey, don't sell to Open Door. Sell to us. We'll pay a dollar more." And you always have to realize if you talk to anybody who's a professional trader in the equity markets, they're like, "You have to assume that it's an adversarial process." is that, you know, anytime that you have anybody somebody hits your bid, like there's something wrong, right? It's like you should assume that you're about to get taken advantage of. Zillow didn't really understand that, but they kind of muddied the waters for everybody else. Eventually, Zillow pulled out of that business. Um, money started becoming not free. And if you're stuck with a huge amount of inventory, you know, being a market maker, I mean, if you look at the most profitable companies in the world, like Jane Street is a market maker, Virtue is a market maker, Citadel Security is a market maker, they don't win all of the time because if they did, then they were doing something, you know, probably illegal. They make money most of the time. They have a weighted coin and they hold inventory and they're making money on this bid ass spread um from somebody who's hopefully not taking advantage of them, which is why they want retail flow. And what happens though is that if you like a lot of the market makers in the equities world, they don't like to hold positions overnight because things could change. So open door is holding a lot of positions beyond just overnight and then interest rates went from like 0% to like 4% and 4% is not high in the history of the world but is really high to go from like zero to like 4% in like a few months. pace at which interest rate increased right were um I mean I think we can say in hindsight this was actually too like deeply irresponsible for the country like I don't think I think it was very I don't Silicon Valley bank went bankrupt right asset prices went down yeah I think this is like look I don't I think open made lots of mistakes regardless of interest rates but like there's a very real thing that happened which and companies shouldn't take credit or blame for macro but what happened in the US with interest rates had basically never happened before and I think will literally never happen again because it was so obviously stupid. So, so ba basically what happens is like you're left with all this inventory. Um, and the whole point is like if you're just buying and selling and you make money 51% of the time and you're earning a spread between like you know the basically you have the the top bid and the lowest ask and then there's like this this margin in between and if you just kind of keep buying, keep selling, you can actually make this work. Um, and this is again how this is why Jane Street makes a lot of money or Citadel Securities or any of these companies that you've heard of. They're doing it very very frequently. They're typically not holding on to assets for a very long period of time. Some of them never hold on to assets overnight just as a standing rule and Open Door has a lot of assets and then what happens is when asset when sorry when interest rates go up what happens to asset prices? they tend to go down because now it's like think of it in in terms of like a mortgage payment. Like well before my mortgage payment used to be a thousand like I only have a thousand dollars a month to to switch from like my rental payment to buying a house because I can make a down payment. Well wait a minute now it cost me $2,000 a month. So therefore I don't want to buy the house. What happens when aggregate demand goes down? Well prices go down. And actually this didn't happen as much in housing as would have been anticipated because we have a shortage of homes and that's a separate topic. But asset prices in general went down. Like SPB, Silicon Valley Bank went bankrupt because interest rates go up and if you're stuck with a bunch of like, you know, 75 basis point 10-year T bills, they're worth half as much as they were before. Now you have to go sell them. Uh oh, you're bankrupt. Um so the pace that this happened was very very high. And nobody really I mean people anticipated okay our rates are are low but it's like oh the Fed will raise by 25 basis point another 20 like it wasn't like boom and that was the like five sigma or making up the number of sigas but it was a many many standard deviations beyond the norm in terms of what you can anticipate and then it's like all of the risk cap actually it was kind of a double whammy because risk capital like you know venture capital is risk capital so when interest rates are low well I don't want to earn 75 basis points on T bills I'm going to invest in riskier things I'm going to give it to venture capital. I'm going to give it to private equity. So risk capital kind of pulls back. Um asset prices go down. Um demand for homes goes down because interest rates went up. So my monthly So it was kind of like this everything went wrong at the same time. Um and the vision of the company, at least my my vision of the I'm not the founder, but like my vision as an investor was like you guys have a chance at building a marketplace, but it's going to take time. You can't just like snap your fingers and boom, you have a marketplace. Like how long did it take Amazon to build a marketplace? How many like very very sad despondent shareholder letters did Jeff Bezos have to write before marketplace appeared? A long long time. And then open door I think was on the path that then just kind of got hit with this like triple quadruple or maybe quintuple whammy. There's also a real thing. Look, I think companies um it's very good when companies are blamed for the mistakes. Actually good thing for the world. We should all admit our mistakes because that's how we learn. Um the same thing happened to Amazon much earlier and to Carvana around the same time. Yeah. But Amazon and Carbon reacted differently to that thing happening. Like I'm not like cool. Was the original idea a good idea? All right. What was the mistake? Let's just shed the mistakes and go. I think what Open Door Kai publicly did was essentially abandon the original mission. Let's say cool. we're going to derisk this company a lot. We're just going to like d-risk the company across the entire segment. Um, and I think that actually is a very hard spiral to recover from because you've now made it like you've now made a kind of mistake about who you are, which makes it really easy for everyone else to make the same mistake. And then like I I don't I think it's if Open Door is an old-fashioned operational house flipper like that's not that it could be meaningful. It's not that big a business, right? and they lost faith in the original vision and the feasibility of it or would explain to the sort of uh I mean I think look I think there's a very real thing about being a public company that like um there are things you have to deal with in public company uh amplified but I think private companies basically all have the exact same problems but in a public company like in a private company these problems are discussed with your VCs at a board table in a public company they're discussed on Reddit and discarded in the Wall Street Journal so if you care a great deal about what's said about you in the Wall Street Journal running a public company is incredibly difficult. It's just very difficult. Luckily, I just don't care. Um so like it's it's so for it's slightly right. So you so you've come back and you you you've joined and you've said hey let's let's go back. The original vision was a good idea. Let let's let's bring it or how well look I I think the mission is a worthwhile one. I think Openorm has made mistakes along the path and we should learn from our mistakes. Um but the company is not made better by becoming weaker, right? Yeah. Right. That's that's a very real thing. Will we will we make mistakes again? 100%. We will for sure make mistakes again. Like we just launched Tribe before this the seven-day trial of homes in Dallas, Texas. It's day one. I don't know how it's going to go. We'll find out. Um, but I was telling this to um, one of our product managers um, this morning. I got to open door and I felt, have you ever watched um, Braveheart? There's a scene where Mel Gibson standing in front of the Scottish army and the English are coming with like weapons and Mel Gibson standing there saying, "Hold, hold." I'm like, "Don't hold, attack." Okay, I got to open door and I felt like for like three years someone had stood by a company saying hold hold wait like just wait for the macro to recover. Um, and you just don't tend to build great software companies like that. I think you can build great hedge funds like that, but Open Door is not a hedge fund. If it was a hedge fund, it needed to be six guys in New York with laptops. We're not that. We're a software company and software companies need to be basically always on attack. Yeah. Like always, always always on attack. Um we'll attack some long hills. We'll accidentally like lose some ships, but like always on attack. Yeah. Alex, what what advice uh have you given to Cass or what would you be thinking about in terms of what strategic decisions you have to make um or what's important if if you were taking over as CEO? Uh, luckily I'm not. So, thank you for doing the service for mankind. Um, I I think a lot of it I I think uh when I first heard that he was taking the job, I think I sent you my YouTube video. It's actually my most viewed ever video largely by real estate agents who hate me and want to kill me. This was like circulating speaking of Reddit and uh you know the courage to be disliked. It's a good book. Courage to be disliked. Courage. It's a excellent book. I took a camera. Courage to be disliked is among the best books you to read as a founder. You must read it. Excellent. It's this whole like Socratic dialogue uh like in this abarian psychology mode. It's it's very very interesting. So after giving that talk, oh my god, the number of real estate agent hate mail. I didn't know that there was a such thing as like real estate agent hate mail because I was basically saying like these people are like leeches on society. And like lo and behold, they don't like being called that. They don't like being called. And I know some real estate agents, but it's just like the whole process doesn't make sense. there should not be a 6% tax which by the way uh I make this point in the presentation um it's unique to America you go pick any other country in the world it's nowhere near that that level of spread and you don't have all this regulatory capture doesn't make any sense so I think my my big thing was it's like if you have a marketplace for homes it is the biggest marketplace in the world right like we know that the stock market is big but you know what the residential real estate market is bigger so we know that you know everybody body like why is the NYC and NASDAQ worth a lot like why is eBay worth like all of these things that do everything but homes um if we if you stick to that which I think the company I mean this is what Eric Woo was kind of committed to doing and it just became it it was an untenable situation where it's like all of your public it's hard to do it in the public eye for sure because I think it's harder but I don't think it's like I think the company could have still done in the public eye but just the company just had learned a bunch of wrong lessons yeah and that was that was the point it's like when money is free like success is a terrible teacher and it's like, oh, we're making all this money flipping homes and the real the real magic is going to happen if it's like open.com does not take principal risk on a house and it just means that like it's the lowest cost to sell. It's the it's the best way to buy and that's what by the way like buying stuff on Amazon is that's what buying stuff I mean eBay has kind of lost its luster but still if I catch a new home run at a Giants game where do I go sell that? Who has the deepest liquidity? it's going to be eBay and I'm going to sell it there. And everybody who wants to buy a baseball, they go to eBay and like eBay does not have to take possession of the baseball. That's why they have an amazing business. They probably have too many people that work there. They have, you know, it's a shadow of its former self. Apparently, it's still using the same.net library in like 1997. So, all sorts of issues there, but like I'm just excited about this vision of having um a housing marketplace and then also kind of coming up with creative financing options because finance it's like all these are one-offs to your point and then by the way you can come up with like better insurance options like if you control the entire thing and to your point if you have like a lifelong relationship with that customer there's so many things that you can do. This is a this is a very I mean look underwriting a home for mortgage and underwriting a home for insurance and underwriting a home for buying it like fundamentally not that different as exercises. They really they really aren't. But all the players in this space come up with different answers to these questions, right? It's just like this this all should very clearly be done by one person. Like it's very clearly one company should do this and I mean you and I like are money nerds. So I literally wrote a book about that. Yeah. I know you did the US. So I I think there's a very I'm I'm generally excited about this. I do think for what it's worth that the right model actually is much closer to Amazon than to eBay. Yeah. Because I actually think for I think Open Door will have principal risk on quite a lot of it inventory for a very long time now. should only have that. Obviously not. Uh and it's also not a binary thing. It's not like zero risk or 100% risk. There's like it's a gradient. You can live anywhere along the chain. You can deliver different values to like like we don't have to agree with a seller on the price of the home. We can say, "Cool. We agree it's at least this." Right. Right. We'll give you at least that and then let's sell it. You take the rest of the risk. We'll take the risk for the f first bit. Yeah. And there's a lot you can do here. is not like quite binary that becomes like a UX problem rather than underwrite problem but fixable. Well, that's why Amazon is a last I checked $2 trillion company. eBay is a $40 billion company. So, so objectively I hope you become Amazon and not eBay. Well, that's the thing. It's like there's a market order and a limit order. Yes. Yes. And uh there's a value there there's a place for both. Yeah. And there's a lot of liquidity, you know, beneath uh the kind of the top big and the lowest ask. There's there's always a lot of liquidity there. And those are the limit orders. Gearing towards the the future, um what what else can you hint at in terms of the biggest uh priorities or decisions or strategic directions that you're you're focused on? Okay. I think it's very like um like there isn't a fiveyear Soviet plan here. Isn't one um because I think that's just like not to work out anyway. It just doesn't work out that well. Um, the thing I admired, deeply admired about my time at Shopfly is that like if you actually if you watch chess players like go back in time and like start chess, they'll teach you like opening strategies, open like this is what you should do. If you look at modern chess players to do something called positional chess, right? like always put yourself in a better position like play for the next position the one after that and just like give yourself more options and actually it's the right way to build a company transparently like you don't want to like like you want to hold the strategy very loosely not the mission the strategy so I don't have like a secret bag of tricks um but I think there's a very real thing where open door does too little for its sellers and does almost nothing for its buyers Like that's like we'll solve both of those problems. Uh I think there's a very real thing where like I think due to some bad advice, the company tried for a little while to essentially only buy homes that were mispriced. Like we will only buy homes that are mispriced by 20%. And turns out just again you can build a hedge fund doing that. You can't really build a software company doing that. like our goal is to buy and sell homes for a fair price. Like for a fair price, we will buy and sell homes. And um I think those are like three big like like everyone that wayish. And then what we'll do is we'll just like ask people to hold us to account against this mission. like hold us to account against this mission that what we are going to do out there is try to be the the person you transact with quite frequently when buying selling homes not just like 0.5% of the time but a significant percentage of time uh and then well I I I think that's like and by the way we've already like when I started at open door open door was only available in 48 buckets in the US it is now available in every market in the US because like you can push pixel relatively easily. Yeah. So there's a bunch there a bunch of bad stuff that's like I think I think you should people should expect us to be a much more ambitious company. Well, in terms of holding you to account, what one thing that's so remarkable about the company, among other things, is how many people on the internet feel so passionate about the company, the the open army, how do we explain why why Open Door is a company that so many people feel so passionate about and how do you how does that, you know, impact at all sort of the the business or how how you think about? But I I never um I never worked on Wall Street and until I started this job, I owned one ticker. It was Shopify at some point soon. follow this ticker. Um once you know I'm allowed to uh I'm not like a I'm not a stock analyst. I'm just not one. I build parts for a living. Um but I think there's a very real thing that happens where people feel like the natural intuitions of the average American is a very good indicator of what's true. M like William Buckley used to say you used to rather grab the phone book of Boston Massachusetts than go to Harvard professor's book for like advice because it's a very real thing about the natural in intuition of people is real and I think people look at real estate and how those transactions are done and they say well this is stupid like this is not how this should be and it makes it like I think that's what it is I think like people are looking at saying hey this is not how this should work there's a company out who's supposed to who has told us they're going to fix this problem, we want them to go fix it. And what I think this is the most wonderful thing about this is that um if you engage with the average person, they tend to be deeply reasonable, ask really good questions, have really good ideas. Whereas if you engage with like supposed experts, they have like pre perceived biases and they're like usually wrong. there's like a whole like pretense of knowledge thing that happens. Um, so I think it's actually deeply helpful for the company to be a company where like cool you know who I want advice from the average person who owns the stock and is about to buy or sell a home. I want advice from that person because the odds are they have a wider aperture of possibility. Like this is real question that someone asked me the other day saying, "Hey, why can't why can I return what I bought on Amazon and not a home?" Like that's a really decent question. That's like the honest like like from the time someone asked that question to the time we launched the product was maybe I think 12 days because there certain amount of like there's something broken here that is like it is intuition like is intuition is crystallized knowledge and intuition by lots of people is literally knowledge of like significant number of people. I think it's important. Yeah, I think it's a good place to to wrap. Can I do the thing I'm supposed to do and plug for a second please? Yeah. So, please, please, any plugs? Uh, look, uh, it is a bad thing for the world that people in this country can't afford to own their home. Like, people who own homes, kids that grow up in homes that are owned by their parents have better life outcomes. People who live in homes have better communities, lower crime, higher health results. If you're so inclined to solve this problem with us, my DMs are open. Find me. We are going to build the most aggressive team in software.