================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: voRufvFj96k
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=voRufvFj96k
TITLE: A Reappraisal of Indira Gandhi’s Life—and Legacy
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-11
DURATION: 56m 57s
VIEWS: 729
LIKES: 16
COMMENTS: 0
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Indira Gandhi’s ascent as prime minister of India in 1966 seems obvious with the benefit of hindsight, but it was entirely unforeseen at the time.

Within years—if not months—she emerged as one of the most powerful political leaders of her era—serving as prime minister for fifteen years, leaving behind a complex and deeply controversial legacy.

A new book by the historian Srinath Raghavan, Indira Gandhi and the Years that Transformed India, unpacks that legacy, uncovering fresh material that challenges much of the conventional wisdom we’ve accumulated over the years.

Srinath is professor of international relations and history at Ashoka University and nonresident scholar at Carnegie India. He is the author of several celebrated books, including India’s War: The Making of Modern South Asia and Fierce Enigmas: A History of the United States in South Asia.

He joins Milan on the show this week to discuss Gandhi’s unforeseen right to power, the daunting conditions which greeted her premie
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 10,898

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. [Music] Welcome to Grant Tamasha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hindusan Times. I'm your host Milan Bashnov. Indra Gandhi's ascent as Prime Minister of India in 1966 seems obvious with the benefit of hindsight, but it was entirely unforeseen at the time. Within years, if not months, she emerged as one of the most powerful political leaders of her era, serving as prime minister for 15 years, leaving behind a complex and deeply controversial legacy. A new book by the historian Shinat Ragavan, Indra Gandhi and the years that transformed India unpacks that legacy, uncovering fresh material that challenges much of the conventional wisdom that we've accumulated over the years. Shrinath is a professor of international relations and history at Ashoka University and non-resident scholar at Carnegie India. He's the author of several celebrated books including India's war, the making of modern South Asia and fierce enigmas, a history of the United States in South Asia. To talk more about his book, I'm pleased to welcome Shinat to the show for the very first time. Shrinat, congrats on the book. I know that this has been many years in the making. Um, I'm very happy to see this out in the world. Thanks, Phil. Happy to be here. So I want to start by asking you a little bit about uh how you went about writing this book. You know in the in the prologue you mentioned that look there you know kind of shelves and shelves and shelves of of books and articles on Indra Gandhi. But what has kind of remained missing amongst all of that is a book that charts and explains the entire arc of her political career when she becomes prime minister all the way to her assassination. Um, and you say, you know, one of the challenges as a historian or as an author who's trying to grapple with this is that you have not a shortage of material but a surit of materials. And so I thought maybe this is a good place to start. You know, tell us a little bit about kind of the origin story for the book. what was your approach to researching and writing this book? So I really got interested in this subject when I was researching a prior book on the 1971 Bangladesh crisis and the creation of Bangladesh and while I was researching that book especially the Indian side of the story there obviously I had to do a lot of research on uh Indra Gandhi who was then prime minister uh her advisers uh the relationship between the political leadership and the military etc. And that really got me first of all interested in the period but also to gain a familiarity with the kind of archival and other sources that were available to write a history of the 1931 crisis. Uh and as I was doing that it struck me that the materials that were now becoming available slowly at that point of time but then very steadily thereafter were actually quite revealing on a range of counts. both in terms of the kind of detail that we had access to but also about the kind of things they told us about the processes through which decisions were arrived at what were the various considerations and so on. Uh so at that point I decided that you know uh one of the future projects that I'd like to uh attempt uh but I started researching it almost simultaneously with a range of other things was to work on a history of Indian uh politics political economy in what I later called the long 1970s or the period between the mid60s and the mid 1980s which is a period which also kind of coincides uh with what Indra Gandhi was doing. At the same time, you know, given my own background and initial training as an international historian, I was very clear from the very beginning that this story would have to be situated uh in the broader uh global historiography of the 1970s which was also incipient but building up at that time. Uh because in many ways I mean one of the things that I found unsatisfactory about a lot of the writing on this period uh was its sheer insularity. I mean there was a sense that what was happening in India uh is only about India and that the rest of the sort of global factors particularly of the you know the economic the energy and various kinds of crises of the 1970s really did not uh come to play much of a role in the existing narratives and accounts that we had. So it is both uh an availability of new kinds of materials but also of a new perspective uh which I wanted to bring together and you're right in saying that you know uh there is now a feat of material because especially over the last 10 years or so the national archives of India have started declassifying uh thousands and thousands of files pertaining to um Indian politics at this period including files from the prime minister's secretariat so which gives you a fairly granular but high level view of what was happening. So it was a great opportunity to work both with new materials but also to build a new perspective. Now when you talk about some of those global or contextual factors Shinat I mean give us a give us some insight into into what you're referring to and obviously when you think about that period of the 1970s the long 1970s as you call it I mean we have the the oil price shock we have the Vietnam war. What are the other kind of global or environmental factors that you think loom very large during this period? Well, I mean, uh, let's start from the late 1960s, right? I mean, now we have quite a lot of writing on what is called the global moment of 1968, right? This is the time when there are student protests and other kinds of anti-war, particularly anti-Vietnam war protests which were kicking off which led to an upsurge and the arrival of uh young people as important actors on social political issues and so on. And you know, the Indian story of the long 1970s really begins with this global 1968 moment. And I think it's important to recognize that that even before we come to the crisis of the 1970s already in the 60s the Indian story is very closely tied. Right? So for instance if you think of the iconic sort of student movement of the late 1960s in the Indian context it would be the student movement which came to be associated with uh the sort of Mauist upsurge following a revolt in this area called Nakalbari in the state of West Bengal in India. And that was very much part of the global moment of 1968, the cultural revolution in China, but also what is happening in Western Europe, in the United States, Mexico, Japan, other places. So as I see it, I mean the entire arc of the time, you know, starts from the late 1960s is a global kind of an arc and then of course uh you come to the early 1970s when at least three different global factors come together and create the perfect storm uh particularly for uh the Indian economy, right? So you have the United States um getting off the Brettonwood system of fixed exchange rates which sends exchange rates everywhere gating and you know going top to in ways that people struggled to get a grip on. Uh alongside that you had the oil shocks which came of the Arab-Israeli war of 1973 but which was also building up in momentum uh with the OPEC countries deciding a four-fold increase in oil price and that of course had a skyrocketing kind of effect on global inflation particularly for countries like India which were dependent so heavily on oil imports uh and the oil crisis was not simply an economic crisis but it was also an energy crisis which then forced many countries to start thinking about how do we deal with the challenge of energy security and other things. So by the time you come to the mid1 1970s you know which is a time of particular upheaval and turmoil in Indian politics and we can talk about that in uh in a moment but um we have to recognize that all of this is happening against the backdrop of a very significant churn in global economics global politics. I mean if you think of practically any democratic government in the 1970s they were struggling to get a grip on this particular issue. So I see India very much as part of this kind of uh broader story with of course its own specificities which we should attend to. And similarly, you know, by the time you come to the late 1970s and the return of Indra Gandhi to office in 1980, that too happens against the backdrop of the second oil shock which happens as a result of the Iranian revolution uh which again spends uh you know oil prices skyrocketing. There is a huge spike in inflation uh and that is what actually you know really discredits the uh government which precedes her and Mrs. Gandhi finds that she's back in power in 1980. uh and then if you look at the period from 1980 to 1984 once again we see that you know what is happening in Indian politics can very much be situated or located within various kinds of global currents be it in the domain of political economy where there is a clearer understanding that you know we need to move towards what would later come to be called neoliberal kind of systems of economic management but also in terms of other things right of uh the global rise of various kinds of religious movements etc has its counterpart in the context of Indian politics as well. So as I see it pretty much from the late 1960s through to the mid1 1980s um there is a parabola that u Indian political history of the period also tracks and it is very much related and influenced by global currents themselves. So, we're going to get into to to to many of these uh factors in a moment, but but in fact, let me let me rewind a second and and and ask you a question about Indra's life before she ascends to power. Um, one of the things that you talk about briefly in one of the early chapters is that she'd gone off to Oxford to study PPE, right, which is this kind of legendary uh degree, philosophy, politics, economics. And one of the things that I hadn't realized that she dropped out of that course due to illness. And you know, one of the things you write is that uh Gandhi had wide interests. She was very quick on the uptake, but she wasn't necessarily attuned to the demands of sustained reflection. Right. And so I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit of the taste of kind of her her early years. You know, why was it that her ascent to power was so unexpected? Well, Indra Gandhi came from perhaps the most famous and storied political family in India's history in the 20th century. Uh her father Johar Lalu was uh one of the towering leaders of the nationalist movement. The first prime minister of India uh remained so for 17 years from 1947 to 1964. Uh left a deep imprint on practically every aspect of public life in the country. uh and even before Diwaru his father and Indra Gandhi's grandfather Motilu was an immensely successful lawyer one of the sort of towering leaders of the Indian National Congress particularly when it came under the wing of Gandhi so she came from a family which was always in the limelight and I think that u was both a challenge and a source of comfort to her she always had a very strong identity as a neu as someone who came from such a family but at the same time you know she also wanted to find her own life and uh from time to time would take decisions precisely to assert her own independence and her own agency in various ways and and and her biographers have speculated on many of these things. But I think certainly the decision to marry uh Firos Gandhi u was one of them. Uh as was subsequently a decision to step down as the president of the Congress party in the late 1950s and again that was a role which was thrust upon her uh at a time when her father was prime minister. uh interestingly enough not by her father but by her father's uh close colleagues and cabinet ministers and so on. So they felt that she could be an important convict to the prime minister that she should be groomed for such a role. She did it for a year. She enjoyed it. I think she rebelled in the politics of it. She was always someone who liked the nuts and bolts of politics, the mechanics and the workings of it in a way that her father never did. Um but at the same time, you know, she writes to him this very interesting letter in in uh 1960 thereabouts that I really want to go out and find my own life. You know, I'm I'm kind of a little tired of being someone else's wife or someone's daughter, someone's mother and so on. So there's always a sense that you know while she's extremely proud of this uh identity and this legacy of being a nu she also wants to find her own track which is why when after Dala Neru's death in May 1964 there's a you know usual group of sort of pro- neruites within the congress who try and impress upon her that she should put herself forward as a prime ministerial candidate uh from the party she actually shies away from it because at that point of time she's quite seriously considering moving relocating of all places to England and living with her sons who were uh in school at that point of time. So uh but that doesn't work out. Uh her father's successor as prime minister Lal Badu Shastri offers her uh ministership uh within the uh government which she takes up partly because she doesn't have a home and a salary and then it's actually Shastri's sudden death in January in 1966 which gives her the second opportunity to come forward as a prime ministerial candidate and by that time she is ready. You know, you write and and you touched upon this a moment ago that it was really kind of her political weakness that commended her to the party bosses, right? I mean, famously a lot of the so-called Congress syndicate thought they could control her, that she would be this kind of silly uh inexperienced young girl who, you know, they could sort of manipulate. And of course, things turned out very differently. Um, you know, I guess two questions here. One is is there any sense that that you get that she had maybe doubts or concerns about her own abilities and and were there people in the kind of Congress leadership who saw beyond the kind of superficial and and did at the time were they worried or or or could foresee that she would in fact be a force to be reckoned with? Well, I don't think uh there was anybody who actually quite divined the direction in which her political career would uh go on even though they supported her ascent to becoming prime minister in 1966. Uh she certainly had her own doubts. She knew that there were many things that she did not know that while she had considerable experience of politics, had observed her father operating at the highest levels of government and of international politics uh for a very long period of time. So she was no lowest to politics, right? I mean she has a lot of experience and understanding but she doesn't know a lot of things about the mechanics of government policym etc. So she knew what she did not know and uh was open to taking soundings from advisers and others. So to that extent there was a difference but I think you know in January 1966 when the second opportunity presents itself Indra Gandhi feels that you know India is in a moment of crisis uh economic crisis political crisis we can talk about what the origins of those things were but at this point of time she felt that the Nuvian legacy itself was in danger of being discarded and that in some ways she saw herself as the keeper of the flame as the person who would make sure that the country stuck. to the p lines of political, economic, international profile that her father had set the country on. So she very much takes it up as an opportunity to more or less kind of make sure that the country remains within the framework within which Lalu had left it. So at that point of time, as much as she's diffident about some of her abilities, she also thinks that she has a responsibility to come forward and take this legacy ahead. Well, I mean that that's actually a nice segue to to what I wanted to ask you about. I mean she comes to power um in 1966 at a time when you know the the kind of so-called Naruvian state had sputtered to an halt. There was a war with Pakistan which had just concluded in 1965. There was drought. Uh the Congress's hold on kind of Indian democracy seemed more tentative than ever before. Um you know set the scene for us. you know what were some of the prevailing conditions and concerns in India at the time she first becomes prime minister? Well, I think the most you know succinct and telegraphic way of understanding is that you had before she became prime minister around just just around the time that she takes up the job India in a very short span of about four years has been through two wars one with China and one with Pakistan. It has been through two prime ministerial transitions, one after Neu and one after Lalvadu Shastri. And it has had two successive years of drought which means that this largely agrarian economy which is dependent on food uh sort of being supplied from elsewhere for the most part is facing a very serious famine-like situation and all of this is means that the entire sort of exercise of a planned economy which was the main sort of instrument and framework within which Indian economic policym was being made was very rapidly coming unstuck because you know you suddenly had these imperatives of defense. You had these imperatives of thinking about agricultural modernization. You had these imperatives of moving towards new technology uh in agriculture which needed more imports. All of which meant that you know the carefully balanced kind of planned exercise which was already in trouble but was somehow the show was being going on. It seemed like it could not go on altogether. So this is a moment really of very deep crisis and uh you know interestingly there's an a letter which Indra Gandhi writes to a a friend of hers whom she knows from the 1930s a man called P and Huxer whom she would later rope open to become her principal secretary and the most powerful figure in her prime ministerial secretary. Uh at that time Huxer is a diplomat posted in Britain and she writes to him saying that you know if I look at the country around me the economy is in total stagnation industrial production has more or less grown to a halt and the Congress party seems commcapable of responding to a situation like this right so so she knew very well that she was coming in at a time when the country was being buffeted by these multiple crises and points of tension but but you know there's there's another set of crises which which face her soon after coming to office right because she comes to power in ' 66 ' 67 there are uh elections both at the state and the national level Congress faces a major setback their popularity is dented at the national level yes they continue to form the government but with a reduced mandate but they lose an important clutch of state elections across the country and in some of these states uh we now know they never fully recovered you write that this was uh kind of a triple crisis. It was a crisis of hegemony, a crisis of representation and a crisis of governance. And I wonder if you could just say a little bit about each of those crisis that she faced just a year after coming to power. Yeah. So the what 1967 crystallizes is these three crises coming together and I think it's not just the general elections of 1967 but also the outbreak of the sort of you know mauist revolt in Nakalbari and thereafter which in some ways suggests that you know the there is a section of the Indian political class which no longer wants to play by the rules of parliamentary democracy and so on. So what do we mean when I say a crisis of hegmony? Right? When we talk about a hegmonic order, we refer to a political system which operates more by consent of those who are being ruled than by coercion from the rulers themselves. Right? So consent exceeds coercion is the basic definition of a hegmonic political system. And in the Indian political system as it was crafted after independence and particularly the period between 1947 and 1950 when you had the constitution of India coming in there were two principal mechanisms of eliciting consent of the government. The first of course was the parliamentary democratic system itself right the people got you had universal adult franchise in a country which was uh highly literate very poor and uh you know where there was no such precedent of elections etc and the grant of universal franchise meant that you had one very powerful mechanism of getting consent from the people uh because the people could choose who would rule them right so so that becomes one very important dimension of it the second dimension is of course the whole promise of economic development uh in a country which is extremely poor and backward in practically every economic indicator. I mean just to you know give us a bit of a perspective you know in the last 50 years of British rule in India which is say about 1900 to 1950 you know your per capita GDP growth is practically stagnant. Yeah. Uh in a sense this is not an economy which is growing at all. And it is in the face of that kind of an economy that the promise of economic development through planning etc then becomes a very important dimension of securing the consent of the masses because what you're telling them is that the material opportunities that uh are available to them will improve and that is another sort of major way in which the consensual structure of the system is made and the crisis of hegen happens on both counts. Yeah. So the the rise of the Mauist and Axelbari underground insurgency etc suggests that even in mainland India there would now be political forces uh which challenge the very legitimacy of the political order itself which is what the MA is uh set out to do. But at the same time, because of the economic crisis that we just discussed um a little while ago, it meant that the consent of the people could no longer be assured even on material grounds because the promises that you made to them seem to be evaporating very quickly. While there was a period of, you know, an uptick in terms of economic growth in the Naruan period, by the time you're talking of 1966, much of that seems to have been put away. Uh you know, the economy is kind of grinding more or less to a halt. population growth has been much more than what was envisaged in the plans. The 1961 census for instance suggests that you know population growth has been much faster than what the planners had assumed. So taken all in all there is a crisis of hegimony both because the political and the economic dimensions of getting consent of the people is now there is a big question mark to it. Right? So so that's the first crisis which is a crisis of heaven. The second crisis is the crisis of representation which in some ways is brought forth very clearly by the 1967 elections themselves. As you say the 1967 election is the first time that the Congress parties uh you know loses in a number of states and even in the national level its majority is wafer thin uh literally right and this is uh the record of a party which has been dominating Indian politics practically at all levels not only from 1951 which is the first general elections but from 1937 which is when the first provincial elections were held under the British rule and the last years of colonial rule right so the Congress party has been a dominant electoral force capable of bringing together various classs and casts and groups both in rural and in urban India and having that kind of a you know a structure which gave it extraordinary dominance for practically a 30-year period you could say from 1937 to 1967 and what 1967 tells you is that there are very significant social groups both in rural and urban India which no longer want to give their allegiance to the Congress party which is part of the reason why the Congress actually does so poorly in the 1967 general election. So this is the crisis of representation. The Congress party is no longer capable of representing the interests of this very diverse society over which it claimed to have. You know the Congress always called itself the Indian National Congress because it said we speak for the nation. Right? So that kind of a representative claim comes uh into this thing and that means that politics becomes much more fractured. There are many more actors. There is a lot more volatility in terms of how governments are formed, how coalitions operate, what the Congress party has to do and eventually Indra Gandhi Persel decides to split the Congress party in 1969 precisely to overcome this crisis of representation. So you had the crisis of hegabani of representation and the third one is of governance which is quite closely linked to the first two because the crisis of governance I think is best shown up by the fact that by 1967 uh you really have to put the entire exercise and apparatus of planning into cold storage right so the government declares what is popularly called a planned holiday which is say that we're no longer going to use this particular instrument for deciding our u major economic policy and priorities and so on and that the whole structure of governance in some ways particularly as it relates to issues of political economy will have to be reconceived because there is a real crisis there. So 1967 between the elections and the sort of Nakalbari revolts what they crystallize is that here you have a political system which confronts this triple crisis uh which are all of which are coming together at the same time. Hey Granthamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Grand Theash, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out, [Music] you know. But it's what's remarkable is just you know four years later uh Gandhi and the Congress come roaring back in the 1971 election. This was an election that as they say in India was preponed right it it it then firmly dell the state and national election calendar. This was the same year of course as the 71 war through which Bangladesh earned its independence. Um you've written uh exhaustively about this war um in your other books but I just want to pick up on on one aspect of this which relates to Mrs. Gandhi where you say look in the aftermath of this war um Gandhi was credited with exceptional foresight. She had amazing timing. She had such great judgment. But as things actually unfolded in real time, her handling of this developing crisis with Pakistan and Bangladesh was much more tentative, much more improvisational than we've been kind of led to believe. So, you know, take us a little bit behind the scenes. How did she find her way through this crisis? Well, in the first place, because the crisis broke out literally days after the 1971 elections in which, as you correctly say, her party won a spectacular victory in a sense suggesting a revival from the sort of dip in fortunes in 1967, right? But soon after this crisis breaks out and u one of the things that Mrs. Gandhi has and her government around her have really failed to foresee is that the Pakistan army would launch such a major crackdown on the Bengales in East Pakistan. Right? I mean even the origins of the crisis were something that were not entirely expected by the government of India even though the situation had been brewing. Right? I mean they were actually assuming that perhaps a deal would be struck of some kind between the military sort of leadership of Pakistan the Huta and the Bengali political leadership led by Shik Murman and others. So that turned out to be a false sort of expectation and soon they had to face the consequences of that both because they had to support Bengali rebels who came to India asking for assistance and more importantly they had to shoulder the burden of taking care of refugees who started streaming in from East Pakistan or Bangladesh into India and you know by October according to official numbers uh close to 10 million of them had already come to India right so again the scale of the refugee influx and what would happen was unanticipated. So, so once again you had to respond to a situation which you had never anticipated. The other reason why I feel that her handling was tentative was because throughout the crisis she was actually a lot more cautious than the final outcome of the crisis would suggest. The final outcome was a massive defeat of the Pakistan army in East Pakistan. The surrender of upwards of 90,000 Pakistani troops to India. It is an iconic moment in Indian military history etc. But Indra Gandhi actually was very keen to avoid war as far as possible throughout the crisis because she knew that uh the international environment was not propitious. The United States was quite supportive of Pakistan. The United States and the Chinese had had a reproach and an opening up under Richard Nixon which would have negative consequences for India. And then of course she was forced to sort of sign a treaty of friendship and peace with the Soviet Union. But once again, you know, we assume that when the treaty of feast and friendship in uh is signed with the Soviets in August 1977 1971, the Soviets are entirely on the side of India. But what we actually learn from archival material now is that that's hardly the case. In fact, as late as October 1971 when Mrs. Gandhi travels to Moscow to meet the Soviet leadership, you know, there are three of them, Brevn, Podgori and Kashkin. uh brea actually who is the sort of the most important person in the same meeting tells her that you know why don't you just go and meet yay Khan and try and make a deal with him right because they didn't want to get into a war in the subcontinent either so it is not the case that India could be entirely sure of Soviet assistance either so this was a crisis which uh you know had multiple points of pressure and she felt her way through it very carefully of course eventually you know when the time came to sort of prepare for military operations and launch them she was bold old. She was decisive and even after the United States had intervened uh ostensibly in order to scare the Indians uh from taking over Dhaka by sending the seventh fleet into the Bay of Bengal etc. she kept her nerve and allowed the operations to uh you know go through to conclusion and resulting in the complete defeat of Pakistan. But I think it's still fair to say that you know given the series of uh you know errors of judgment inability to sort of foresee and then scrambling for various kinds of options her sort of cautiousness throughout this period all of this suggests you know a much less or a rather different figure from what you have in the conventional sort of understanding of her as completely steely determined with great degrees of foresight from the very word go. So, so I want to now kind of press you on another area uh of the book where I think you challenged conventional wisdom and in fact when we first spoke about the book years ago uh this was the subject that uh was the topic of conversation which was about her economic record right and I think one of the biggest contributions of this book is challenging the conventional wisdom on Indra Gandhi's economic record and I just want to quote something that you write uh where you say as The economic outlook darkened in the 1970s. Gandhi's government was forced fitfully to move towards greater deregulation and more accommodative policies towards business. The long 1970s thus placed the Indian economy on the road to liberalization if only via a crooked path. Right. Um I I I want to to kind of ask you to to elaborate on this for us because this is not how most of us refer to the 1970s, right? When we talk about the Indian economy, we think of it in some ways actually in opposite terms. So, you know, what do you think the previous narratives have gotten wrong about this period? Well, I don't think it's so much about what the previous narratives got wrong or but rather about what they tend to emphasize or at least in my reading overemphasize um they by you know sort of skewing the picture a little bit at least in the way that I see it. So, let me put it this way, right? I mean so I think we all agree that in 1966 when she first came to power she had this economic crisis that we spoke about she had to respond to it. there was pressure from the World Bank from the United States and other external aid um givers to India that they have to sort of embark on some form of reforms and liberalization u and beginning with the devaluation of the Indian currency right and and she does that uh but then there's a political backlash and then she sort of resends on that particular project uh so the conventional reading seems to be that you know uh after this kind of abortive attempt at liberalization what Indra Gandhi decided was that for political purposes says she would adopt what were seen as leftist or socialist policies. You know, many of which were uh also very populist in in in the way that they were framed such as nationalization of the entire banking system. A series of other kinds of nationalization of coal industry and so on. Bringing in a much stronger regulatory framework for the operations of private business under the monopolies and restrictive trade practices uh act. uh controlling foreign exchange and foreign direct investment into India through other legal mechanisms and so on. So the general tendency is to say that you know there was a lurge towards the left uh sort of a turn towards you know these so-called socialist nationalization policies etc which more or less strangled the Indian economy in in a variety of ways and that is seen as the most harmful negative legacy that Indra Gandhi left behind for the economy. Now again there is not much disagreement in terms of what she actually did but uh what I think a lot of these accounts tend to leave out is the fact that she herself was forced by circumstances to abandon these relatively quickly. You know as I see it the heyday of nationalization of this so-called socialist leftist turn is effectively early 1974. you know thereafter you find that she is much more pragmatic in fact uh conservative in macroeconomic policies and the way that she deals with businesses also starts changing gradually. Now why does this shift happen from a attempt to sort of highly regulate the economy by the state to something which looks very different and that's partly because of the global economic crisis of the early 1970s between the Bretonwoods uh sort of you know abandonment and the foreign uh sort of you know the whole crisis around exchange rates etc coupled with the energy and economic crisis uh coming off the oil shocks the Indian economy experiences the most severe bout of inflation in the 20th century that is unprecedented partly uh on its own terms but also the Indian economy is generally a low inflation economy uh throughout this period now so this is an extraordinary shock which is delivered to the system and it is in response to that that Mrs. Gandhi decides that she has to in some ways abandon these attempts at overregulating the economy because they simply cannot get a grip even on basics like prices and other supplies and various other kinds of things. So what you have in 1974 is an abandonment of this high road towards nationalization. You know, so one of her markway sort of policies is this nationalization of food grains trade which turns out to be a disaster both in terms of what it does for the availability of food grains but also politically for what it means for various Congress governments which are dependent on rural interests across North India. So there's a turning back of all of that. Um in 1974 there's a crushing of the national railway strike which is the largest strike if you take in pure numbers I don't think there's been a bigger strike in the 20th century but it was also a strike which struck at the heart of the Indian economy because the national railway system is the one which links this very large subcontinent economy together. So she uh not only crushes the railway strikers uh using you know very punitive measures including the invocation of the Indian army etc. Then she turns towards the international monetary fund for getting a package for stabilizing the economy and that comes with an acceptance of a very stern anti-inflationary policy including wage freezes and such like things. Right? So, so here you have a turn towards conservative macroeconomic policies which then is continued through the period when she imposes this authoritarian interlude which is popularly known as the emergency. But at the same time there is also a much greater if slow understanding amongst her and her advisers that they have to slowly start removing many of the thicket of regulations that they themselves have imposed. So there is a slow sort of unraveling or deregulating of the economy which happens through the 70s and if you look at it I mean by the end of the emergency which is authoritarian period you have many business leaders in India who are actually quite supportive of what she's doing. They believe that uh she has understood that the state is there to provide a friendly environment for business particularly by keeping labor down by keeping other things like input costs of various kinds of commodities and energy down or at least predictable and that they would want a stable sort of framework which she was providing even in her authoritarian period. In fact, when she comes back to power in 1980, you know, one of our significant sort of supporters in the business community is a relatively new entrant into the game of big businesses in India is a man called Dirubai Amani uh who is the sort of you know head of the Reliance group of industries which of course today is the dominant sort of player in the Indian economy itself. I mean, you know, what's interesting, Trin, about what you've just narrated is it kind of links up in a way to, you know, this debate that we have about kind of when how do we identify the the the the starting date of the kind of economic takeoff, right? And there's been a debate amongst economists about this where you have um people like Arvin Panagria, Doug Dishbug and others who point to the 1991 reforms but then you have economists in the other side like Danny Rodrik Arvin Subermanium who have pointed to the early 1980s when they say look um this is when there was an attitudinal shift in the way in which the government of India saw the private sector. It didn't necessarily open up open up the economy to um to foreign investment to kind of global capital markets but it did start the gradual process of industrial delicicensing and trying to make it easier for Indian entrepreneurs to do business in India. And I think you know what you're saying actually is that there's a that you could kind of bring the starting point even further back to the pre-emergency period when you started to see the the roots of some of these the changes or attitudal shifts. Is is is that a fair characterization? Yeah, I think that's a fair characterization except that I wouldn't say that you know uh the the origins of the liberalization sort of era lie as far back as the 1970s. I mean I used to think myself like that but I think that that's a a step too far and is perhaps a mistaken characterization of what is happening or what was happening at that point of time. So here is the way I think about it now right which is that the so-called attitudinal shift towards a business certainly happened in the 1970s but in a sense it only benefited certain kinds of industrial groups right so because one of what was the biggest weapon that the Indra Gandhi government and regime wielded against established entrenched big businesses uh was the sort of whole monopolies and restorative practices kind of regime that they bought right I mean under that monopolies regime various kinds of restrictions were placed on how much big businesses could enter, how could they expand, what could they do, etc., etc. Now, when they started kind of, you know, tweaking and loosening up that regime, they did so in ways that actually did not benefit incumbent big businesses, but allowed other new entrance into the field to actually prosper. You know that and there you have examples like Randaxi or like Reliance are case studies in terms of what happened during that period, right? you have a new set of entrance who are coming in and who are the principal beneficiaries of the pro business policies right but of course even established groups like the Tatas etc did welcome uh what was being done at that particular point of time so what I'd say is that you know the attitudinal uh shift towards businesses etc certainly predates 1980 uh but in 1980 the imperative to move in that direction was much stronger but what you had in 1991 was a regime change in to use not in political but in economic terms uh which was quite wholesale and I think in that sense uh both the panagurya and the subramanium sides of the debate have their own particular value as I see it my intervention is simply to remind us that some of this stuff starts earlier than we had imagined and it starts under context that we are perhaps overlooking which is the mid1 1970s and why do I emphasize this because you know much of the literature if you look at in terms of the breakdown of the Keynesian concept senses the beginnings of what is called neoliberal economics etc. uh particularly in the west is seen as coming out of this particular moment of the crisis of the 1970s. Similarly the context of China you know we tend to think of Chinese economy as beginning the slow path of you know reform and opening up etc from the late 1970s right mid uh late 1970s. Uh so what I feel is that you know we need to understand that even India is pretty much part of that story. So in a sense uh you know the claim that China has that kind of a lead over us is perhaps not true. We more or less started out on similar kinds of trajectories but we made a fullthroated and full-scale embrace of liberalization only in 1991. So Shinat I mean we could have an entire podcast with you about the emergency um which there's a lot to say and you cover it beautifully in the book. Um, but you know, in the interest of time, you know, I just want to kind of ask you, you know, one or two questions about this period. You know, of course, our listeners know this was an extended 21-month period of of repression, of restriction of civil liberties, of centralization of power. um you know in this chapter where you delve into the demer emergency you say understanding Gandhi's concerns and intentions is not the same thing as causally explaining the onset of the emergency. Uh and then you go on to say such an explanation must bring together structure conjuncture and event and I just want to ask you about that structure conjuncture and event. when you take those factors into account, how do you understand the onset of the emergency period? Yeah. So the first thing I wanted to say was that you know so much of our discussion both in scholarly literature, history, political science but also in terms of public sort of discussion of these things tends to focus on the intentions of Indra Gandhi, right? Why did she impose emergency? Did she feel that she had to protect her office which was uh threatened by a high court verdict which had uh you know wided her membership of parliament? Was it because of her concerns about uh what the opposition was on to was there really an internal security crisis of the kind that she claimed when she justified it and she made those claims to the end of her life. Right? I mean and even when people said that oh there is no evidence she said oh how do you know I was prime minister at that point of time right? So this is a kind of a continuing debate and and I have my own view which is there in the book but I feel that that debate has its limitations because you know the intentions of even the most powerful political actors cannot really tell us why something happened. You know outcomes are somewhat different in the way that we think about them. So the way I would say is that you know instead of asking why did she impose the emergency perhaps the question we need to ask is how did the emergency happen right even if she wanted to do it how is it that a political system which had been created in this way could be taken in an authoritarian direction by you know the decision of a prime minister and in quite such a fashion right it's it's quite a dramatic change in terms of what happened and that I think is the kind of question that we need to ask and to answer that I say that we need to think about broader structural changes that were happening uh in the Indian uh politics and those structural changes as far as I see and when I say structural I mean um you know changes which affect the entire political system all actors it's not just about one or two right I mean it's it's a change in the way that the system is configured what were those structural changes as I see there are two of them which happened from say approximately 1967 to 1975 right even before the emergency that's my argument uh the first of those changes is that there is a very steep tilt in the balance of power towards the executive away from the party, parliament and judiciary. Right? So the executive becomes very strong and the executive did not become very strong simply because Mrs. Gandhi wanted to make it strong. It also became strong because of events. You know events like the victory of 1971 election. She broke the party in order to keep a control over the party. But who could have predicted that she would have won the elections that way. Nobody could have especially not after the poor showing of the Congress party 9767 elections. You know, she became an extremely powerful figure because of her decisive victory over Pakistan in 1971. Again, an highly unpredictable wars are by definition the most unpredictable human activity, right? Uh similarly, you know, if you look at um the the showdown with the judiciary, which happens u pretty much from the start of her career as prime minister, there is running sort of feuds with the judiciary. But in 1973, she does something dramatically different. she just uh supersedes judges of the Supreme Court in order to elevate a junior judge as a chief justice thereby changing the sort of color and composition of the court and the Supreme Court goes on to pretty much tamely uh you know put its impremato on everything she does during the emergency itself. So this is a structural shift a shift in balance of power towards the executive which has been in the making for several years. There is another structural shift which I think we also should be mindful of which is that you know not just Mrs. Gandhi but across the political spectrum of Indian parties you find that allegiance to the rules of the game of parliamentary democracy right uh about how governments uh you know should be constituted how you know coalitions should function when should a government be sort of dismissed etc all of those kinds of rules of the game which actually make it possible for parliamentary democracy to function are slowly but surely being discarded by all political parties and Mrs. Gandhi herself uh is of course by the time she comes to the emergency thinks that democracy is simply and you know it's it's it's a luxury which we cannot afford at this point of time that's in a nutshell her view so what you see is a there is a huge attitudinal shift amongst Indian political elite throughout this period which I see is also another structural factor right so you have structural change along relative balance of power and norms or you know rules of the game of parliamentary democracy what is the conjunctal crisis conjunctures mean things which happen simultaneously but independently. In this case, this is what we've been talking about which is a economic crisis of the 1970s which is a consequence of the global economic crisis of the 1970s which has this devastating impact on the Indian economy which triggers popular protests. Those popular protests are what unnerve Indra Gandhi about her own political future when things go bad. And then we talk about the event. The event was something which happened on the 12th of June 20 uh 1975 when a high court in uh the state of Uttar Pradesh uh in Aabad avoided her membership of parliament on grounds of electoral malpractice about 4 years ago in 1971. So that was the trigger but if you want to understand what happened and why the emergency actually was possible I think we need to look beyond the immediate trigger. We need to understand how is it that a political system which had various kinds of checks and balances actually caved in so quickly, right? What were the kind of popular economic sort of concerns and protests which kicked off and why did they kick off, right? So conjunctures have to be brought into play and to that we need to add the event and my my own reading is that Indra Gandhi brought in the emergency in a short-term perspective precisely to sort of make sure that she was not uh forced to step down from office but that alone is not a good enough explanation a causal explanation I think has to attend to these broader structural and conjunctal factors as well. You know, one of the most remarkable things Shinat about the emergency is that uh you have this two-year almost two-year period of emergency rule. You have elections in 1977. You have the Jantaa government which is formed in office for roughly 2 years. Then you have fresh elections. The Congress comes roaring back to power in 1980. And as you point out in the book, there was never really a full accounting or a full proper reckoning of the uh emergency. And you know, I'm wondering if you could just reflect for a moment on what do you think are the longer term consequences of that? I mean, it's always remarkable when you kind of teach this in class, right? And the students are saying, "Wait a second. So, you had this authoritarian moment, you had elections, she lost, uh, out of power for two years, Congress comes back, and then things kind of proceed as if they, you know, nothing ever happened." Um, you how what what do you think the longer term implications of this lack of accounting or reckoning are? Yeah, I mean you know part of the reason I think there was a lack of serious reckoning and accounting was the scale of Indra Gandhi's defeat in March 1977 right when the elections are called I mean she calls it for reasons that you know have always been debated but uh in any case the outcome is pretty clear she loses very decisively she even loses her own seat as does her son etc from pocket burrows so you know what is very clear is that the loss of you know Indra Gandhi and the Congress party in the general elections of 1977 in some ways then suggests that you know what democracy has had its day again that you know the long shadow of authoritarianism is lifted and that you know democracy Indian democracy has shown that it it has some self-correcting mechanisms etc that is true but only up to a point because you know it just overstates and puts a lot of weight on simply an electoral outcome uh while sort of ignoring all the problems that beset the institutional dimension of politics which is what we've been discussing all the structural problems etc. They could never come up with again to give Janata government its full credit. I think they tried to reverse the worst moves which were made during the emergency by the Indra Gandhi government to transform the Indian constitution uh in a way that would have sort of cemented the supremacy of the executive which she had for all practical purposes already attained. She wanted to sort of give it constitutional form uh that they managed to sort of roll back. Uh you know uh that was I think a very important accomplishment. But what the Jantaa government never could really do is to think hard about how do we recommit this political system uh to the rules of the game of uh parliamentary democracy. In fact, they went on not only did they not recognize that they themselves had a role in wrecking the system in quite this way but they continue to do it. For instance, you know, one of the striking things is that uh after the Congress party has lost the general elections, the Danta government decides to dismiss all the Congress state governments saying that they do not have any legitimacy to continue, you know, which is entirely against all rules of constitutional sorry parliamentary democracy. I mean, they were there for a certain time period and there's no reason to sort of kick them out just because their party had lost an election. But the Danta government does it in flagrant violation of all precedence, norms, conventions and the Supreme Court upholds it. So what happens when Indra Gandhi comes back to power in 1980? She repays the Janata governments in the states by their own coin. She dismisses all of them and once again the Supreme Court falls in line. So here you have a clear instance of what happens when we do not see a renewed commitment to the rules, norms, procedures, principles of parliamentary democracy and the continuation of the game in fact an accent acceleration of it and opening up of new fronts with state governments etc. So what I see is that you know through the 1980s u you know the the structural crisis of Indian politics never really gets resolved and of course from the period after 1989 we are in a very different kind of framework with coalition politics etc which you know better than I do. So Shinat I want to kind of bring this conversation to a close by asking you about something that you say at the very end of the book. Um you write that in the long 1970s Indian democracy turned into a terrible beauty. Terrible in its unheeding wilt to power yet beautiful in its ability to precipitate the passions of millions especially the poor. And I really loved this line. It's such an evocative line. Um as you kind of reflect the book is now out into the world. How do you hope this book will change or challenge our collective understanding about the long decade of the 1970s? Yeah, so the reference to terrible beauty as you know is from uh William Butler Yates and u the the point of saying that was to capture two somewhat contradictory aspects of the very large transformation that the Indian political system went in the 1970s. Right. And that brings me to the question that you asked. How would you how do I want us to think about this period? Uh you know one of the ways in which we tend to think about uh political history of India is either in terms of success of prime ministers you know Indra you know Neu Indra Rajiv etc or in terms of period of Congress dominance Congress decline coalition politics etc. you know as a historian I'm always more interested in questions of change and I really wanted to foreground the kind of changes that the Indian uh sort of political system Indian democracy and politics underwent in this long 1970s as I call them right so as I see it the long 1970s should be understood as the hinge on which the contemporary history of India turns right there was a certain kind of an inaugural moment when we tried to put in a certain kind of system of uh you know democratic politics, constitutionalism, various kinds of representative uh systems with a planned economy, a certain kind of outlook to the world etc. And then there is a system in which we live which is the product of the moment of the 1991 liberalization of the turn in Indian politics since the irreversible decline of Congress from its pole position. uh so what happens in the long 1970s is the story that explains how we got from the Nuvian period to where we are today and that's the way I would like us to understand this system and I would like to say that like all historical periods there are complex competing and conflicting tendencies in play right so at one level as I say there is a sort of an increasing will to power Indian politics simply becomes competitive uh grab for power it is elections are simply a you know a substitute for violence of some time that is the way in which it comes to be seen simply because the institutional dimensions of it are downgraded in importance successively and eroded in such a way that what we have today in Indian politics is largely a game of elections that's what decides what we think of as democracies right so I think that is a a negative dimension of the sort of changes or the transformation of the 1970s uh but there is another positive dimension which is that this is the same period in which democracy understood as the participation of the people in their own governance also deepens right I mean uh you you see this kind of electoral participation and the spurt in it the political education of the people self-education not education by the politicians but their own education uh deepens they understand what it means to vote they understand what their own sort of rights and equities mean in this system and I see that as a very sort of an interesting and heartening phenomenon yeah which is what I think gives India the right to at least partially call itself the world's largest democracy is this kind of deepening of democracy consistent expansion of democratic participation which is such a striking feature of Indian politics. So as I see it, you know, both these tendencies are the outcome of the changes of the long 1970s and it is that kind of complexity that we have to learn to live with and understand instead of searching for simplicities of the past in terms of black or white. My guest on the show this week is the historian Shrinat Ragavan. He is the author of the brand new book Indra Gandhi and the years that transformed India. He's a professor of international relations and history at Ashoka University and a non-resident scholar at Carnegie India. out many congratulations on this book. This is a book that is going to have readers talking, I think, reviewers writing. It's something that is going to enjoy a very long shelf life. It is going to certainly feature on on many people's uh uh year-end best of uh books. It was a terrific read and just really delighted that you could take the time to to chat with us about the book today. Thanks, Milan. Thanks for the opportunity. Grandmasha is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hind Times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Grand Theash, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, grant themasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer, Mera Verge is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD SmartCast. HD smart girls.