================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: JI_lyrkh4Gs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JI_lyrkh4Gs
TITLE: Software Finally Eats Services - Aaron Levie
CHANNEL: a16z
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-24
DURATION: 59m 35s
VIEWS: 16,706
LIKES: 0
COMMENTS: 36
TAGS: a16z, andreessen horowitz

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Should the US put a price on H-1B visas, or would that block the flow of new talent? Are AI coding agents actually making teams way more productive, or is it just hype? And in the AI platform shift, will the big winners be incumbents or new AI-native startups?

Erik Torenberg is joined by Box co-founder and CEO Aaron Levie, a16z board partner Steven Sinofsky, and a16z general partner Martin Casado to debate the biggest questions in tech. They unpack pricing vs lottery for H-1Bs and what we’re actually optimizing for, why Box now ships a third of its code from AI, the shift from writing to reviewing code, and why bottom-up personal AI tools succeed where top-down “AI pilots” struggle.

Timecodes: 
0:00 Introduction
0:55  Latest immigration policy and who benefits
2:46  Salary bands as a solution for tech talent allocation
5:39  Optimizing immigration policy for wages, jobs, or merit
8:08  Market dynamics and policy changes in tech hiring
12:52  AI effects on labor productivity and devel
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 12,844

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
The universal adoption of this as a consumer technology and then bleeding into proumer is it exceeds anything I've ever experienced and I think it is it will just fundamentally change people's sort of daily pattern. This is all early adopters and early adopters are very forgiving of mistakes on purpose. When something is brand new, a culture around it develops. The early internet people didn't complain that the internet was slow, right? The more senior small teams that use AI are super human. Yeah, it's like they woke up and they were alling Tony Stark. It is unbelievable and like their productivity is insane. First, I just want to comment uh that you posted in the group chat that the news around autism updates your Poom. Yes, it only works if you show the image though. So, so you'll have to do the overlay uh to make them make sense. But there's so many memes you can do with uh with that Fox News headline. So, exactly. Um, first I want to get into the immigration news. Um, you really want to kick off just like really with the fun stuff. Get the blood point. Exactly. Um, Martin, you mention exactly please. What were your reactions to what you think of the policy? Well, it was interesting because it seems like anytime the administration touches immigration, there's a huge outcry, knee-jerk outcry, and we saw a lot of that from VCs even. Um but it's also very interesting that Reed Hastings who is a classic lefty like and you know and has long been was like I've been in doing policy for immigration for you know 30 years and this is the right approach and this is very much my thought which is this system has been gamed for a very long time. It's very hard for startups to to hire uh because of the lottery system. and it's locked up by the large companies, the consultants, Amazon and Google. Um, and like that has to change and I think a very reasonable way to do it is to to set price because you know you've got uh a market and you've got you need to allocate supply price is a great way to do it. So I'm very very positive on it. I comment about that a lot of people seem to disagree. So I think it's an active discussion. H um well I think there's a couple couple elements to this. So one is um first of all Reed was ultimately responding to a thing that that was no longer the actual policy. Yeah. So uh he he said 100k a year was a great policy and obviously the internet had moved on. Um I you know the it's not to me obvious I wouldn't conclude the same outcome uh that that you just concluded in that that I think that you'd have a situation where the Amazons and Googles would would probably actually capture the the vast uh portion of the talent in this situation. So it's so it's not clear to me that like startups sort of are come out ahead or better off from this particular implementation. maybe Amazon and Google who are probably more easy to regulate, but there are a number of organizations that are consult that that actually are price sensitive that would be squeezed by this. And I would I would think that, you know, given that they're in the top 15, they make up like four or five of them, that would be a significant freeing up for a higher level label. I think the my thing would be like if you could just get all the all the people in the room that have an opinion on this topic and you but you you actually have sort of the the practitioners in tech in the room as well and the let's say the most um uh kind of you know you can't even say like right-wing because actually I don't think this is even classic Republican. Um, so, so it's just like the the polls if you got everybody in a room and you say you sort of say, "What are we optimizing for?" We are, are we optimizing for we don't want to have pre like like wages go down? Okay, that that's a that's an interesting thing. Are we optimizing for a particular kind of job not going to let's say certain populations of of Americans? Uh, are we optimizing for just ensuring that we only have the highest merit people on the planet coming here? Like those are all totally different kind of goals to optimize for. And I think that the the framework you end up with and the system that you end up with should probably, you know, hopefully have like a like a cohesive sort of strategy behind it. My strategy would be would be we want the absolute best in the world here. There's not exactly clear that there's a fixed number on that. Some years there might be 5,000, some years there might be 50,000, some years there might be 80,000. Y we probably want them to be net positive to wages. So let's let's agree that like like you know in any given you know uh industry or local wages should go up with this talent pool as opposed to down. So I think that's actually totally reasonable and you so you should have the market kind of you know you know sort of some market dynamic to that and and you shouldn't be able to kind of game and exploit the talent pools for saying you know now in Detroit we can go wipe out IT jobs because we can go and offshore those like like I think you could build a system that that basically meets all of those goals while still ensuring that you can get somebody that goes to you know their master's program and and name your name your uh your state school they come out of it they're an AI engineer they're not yet at the sort of meta is going to pay them $100 million um but they are going to be totally valuable contributors to our economy. It's all sort of positive sum. It's not taking a job from anybody else. It makes us more competitive. And I think there's a way to do that without sort of overly uh let's say putting constraints in the system that make it maybe so a startup wouldn't be able to you know kind of economically viably participate in this and I think 100k per year would would be at a point where the you know startups would be directly impacted uh working with a lot of startups I'm not sure that's still the respect respectfully the kind of startups that sees are are not all of the base of startups in the world before we fall into like so so you quibble about the number. Is it 20K which Keith Rabos said when I thought it was very sensible or is it 100k? I don't know. But like the idea that you Keith threw out 20. Well, let's just go with Keith number. I think that like if Keith if Keith on 20 I think we can be good with a Keith number. I think I I think that the the number it's easy to fixate on the number, but but the the real the real you have to always look at what is the number replacing. And I I don't think the average person having this debate other than the people that really work at this have any idea the amount of productivity that is lost working this system. Yes. I mean the the incredible amount of resources and and of course the bigger companies the ones that you mentioned have enormous teams that spend all of their energy like literally essentially as lobbyists working this system. And then the back end of that is are all the justifications and all of the management, all of the handling and now they've just deployed all their resources to manage like in-house call centers to deal with getting their employees back to the United States to just deal with it. I do you you hit on one point that I think is really important to this debate that is sort of getting lost which is there's no doubt that within the the big tech world that they for the past 25 years or so they really went on this sort of bifurcated curve which is hiring on you know for the people in the office focusing on say 25 or 30 university departments and then basically everybody else was like well it's so much easier if we just hire hire huge numbers of people from these eight international locations and schools. And I think a lot of this is missing that a big part of this is like well the tech industry like if you look at Intel and where they all went to college and if you look at the history of Silicon Valley it's all these people from all the schools in the middle of the country none of which are like the target recruiting schools by the main tech companies these days and that's been a place where I think that the big companies have been somewhat lazy and as a person who spent decades flying to all of these schools and recruiting you know there's work that this the universities have have not done to be better programs and that there's work that the big companies have not done to be clear what it is that why they've stopped recruiting or haven't had seen the numbers and that's a a change would be better for everybody to really make. I agree. So my my expectation what gets impacted is is is kind of um an even different job set than that which is if you go to like Florida today and you try and get like an IT job for 100k you just can't right and so that I think is actually the area that's the most directly impacted by the large consultants meaning there aren't jobs that pay 100k or that you just can't find a job they're taken they're all they're out there they just don't exist like any sort of IT administrator like the like the you know services like the basic consulting gigs like all of that has been saturated. very very tough to get a job between like 80 and 120k in in much of the United States because of this, right? And so this isn't about like a new grad being a software engineer because the reality is the expected value of a software engineer over their lifetime is is high enough that I think that like the market kind of navigates that. But it's almost these kind of you know lower level more like IT admin jobs that have been squeezed out. And listen, if we want to bring them back then I do think and we don't want to do this kind of arbitrage that a lot of these companies are doing that we're going to have to change the pricing. So, but but don't but uh the wouldn't a minimum salary band effectively solve that problem for you? Sure. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. I think there's a lot of mechanisms to do it. I actually agree with you. Like we should actually talk about the problem that we're trying to solve. So, I think we would all agree if you come to the United States, you get a college degree, you should have a visa, right? Kind of. Yeah. Okay. So, like that's for sure. Well, wait. Do we all agree on that? Okay. Yes, I agree. Okay. So, but like as in like I don't think that the people proposing this strategy actually agree on that. Uh well, so Trump famously said this. Yeah, if he famously said a lot of things for sure and then he unsaid it. I mean I like this wouldn't be an interesting debate if we all agree that that and we have a policy that says if you if you go from I IT and then you come to Kansas you know state then you get a job that became part of the gamification of the system because you would do the IIT thing then you would get a company sponsorship for a master's degree at some school so it didn't really accomplish the goal of like investing in coming to the US the same way that going to a four-year would have done. Wait, why wait? Why is that? What was the problem? Because you ended up getting sponsored by a company. Yeah. And it changed the whole dynamic of like were you seeking out the US or did did a company pull you to the US? It's a little bit different. Okay. But I also think so often this discussion goes the direction this one has gone on is where we focus on like new grad software engineers. And I actually don't think that what's is getting impacted, right? I really don't. I really think it is like like what do the consulting shops do? They do like Yeah. admin work, IT work, and it's it's it's it's just a different salary band. Yeah. I think I think these are body shops and like an approach like this directly targets them, I think, in a way that's actually quite positive. Yeah. I just think there's I'm then I mean I would just then favor Keith's approach because I think there there is a number in which it becomes you're then making other trade-offs in your business just to be able to the 100k number is is well I I do think that that the dollars but I I do think that just to reinforce this that that the whole system can do without this immense cost and uncertainty. Yep. And and any solution should really if you address that Yeah. then the whole the rest of the dynamics will follow. But as long as it's a huge complicated, expensive system. Yeah. Then the big companies are going to continue to to benefit from it disproportionately. Yeah. And I will tell you right now like it is much harder for a startup to deal with the lottery system than it would be for them to pay 100k like at least for the startups. But I don't think it changed the lottery system. It's a Right. Right. It didn't. It's 100k to participate in the lottery system. Right. Oh, no. I understand. I mean hope hopefully you know like a number of it'll change the calculus of a lot of people that are in the lottery system. I I just think but I I would prefer to remove the lottery system. I think that that I think you can absolutely pull off a system that that for probably in a shared definition for for us and anybody else would say this is clearly a high merit job. It's going to increase the wages in this particular sector on average and uh and we want to make sure that we've got the best talent in the world that comes in to to do that. it's not going to drive down wages. We probably want as many of those individuals here as possible. And um and so I I think you know some elements of this are are intriguing in that they push the conversation forward on the dimension of you know like the 100k is like a a hammer to do that and maybe there's a more nuanced approach that I would certainly prefer. But but again it's important to like the the the 100k will scale with the skill level, right? So the higher the skill, the more like that is amortitized. And so you could argue that this is just kind of a dial to get a higher skill. Well, you you the the once you put a dollar amount on it, you have to keep in mind that people are going to pay it. That's right. They're going to make up their own mind and and the skill isn't might not be relevant to some people because you know and so that's the tricky part. Y I want to segue from uh labor markets to good next what's the next really interesting political topic that we engage in. Yeah, exactly. um from labor markets to labor productivity with AI offline. Aaron, we were talking about the meter paper and it was the paper suggested that their developers were actually less productive with AI, but that doesn't square with your experience talking to a lot of different startups, seeing a lot of different startups and how they're so much more more productive. So, why don't you talk about where where you're seeing startups say they're more productive and why is that happening? Yeah, I so I'll I'll first just represent our own case study and then and then there's the really extreme version. So uh our own case study is we've adopted a few different kind of um AI coding tools um uh you know cursor being a a super super popular one internally and I you know as I talk to people let's say in the hallway who have you know yeah maybe they're trying to get me excited by AI but like I think they know I'm I'm bought in. So, so the the kind of qualitative answers I get from from people and then I'll give you our our internal metric. You know, some some people will say I'm getting, you know, a 20 to 30% productivity gain. Other people will say 75%. Um, interestingly, I have not been able to pinpoint the demographic difference uh on the answers. Oh, but this is self-reporting. This is self-reporting. Um, uh, how happy are you? Yeah. So, so, so no, no, but we have internal metrics as well. So about 30% of our code right now is is coming from AI. So so so we've got the 70% 30% 30%. So we have some of the kind of pure internal uh metrics that that show this. Um but what's interesting is is that like I have a 2 by two of I have senior people that are saying that they're you know getting 75% productivity. I have junior people that are saying they're getting 75% and then vice versa um on the 25% let's say. And it's I I I haven't been able to quite figure out a pattern. Maybe except for and we've talked about this a little bit, but you kind of see this online except for maybe the the biggest criteria is just the people that actually push the AI to do more, which is sort of this other new kind of psychographic, which is just like who is willing to just be like, you know what, I'm going to yolo this this task and just see what the AI comes up with. and your your sort of willingness to just do that I think probably somewhat uh then shows up in the uh in the the ultimate productivity game. So that's that's us as a relatively larger company on the startup side. But what's crazy and this is the thing that just blows my mind. I will regularly talk to three, five, 10 person startup founders that that self-report, they might be getting somewhere on the order of like three to five to 10x uh productivity improvements and and the the the big difference is is that you know a year ago if we were to have this conversation the co the conversation would be about you know AI sort of doing type ahead and um and it you know it can add maybe like a few lines of code to your productivity per you know incremental you know sort of unit of work that you give it and then now obviously the big phenomenon is background agents where I give it a very you know detailed prompt I send it off it comes back you know people talk about it as like a slot machine of like some percent of the time is not going to come back with the right thing you have to decide which what you actually you know kind of pull in from it but the kind of startups that are getting like real multiples of productivity gain are are just they're fundamentally engineering in a different way they're sending off a task the task goes off comes back in 20 minutes and then they're really in the in the business of doing code review not code writing And it's going to obviously change, you know, quite a bit of what computer science looks like in the future. And then the only question is like, you know, what are all the things that that's good for? Where does that break down? What what kind of teams can actually evolve to that state? But that one has been blowing my mind the most recently. And I think that kind of fundamentally changes what what the future of, you know, kind of engineering looks like. I think what you said is super interesting. Let me ask you, I think that there's an overlay that goes beyond junior senior and and there and which is is we're all talking about characteristics that have two a solution has two really important characteristics right now. One is that it's engineers doing stuff for engineers and and they understand the domain super super well. Yeah. And I think that that's an really really important part and a really big thing that people aren't talking enough about which is maybe what's going on is that you have AI accelerating for people that work in the domain and are very smart. Yes. And then the other is we we shouldn't forget and this is to your your self-reporting a little bit but also which is that this is all early adopters and early adopters are very forgiving of mistakes on purpose and it's a it's a super interesting dynamic where when something is brand new a culture around it develops which just lets anything happen. I mean, you know, like the early internet people didn't complain that the internet was slow, right? The only people complain the internet were slow were the late adopters who were like, "Wow, this is so much slower." And or or like take online video, which was like, "I'm watching this tiny tiny postage stamp video." And the early adopters like this is the coolest thing I've ever seen. Everybody else is like, "Why would I want to watch anything like that?" And the same with downloading music and every and so I I really feel like what's going on is just this incredible Do you remember that you guys um do you remember this watch that you guys made the spot watch? Yeah, spot watch. So in like 2004 three or something. So So I bought one and it used like like unused FM radio white noise. Yeah. So if you get like stock codes 45 minutes delayed if you were outdoors in a field. Yes. And and so I had one and I was I was in this camp like this is the coolest thing in the entire world. And obviously this is going to be this the most mass market product of all time. And you know I was like 20 years too early with the Apple Watch turn byturn GPS like the first the first time you could put turnbyturn GPS in your car. It was super cool except for the fact that most cars moved faster than the ability for the computer in the car to calculate when you were going to turn. And so you con you just drove around. You it was like a U-turn machine. And but I think that it's just it's so interesting because I I think that people use these the AI tools today and they assume like well I don't I'm not a doctor. I don't know anything about being a doctor. Let me ask you to cure me right and diagnose me. And it's like whoa that is the wor and it just like all the people who see failure like they're just they weren't great programmers to begin with right and they didn't know how to ask they didn't want to review it. And whereas great programmers or just professional programmers know that code review is really important and and that's just how you do it. I think there's an aspect well there's there's an aspect of this that makes it very difficult to measure. One of them is and I don't think it's just an early adopter thing like these these models are so magic that you get dazzled. Oh, so even if it's not what you want, you're like it was great, you know? And I I think it's very easy to conflate that with being productive. Like it's not what I wanted, but it was amazing, so therefore therefore it must seriously therefore it must be great. So So like maybe over time we just abdicate having an opinion and like the model does everything, but right now and I see this a lot, people are like they're so enthusiastic about using AI, but it really hasn't impacted, you know, their output. They're just enthusiastic. The second one is I I feel like there's almost shadow productivity. Well, sorry. How would you uh how would you verify that uh with a five or 10 person company who who kind of empirically is operating at like a 50 to 100 person company like like you just you can see the the sheer scale of their code and you're like okay you could not have done that 10 years ago. I actually agree with everything Steve was saying which is so listen an ane this is anecotally anecotally I work with a lot of companies anecdotally the more senior small teams that use AI are super human it's like they woke up and they were all [ __ ] Tony Stark and it's unbelievable and like their productivity is insane but they're all they're all super senior you know and look they were they don't I don't want to take anything at all away but those companies were also incredibly productive relative to a 10% a big company because there's no code and and they're starting from a clean slate no they they really wake Yeah. Yeah, for sure. And and like you know, they're very senior, but they're also almost to a person were AI skeptics to begin with and are incredibly sober about like the value. And so like they just use it in these very pragmatic ways. There's one other category that I'm seeing um because I just want to be intellectually honest on the full spectrum. I'm seeing these 19 and 20 year olds that are like first of all, I don't know what is in the water at like Stanford, MIT, etc. right now, but like everybody's dropping out. So, so like just like literally like people are going there for like a week just to drop out. But there is a tendency of that cohort. It's the 996 people and there is this tendency which is you know they would have been maybe 10x engineers in a prior world but now they're like 100x engineers and so you know senior in terms of in their own kind of relative cohort but like the they the way that they are building their startups are just like completely different than it's probably the if I look at at you know so we dropped out of college god that's scary 19 years ago uh if I look at how these companies run versus today. It's the biggest change in in how you start and run a company that I've ever seen. Yeah. And like and I I think if you looked at like in 1995 if you were to drop out of college uh versus 2005 when we dropped out of college, I don't think you like I don't think like the company building process was all that different. The internet the internet fundamentally changed. No. No. Post internet. Post internet. Okay. So So you're right to the internet cuz that was a Yeah. 100% we're not in 85. So at 95 you're dropping out to do an internet startup. Okay, you drop into an internet startup. By 2005, other than the fact that our resources were in the cloud versus, you know, you'd have to go to a data center. In our case, we actually still went to the data center. Like not that much about the company building process was different. Today in 2025, everything about how you're starting your company is completely different because we that I I think that that the key the the through line in all that is velocity. Yes. Exactly. And and I I think that that that cut off the internet increased velocity. Yes. And AI increases velocity the the same way. And I I think that that's just super super important to what's going on. If you go back even with the in the early internet like when you started a company um there was still a lot of old school like what's your business plan? What's your plan? We're going to be stealth for two years. There was all of the stuff and it was really Mark and Ben at Netscape that changed the velocity of of how companies work. And the cloud was an accelerant to that acceleration of velocity. and and AI is is a refactoring of how velocity works. Yeah. But what was interesting is even in the cloud like that was this great virtualizer of the physical stuff you would have to deal with. But that was a two-year buildout. You were you know like you you had no you could have customers as soon as you had code you could have customers which like I mean I mean PLG and a lot of these kind of high velocity startups actually started pre-AI where you pretty like phenomenal like think about like GitHub, think about like Slack, think about like Figma. Yes. like you know you have some pretty remarkable companies that came pre- AAI that they're drafting on it and a lot of that was like basically cloud and then thisification and then unlocking kind of different go to market zoom zoom was a great early example this is but the thing that AI is is an accelerant in building the product whereas what what cloud did was accelerate getting paid which was a thing that used to take two or three years I mean I would arguably the cloud also made it much quicker to build a product because you'd have like these big well it made it much quicker for customers to all have the same one I don't think it made it Five times faster. Fair enough. So like like I think it was like yeah like you can see your website a lot quicker but like I could see a website in 98 pretty quickly like yeah but well maybe this is an infrastructure thing building a big distributed service I was not doing distributed really hard infrastructure in 98. So yeah so but so there's sorry I just want so so I think AI productivity is hard to measure for two reasons. The first one I just mentioned is it's just really dazzling. So I think like people kind of like they're like oh it's amazing. The second one is I think a lot of the productivity is actually hidden and people measure the wrong thing. Right? So shocking that people measure the wrong thing in productivity. That's right. Literally the history of productivity measurement. Well, but but also what happens here is like you have the board and the board is like we need more AI and then so what happens and they go to like some CT or some innovations lab and then the innovations lab do AI and so like whatever they like bring it like build some internal tool and it'll fail. Of course that'll fail, right? But the reality is is like this AI wave is so personal like probably most people in the company are using chat GPT probably there is you know some personal assistant probably you know they're using cursor or some coding thing and that's much much harder to measure just because you know it's not advertised and so if you actually look at the reports on like enterprise things fail you guys look at like what they were they're measuring it's like yeah clearly some internal project pushed down by the board where they hired like you know some consultant to do it is going to fail always fail. But that's actually not what's going on. Like the movement that's happening is a very secular. Well, it's a it's it this is this is the the the next time that bottom up adoption is really changing the productivity equation. And that's a thing that that it defies. Big companies do not know how to deal with that because they they want they need to control it. They worry about safety and security and privacy and all of their corporate rules. And and then also the other thing I think to overlay on that is AI is is a very unique if that's not a bad way to say things innovation in that it's it's like non-deterministic. Yeah. And so all of a sudden you have this very personal and non-deterministic thing which of which the real problem in a large organization to all these pilots and AI projects is that they you can't you can't you not just measure but you don't even want to put out there a non-deterministic solution because your whole thing is like well we operate at scale and we have 60 countries. Yeah, the white blood cell. We we can't put like a customer support solution out there if five agents in five languages all have different answers based on the way that the customer or the the CS agent asked the question. And I I really feel like that is going to be the the hugest challenge in in large organizations figuring out how to adopt things is like they're going to just get all bunched up over over non-determinism. Yes. Yeah. I um I I I think that the we will have to have some new form of of measurement probably in general on this because so much of the improvement in productivity will be will sort of be this like subtle change of like like I used to go to Google for that and now my EA is writing emails using chat tp that's where is that showing up in and other than just like again and we talked about this I think the last podcast of just like we're going to just start to do higher levels of work and that will just end up looking different, but you won't be able to be like, okay, how do I measure what the productivity was when it's just like I'm working just totally differently. Yeah. Well, but I mean code I think is such a great example. So like what do people in my experience the more senior folks actually use AI for code? It's like documentation, writing, testing. I mean, it's a lot of the other stuff that may not actually like increase like the shipping schedule, but like you get a lot more robust code, a lot more maintainable code, a much better architecture, a much better future forward architecture. So, we could be building tremendously better software, but still be shipping features at at the same velocity, right? We might need to just measure like quality of life as another metric of like literally I'm just happier. I don't have to do developers don't want to write document. Exactly. Yeah. But this is I I you know it's so so easy to get accused of hyperbole and and and overstating it and things. But what I I think is just so key to what's going on is this it is what you were talking about which is like the whole notion of what you're going to do at the job is is going to be really different. You know I'm this is my obligatory super old person thing but the the pre pre-spreadsheet post spreadsheet is a perfect example of this. the pre classic example. I didn't say classic, I said. But but before spreadsheets, you would be a banker and you know, you would be like, I'm supposed to help this company get acquired and you would come up with a financial model and you'd have 50, you know, recent MBAs all turning away with with their HP calculators figuring out the financial model. And then you'd go like, "Okay, let's do this again, but if the interest rate changes or if their source of funds change and you're like, okay, well, that's like a week Yeah. And and everybody has to do it all over again. So you actually your quality of decision was was was really bad. Yes. And and so what happened was that just in 1985 like that job just completely changed. And by 1990 instead of asking the recent grads do it, you were doing it yourself. I actually remember this absolutely crystal clear. My my two cousins were University of Chicago MBA grads in 1985. They did not use a computer to when they got their MBAs. And when I was talking to them about going to Microsoft two years later, they were like, well, you know, we have these kids who use a computer for us. And they they ended up using computers and stuff, but but like their whole notion of banking was defined by this multi-week turnaround and then all of a sudden it's just more interns doing their Lotus 123 thing. And I this is it gets to the you know what's going on with with code and startups is is it's just there's just like a whole different mindset over how much you can do and how soon and iterate. Figma and Dylan they're always talking about this like this is like Figma is going to now change the trajectory of a design idea to go from like oh let's iterate over here to like let's just do it. Yes. I mean the the this is and this is where it's like a again a weird thing to like think about the percentage of my productivity as an example and like my my day is like not representative obviously because I'm bouncing between too many different things but like there'll be so many times where it's 10 p.m. In a prior world, I would have sent off a task to somebody, you know, you know, some analyst or chief of staff, you know, type type role. Go research this thing. It comes back three days later, and then you find the answer. And then now it's obviously just like kick off a deep research, go to cursor to generate a prototype, do do some kind of analysis, and then you have it back in 10 minutes or 20 minutes. and and I've just compressed whatever the what whatever that was kind of then going to be as a you know serially uh connected to that task is now just fully compressed and so then by the morning you're now kicking off whatever that project was again like nearly impossible for me to peg like what is that as a number it's just like a fundamentally different thing on just what work looks like and because you just compress so many different steps of a workflow into a single action and so it's just like a completely different way of of thinking about work where where does that fit in for you in what we were talking about what I was asking about earlier which is how does the expertise your expertise really contribute to that? Yeah. And in particular I I think it'd be interesting for people to understand like when you talk to customers how do you help them to avoid trying to get people to make AI make them do jobs they couldn't do in the first place and like how does because that's a easy point of failure. Um yeah, I mean it actually is this is this is this really um counterintuitive thing where and you've talked about specialization on the last one is like it the the the uh biggest gains of AI go to people who have some degree of expertise in an area to know what is actually true what is not going to work what should I integrate from the output of this AI you know like what are the 2% of things that maybe are hallucinations or or you you know, took the data in the wrong direction. If you don't have a deep understanding of your particular space or field or domain, you you aren't able to then have the right judgment to make all those decisions. So, I think the experts just get more powerful in this world. And so, I would that that's why I'm not even like convinced that you can tell a college student to learn anything different than ever any other, you know, period in history. Like, like be really good at a particular field. Yeah. And then AI is merely a turbocharger of your capability in that particular field. But like if I didn't know if I didn't just like generally know the things I know about, you know, SAS, which is like obviously like a really like like weird expertise, um, but like I'm like okay at understanding SAS, then I then the things I give to, you know, a deep research agent that I then go and incorporate back into work wouldn't make sense like to me. I wouldn't have the I wouldn't have all the context for like that one thing that it mentioned. How do I like form that into the overall strategy? But because I have some understanding of of this particular industry that just makes me way more productive. So so I don't think expertise goes away at all and I think any any of the experts in their particular area just become more powerful. So we we actually have a fair bit of anecdotal market data on this. So it's very very interesting. So if you take like a lot of these let's just take kind of a non-ext like image or video and if you look at the customer base for any of the popular platforms very interesting. So if you if you draw a dollar at random that's monetized, it's from a professional and for obvious reasons because you know like you know they can produce. If you draw a user at random, it's it's casual and it's in the tail, right? And so it's fairly clear that you know this is a proumer movement from monetization and you know I'm in associated with a number of companies that work with like say professional designers or professional creatives. They spend just as much time on the AI tools as they would on traditional tools. Yeah, it just turns out the output is far more rich and like you know, you know, it's it tends to be Yeah, but still it's still human taste. There's still like very specific requirements. And so I think I think, you know, if there ever is an ads model that ever shows up for AI, I think that there's going to be a long tale of people that want to use AI, but they actually don't have the financial incentive to do it or it isn't tied to like, you know, their actual job. And we're already starting to see that bifurcate out and there's gonna be another subsection that do. And and my sense is let's say if I'm say say I'm writing like whatever I'm a casual developer and I'm writing a 3D game and I want to have like a 3D asset. I've got one of two choices. I can have AI create it for me or I can you know contract a professional to do it. Like me as a developer I'm not going to create even if I use AI it's not going to be a great 3D asset, right? And so I think that you know you're going to have the same mind that you have today is either you can hack something up yourself or you can go with a professional and the professional will be using AI and and I think what's super exciting is is that the AI has created a third category which is which is I am uh I'm not trying to do this as a job. I'm never going to monetize this but there's some product utility gain to me that is worth 20 bucks a month. So my ability to now generate prototypes when I'm by myself just brainstorming like again I'm not going to do anything in the ultimate delivery of that you know in any functional code but like the like it's worth $20 for me to be able to go and like realize the thing that I'm thinking about. Yeah. And so so there's just like all new ways of of capturing TAM because there's all this utility that gets unlocked. Right. And there's one there's there's one more thing that's that's worth noting which is people that are interested in area in an area get there through AI. right now like this is the number one opportunity for somebody you know that wants to enter an area to do it as an AI native right because a like the tool actually can teach you know and then there's just such a posity of of talent out there that you can fill and this is also I mean this is the history of of productivity in general which is you you the more tools that you have available first the experts use them and then more people are able to become experts and and I and I as long but that's part of your management ing your own career. I love that point you made about like you still have to be really good at something and and I think that that you know if you want to be good at finance or at sales you you should become really good at it and assume you're going to use AI for that and you're going to be better than the people pretending. And I and I think that that's very much like if you just take, you know, we were going back and forth about, you know, oh, it makes a PowerPoint slide deck. Well, it turns out to make a good PowerPoint deck. It's still a skill and people still pay Mckenzie huge amounts of money for better PowerPoint decks with better pictures. Yeah. So, so listen, I so I I contract a lot of work for like videos and art and I have for a very long time, you know, as part of like different companies or even here at A16Z, you know, I have seen the shift for contracting someone that use traditional techniques to AI. Dollar amounts are the same, right? And so, again, like, you know, this is Devon's paradox all over again. Like, you spend just as much time. Yes. Um, you know, it's just the output tends to be more dazzling or whatever it is. And so, and you should see more versions of it. You should run more simulations and other you've got more iteration with them. you've got more control like I can listen I can have a video where like and I want a dragon to fly out of the sky you know so like you have like a lot more control um as as the customer but for sure you know this is not somehow like dropping the cost of output I I want to were you about to jump in I want to circle back to a point you made earlier about that there are 20-year-olds who are building up companies in new ways because remember a few years ago I think Patrick Carlson and a few others were asking hey where are all the Gen Z super successful founders remember that and and of course there was Dylan Field and Alexander Wang, but their companies took a few years to really work, but but now, you know, we're seeing the cursor founders, the Maror founders sort of, you know, get to massive scale in a very short period of time. And maybe it was the the foundation model companies required, you know, certain level of uh, you know, experienced founder because of the fundraising amounts and maybe the applications are, you know, more conducive to younger founders. But what what's your sort of reflection on this? Well, um the the I don't remember exactly the date at which he he mentioned that, but the but I do think there was a period um between in in the sort of you know mid 2010s to late two to early 2020s where where we were actually in kind of a bit of a lull as an industry. And the the reason for that was like like we kind of did like check off a lot of boxes of like the core things that people needed in the world. And so we we like checked off like a lot of the like once you have Slack, you don't need five other chat tools. Uh once you have Zoom, you don't need five other video conferencing tools. And so it gets kind of derivative, you know, past these kind of core platforms. And so once you have like SAS, you know, kind of check off all the major like things you do at work. And then in the consumer world, we like we had ways of delivering food and listening to music and watching videos. So like there's like not an infinite set of things that we we do as consumers. Then then what what is the 20-year-old founder supposed to to work on? Like they're going to it's like you have, you know, pretty finite opportunities as compared to in the mid 2000s, let's say, the whole world was open. You could start anything and because every single category had to be reinvented kind of post mobile, post, you know, kind of cloud maturity. So we now have that era in AI. And that is why I'm like so unbelievably pumped up. And um and it's because you have a complete reset of the landscape where there there's like there there is incumbent advantage in distribution but that is it. There's no other other real advantages. There's a bunch of disadvantages. Yes. And then there's a bunch of disadvantages but I Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry. No, no, no, but like I mean you know where I'm going. So like but like so you have this you have the exact makings of a landscape where where new startups can come in and do things that incumbents either can't or there's no obvious incumbent to even do that thing because again you're taking maybe like services and turning them into AI labor and there was no software incumbent previously to even attempt to do that. And then you have incumbents that have a whole lot of complexity in terms of their ability to go and execute in some of these spaces and they're not going to retool their entire internal engineering workflows to move at 10x the pace. And so a brand new startup can go and do that and then instantly get the scale of a larger company. So it's the first time in history where you have none of the disadvantages of a big company. And the the traditional advantage you have as a big company is you have scale and you have distribution. Scale because you can look at a feature and you say we're going to go build that next month. And obviously it's harder because there's like you know um you know there's there's just lots of complexity to that. But at least you have the the human you know power to go do that. Now as a startup you instantly have scale because you know background agents etc. And so then it's a distribution game and a lot of these you know pieces of software can go viral now in a way that wasn't possible 10 or 15 years ago. So we've kind of neutralized a lot of the incumbent advantages. And so thus it's a ripe opportunity for brand new startups. often will be people just like coming right out of college saying, "Hey, it's my first time building a company." Like, like they're crazy enough to not know how hard it is. So, they'll jump right into markets that otherwise we would assume are like it's like the market's already solved for. There's no way that you're going to build a company and you'll just have new startups that actually go and do it and and actually produce real, you know, real companies in these spaces. Yeah. Because I I mean, this is just so critical because it what what's really happening is this is why, you know, it's an actual platform ship. So Silicon Valley has seen this movie many times before and it that's why often there's a lot of this you know is this crying wolf or not because everybody knows that when there's a platform shift that's the moment in time that that startups are at an advantage and and so each time there's a platform shift like everybody's like oh this is it this going to reinvent everybody and then it doesn't and people get really like oh it's always incumbents but historically like the advantages to incumbents are wildly overestimated Mhm. And really I I mean this is this one where you know like you know was did the internet undo Microsoft or not undo Microsoft is a super interesting thing because of course there's a $3 trillion company now but not on the internet in a way that you think about the internet like none of the consumers none of the platforms none of the assets that we had in the 90s became internet assets. I mean, even if you look at Azure today, it's an amazing accomplishment. It's not running Windows anywhere, right? And and I think that that that's why, you know, it's not crazy to go, wow, is this going to be good or bad for Google? Because there's a bunch of stuff that becomes really really difficult if you if you don't make transition. And then it turns out historically even if you do make the transition, you really didn't and you just have to wait for time to pass. Well, and this no this is like Intel with the GPU. Like they they missed the GPU in 2005, right? And they missed the opportunity to buy the company to do the work, whatever. And they kind of missed the data center, too. It just took a longer time to figure out that they missed that as well. Well, and we have a pretty narrow definition of like disruption in the sense of like we expect that the incumbent has to lose for this new startup. And that never happens. It never happens. And so it's the it's the whole radio TV, you know, um theater, you know, movie analogy. And it's like it's like no like like it turns out that Microsoft can be a $4 trillion company. And you can have all these new categories emerge that maybe Microsoft should have owned if everything was like perfectly analogous to the desktop days, but they just don't. And it all works together as as one sort of ecosystem because it just turns out like software did eat the world. And these markets are actually just like a hundred times larger than what we realized. And so incumbents can grow and then you have new disruptors that that sort of emerge along the way. Yeah. Anytime you bring in a new technology that brings the marginal cost down then like the market's going to expand and like the incumbents can do it. I will say incumbents are very bad when new user behaviors and buying behavior show up like in particular that they don't know how to cater to it. AI is definitely a new user behavior and a new buying behavior. And so this is very much an advantage of startups just because you know to change a a large company around a new user behavior cuts to the entire company. everything from basically marketing all the way to support in the back end. That's just too much of a lift. I mean, if you look at the uh best practices of of like even how you would create an agent in the last 18 months, I think we've gone through two to three architecture pattern changes. And so, like it's just like, you know, I can barely keep up as a you know, midsize company. I can't imagine if you just had so many more people you had to like organize around that. disruptive new technologies require you know people to understand how to use them in consumption in different ways that evolves over time as you get best practices like that sort of flexibility can only come it's actually a very interesting question of how Microsoft actually did co-pilot to begin with because it was actually one of the first ones of these products was very successful I learned recently was created by open AI so that kind of explains it well but but you had a startup person and you and and and conveniently he was a startup guy so even then by the Okay, it's remarkable that it came out of my what's always remarkable is when when something new and defining comes from these big companies basically skunk works basically they had nothing to lose and and it didn't interfere like the iPod is this classic one people all or the iPhone even people always talk about like the brave it's like their computer business was dead dead like there was it was like 3% share and going nowhere so like it it was like a Hail Mary the iPod was a Hail Mary and then the phone, they weren't in the phone business. It didn't matter. And the fact that they made a phone a little computer is what Nokia was like, what is that? And and I think people really need to wrap their heads around just the fact that to your point that the the big companies stay around a very very long time. And this is something I've seen a bunch of people in the past couple weeks, you know, oh, it's basically Clay Christensen, Innovators. Of course, nobody's ever read the book. And and and Klay is a great guy. you know, he was down the hall when I was teaching there and the the thing is is that this is a book like about two and a half inch disc drives and a bunch of crazy I really don't think it applies to modern stuff. But the thing that he he missed aside from he missed the cost and low high-end and thing but was also that the companies don't evaporate and your point about that is really important and so what it does is there's this shadow that everybody is worried about and so you just see it constantly well like I assume like you you when a company is like we're not worried about if Google does this. what you want to hear, right? Because like it's just I mean and you've lived this because you you were like the classic, you know, Steve Jobs said you're a feature and here not just that you there's like two whole companies that do this stuff now. Fortunately, he only said that to Drew. So um I think I got the gates version of that one. Yeah. Um but uh no but but the one thing that is very timeless uh about about clay uh would be would be the thing that has the thing that does transcend floppies or you know whatever the whatever thing is is the incumbent doesn't want to do something that's against their business model and that that part is is fully timeless and to your point it's actually very rare whenever we say these companies disrupted themselves it's almost never the case that they disrupted themselves. It's the case that they they went after a market that they had no no actual you know you know market share in and it just worked which was the development tools for Microsoft because like the window there was no business in Microsoft development tools anymore because nobody was writing Windows programs. So really it was like what could we do for the cloud and honestly it's even a little bit of a silly discussion to do this with AI like AI is very disruptive so we're like okay well then it allows startups to like work against incumbents but even in non-disruptive technologies startups often have a play against incumbent so for example every year I'm I'm an infrastructure investor every year for the last 10 years after AWS reinvent I move into therapist mode and all all of my found all of my founders call me launched us on and they're on to my open source they're competing ing one with it happens every single time and I'm always like you know what you'll be fine I can't think of one company AWS has ever put out of business by launching a service and you know what they've all been fine and so in some ways even in like the normal like state of business without massive disruption startups still have yeah it was don't build a SQL server and compete with Oracle directly don't build a word processor maybe that were pretty evergreen for a long time nothing to a spreadsheet like there's a few things that yeah there are some categories where people should call us first if they're They they won't change. There's a far side that we should we should definitely show people that it's a really Can I have 10 cents? Why do you want 10 cents for your startup? So I could buy a loaf of bread and beat you over the head with it for such a dumb idea. It's a good one. We should have a call in on this thing, right? Exactly. Oh yeah. Yeah. Here's my startup. Um the the thing though that that the the other thing that I just don't think we've had at least I don't know of a modern kind of case study for is is again this uh this opening up of non-software TAM for software. So there's not even incumbents in the classic sense. The incumbents are are are really just professional services categories of work. And so and so it's really for the first time ever you're packaging up intelligence for a particular domain and workflow. And so there's no software company you're competing against. But it could be the vertical company, right? Like you know, like you have to become an egg company. But then but the vertical company will probably also be your customer. Yeah. But they're also your customer. So it's actually this amazing thing where where the people you're probably disrupting on paper are actually the primary users of your technology. Take advantage. Yes. And so then it's like it's like there's really no inherent competition until until you know eventually like more companies flood that space to do that idea. So this plays out in practice. If you have a company, an AI company that goes after say like agriculture or construction, they end up like realizing the competitive set are agriculture and construction. The buyer knows how to price things like agriculture and construction. They end up becoming basically agriculture and construction companies and then they end up doing exactly what you're saying is selling to the agriculture because they're not good at that, right? There's a whole world. In fact, the the earliest PC software was extremely vertical. Like if you actually look at the TRS80 catalog from the early 1980s or late 1970s, it would be like this is crop rotation software. Like literally like okay, this is what you should do. Like and you and the saleserson for Tandy would show up in Nebraska and sell crop rotation software. And then there was like I run a dentist's office and this is scheduling for a dentist's office. And what happened was, and this is what I think is going to happen, is these professional services organizations are there are going to be some that are like computer savvy. Yeah. And today they're really good at using existing. They're just going to go, you know what, we should just build like a company huge numbers of these verticals are just going to be existing proserve that turn into I think it's an incredible time where where if let's just pretend that you're just you just are committed to not building a software company like you don't want to do that or you don't maybe have the the team to do that. So you're going to build like a real world company. It's an incredible time if you started from scratch with now AI as your as your foundation. If you wanted to be a new systems integrator and your whole point is is that we are a systems integrator but we use cloud code or we use cognition or we use you know cursor to to get the output you will have such an advantage over any incumbent because the incumbent is not going to be able to rebuild that. So, I've seen examples of people building new ad agencies because obviously like if you can do literally a million dollar ad, you know, video, you know, campaign for, you know, $5,000 somewhere between those two numbers, you can charge the customer. So, so there's like this incredible time where you can just be building all new kinds of companies from the ground up leveraging the breakthroughs that that we've now seen in AI. that actually did that was an early internet thing that did really happen which particularly in the advertising space and I think it's going to happen in everything that's text and everything which was there were these digital native ad agencies that just knew how to use flash and they got like they would get bought for a billion dollars. The same the same thing happened with social by the way. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. What did you think of the survey that was how many people use AI every week? I thought this was pretty interesting. Um yes. What was the what was your peer response? Well, there it turns out like the number of people it's like up to 75% of adults are using it many times per week. And of course, you just see it when you use Google search. It's it's all self-reported, so you don't really know. But it was pretty interesting because I pulled a 1999 Pew study on internet usage as you would. As I would like basically in 1999 like half the country owned computers. Yeah. And they were all online. Yeah. Even four years post Netscape it was like still half the country. Yeah. And so you look at that as being slow or being fast. Was fast back then. I mean that felt fast actually was buying a computer. But but still the you know if you discount the search AI there's still you know activation energy to to figure out what this new thing is. Nobody knows how to ask questions to a blank edit control like make me smart about something. I think the the I mean the adopt the universal adoption of this as a consumer technology and then bleeding into proumer is is it exceeds anything I've ever experienced and I think it is it will just fundamentally change people's sort of daily patterns like my sister not in tech at all teacher like she was in town and she was like yeah I was asking chat this question and like I had to like do a double take I was like like chat and I was like oh chatbt that's what they that's what normal people call this and it's just like it's completely pervasive as just a standard techn technology. And so that to me is just like, okay, we now have the conditions laid for the next phase, which is, and we've we've now seen this for a couple decades, which is consumer adoption now goes first. And uh and then it gets basically pulled into the enterprise because you go to work and you're like, why why can't I ask questions of my enterprise systems the way that I can everything else in the world? And why am I not getting that same level of productivity gain? And then you again have the kids coming out of college that like they only know how to do homework with with chatbt. They come into the workforce and they're like why would I spend two weeks writing this report when I just came out writing essays in an hour. Like obviously something has to kind of give on this. So this is why this is just lays the the foundation for why we're going to see just a massive upgrade cycle in the enterprise. Also to build on your point earlier like about distribution and the reason that distribution is not the advantage that used to be is because it's already exists on 7 billion phones. Yeah. And and so at every other platform shift there was an upside to getting new distribution right that didn't exist before and but you had to overcome that like you had to get like the internet to people who didn't have the internet before. You had to get SAS to people who didn't. Now everybody has all of the ingredients right now. Anytime your business strategy relies on Comcast showing up in a neighborhood for for me to get distribution like that, you're going to have some problems. So, this is a very different trend. Honestly, last quick point on this is like for the first time in a very long time, we're seeing brand effects with an early technology. And what I mean by that is if you look at like whatever the major model providers, you know, how much better are they from each other? Like, you know, maybe, you know, a little bit, maybe not. like you know it changes all the time but you actually see clear leaders if they break out early just because people learn like the household people learn mid journey people know open AI etc. So these markets are so big, they're growing so fast that like you know if you become a leader in your segment, people will just adopt. But but don't discount you know like the early leaders of search for like Excite and Yahoo and so there's like this is just to not discourage people right like it's so early that names that you never heard of existed before Google and that's going to be really important. It's never the first people. When we look at mobile, there were big companies built, you know, like Uber and and WhatsApp and Instagram and Tik Tok, but the biggest beneficiaries were Facebook and and and and Google. Um, in AI, do we think it will be different that sort of the biggest companies in in the world in 10 to 20 years from now will be have created, you know, after chat GPT or um or will it be similar that what's your time frame? Uh, you know, post 2019, I don't know. Um, no, no. How many 10 to 20 years you said? Oh, yeah, sure. Okay. Okay. So, we can't know if we're wrong until we do this podcast in 10. Okay. Um, I think I this is so boring, but I think I think it's going to look like what we saw in something like SAS or cloud, which is the incumbents get bigger, but then there's all of these new categories that we would not have been able to predict. And then there's lots of 10 and 20 and 50 and 100 billion companies that also emerge and then over time those will just continue to similar to mobile and some and some don't make the transition. Yeah. Some will go down on a relative basis because their or like their market wasn't as ripe for agentic kind of workflows. But I think that you can kind of say um you know maybe this is then for another conversation is just like if you have a current system of record that that has a set of workflows on it where agents make sense to make that workflow much more powerful that's a good position to be in. But it I bet you that if we look back in 10 or 20 years from now, the vast majority of things agents do don't relate to just those things that we are currently looking at because there's just so many more fields that are now open. And so all of those use cases, I would favor the disruptor and or insurgent. And then in the in the today's spaces, I would kind of favor the incumbent on the margin. But the markets are so large that all you're going to see kind of growth in all of them. the there's a key um attribute across all of those which you know you is sort of like thought leadership or like who who is really setting the agenda for what people are talking about and I think that's the thing that really changes the incumbents become bigger but nobody's wakes up in the morning wondering what they're up to right nobody starts to wonder well if they're going to do it we need to understand it and that's the shift and you could think of it in the enterprise space or the business space like what do the CIOS who do they wake up thinking shift and it just becomes I use chat GPT at school GPT and there's nothing you could do about it as a company. Yeah, I think the more provocative question is is are there any lagards that will use this to get ahead? And we've seen this in the past, right? Like will Cisco do something interesting? Oracle is making some kind of crazy moves like are we going to see those that like missed like social No, I I think we everybody missed Oracle as an example, right? from three years to to today. Like you would not have been like, "Oh, definitely next." Microsoft had its moment of like, you know, you didn't know what the future and then they use cloud and Azure to kind of come back. And so, you know, this actually is an opportunity for laggers that are behind the curve to come back. Yeah. Uh to the Cisco point, like data centers are sexy. Like it turns out that we're just going to be building out lots of AI factories everywhere. So, you're going to get more scale from from parts of the stack that we stop paying like Broadcom. Like again people were not Hawk Hawk is going to end up running everybody looked at Jensen and maybe somebody else. So we'll table the rest for the next conversation. Thank you so much.