================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: wfBN1fOd-e8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wfBN1fOd-e8
TITLE: Taking Bold Bets: NIH and the Future of Biomedical Science
CHANNEL: a16z
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-23
DURATION: 59m 0s
VIEWS: 2,418
LIKES: 0
COMMENTS: 6
TAGS: a16z, andreessen horowitz

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Dr. Jay Bhattacharya is one of the country’s top medical experts and a 24-year professor of medicine at Stanford. After being censored and deplatformed during COVID for his role in opposing harsh lockdowns, he was appointed Director of the National Institutes of Health by President Trump in 2025.

a16z General Partners Erik Torenberg, Vineeta Agarwala, and Jorge Conde join Dr. Bhattacharya to discuss the administration’s role in tackling the autism crisis, how to restore public trust in health authorities, how to make the NIH more dynamic and efficient, and how to streamline publishing and restore academic freedom.

Timecodes: 
00:00  Introduction
00:59  Autism Research Initiatives Announced
02:01  New Findings: Leucovorin and Tylenol in Pregnancy
04:40  Addressing Preterm Birth & Broader Health Concerns
06:10  The Replication Crisis in Science
09:26  NIH Funding, Grant Review, and the Silicon Valley Spirit
12:47  Grant and Review Process
14:26  Portfolio Management & Allocation at NIH
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,731

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
The American people are not stupid. In fact, they're quite smart. And when we talk to them in ways where we show respect for their intelligence with data, allow people to disagree, but then have the evidence right there in front of people, I think people people will respond with trust where the evidence actually leads. We need kind of that Silicon Valley spirit. We should stop punishing scientists who fail. If they fail productively, let them publish in a journal that explain why they're what they what they learn from it. like that Silicon Valley spirit I think needs to come to science a little bit more. Well, Dr. Bart, thank you so much for for coming on the podcast. We're we're stoked to have you. I'm I'm delighted to be here. So good to talk with you. I'm a little jealous I'm not in Menlo Park to be there with you on this. So, yeah, exactly. And and we're talking Monday, September 22nd. Um there's there's big news coming out today. Um the the Times uh piece on on you just came out. I want you to reflect on on that as well. But maybe you can uh you could share with us the the big news and why it's so impactful. Sure. Uh so six months ago, roughly six months ago when I first started this job, uh Secretary Kennedy challenged me to help get answers for families with autistic kids. I mean was there's uh the prevalence has been rising for decades. Like one in 31 kids, I think was the CDC's latest numbers on this. That's that's an incredible number. Um and we don't have answers. A lot of times families, they have these behavioral therapies that don't really work very well for a lot of their kids. and we don't know the cause, so we don't know how to prevent it. Um, and so I launched worked really hard to launch this new initiative, 50 million new dollars. Uh, 250 teams applied for uh large research grants and we're going to announce today that 13 teams are going to be granted u you know these grants uh this for this autism data science initiative. Um the other thing there's two other things that that that are going to get announced today that that sort of came out of like this process of working with me at the center for Medicare and Medicaid services and and uh Marty McCary and Secretary Kennedy. Marty McCary is the FDA commissioner. Um uh one is a a drug a very common old drug called luccoin. It's basically like a it's folinic acid. It's called but it's like it serves almost like a a way to deliver folate to the brain. um where for when some when some kids have folate processing defic folate is you know something you get in vegetables right but um some kids have this difficulty processing folate turns out that a lot of doctors have experience using f full f full f full f full f full folinic acid lucavorin um in treating autistic kids and yo f kids who have this folate deficiency in their brains that act it actually works and 20% of the kids I think restore speech up to 60% of the kids they get much better uh now not every autistic the kid is going to get better with this. It's you have to have the specific thing that's happening in your brain. Um so but but you know making that more widely available I think this is a really good thing. The other one is a a a sort of a caution on Tylenol um and acetaminophen. um that that is a you know obviously very common pain reliever. Um it's used it's the only uh sort of pain reliever and fever reducer used recommended during pregnancy but there's been new new evidence that's emerged and what like actually highlighted by a new study put out by the uh the dean of the Harvard School of Public Health um just recently actually uh that suggests that that use in pregnancy can correlate with with subsequent autism diagnoses later on for the kids. Um, now I I think there's a lot of controversy still over that uh in the scientific literature. Um, but it's enough I think to say to to moms, look, uh, just be careful. I mean, you know, don't don't use it all the time. Use it only only really when you really need it for high fevers. Just just to think prudently about it. I I don't want to panic anybody. That's not that's not the kind of result that should panic anybody. It's just a reminder that you should use any medicine carefully, especially during pregnancy. Will there be any revised guide guidelines around the use of acetaminophen in pregnancy to help um to help you know moms and and and parents sort of make a decision or or have a judgment call on what they should do? There will be. Yeah. So that's something that uh uh Dr. McCary the the FDA commissioner is working on. Um and there'll be also uh you know changes in in uh uh like how Medicare pays Medicare CMS Medicare and Medicaid pay for uh Luca Voren. So it's a cross agency collaboration for all of that. So both the guidelines for for parents uh as well as sort of payment uh for for the new new for drugs and then we got the the I'm I'm the most boring part. I just get to launch vast interesting science projects for the for uh over the next uh that hopefully will produce answers over the next few years. Well, and the you're also paying attention to pre-term birth and you've launched a really fascinating initiative there to again, you know, um launch not only fascinating science projects hopefully, but also science projects which lead to clinical um insight into why that's happening to moms across America. And so, you know, um that's another really interesting adjacency, if you will, to some of the announcements that you just made today. Yeah, I mean the pre-term birth thing is it's really interesting. Like we have worse outcomes in the United States than Europe does. Um and um you know we don't really have great answers for why uh I mean there's lots of contributors to preterm birth. Uh of course prenatal care is so important during pregnancy. Um uh making sure you have access to that is really important. Um uh so that that's part of it, but it's not the whole answer. And uh we have to we need to get answers to families on all these things that concern us that concern I've heard from so many people around the around the country telling me asking me uh answers to these questions hard without excellent science and that's that's my job is to make sure that we have rigorous excellent science to address these questions. Um it's hard because you know like it's scient science is difficult right you get an answer you think is right and then you know eggs were bad for me in when I was 18 it turns out like it but then like later it turns out eggs are great for you and I you know I was fearful eating eggs forever cuz the science in 1985 told me that that eggs are bad for you um and of course now eggs are good for you I I just you know it's one of those things where like the science is difficult but we have to hold ourselves to higher standards. We have to be when we when we talk about people about science has to be rigorous and reproducible. Something I've been focused on um really sharply as my time as NI instructor is to like make sure that we invest in replication. The the standard for truth in science ought to be replication. Independent teams you don't just don't believe me just cuz I haven't I say something is true. You know other people independently looking at the same thing should arrive the same answer. Then we know more likely more we have more confidence that it's true. uh rather than just you know high high authority says. So for for the lay person listening to this um what's sort of been the cause for the the loss I I'll say the loss of vigor in science or the law or the or the challenges around being able to replicate science like what is the underlying cause for this trend? I mean the underlying problem is just that science is hard. I mean, that's really the bottom line. And then the the secondary cause is that there's just a lot of it. A lot more than there was. Like once upon a time, you know, you go back to like 1900 or something, every scientist knew each other or very basically knew almost every other scientist and everyone was checking each other. That was just a normal course. Now you have vast fields where it's very specialized and uh it's it's hard to get people to check other people's work. There's no return for it. Look, if I if I spend my career checking other people's work, I'm I'm not going to get a professorship at a fancy university. Um, and and science is hard, right? It's very easy for a scientist to latch onto an idea and say, "This is right. I know this is right." Um, but it may not be right. And so, what matters is other people looking at it find the same thing. Uh, but often when other people look at it, they don't find the same thing, but we don't learn about that, right? Uh there's been the last two decades uh there's been a replication crisis in science with increasing realization. The standards we hold ourselves to science in determining truth are too low. We basically you can get a paper published in a peer-reviewed p journal. You know I've had like 180 of them myself uh for which I apologize for everyone but uh but but like but the thing is like the fact that it's published in a journal doesn't mean it's right. It doesn't mean it's true. It's useful. It's like that's my expression of my belief about that scientific idea. I I think most of my things are true, but every scientist thinks that every everything they publish is true. Uh that's not enough. You have to have replication. You have to have other people checking each other's work because it's so easy to convince yourself in science that you're right. Um and so it's really those two things. The volume of science means that people are so specialized they don't and there's no returns. There's no like there's no incentives to check each other's work as much as we ought to. And then the publication standards are too because science is too hard. Science is so hard and publication standards are not high high enough really. Um that's that's really the reason for the replication crisis. Well, first I just want to comment there was a joke going around yesterday sort of a quote tweet on on Twitter about uh in response to sort of any potential reduction in autism that someone said this is a a direct attack on Silicon Valley startup productivity. Um you know what will this mean for for for startups? But uh but yeah, oh my goodness, exciting news there. The um say more just in terms of maybe we could zoom out. You mentioned you you you know took over six months ago. What are so your reflections so far in terms of your your activity and achievements to date and and and then what you hope to you know achieve going forward. Well I mean we've done a lot. So um like one of the first things I did was um we looked at u you know the way we fund foreign collaborations right. So um that's that was it turns out that we we fund coll foreign collaborations but it's very difficult for the NIH to check that the money is going to the right things. Uh we couldn't audit like the Wuhan lab. The NIH had sent money to the Wuhan lab uh but we couldn't audit it. Um so we put in a new system for allow like I'm I think foreign collaboration is really important um for science but we need to do it in a way where I can look the American people in the eye and say look we can we we're actually tracking the money. We're we're checking to make sure things are going the right place, doing the right thing. I put in a new system. The frustrating thing about that is like we put that in and all of a sudden I'm seeing reports that I want to end all foreign collaborations, which which I mean couldn't be further from the truth. I just want to make sure that we do it in a way that that's that that's auditable. I can go to in front of Congress and say, "Yeah, I know where I know we sent money to lab and here's the lab notebooks that they sent that they worked on," which we couldn't do under the old system. Um we've changed the way that we um uh evaluate grants. Uh so uh you we have a fantastic at the NIH we have a great way of valuing grants called the center for scientific review. It's the world's best peerreview organization. Turns out that bunch of the institutes there's 27 institutes. A bunch of the institutes were had their own parallel review system that and so we centralized that made it so that everyone is reviewed the same way. Um the other thing actually this is related to Silicon Valley. It's something we're working on right now. Okay. You you guys are going to tell me that I don't know anything about Silicon Valley even though because I I haven't didn't work for A6Z but I just tell you my view of this is is like the reason why you you all are so successful is that if you if you as a as a as a 16Z you have a portfolio of 50 projects and you fund 50 of them and 49 of them fail and the 50th is you know Google or something you view that portfolio as a tremendous success. And the people that that those those 49 companies, they're going to get a second chance, especially if their their failure was productive. You don't you don't punish failure that much. You you're willing to have a portfolio where you think big, right? You're you're you're willing and and that I think that spirit needs to come to science. I I did publish work before the pandemic um asking how how like essentially is is is the NIH willing to think big and too often the answer in recent decades has been no. Um like the look if you look at back in the 1980s and 1990s the NIH was was funding ideas that were like zero one two years old. Um the typical scientific project funded by the NIH in the 201s, it was about 20 2000 early 2000s and 2010s was like six, seven, eight years old. Um we just became uh too scared of of trying new ideas out. Um we need kind of that Silicon Valley spirit so that and we should stop punishing scientists who fail. If they fail productively, let them publish in a journal to explain why they're what they what they learned from it. Like that Silicon Valley spirit I think needs to come to science a little bit more. And do you think that the uh that the mechanism for reviewing the grants say at the NIH became overly cautious or did the scientists themselves become overly cautious? Well, I mean those are closely linked. It's a peerreview organization. I mean I sat on those scientific panels for a decade, two decades and I watched what happens, right? So um suppose a new idea comes in front of me, right? Well, I'm really good at methods and especially methods related with the old idea that's there's a new idea is not competing with my idea, right? Um, and so like I look at the new idea, I go, "This there's no way it can work." And I say that to this peerreview panel and everyone says, "Yeah, there's no way it can work." So easy to do, right? I'm sure you face the temptation too at A16. So you get you get a thing like you look at the thing, you're like, "This is a this is this guy's a obviously a genius, but he has an idea that couldn't possibly work." I mean, that temptation is very strong. And too often in science, we say, "Yeah, in in scientific funding, we say, "Yeah, we don't want to give we don't want to try it out." Um, and yeah, most new ideas are going to fail. That's just normal. You expect that to happen. But if you don't leave room for people to try them out, you're never going to make big advances. Um, and I think that's what happened to the culture of biomedical science the last few decades is is too focused on like incremental progress, not enough on enormous. Now, of course, there have been big improvements uh big big scientific discoveries, right? That I don't want to downplay that. That's true. But we spend a lot of money and per dollar we spend a whole bunch of like sc of economists who have looked at this and the science of science folks who looked at this say that we are getting too fewer advances per dollar that we spend. It's because the culture is too conservative. Yeah. It's interesting. It's sort of why many great venture partnerships um you know ourselves included are not consensus driven. You can't drive, you can't require unanimous consent to fund a big bold idea because someone's going to say, "Hey, no, there's no way that's going to work." Um, and someone has to be willing to take that bet. Um, I'm curious if, and correct me if this is kind of not how you think about the the NIH structurally, but it occurs to me kind of as an outside observer of the organization. You know, again, for listeners, our countries and the world's largest federally funded, you know, federal funer of biomedical research across 277 different institutes, over 35 billion in funding. You know, there's a massive organization funding essentially across multiple subd disease categories the most important research that we believe will advance our health as a population. And it seems to me that there are two big categories in which the NIH has to get decision making right. One is allocation and sort of how you decide how much should go to immunology versus infectious disease versus maternal health and you know versus autism and behavioral health and you know there's kind of this fundamental values-based you know population inputbased you know citizenship input based whatever it might be there's some you know risk return based methods that you have to do to decide how do you allocate funds across these different areas. does. And then there's an execution challenge. Okay, once you've decided you're going to allocate this m this quantum of capital in research funding to this area, how do you pick the right investigators? How do you keep them honest? How do you drive data return? How do you measure productivity on an ongoing basis? How do you incentivize ongoing risk-taking in a multipleear project? How do you get your agreement straight with an international, you know, funding, you know, research partner? All these are sort of all in the bucket of execution. Is that a reasonable way for people to think about the NIH? Like you got a nail allocation and then nail execution and you're in it to reform both. So okay, first of all, you are like you're you're very well trained as an economist. That's very very clear to me because that's exactly the right way how an economist would Yep. I mean but but no I mean that's exactly right. Right. So first there's a decision about where which diseases should we focus on? that's in it's not only a scientific problem, it's also a political problem. Like the and it ought to be a political problem for the reasons you just articulated, right? You it it um the the things that we focus on to reflect the uh the the real needs of the people that fund us. If we're just doing science for science's sake and we're just uh wandering around without producing answers or improvements for people's lives, well, the question is why should they fund us? And the and it's actually Congress that decides this. Congress and the president together in the budget decide where does the money go. You know how much to infectious diseases, how much to heart disease, how much to cancer, how much to pediatric dis conditions, you know, like there's a whole allocation um that reflects the political will of the people as well as the scientific need uh opportunities, right? So, it's it's a it's a mix of the two that decides that. And I think it's completely appropriate that that that be the case because So, let me let me push back on that. Why why why do people know enough about science and our ability to make progress in important disease areas? They may not even know the names of the diseases. They may not know anything about the true prevalence. they may they they've we've enabled them to be productive in careers entirely outside biomedical science expressly so that the experts can weigh in on where science is going to improve their health on an ongoing basis and so you may say oh that's you know um that's an overly paternalistic view or you could say well that's what people decided they wanted they didn't want to have to worry about exactly what research needed to be done they decided to offload that cognitive load to you um at the NIH and they they may not want a voice in that, you know, at least that's kind of one argument I'd make uh in response to the idea that allocation should be political. How how do you how would you respond to that? Well, I think so let me let me get to back to the second half of your characterization because that's where the scientific sort of uh expertise comes in, right? So within each area, it is absolutely vital that scientists have their say, right? that they they can they can say well this idea for addressing Alzheimer's is promising this idea for for addressing you know autism is promising and then they can and then scientists can check themselves and say well is this is this actually promising right so um it's and and the NIH's role is to mediate that take that scientific input um and uh make portfolio decisions that will actually advance health in those areas right that's that's that's basically my job um and so so that I the scientists have their say but in the the question of where should the money go right so let let me just go back to the HIV epidemic just to give us some sense of what can go wrong right so it the early rise in HIV did not was not met with a sufficient response by the NIH we're talking very very early in the early 80s of money going to research on this vital topic and and it was the political movement of HIV patients coming together saying look it's really important that we address this that led to the NIH actually taking that real public health threat seriously right um this if you leave it to scientists themselves or I should say ourselves I'll say two things one is we don't reflect the will of the people like we we're not good at mediating between different population groups I mean and it's it's not right right there's no philosopher king they can decide uh well this much money should go to HIV this much money should go to cancer this much money should go to pediatric conditions it it's the will of the people and so really I don't see any other way to do it you know was it like Winston Churchill said that democracy is the is the is the worst uh worst system of government on earth except for all the others I mean we don't have a philosopher king leaving it to scientists is not an answer like the people really should have some say in where where that allocation happens I Um the other part of it is that frankly I mean this is something related to the to what we just talked about before scientists if you ask us we're not actually good at predicting the future of the of future in terms of like our uh will this investment result in productivity I mean actually frankly neither is Silicon Valley right you can't say you can't promise me that every single project you pick is going to work for your portfolio you cannot right um and so scientists play a vital role in deciding what scientific opportunities there are and letting us know and then we can deci make decisions. But the portfolio decision that's a that's that's not exactly the scientific decision. That's an economic small microeconomic small small E kind of decision. And then the the macroeconomic decision is where the disease areas we should go to. It really shouldn't just be scientists that decide that. Of course, there's an interplay, right? So if there's a scientific opportunity in a particular area, I want to be able to reflect back to Congress and say, "Well, this is a great area. You should fund this right now because, you know, the huge advances in cell-based therapy for cickle cell disease. We definitely need to fund that, right?" And they'll and then then Congress can move based on that scientific opportunity, but that's an exchange between uh you know, the people and and the scientists, not just a one-way street. I like that. That's insightful. That's awesome. Yeah. No, I mean it seems like a more interdicciplinary approach to allocation and execution. Um that includes an understanding of how much we're spending, how much it costs on a go forward basis, what the economic impacts might be of getting the research right. Um no, thanks thanks for sharing that view. I think it's important for people to understand that you're trying to bring more voices to the allocation question and more rigor to the execution question. But both are not as straightforward as it may seem. Yeah, it's a it's this is a weirdly complicated job. Uh I thought being professor was complicated, but this turns out this is a little more complicated than that. Are are there certain areas you feel were underallocated or overallocated if if you could uh you know just wave on? Oh, we're all every area is underallocated. Of course, I mean I think um the thing is about the underallocation is I don't know if it's a question of money. Um but if you look at uh the trends in public health over the last decade and a half, the United States has seen no increase in life expectancy. Um we have enormous overhang of of patients people with heart disease. uh the the the actually cancer we've seen big improvements in in life expectancy or sort of uh life expectancy after getting cancer but but huge increases in the incidence of cancer uh type one type two diabetes autism we've talked about a whole host of other chronic conditions I mean uh and we've made big advances in other places right so the question is like uh how can we address the biggest health needs of the country right it it seems like we're really good at like at at and we should be good at um some some of the some some some conditions that have lower prevalence. Like we've made tremendous advances in HIV. It's a huge cause for celebration, right? Uh we still have some way to go. 40,000 people got HIV last year. We can end the HIV epidemic. We should still invest in that. But at the same time, what about all the people that died of heart attacks? What about all the people that died died have have, you know, type two diabetes that are suffering from, you know, blindness because they're uh you know, because they have, you know, bleeding in their eyes or in their retinas. I mean like so you have uh what what about the the people with kidney failure that that that the prevalence is rising. What about all we have to look at the practical health needs of the country that are people where people are suffering and make sure that we address our science to those things. It's and we I don't think we've done that as much as we ought to and just look at the macroeconomics you don't have any increase in life expectancy in this country in over a decade. um science isn't the only reason why like the po the fact that the NIH I mean the NIH contributes to that but but it's not the only answer that obviously it's very complicated um but the NIH ought to contribute to that things the science we do should translate over to better health for people and so really those areas where people are suffering the most that's where I want are are sort of I I would say is underallocated I love this idea of of comparing uh or or analogizing the NIH to almost like a portfolio manager right where and you know similar to what we do as as venture capitalists in Silicon Valley. And if I really wanted to abuse your analogy, which I I will if you'll allow me for a second, you know, the people are almost like your limited partners are the ones that tell you these are the sort of the thesis and the fund areas we want you to go after. And you all are the the investors, the venture capital investors that have to do the portfolio management and picking and all of that. You said a few minutes ago that a lot of the grants in the NIH are going to older ideas and there's, you know, lots of data that shows they're also going to, you know, more established, you know, older scientists, you know, at at the very high, you know, uh, highly regarded institutions. Um the equivalent of that would be if we only funded um 30-year executives that came out of you know large established companies and ignored you know the young upandcomers you know coming right out of you know university or or dropping out of school or whatever. Um you've talked a little bit about you know that question like how do you reform the process the you know the execution to use Venita's phrasing on selecting for the the innovation that if you will bubbles up from the bottom. And it's a hard question actually. It's something that's the top of my mind. Um and actually what you just described is exactly what we've been doing in science for a long time. So in the the data out of the NIH is that from in the 1980s if you were 35 you actually had a chance of getting a large NIH grant. Like that was the the the median age of the first large NIH grant. You were 35 years old. Now you're in your mid-40s. We tell young investigators, you got to do stuff. Not too to be clear, mid-40s, super young. Just want to be clear about that. Super young. I mean, I'm I'm 57, so look, I don't I mean, that's they all seem like babies to me, but um but the the thing is you have um the just like as as in Silicon Valley, the new ideas come from younger younger investigators, right? So I did a study a few years back where I looked at uh it turns out that the age of the ideas in your published work ages by every by by one year for every year of chronological age. So my ideas get one year older every year that I age. Uh the the very best scientists fight like crazy to stop that. So every two years of chronological age for Nobel Prize winners their ideas in their papers age by a year. if you want the newest ideas, you have to let the the young people have their have a try. Um, and we just just bad at that. Like young people, we fund we fund them and then they drop out and they leave for for other places. Uh, that wasn't true back like the back back in the 70s and 80s. The the culture of biio medicine says you have to have one, two, three postocs before you a shot at an assistant professor job. Um, and as a result, the ideas that we um support are just uh they're just older. I mean, necessarily a bad thing. I mean, of course, you should in the portfolio have some support for older ideas that were that are still promising, but if you don't also fund uh some of the newer ideas, the portfolio is going to produce fewer advances as a whole than if you do, right? You have to have a uh you have to diversify in that sense. Uh to solve that problem is hard. So, the NIH has been trying to solve this now for for two decades and we've made no progress. Um so first uh we have to I think um I mean I just give you some sense of where we gone backwards. Uh you know uh we uh used to have a a system of peer review where in order to be a peer reviewer you had to have a large grant. Now think about that. I got a large grant. I'm in my 50s and uh I see an idea that challenges my 30 years of work. and I'm on this I'm a reviewer on a panel. It's really hard to like open your mind and say well I might have been wrong. Um that system now that got changed but now so that we no longer have that rule but like it's the it's the mindset you you have to allow um uh now so what I've done is I've I've asked the uh institute of directors I've given them the authority essentially to expand what they can do in terms of the portfolio. I'm not going to judge them to make just like within Silicon Valley. I'm not going to judge them to on the does every single grant succeed. I'm going to judge them on the portfolio as a whole. Does it translate over to better health for for the people that they're for the disease that they're like trying to address or the diseases they're trying to address? Does it result in big advances in biological knowledge? Right? I'm going to assess the portfolio as a whole. And then the other thing is is that does it match the strategic vision of the instit institutes? They have these like fantastic strategic plans like you know you go look at them say your your eyes will say you you look at them go like your eyes will get big with the science that they're proposing and yet what they actually end up funding based on the peerreview panels is often you'll get 10 great proposals on one part of the strategic plan and like nothing on another part of the strategic plan. Um and so like you I'm going to encourage them to be able to pick the portfolio so that matches the strategic plan. um uh I'm gonna reward them for for rewarding and empowering early career investigators more right so uh I'm going to build incentives into the uh the decision-m at the by the institute directors so that they have incentives to solve these long-standing problems we have to solve the the new investigator problem and I'm going to start to evaluate um long established investigators because I think I do believe they play a pretty fundamental role still uh but in the in in in like how well do they advance the careers of the early career investigators that work with them, right? So, if they're good at that kind of mentorship and career advancements, I'm going to reward them um in the in their grants, I'm going to start evaluating the grants for that for for that, too. So, because the the the grant portfolio has to be uh sustainable in the long run and producing new ideas. I mean, just that's we should we need to just and if we don't have the early investigators uh sort of getting the support they need, we're we're going to start to stagnate. I love to hear the interest in advancing early career investigators, but we can't have that conversation without talking about the universities from where they tend to come. And so, you know, I was a product of NIH MSTP funding. I did my MD PhD um with the generous support of the NIH and my peers and colleagues um you know in my class and you know decades um behind coming up get trained on those grants today. How how can you work with um you know with the administration to ensure continuity for the training grants that you know NIH does believe are going to fuel the pipeline of early career investigators who as you say you know are perhaps most likely to bring change big ideas you know and take big swings. Yeah. I mean we we as you know uh you were you were biohysics right? So we have we have a range of like ways that we support early investigators right there. So there's um there are these awards for predoc meaning undergrads um and uh that's really important like we want to make sure that the undergraduate uh um the the very talented undergraduates who are interested in biio medicine and research bio medicine have have the support to do this. um uh if if uh there's also like uh support for uh for postocs right so uh for for for people who getting their PhD and then posttos um I want to it's going to be hard but we have to structure things so that um uh that uh the um uh the range of investments we make actually translate over to people wanting to stay in biio medicine I mean that we have a lot of people who drop out but I think the rain problem isn't that that support for the early I think we have a lot portfolio is pretty good on that. We could do better, but but that's part it's pretty good. The problem is like after you've had this career in biio medicine, how do you like do of this research training or do you have support to like make the next leap into an assistant professor job? And too often um it's too hard to do that. You can't get the support you need to do that. There's these K awards that we have that uh it's really difficult to get them. Um I think we have to do better at that and we have to reward universities that are better at that. Um there's problems all across the system but I think that miss that missing link is really the you know you finish your MD and your PhD and then can you get that resistant professor job or are you going to be asked to do 17 different uh posttos before you have a chance. Uh right now that system is set up to make it difficult. You you mentioned earlier that we're not making advancements in in life expectancy. um why are we lagging? Why why why are some European countries doing better and and um what are the highest leverage points you think to to to get back to improving there? Well, I think I think the key thing is we have to a lot of our science is is you know this replication quest we talked about earlier is very important. Um we have to solve that. Uh uh that that that will help a lot. Um and then this portfolio thing I think both of both of those things actually will will will address the sort of the scientific rigor problem and the sort of conservatism problem. um as far as like addressing life expectancy um that that really needs to be it's in a sense not just a scientific problem like we have to essentially get a message from the people that we want that that they want scientists to address those problems like that's just as we talked about earlier the polit political um nature of of of that kind of allocation decision. Um but you know that's exactly what the Mahabru movement represents. The MA movement is a it's basically a cry for help from the American people saying look all these chronic disease problems all these problems with our that with our kids and we're sick we're much doing much worse than folks in in Europe um in terms of our health with you mean it's and and that essentially is a a call for the NIH to reform itself to address those problems. It's a and to me it's a tremendous opportunity. Um and uh you know this this is why I agreed to take this job. I was perfectly happy being a professor. Uh um but it's but it's you know once in a lifetime opportunity to make the NIH really work for the American people. Um you know and I think having that political movement behind me behind us is really important for that. Last week you announced um some really interesting initiatives around academic freedom and many folks know your voice kind of reached the national stage in part because of your ardent um desire to see academic freedom respected protected across the country. And you know, it sounds like you're looking for ways to improve publishing fundamentally so that people feel freedom at all levels, including early career investigators, um, to share their view on science that they think might be interesting. And we need to figure out, to your point earlier, uh, how to make the point that anything published is not necessarily fact, but it's one opinion backed by one set of data and one set of analysis and one set of perspectives. and you'd like more of those to flourish in the public arena. Say more about um the role that you want NIH to play in protecting academic freedom. Of course, at the NIH um I found out that a lot of folks at the internal investigators in the NIH in order to publish their work had to seek permission from their supervisors. I changed that. Like no more no more permission. You if you're an NIH researcher, you have a scientific paper, you don't have to get permission from me. If I you people are going to publish research that I don't agree with. That's it's wonderful. Um they should be able to do that. Um also the the the the the places that uh like the universities I think need to be pl absolutely committed academic freedom for excellent science to happen. Um and uh you know like there's been a lot of like uh uh angst over the the administration's actions with the universities over the last uh few months um uh regarding them to high standards regarding you know anti-semitism and so on. Um uh but there's also been a miss message that we really do want academic freedom at the universities. Scientists will be able to say what they think and be and and and explore where they will uh or else they're not good environments for research. Um at as far as journals that is a complicated question but there's the the problem right now is that the scientific journals there's a essentially a a duopoly very few number of scient companies for-profit companies control very large number of journals and they charge tens of thousand $10,000 per article for science that they didn't do like the American people paid for they they want they actually had a a a a sort of a if you a policy where uh if a regular person wanted to go find a scientific article um they had to go there was a payw wall where they pay like $50 $100 uh we got rid of that payw wall for NIH funded research um there's still a lot to do in this area we need more academic freedom we need more openness and scientific publishing and I'm working on policies to do that so Jay you know one of the key questions if you know for the for the American public they're looking for for better uh outcomes better health one of the big avenues that of course this country uses and it's really had as a gold standard in the past is um you know having this extraordinary public health infrastructure but I think what's also true is over the course of the last several years there's a lot of of mistrust now in terms of public health um how do you sort of rebuild that trust for the public because obviously you know if there's no trust the the the the message can only be so effective and so how do how do we build those bridges back uh to the extent that you think they need rebuilding you know I I think the problem with public health uh and the lack of trust in it, you have to point to the pandemic. You have no choice, right? You just look at you think back to the the pandemic and you remember the plexiglass that was everywhere. There's still every time there see a plexiglass it makes me fills me with rage, but that's another story. Um and there was no science behind that, right? There was the there was like the you wear a mask when you walk into a restaurant and you take it off when you sit down, you know, you again no science behind it. um a whole host of like things and especing things like closing schools where again the science was so weak that it that uh uh and and yet now kids are like years behind in their in their education as a result where and they'll be paying the price for that for years. Um and so a lot of pop the American people have lost trust in public health for reasons I can completely understand. Um and so the question then is what can we do about it? Uh and to me the the key thing is there's two things that has to happen like two two very broad things like one um I I I think we have to restore gold standard science like that that presidential EO on gold standard science is so important because what it says is it articulates things that we thought all scientists already knew and are committed to like replication is really important unbiased peerreview humility in how we talk about the limitations of our scientific findings there's a whole host of things where you read it and go wow this is this is I thought science already did that and um so if we actually do that I think that that's a major part of this the second thing is we have to just like we talked about earlier about the role of the people and the politics in deciding what scientific priorities what what like areas of science to fund and then scientists to decide what priorities within the science areas to fund and in the portfolio analysis um we have to convey to the pe to people that that we are their partners in scientific investing investigation and in public health. um public health folks in public health are servants of the people and too often during the pandemic it came across like we were we were sitting above people right telling you what to do uh telling you if you don't take this vaccine you can't go to work you can't get a job you you know I mean it was it was um was heartbreaking to watch because if I believe very fundamentally that when science uh works as partners with people like and ser and has this this almost servant attitude toward you can do a lot of good. You can do a lot of good. Um but I think really that kind of humility and a return to to sort of gold standard science, that's the way to solve the problem of trust. It's going to take a long time though. Um because I mean I've talked to so many people around the country and it's it's not um we're nowhere near solving that public trust problem. Yeah. And I think it's it's an an especially challenging thing as you look forward. Um uh and I'd love to hear your thoughts on you know how do you convey uh you know uh recommendations and guidance in the face of uncertainty and incomplete information right to because going back to your point like in an ideal world you're always resting on top of gold of you know gold standard science you know but you know a lot of times the science you know there's a lot of unknowns in the science science is hard going back to what you were saying earlier and so how do you communicate to you know a population a nervous a nervous populace us, you know, a sense of of of a recommendation or or even guidance in a in a world where you yourself have incomplete information. I think you just have to be honest, right? So, if I um asked a question about I mean, god forbid there's another pandemic during my watch and then and then I'm asked, okay, how should we manage uh is is it right to wear masks or something, right? Um and I don't there's no good scientific evidence. I'm going to just say that I I you know what it's the analogy I d I I was a medical student once. I have an MD. So like I I can tell you this from firsthand experience. You're the first two years of med school you do a bunch of class work. The third year you finally get to see patients, right? So you go walk into a patient room and uh you're wearing a white coat and you know nothing or very little. I you know all you could filled with knowledge about biochemistry. You can like write you know chemical equations till your um your fingers get tired. But what you can't do is understand what a patient really needs. Um, and so you hear, you sit down in front of the patient, they tell you their story. It's wonderful. Like, they they put their trust in you. Um, and you are tempted to tell them things uh to answer their needs that they're asking you, but you don't know the answer. You just don't because you're a third-year med student. Of course, you don't know the answer. And there's a there's a like because you're wearing the white coat and because of you have someone looking at you wanting the answer um putting their trust in you, you feel this urge to like say things you don't know, you know, you start like freelancing. Um and that's just a terrible mistake, right? As a third year med student, you learn that you should just say, "I don't know. I'm going to look it up. I'll look they'll look the answer for you. I'll get back to you. Um I'll consult with people who know more than I do." You have to be humble and especially in in the face of new things, you know, new new new pandemic or new or or genuine scientific uncertainty, we in public health have to be humble and say, "Look, I'm we're not sure, but here's how we're working to try to get an answer." Um, we're and we have to convey that uncertainty and we can't blame the public. And I've I've gone around talked to lots of folks uh in in public health and science and they're like, "Well, what we have to do is we have to teach the public more about science and makes them make sure they understand that science isn't always perfect and science like moves. You know, you may have eggs are great one day and eggs are terrible one another day. That's because we have new science." To me, that's like blaming the public. It's not the the public doesn't understand that science is hard. They understand it fundamentally. like they just this is not a complicated thing in in the sense of like um I mean every everyone knows within the public that science is hard. The problem is that scientists conveyed certainty about things that they had no business conveying certainty about and then changed people's lives for the worst as a result of it during the pandemic. Say what I acknowledge that there you know that the pandemic was a particular challenge um with respect to both communication and certainty in the midst of uncertainty. But how do we acknowledge that challenge and not lose trust in some of the bedrocks of public health advancement that we've made over the last several decades, whether that's newborn vaccinations, you know, HHS held um held a listening tour and uh an advisory update on HEP B vaccination in in babies. And it's great that we're looking at all of the data holistically there. But in some of those cases, you know, some folks would argue there is substantially less uncertainty than there was in the wake of a new pandemic with a new virus with no data with new, you know, completely new infections, you know, than there is in the context of something like a HEP. So, how do we, you know, and please don't feel the need to respond to that specific um vaccine example, but how do we not make it so that even when you do have relative certainty and you come out and say, "Hey, we really this is not perfect, but we we're pretty darn sure this is a good idea." Um, how do you then make it so that people don't say, "Well, you know, last time you said you didn't know, so I don't know." Right? So, I I I think um I don't know is a good answer when you don't know. when when you have a little more evidence, a lot more evidence, like just take the MMR vaccine. Like the I mean, if you want to prevent measles, take the MR MMR vaccles and measles can be a deadly disease. Like I vaccinated my kids with MMR, I was really happy I did. Um, and I think that that um, you know, I I think that that kind of um certainty it, you know, it's science, right? So you nothing is known like tomorrow that someone might come along and they overturn you know Newtonian physics and all of a sudden you're talking about relativity or something right that that it's you always leave open that possibility um but some things we do know with certain with like much more certainty um I I I'm not saying that we should all have false humility I think we should have humility for the things we just should actually have humility about right um but at the same time when we have an area of more scient scientific certainty. We have to leave open room for academic freedom so that people can have their say that that that that think differently. Um we don't cancel them. We don't we just we reason with them and we say look you you think you think you say X Y or Z but look at all this other evidence for MMR is a good example. Look at other evidence that that um that that shows you differently. And they'll just have a public discussion. It's okay. I mean it's okay that to have that contradiction. Um and then and then um and then I think what will come across is when there is actual excellent science replicated um I I maybe I'm naive maybe I'm uh but I don't think so. I I think that wins scientific debates and you can look there's evidence for this right. So the uptake of MMR in this country the MR vaccine is like 95% of American parents vaccinate their kids with MMR. the evidence is that and and I think it's like 13% of American parents vaccinate their kids for the COVID vaccine. I think that reflects the scientific evidence regarding the relative merits of those vaccines. Uh the American people are not stupid. In fact, they're quite smart. And when we talk to them in ways where we show respect for for their their their intelligence with with data allow people to disagree but then have the evidence right there in front of people. I think people people will respond with trust uh where the evidence actually leads. Um I mean I just yeah maybe that's just a matter of faith for me but I I don't see any other way forward. You mentioned that the the three priorities of n you have are nutrition, chronic disease and integrating AI. Maybe can you uh flesh out a little bit on on the last two where what you see as most promising in terms of reducing the disease burden and then also in terms of integrating AI. I I've seen some like fantastic new ideas regarding Alzheimer's disease. For instance, a colleague of mine at Stanford did has this like fantastic paper set of papers he published using an old shingles vaccine called Zasttovax. um f he found that uh in excellent observational studies that it that if you had zasax it reduces the likelihood of developing cognitive decline for Alzheimer's disease by up to 20% 30%. I mean it's pretty substantial for a a pretty innocuous safe vaccine that's no longer used actually because it didn't work for shingles. Um I mean imagine if you had a very simple cheap way to prevent 30% of Alzheimer's cases or delay Alzheimer's for for years. There's a there's all these like huge advances uh I've seen uh that that you know just need a little bit of scientific love. I I think we just need to focus on those have the do make our portfolios focused on those be willing to take risks in terms of like um on things that look like they're they're new ideas um and we're going to make a lot of progress and AI by the way I think is going to play a tremendous role in that. I I just you know everyone knows about the protein folding and alpha fold that has done a amazing job in in turbocharging biomed of drug development because now you you don't need to like sit there and wait and uh uh for you can just do your your uh u you computations figure out what the the how the protein folds what the target sites will look like and then ask which of these drug products are like more likely to actually work um without having to do very expensive biolog you know in in, you know, lab work. Um, you still have to do the lab work, but it focuses lab work in more promising ways. Um, in in the way that we deliver medicine, right? So, you can have AIs help uh radiologists do a better job at at making sure they catch things, make catch everything. Um, uh, uh, even simple things like, you know, you go to your doctor, the doctor sits there looking at the computer the entire time rather than you because they're like filling out their the electronic health records. have an AI assistant listen to the conversation, fill fill out the form for the doctor. So, they're just checking afterwards for takes them a couple minutes and they're spending all their attention on you, right? Um, all of this needs research, by the way. I mean, does this going to help patients? We have to ask those questions. But to me, that's a tremendous promise. Like those simple things can transform biomedical research and how patients are treated. Um, so that's why AI is so so important to me as a as a potential tool. We does need research. I mean I don't want to uh we can't have AI hallucinating on us and and then then treating patients based on hallucinations. But u you know that's uh that's that's a matter of research to fix those kind of problems. We heard that HHS um rolled out across you know agencywide um an enterprise secure version of chat GPT which is um seems like a a terrific achievement from the perspective of internal HHS and NIH operations even right to be able to look up internally how new is an idea um simple simple queries and and data kind of fluidity of that kind seems important what's the future is an AI going to write the institute strategic roadmap and an AI submit a grant and an AI review panel review the grant and you know where are we going to play a role as scientists I mean I I don't I okay so to that question the answer is no yeah I I mean I think AI are really good at summarizing existing knowledge like the training data you give it helps it get it's fantastic at that kind of thing um really developing brand new ideas that that that that challenge existing paradigms. I don't I mean I don't your your experience with AIS but they're not quite as good at that. Um it's really it's uh we have I just to put a new policy in place where um I'm limiting the number of new public applications you can have like to we can have you know six a year six a cycle or something. We have people writing 60 applications and very clearly AI generated and then we have you know that it's it it's I mean it does overwhelms the system with noise. Y yeah so I mean I think AI is really important as I said I think it's but it has to we have to do research to understand how it can be used to help people. Um and I think people scientists are still going to have a tremendously important role. Um the the uh the new AI system roll out in natur is exciting. We're actually been working on a new system also specific to NIH again to protect in a ways that the protect patient priv privacy and all that but rolled out across the NIH so that people can like interact with it in with with uh uh in ways that help on NIH specific tasks as well. Um so I I mean I think that's all very exciting but it's an augmentation of capacity rather than a substitution of capacity. Uh it'll make people way more productive. It'll help us address some of the key problems, but scientists are still going to I mean, we we still have work to do as scientists. We do. If I could just end on one one last question, if you had one message for the rising star scientist contemplating a career in science where they can bring the best of their abilities to making science better, smarter, faster. you know, a scientist embarking on a new PhD in a in a brave new field. Um, a scientist thinking about starting a new company to advance the work that they're doing. A scientist at the NIH running a lab. What is your one message to the individual scientist who's out there um, you know, hoping hoping to make the the biggest impact they can? I mean, science is incredible. like it has almost limitless capacity to to advance human well-being. Um and uh it's the it's the individual scientist who believes in their idea. You keeps knocking on the door even when the the door is closed over and over again until it opens. That's that's who really makes a big difference in this world. Uh I would say please stay stay in science. Keep knocking that door um and make and and change the world with it because that's the that's only the only way the scientists can can do that. I I love the story of Max Perots. I don't know if you've heard of him. He was a University of Cambridge uh researcher in the I think 50s and he had this idea that he could figure out the structure of myogglobin which sounds like a very geeky kind of thing. It's like but it's uh but back then there was no protein folding field really. I mean it was like and and he was a student and all his professors kept telling him pick an easier problem Max this is crazy. Why are you spending all your time? You're never going to finish. And for a decade at the University of Cambridge he wandered around. and everyone knew he was a genius but he was like got nowhere he's not just working at it until finally he figured it out and it's just transformed like a whole host of things in biio medicine um and uh you know eventually won the Nobel Prize it's it's um you know it's the kind of thing where I asked myself do we have a scientific uh sort of infrastructure today that would allow a Max Perz to do what he did back then and I would love to that the to make that happen through the the the sort of the power of the NIH to allow the Max Perz of the world, the the new ones who are now uh uh sitting there with great ideas to be able to to to have to like try them out and and and change the world with them. Fantastic. So maybe on on that on that note just looking to the future um if we if we end where we started where you know uh you talked about the NIH's highest ambition is to improve the health of the American people whether that's measured in life expectancy or or the or the rate of chronic disease um that that that Americans suffer from. If you had to guess where we're going to see the biggest and best gains, is that going to come from, you know, how we manage patients, so the management of disease, um, you know, new molecules for treating disease or modifications in terms of how we all live? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. To all the above. I mean, you know, I I I am a big believer in portfolios when I have uncertainty. So, I don't know how to answer your question. uh because I I see promising advances in all three of those topics and I think we have to invest in all of the above in order to see where the most promising things go. Like who would have predicted that the GLP1s you know that would would actually we had we saw a reduction in average body weight in the in this country the first time in you know decades last year because of a geo geo monster molecule that somehow turns out to you know when you if you just do the right biology there was a scientist knocking on some kind of door to make that happen right yeah I just I I mean you it's a that's the only thing about science it's it's hard it's hard to predict where where where the best things are going to happen and so you have to like have a portfolio but all of those areas to me sound look like they're very promising and as I've gone around the country talked to people I'm I'm excited about all of it so I can't wait to see what we produce. Do either of you have a prediction to that question or is it also uh kind of well this is the debate we have every week in terms of where we want to invest you know that our answer is yes yes yes too correct all of the above uh well that's a great place to to close uh Dr. Thank you so much for coming on the podcast. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here. Have a great day.