================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: TTv4PR4WQvI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TTv4PR4WQvI
TITLE: Ep 420: Siddhartha Basu Is in the Hot Seat
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-16
DURATION: 4h 10m 7s
VIEWS: 2,945
LIKES: 44
COMMENTS: 3

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Circumstance made him a legend of the quizzing world, but Siddhartha Basu is a man of many parts. He joins Amit Varma in episode 420 of The Seen and the Unseen to talk about life, India, the art of asking questions and the answers he has found.

 (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Siddhartha Basu on Wikipedia, Twitter, Instagram and IMDb.  2. Tree of Knowledge, DigiTok. 3. Quizzitok on YouTube. 4. Middlemarch -- George Eliot. 5. The Gita Press and Hindu Nationalism — Episode 139 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Akshaya Mukul). 6. Gita Press and the Making of Hindu India — Akshaya Mukul. 7. Episodes of The Seen and the Unseen featuring Ramachandra Guha: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.  9. The Life and Times of KP Krishnan — Episode 355 of The Seen and the Unseen. 10. The Life and Times of Vir Sanghvi — Episode 236 of The Seen and the Unseen. 11. Gods, Guns and Missionaries: The Making of the Modern Hindu Identity — Manu Pillai. 12. The Forces That Shaped Hinduism — 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 87,019

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
I recorded this episode many weeks ago I recorded this episode many weeks ago and while listening to it again before and while listening to it again before the release I was wondering how to the release I was wondering how to introduce Siddhhat Basu. I know him from introduce Siddhhat Basu. I know him from the iconic 80s show Quiz time. One of my the iconic 80s show Quiz time. One of my friends the leader of industry today friends the leader of industry today says it shaped his whole life. Others says it shaped his whole life. Others might know him from his other television might know him from his other television work including the also iconic Kona work including the also iconic Kona Kpati as well as Chalak Diklaja, Daskka Kpati as well as Chalak Diklaja, Daskka Dam, Sachka Sama and many many others or Dam, Sachka Sama and many many others or you might know him as an entertainment you might know him as an entertainment entrepreneur but really all these are entrepreneur but really all these are happy accidents that he was smart enough happy accidents that he was smart enough to capitalize on. More than anything to capitalize on. More than anything else I realized Siddhhat Basu is a man else I realized Siddhhat Basu is a man of theater. Theater has been his of theater. Theater has been his lifelong passion almost his first love. lifelong passion almost his first love. So in that sense this is biographical So in that sense this is biographical fact but I also mean it as a metaphor. fact but I also mean it as a metaphor. Theater is that art form that not only Theater is that art form that not only engages with the world but unfolds in engages with the world but unfolds in real time in the middle of it. Writers, real time in the middle of it. Writers, poets and painters can be solitary poets and painters can be solitary creatures. And while filmmaking requires creatures. And while filmmaking requires large teams, films are seen well after large teams, films are seen well after they are made and can be a solitary they are made and can be a solitary activity for the viewer. But plays activity for the viewer. But plays unfold before a live audience and actors unfold before a live audience and actors are surrounded by the people they are surrounded by the people they attempt to depict. They can hear the attempt to depict. They can hear the laughter. They can see the eyes stare laughter. They can see the eyes stare up. And if I may extend this as a up. And if I may extend this as a metaphor to the business of living, metaphor to the business of living, Siddhhat Basu has been an actor in this Siddhhat Basu has been an actor in this world. I met him for the first time world. I met him for the first time while recording this episode and I was while recording this episode and I was struck by and envious of the tremendous struck by and envious of the tremendous energy he has at the age of 70. This is energy he has at the age of 70. This is a man who is alive in every moment, who a man who is alive in every moment, who is intentional about everything he does, is intentional about everything he does, who is still excited and animated and who is still excited and animated and sometimes deeply concerned by all that sometimes deeply concerned by all that is in the world around him. A friend of is in the world around him. A friend of mine likes to say life should not be a mine likes to say life should not be a spectator sport. Siddhhat is a doer on spectator sport. Siddhhat is a doer on the stage not a watcher in the audience. the stage not a watcher in the audience. This explains his remarkable life and This explains his remarkable life and this is also why you will enjoy this this is also why you will enjoy this conversation. Welcome to the scene and the unseen our Welcome to the scene and the unseen our weekly podcast on economics politics and weekly podcast on economics politics and behavioral science. Please welcome your behavioral science. Please welcome your host Amit BMA. host Amit BMA. Welcome to the scene in the unseen. My Welcome to the scene in the unseen. My guest today is Sad Basu. A beloved guest today is Sad Basu. A beloved figure among quizzers everywhere for figure among quizzers everywhere for being the man behind Quiz Time, being the man behind Quiz Time, Mastermind India, University Challenge Mastermind India, University Challenge and Kban Kpati. He built a career in and Kban Kpati. He built a career in television producing many iconic shows. television producing many iconic shows. He's acted in movies and now has a He's acted in movies and now has a lively YouTube channel. But he began in lively YouTube channel. But he began in theater and he's loved art and theater and he's loved art and literature all his life. In this literature all his life. In this conversation, we chatted about the India conversation, we chatted about the India he grew up in, how that became the India he grew up in, how that became the India we live in now, his time in theater we live in now, his time in theater where he was an early associate of the where he was an early associate of the legendary Barry John and all that he has legendary Barry John and all that he has learned in his eventful life. Despite learned in his eventful life. Despite being a quizzer myself, I was never in being a quizzer myself, I was never in the fortunate position of taking the fortunate position of taking questions from Siddhhat Basu. So what a questions from Siddhhat Basu. So what a pleasure it was to ask him questions for pleasure it was to ask him questions for a few hours. This is how we turn the a few hours. This is how we turn the tables. tables. tables. I'm pushing. Before we get to the I'm pushing. Before we get to the conversation though, let's take a quick conversation though, let's take a quick commercial break. commercial break. commercial break. Hey, the music started and this sounds Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it Everything is Everything. Every week Everything is Everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about. From the profound to the we care about. From the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma ami v a r ma. The show is called ami v a r ma. The show is called everything is everything. Please do everything is everything. Please do check it out. Sad welcome to the scene and the unseen. Sad welcome to the scene and the unseen. Hi good to be with you Amit. Yeah Hi good to be with you Amit. Yeah thanks. I mean I almost accidentally thanks. I mean I almost accidentally called you Babu because that's how called you Babu because that's how you're known and we have so many mutual you're known and we have so many mutual friends who keep referring to you as friends who keep referring to you as Babu did this, Babu did that. Uh I was Babu did this, Babu did that. Uh I was just chatting with Joy Bhachara who's just chatting with Joy Bhachara who's known you for the longest time since known you for the longest time since 1988 since he was a quarterfinalist run 1988 since he was a quarterfinalist run time and we were chatting about you and time and we were chatting about you and I'm all our mutual friends have so much I'm all our mutual friends have so much affection for you. So I'm fortunate I affection for you. So I'm fortunate I don't think so. So let me let me start don't think so. So let me let me start with a sort of an unusual uh question. with a sort of an unusual uh question. Let's do a third experiment, right? Let's do a third experiment, right? Let's say that at the time you are born, Let's say that at the time you are born, the world splits into 10 parallel the world splits into 10 parallel universes, right? In one of them, you universes, right? In one of them, you are who you are. You've had the same are who you are. You've had the same arc, the arc we will explore at length arc, the arc we will explore at length later in this podcast and your journey later in this podcast and your journey in quizzing, in television, all of that. in quizzing, in television, all of that. Uh, and a little bit in theater. But in Uh, and a little bit in theater. But in the other nine parallel universes, where the other nine parallel universes, where do you think Siddhadasu is likely to end do you think Siddhadasu is likely to end up? Like are you a theater doian in one up? Like are you a theater doian in one of them? Are you a renowned writer in of them? Are you a renowned writer in one of them? What's going on in in those one of them? What's going on in in those kind of worlds? Because you know, you kind of worlds? Because you know, you look at one path taken and you think look at one path taken and you think that it it like the past with the that it it like the past with the hindsight bias always seems inevitable. hindsight bias always seems inevitable. But actually every life is a massive set But actually every life is a massive set of possibilities and with every second of possibilities and with every second those get constrained with every those get constrained with every decision and every accident. So g you decision and every accident. So g you know just muse for a bit about you know know just muse for a bit about you know what are the other sedhhat basu like you what are the other sedhhat basu like you know as a kid I was the youngest of know as a kid I was the youngest of three siblings uh my older sister Janti three siblings uh my older sister Janti uh Daknam Babuli she's 9 years older the uh Daknam Babuli she's 9 years older the other one Arundati other one Arundati Tubla Tubla Tubla Chi to me is about four years older so Chi to me is about four years older so as a kid as a kid I had an overactive imagination so I I had an overactive imagination so I wanted to do many things wanted to do many things you know and I'll come to some of the you know and I'll come to some of the other things that I could have done. One other things that I could have done. One is I would love to like a lot of kids is I would love to like a lot of kids have been an engine driver and then one have been an engine driver and then one is to read comics. So then you see is to read comics. So then you see yourself in all these Superman avatars yourself in all these Superman avatars and all the rest of it. Then my father and all the rest of it. Then my father had rehabilitated a guy who used to had rehabilitated a guy who used to drive for us and clean for us and who drive for us and clean for us and who was very fond of me particularly was was very fond of me particularly was very uh had undulating moods. So very uh had undulating moods. So everybody used to be wary of him but he everybody used to be wary of him but he was very fond of me. if I got sort of was very fond of me. if I got sort of yelled at or you know chastised he would yelled at or you know chastised he would take me for little lozenes and things take me for little lozenes and things like that. So for me he was a much loved like that. So for me he was a much loved character called Anthony. So once I went character called Anthony. So once I went to a family wedding as a four or 5 to a family wedding as a four or 5 yearear-old and I was asked who I was yearear-old and I was asked who I was and I said I was Anthony. So the and I said I was Anthony. So the negative capability of wanting to be negative capability of wanting to be different people at different times I've different people at different times I've had my mother uh among other things was had my mother uh among other things was a devout Ram Krishna mission paka a devout Ram Krishna mission paka and Swami Viveanand was huge for her and and Swami Viveanand was huge for her and uh and she was a very good singer. uh and she was a very good singer. One side of her would have really liked One side of her would have really liked it I think if I had taken the route of it I think if I had taken the route of monkhood and there was a certain period monkhood and there was a certain period of my boyhood where people thought I was of my boyhood where people thought I was going in that direction. going in that direction. So that is one side of me which has been So that is one side of me which has been there. I used to write. I used to there. I used to write. I used to fantasize. I used to want to be a fantasize. I used to want to be a football player at one stage. And the football player at one stage. And the huge names at that time was a Mohammad huge names at that time was a Mohammad Shafi and a Shafi. And I used to change Shafi and a Shafi. And I used to change my names and sign as and I used to think my names and sign as and I used to think what Zafur sounded good to me and sort what Zafur sounded good to me and sort of you know quite magical sometimes a of you know quite magical sometimes a Shafi and I used to practice a Shafi and I used to practice a signature. You I was about 10 years old signature. You I was about 10 years old at that time. So, and that's one of the at that time. So, and that's one of the things that leads you to become an things that leads you to become an actor, wanting to be an actor. And actor, wanting to be an actor. And that's one of the things that led me to that's one of the things that led me to theater, too, because you can be so many theater, too, because you can be so many different people. And if you have the different people. And if you have the negative capability to get into somebody negative capability to get into somebody else's shoes and minds, you can try and else's shoes and minds, you can try and be that person. And if you perform well, be that person. And if you perform well, I'm not talking about stars. I'm talking I'm not talking about stars. I'm talking about actors who, you know, get into about actors who, you know, get into character, who get into the skin of character, who get into the skin of other people. and I have played very other people. and I have played very different kind of characters on theater different kind of characters on theater in theater on stage. So that's one of in theater on stage. So that's one of the things I think has been in my head. the things I think has been in my head. I have also looked at the quiz shows I have also looked at the quiz shows that I've done as drama by other means that I've done as drama by other means because stage craft is part of it and because stage craft is part of it and how it's mounted how it's mounted and it's the drama of competition on and it's the drama of competition on something like convenor who wants to be something like convenor who wants to be millionaire. It's the drum of dilemma millionaire. It's the drum of dilemma too and it's about storytelling and how too and it's about storytelling and how it comes across. I think theater and the it comes across. I think theater and the theatrical imagination theatrical imagination theatrical imagination and uh has played a lot to do with what and uh has played a lot to do with what I wanted to do but to try and address I wanted to do but to try and address what you were asking me in parallel what you were asking me in parallel universes what I would have liked to do. universes what I would have liked to do. I never planned nobody would have I never planned nobody would have planned at the stage that I was growing planned at the stage that I was growing up. I was born at the very end of 54 up. I was born at the very end of 54 28th December which is virtually 55. At 28th December which is virtually 55. At that stage if you were a baby boomer and that stage if you were a baby boomer and you were growing up where was a question you were growing up where was a question of wanting to be a quiz master or of wanting to be a quiz master or becoming a television show producer becoming a television show producer because there's no television in the because there's no television in the country. Uh there was no question of you country. Uh there was no question of you know people doing that kind of thing. know people doing that kind of thing. That was not on the horizon at all. That That was not on the horizon at all. That was happen stance. that was accident as was happen stance. that was accident as it were uh how it happened and uh it were uh how it happened and uh one of the books that had a huge one of the books that had a huge influence during my master's course in influence during my master's course in literature was middle march literature was middle march by George Elliot and we had a wonderful by George Elliot and we had a wonderful teacher professor Ian call who was head teacher professor Ian call who was head of department at that stage of department at that stage who happens to be my wife's uncle at who happens to be my wife's uncle at that time I didn't know that I was going that time I didn't know that I was going you know that was happening But who's to you know that was happening But who's to make the connections between life, make the connections between life, society, philosophy come together so society, philosophy come together so beautifully in middle March? beautifully in middle March? It's about of course in the 19th century It's about of course in the 19th century this group of people who have such ideas this group of people who have such ideas in their minds in their minds but the course of things is decided not but the course of things is decided not like necessarily by big decisions but by like necessarily by big decisions but by little decisions. little decisions. little decisions. somebody who somebody who somebody who in the medical field in healthcare wants in the medical field in healthcare wants to do something really ambitious the to do something really ambitious the little things decisions for the sake of little things decisions for the sake of conveniences pragmatism etc leads in a conveniences pragmatism etc leads in a particular direction particular direction particular direction so the path that I've taken which has so the path that I've taken which has become my career by happen stance is become my career by happen stance is really a combination of factors it was really a combination of factors it was not conscious at all I would have loved not conscious at all I would have loved to make a livelihood of theater. I don't to make a livelihood of theater. I don't believe there's a livelihood even today believe there's a livelihood even today in that field. My father was in a salary in that field. My father was in a salary job all his life. So it's not as if job all his life. So it's not as if there was kandani pesa to you know there was kandani pesa to you know pursue whatever pursuits you had. I pursue whatever pursuits you had. I tried very hard you know to actually tried very hard you know to actually sort of do plays, workshops, direct and sort of do plays, workshops, direct and live through very exciting times in live through very exciting times in theater but it didn't happen. I thought theater but it didn't happen. I thought let me teach myself film craft and that let me teach myself film craft and that was in 16 mm black and white which for was in 16 mm black and white which for eight years making documentaries with a eight years making documentaries with a very interesting group of people on very very interesting group of people on very limited jour but even so and then I took limited jour but even so and then I took on a white collar job to be able to on a white collar job to be able to marry. I needed you know the the marry. I needed you know the the validation of that or whatever it is. I validation of that or whatever it is. I was with Taj group called a cultural was with Taj group called a cultural attache attache attache which in the hotel they used to say which in the hotel they used to say byachi byachi byachi you know how it is and that happened and you know how it is and that happened and then in the middle of that I used to MC then in the middle of that I used to MC by default and because of the stage by default and because of the stage experience and everything like that experience and everything like that somebody somebody somebody then said hey then said hey here's a show you we want you to here's a show you we want you to introduce introduce introduce and that opened up doors which I never and that opened up doors which I never thought were there to be opened thought were there to be opened What other possible roads were there? What other possible roads were there? Like for example, we'll we'll talk about Like for example, we'll we'll talk about quiz time a safe cracker before it quiz time a safe cracker before it became quiz time later. But what other became quiz time later. But what other sort of directions like okay let me sort of directions like okay let me rephrase that. You mentioned that as a rephrase that. You mentioned that as a kid you would do exactly what I did but kid you would do exactly what I did but not many of my guests agree to it uh not many of my guests agree to it uh confess to doing the same when they were confess to doing the same when they were kids because I imagine everyone kids because I imagine everyone daydreams all the time right. So I would daydreams all the time right. So I would also have wild daydreams I'm winning the also have wild daydreams I'm winning the cricket world cup for India football etc cricket world cup for India football etc etc. So my question to you today is that etc. So my question to you today is that what do you daydream about now and are what do you daydream about now and are there any daydreams which have been there any daydreams which have been persistent through your life just as a persistent through your life just as a harmless daydream like at when you are harmless daydream like at when you are 10 it's it's every daydream is a 10 it's it's every daydream is a possibility in some way when you're uh possibility in some way when you're uh 50 60 70 the daydreams aren't 50 60 70 the daydreams aren't possibilities but they are pleasant possibilities but they are pleasant habits so you they take you into that habits so you they take you into that comfort zone or whatever they inspire. comfort zone or whatever they inspire. So you know what what are those what is So you know what what are those what is your sort of because in those daydreams your sort of because in those daydreams those parallel universe siddhs are those parallel universe siddhs are floating around right floating around right you know I think I used to daydream much you know I think I used to daydream much more vividly as a kid uh as a young kid more vividly as a kid uh as a young kid youngest days youngest days youngest days here in what was then Bombay now Mumbai here in what was then Bombay now Mumbai in car in Madu uh we used to live in a in car in Madu uh we used to live in a you know five flats Gujati Maratis and you know five flats Gujati Maratis and it was too busy to do many things. Comic it was too busy to do many things. Comic books there was my world. But in Delhi books there was my world. But in Delhi when we moved there it was much more when we moved there it was much more isolated and one used to just literally isolated and one used to just literally think of so and really very vivid think of so and really very vivid daydreams that was my big thing. But daydreams that was my big thing. But today if I daydream at all today if I daydream at all their preoccupations their preoccupations their preoccupations when we used to run a company at one when we used to run a company at one stage in Mumbai when we were doing the stage in Mumbai when we were doing the big ticket shows and all the rest of it big ticket shows and all the rest of it the typical unit strength would be 300 the typical unit strength would be 300 350 people and so on so forth and many 350 people and so on so forth and many people who've been with you for the people who've been with you for the longest time you're so preoccupied with longest time you're so preoccupied with hey how am I going to keep it going and hey how am I going to keep it going and if like me you've never been really a if like me you've never been really a business person so much as a business person so much as a self-employed professional thinking How self-employed professional thinking How do I keep it going? And if you're do I keep it going? And if you're serious about your obligation, who of serious about your obligation, who of people who have supported you in various people who have supported you in various capacities doing your work and you're capacities doing your work and you're thinking about going, there's not that thinking about going, there's not that much time to daydream except in the much time to daydream except in the sphere of the work. sphere of the work. How you going to do this project How you going to do this project differently? How you going to happens differently? How you going to happens like that at this time? If I daydream like that at this time? If I daydream with the way things are in our country, with the way things are in our country, the way things are in the world the way things are in the world and the way it's not just for how should and the way it's not just for how should I say just for myself. I think of people I say just for myself. I think of people of my children's age. They are mid-30s of my children's age. They are mid-30s going on 40. I think of the coming going on 40. I think of the coming generation. I think even for ourselves generation. I think even for ourselves which is myself and my wife. What is the which is myself and my wife. What is the place I would love to be in a community place I would love to be in a community of like-minded people of you know who of like-minded people of you know who share common interests but who also want share common interests but who also want to further certain community goals and to further certain community goals and to do it in a certain way. Uh and I keep to do it in a certain way. Uh and I keep wondering where that is and I imagine wondering where that is and I imagine where it is. The last how should I say where it is. The last how should I say it um idealistic foray was uh my good it um idealistic foray was uh my good friend and classmate from college Arun friend and classmate from college Arun Kapoor who is transforming education in Kapoor who is transforming education in Bhutan Bhutan Bhutan and has he's launching something called and has he's launching something called the Bhutan balorate the Bhutan balorate uh he's set up on a 300 acre campus at uh he's set up on a 300 acre campus at Pangbisa at 9,000 ft altitude uh Pangbisa at 9,000 ft altitude uh something called the Royal Academy something called the Royal Academy educational development research center educational development research center teacher training academy but he is teacher training academy but he is living the kind of dream that I wish I living the kind of dream that I wish I could have in his sphere I'm not an could have in his sphere I'm not an educationist like him it's been quai educationist like him it's been quai educational the work that one has been educational the work that one has been involved in but whether in that area involved in but whether in that area whether it's in theater whether it is in whether it's in theater whether it is in empowering young talent I think the empowering young talent I think the dreams are in those areas so I would dreams are in those areas so I would love to one of the dreams now is let's love to one of the dreams now is let's have a incubation center where we are have a incubation center where we are jamming. I enjoy the creative process of jamming. I enjoy the creative process of jamming. The earliest for in theater jamming. The earliest for in theater were ensembler theater where we would were ensembler theater where we would play off each other where it was themes, play off each other where it was themes, stories, the kind of exercise, the kind stories, the kind of exercise, the kind of vocabulary of theater that you would of vocabulary of theater that you would use, how you would go about it. If that use, how you would go about it. If that could happen in an area to set up and to could happen in an area to set up and to set up how should I say new talent, new set up how should I say new talent, new ideas, new thoughts and a way out of the ideas, new thoughts and a way out of the kind of direction in which alarmingly kind of direction in which alarmingly the world is going. I would be very the world is going. I would be very happy. I don't know if that answers your happy. I don't know if that answers your question. No, it does. It's it's u it question. No, it does. It's it's u it brings me to my next question. I mean brings me to my next question. I mean before we start talking about your before we start talking about your childhood and go back to memory, I want childhood and go back to memory, I want to ask you this broader question that in to ask you this broader question that in the journey that you made like you the journey that you made like you turned 70 recently, right? And uh you turned 70 recently, right? And uh you look at India today and you've like we look at India today and you've like we recording this on um May 11th and just a recording this on um May 11th and just a couple of days back Z news on its own couple of days back Z news on its own managed to annex Punjab and Sind and managed to annex Punjab and Sind and almost made a barat happen. Sometimes it almost made a barat happen. Sometimes it feels like the country is going crazy. feels like the country is going crazy. Sometimes when I think of daydreams I Sometimes when I think of daydreams I even think that what kind of daydreams even think that what kind of daydreams are people even have having these days. are people even have having these days. What through this change through these What through this change through these 70 years of change uh you know you've 70 years of change uh you know you've come from the idealistic times of the ' come from the idealistic times of the ' 50s and the 60s and the '7s to this new 50s and the 60s and the '7s to this new world and in a sense there is a lot that world and in a sense there is a lot that has happened that is incredible and must has happened that is incredible and must fill you with hope and joy like the fill you with hope and joy like the young energy the kind of technology that young energy the kind of technology that we have uh that fire in people's bellies we have uh that fire in people's bellies and the many possibilities that are open and the many possibilities that are open all of that is great um in the fields in all of that is great um in the fields in which you have worked but at the same which you have worked but at the same time there is sort of an expression of a time there is sort of an expression of a certain tribal ugliness. There is um you certain tribal ugliness. There is um you know while in many ways the crumbling of know while in many ways the crumbling of the mainstream is really good because the mainstream is really good because it's empowered a lot of creators like me it's empowered a lot of creators like me who can who don't need gatekeepers who can who don't need gatekeepers anymore but at the same time it means anymore but at the same time it means there is no more a consensus on the there is no more a consensus on the truth or a common vision of the nation truth or a common vision of the nation and um that we are constantly therefore and um that we are constantly therefore caught up in narrative battles. The caught up in narrative battles. The discourse is so polarized. What is your discourse is so polarized. What is your sense of how this country has changed sense of how this country has changed sitting where you are? Because you've sitting where you are? Because you've been an active participant been an active participant at the thick of it just by virtue of at the thick of it just by virtue of being in media because I think with the being in media because I think with the kind of TV shows that you've done for kind of TV shows that you've done for example you get deep insight into what example you get deep insight into what do people want and you you know your do people want and you you know your audience for many many years was in fact audience for many many years was in fact this new burgeoning middle class and so this new burgeoning middle class and so on. You know you you were at the cusp of on. You know you you were at the cusp of change you saw it come you brought some change you saw it come you brought some of it yourself etc etc. What's your of it yourself etc etc. What's your sense now looking back? sense now looking back? You know Amit growing up in the 50s and You know Amit growing up in the 50s and the 60s as you described it there was the 60s as you described it there was hope. India was an experiment. It was a hope. India was an experiment. It was a grand experiment. Think of it. a grand experiment. Think of it. a heterogenous society like ours, heterogenous society like ours, multilingual, multicultural, multilingual, multicultural, multilingual, multicultural, uh, with an incredible history uh, with an incredible history had been brought together had been brought together bound by I think a very forwardthinking bound by I think a very forwardthinking constitution and our founding fathers constitution and our founding fathers many of them were had the kind of many of them were had the kind of forethought where there was certain forethought where there was certain modernism modernism modernism with a certain indigenization with a certain indigenization which was exciting. There were huge which was exciting. There were huge challenges. But to think of it that you challenges. But to think of it that you know the thought of having a diverse uh know the thought of having a diverse uh a country with uh religious, cultural, a country with uh religious, cultural, linguistic diversity to have it coexist linguistic diversity to have it coexist to constitutionally to constitutionally to constitutionally people who for millennia have been sort people who for millennia have been sort of underdogs in the society with a very of underdogs in the society with a very pernicious thing called the cast system. pernicious thing called the cast system. gender uh in our country the way it was gender uh in our country the way it was with universal suffrage, with so many with universal suffrage, with so many other empowering things. And in a sense, other empowering things. And in a sense, the more the more the more progressive forward aspects of the progressive forward aspects of the socialist socialist socialist uh mindset of you know that look there uh mindset of you know that look there has to be equal opportunity. You have to has to be equal opportunity. You have to try and take everybody along with you. try and take everybody along with you. That was the hope and the grand dream That was the hope and the grand dream with its huge challenges. with its huge challenges. To see that completely transformed now To see that completely transformed now has been very is sobering in so many has been very is sobering in so many ways and not just here in the rest of ways and not just here in the rest of the world where you know supremacist the world where you know supremacist ideologies, ideologies, ideologies, racism, oligarchies where you just racism, oligarchies where you just admire the richest and you think well admire the richest and you think well that's it. forgetting that you know by that's it. forgetting that you know by the last account one was just reaching the last account one was just reaching that you know 95% of the people don't that you know 95% of the people don't have spending money to do what they what have spending money to do what they what you think is going to happen and the you think is going to happen and the middle class is shrinking and the mind middle class is shrinking and the mind space space space getting policed and shrinking and getting policed and shrinking and thinking only along certain lines is a thinking only along certain lines is a matter of huge concern for our society matter of huge concern for our society for the world and of course there are I for the world and of course there are I mean better minds who are looking mean better minds who are looking Is this a reaction to globalization Is this a reaction to globalization which sort of you know flattened too which sort of you know flattened too many issues which are under the surface. many issues which are under the surface. Uh Uh Uh these are worrying concerns which I these are worrying concerns which I think you know is it going to be a think you know is it going to be a passing phase but 72% of the world they passing phase but 72% of the world they say has uh authoritarian governments say has uh authoritarian governments today in the world. Uh this is worrying. today in the world. Uh this is worrying. uh at one stage the whole thing of uh uh at one stage the whole thing of uh what they called the free world what they called the free world so-called free world versus uh the iron so-called free world versus uh the iron curtain and what they said you know curtain and what they said you know closed societies now everybody's trying closed societies now everybody's trying to shut down the United States is to shut down the United States is becoming one of the most sort of becoming one of the most sort of sensurious and uh sort of you know sensurious and uh sort of you know limiting things there's declared war on limiting things there's declared war on university in our own country uh there's university in our own country uh there's almost a suspicion of intellectuals and almost a suspicion of intellectuals and freeth thinkers of uh for some reason freeth thinkers of uh for some reason English- speakaking people as if you English- speakaking people as if you know it is not necessarily just a u you know it is not necessarily just a u you know just know just know just just one language which uh a lot of just one language which uh a lot of people can communicate with the world people can communicate with the world and each other in uh lingua frana has and each other in uh lingua frana has become a suspicious thing is it from a become a suspicious thing is it from a deep-seated inferiority complex a sort deep-seated inferiority complex a sort of inverse sort of you know brahminism of inverse sort of you know brahminism being turned on its head what is going being turned on its head what is going on over here and uh the the the attempt on over here and uh the the the attempt to bind it all in a monoculture and a to bind it all in a monoculture and a sort of is is is something that is about sort of is is is something that is about us. us. us. How is this going to be challenged and How is this going to be challenged and in what way and how is it going to be in what way and how is it going to be changed in many people think that in the changed in many people think that in the United States uh was this a reaction to United States uh was this a reaction to ultra workism? ultra workism? ultra workism? We have arguments with my daughter who We have arguments with my daughter who works in one of the UN organizations in works in one of the UN organizations in New York and Brooklyn and so on so New York and Brooklyn and so on so forth. for all of them it's a shock what forth. for all of them it's a shock what has happened in the United States too has happened in the United States too but you know we have arguments uh about but you know we have arguments uh about say uh uh say uh uh they is plural it's not singular so why they is plural it's not singular so why do I have to insist and when she says do I have to insist and when she says you know they are coming and you think you know they are coming and you think you know two or three people are landing you know two or three people are landing up and one person is landing up I say up and one person is landing up I say what is plural and singular got to do what is plural and singular got to do with gender no but that's the preferred with gender no but that's the preferred pronoun and this is what you have to go pronoun and this is what you have to go to this is not something to laugh at to this is not something to laugh at this is not so there are those the this is not so there are those the lighter level that's there but was lighter level that's there but was everything is everything that's everything is everything that's happening there actually a reaction to happening there actually a reaction to uh you know the kind of dogmatic workism uh you know the kind of dogmatic workism and I think it's a matter of when dogma and I think it's a matter of when dogma takes over that's where the problem is takes over that's where the problem is ideological dogma religious dogma and ideological dogma religious dogma and the wonderful openness of say Indian the wonderful openness of say Indian society even Hindu thought from society even Hindu thought from everything from polytheism to uh everything from polytheism to uh agnosticism or Even atheism is embraced agnosticism or Even atheism is embraced in Hindu thought. But to suddenly make in Hindu thought. But to suddenly make it only one thing and you have to only it only one thing and you have to only follow one thing to becoming Abrahamic follow one thing to becoming Abrahamic is something. How is that a virtue? is something. How is that a virtue? Maybe it's a phase we have to live Maybe it's a phase we have to live through. We have to sit through it and through. We have to sit through it and do it. U this is the challenge of our do it. U this is the challenge of our time. This concerns me deeply and time. This concerns me deeply and anything anything anything I do now if it can open up things once I do now if it can open up things once again again again you know in a way which is uh how should you know in a way which is uh how should I say I say I say in a direction other than the mad in a direction other than the mad narrowing that the whole world is going narrowing that the whole world is going through I'd be very happy to be part of through I'd be very happy to be part of it. So you know one of the sort of um it. So you know one of the sort of um depressing realizations I had over the depressing realizations I had over the years of doing the show was that there years of doing the show was that there was one fundamental thing I got right in was one fundamental thing I got right in the way I looked at myself and my place the way I looked at myself and my place in the world. I was of course like you in the world. I was of course like you part of the English speaking urbanized part of the English speaking urbanized elites of this country. My dad was in elites of this country. My dad was in the I grew up thinking that broadly the I grew up thinking that broadly India is more or less secular, liberal, India is more or less secular, liberal, tolerant etc etc and all the crazy tolerant etc etc and all the crazy voices are a fringe and it's okay. And voices are a fringe and it's okay. And uh through the course of the many uh through the course of the many conversations I have I've had here conversations I have I've had here including most particularly with Akshi including most particularly with Akshi Mukul who wrote that magnificent book on Mukul who wrote that magnificent book on the Gita press I kind of realized that the Gita press I kind of realized that no that we are the fringe you and me no that we are the fringe you and me that actually the country is something that actually the country is something else and it was always thus that this else and it was always thus that this this was just waiting for a kind of this was just waiting for a kind of expression to happen and u you know when expression to happen and u you know when I I've done many episodes with Ram Guha I I've done many episodes with Ram Guha and other people of your vintage who and other people of your vintage who studied in Delhi in the 70s like KP studied in Delhi in the 70s like KP Krishnan and the same names came up Krishnan and the same names came up right so when like Ram went to college right so when like Ram went to college with Arun Lal and those were the days with Arun Lal and those were the days that you had you know Shashitar Sapandas that you had you know Shashitar Sapandas Gupta Paranjay Goatakuta all of them in Gupta Paranjay Goatakuta all of them in the same college and plus we can go on the same college and plus we can go on and on with the names and the thing is and on with the names and the thing is all the names that we will come up with all the names that we will come up with are essentially that the people who then are essentially that the people who then became the elites of the country and became the elites of the country and they were and and you realize that they were and and you realize that society is actually very small. There society is actually very small. There are a small bunch of people who have the are a small bunch of people who have the privilege to go to good colleges. Many privilege to go to good colleges. Many of them get a foreign education. They do of them get a foreign education. They do really well. And it society has changed really well. And it society has changed in the heartening way that that in the heartening way that that broadened up massively. And there are broadened up massively. And there are many more participants in our society many more participants in our society and our economy and our decision-m and our economy and our decision-m process. But the part of it that is process. But the part of it that is disheartening is that a lot of it is disheartening is that a lot of it is actually much more quote unquote actually much more quote unquote conservative to use an inadequate term conservative to use an inadequate term here but much more traditional in their here but much more traditional in their thinking even tribalistic in their thinking even tribalistic in their thinking. Uh you know we sangi another thinking. Uh you know we sangi another person you worked with a lot um said on person you worked with a lot um said on my show that uh the great thing about 91 my show that uh the great thing about 91 was yeah it got hundreds of millions out was yeah it got hundreds of millions out of people out of poverty but many a lot of people out of poverty but many a lot of this new middle class was the Gita of this new middle class was the Gita press reading sort of Hindu press reading sort of Hindu conservatism. So one, what is kind of conservatism. So one, what is kind of your view on that that for you was it your view on that that for you was it also a snapping out of the bubble moment also a snapping out of the bubble moment where you realize that the real India is where you realize that the real India is something else and we've been protected something else and we've been protected from it and two then what is the real from it and two then what is the real India? Should we have the negative view India? Should we have the negative view that today oh politics has caught up that today oh politics has caught up with society and the ugliness we see in with society and the ugliness we see in our politics is supply responding to our politics is supply responding to demand or should we have the view that demand or should we have the view that no Hinduism is many things like you said no Hinduism is many things like you said that you know Manupil had a great book that you know Manupil had a great book recently where the opening chapter was recently where the opening chapter was called the brief history of Hinduism called the brief history of Hinduism which I recommend all readers read which which I recommend all readers read which is which talks about the last 2,000 is which talks about the last 2,000 years the puranic years as it were where years the puranic years as it were where Hinduism was an open source religion Hinduism was an open source religion like my term not his but I really feel like my term not his but I really feel that it was like open source religion that it was like open source religion you're taking in everything from you're taking in everything from everywhere you're taking a local myth everywhere you're taking a local myth you're incorporating it into your thing you're incorporating it into your thing it's very inclusive in that sense and it's very inclusive in that sense and it's beautiful it's like a kitery it's beautiful it's like a kitery everything is kind of melding together everything is kind of melding together and in that sense India is deeply and in that sense India is deeply liberal if you look at our clothes our liberal if you look at our clothes our culture our cuisines everything is from culture our cuisines everything is from everywhere but equally you have the you everywhere but equally you have the you know the what I call the Gita press know the what I call the Gita press version of India which is going towards version of India which is going towards this particular monoculture as you put this particular monoculture as you put where uh you know it is almost imitating where uh you know it is almost imitating the Abrahamic religions and you're the Abrahamic religions and you're elevating one dity over all of the elevating one dity over all of the others and it is tribalistic it is others and it is tribalistic it is militant it is aggressive it is viferous militant it is aggressive it is viferous and I can't even make out that okay even and I can't even make out that okay even if I accept that I'm a dassinated elite if I accept that I'm a dassinated elite and I I haven't really been part of this and I I haven't really been part of this real India what is this real India even real India what is this real India even and have things gotten worse or is it and have things gotten worse or is it the way it always was finding expression the way it always was finding expression today. What is your sense of this? You today. What is your sense of this? You know, I mean, one theory is of course know, I mean, one theory is of course that there's a great silent majority that there's a great silent majority which Nixon used to talk about, you which Nixon used to talk about, you know, which was brought him in. But I know, which was brought him in. But I don't think there is any one necessary don't think there is any one necessary majority majority majority thinking and people in this country. It thinking and people in this country. It can never be. If you're not, if you're can never be. If you're not, if you're not a magnificent, if not a kit, a thali not a magnificent, if not a kit, a thali of many things, we are nothing. I of many things, we are nothing. I believe that either we believe that I believe that either we revel in and celebrate and encourage our revel in and celebrate and encourage our diversity or we're nothing or we're diversity or we're nothing or we're different people. different people. different people. I believe we've also you were talking I believe we've also you were talking about I went to college in Delhi about I went to college in Delhi University St. Stevens and then my University St. Stevens and then my masters from Hindu and at that point of masters from Hindu and at that point of time when you talk of the elite apart time when you talk of the elite apart from the names that you mentioned u St. from the names that you mentioned u St. Stevens Stevens Stevens typically at that point of time mainly typically at that point of time mainly was a finishing school before you went was a finishing school before you went into the civil services. So you know the into the civil services. So you know the the the the this the silver frame, golden frame this the silver frame, golden frame whatever they called it you know the whatever they called it you know the people who ran the country would go people who ran the country would go there the interview system was still there the interview system was still there. Even when I was there towards the there. Even when I was there towards the end then they you know they diminished end then they you know they diminished the interview system they changed the the interview system they changed the system and then things started changing system and then things started changing you know in the sense of the kind of you know in the sense of the kind of people who would go there. So apart from people who would go there. So apart from the kind of names you mentioned there the kind of names you mentioned there were a lot of people doing that and of were a lot of people doing that and of course it was there to a certain extent. course it was there to a certain extent. However However However two different strands in two different two different strands in two different ways. One is in terms of say my own ways. One is in terms of say my own family where we came from my paternal family where we came from my paternal grandfather was a lawyer but also a he grandfather was a lawyer but also a he was in politics. He was along with was in politics. He was along with subhash he was a close political subhash he was a close political associate. There were sajists to begin associate. There were sajists to begin with with Chitanas. They were acolytes with with Chitanas. They were acolytes of chitanas. Then he became mayor of of chitanas. Then he became mayor of Kolkata. He succeeded uh Subashw and Kolkata. He succeeded uh Subashw and Bidhan Roy. And then he was a two-term Bidhan Roy. And then he was a two-term uh he was a minister in undivided Bengal uh he was a minister in undivided Bengal and then in the Rajya Sabha. and then in the Rajya Sabha. His constituency was Karpur in Kolkata His constituency was Karpur in Kolkata which was primarily Muslim constituency. which was primarily Muslim constituency. Yeah. And he was voted again and again Yeah. And he was voted again and again from that constituency. He was also the from that constituency. He was also the president briefly of the Kolkata bar president briefly of the Kolkata bar association. But association. But association. But there was an idealism about him and the there was an idealism about him and the politics he stood for and the people we politics he stood for and the people we met as a consequence of that. Yeah. My met as a consequence of that. Yeah. My uncle who was a was to teach philosophy. uncle who was a was to teach philosophy. He was an indologist in Durham for the He was an indologist in Durham for the longest time. But he when things were longest time. But he when things were still conservative about marriage uh his still conservative about marriage uh his guide was Dr. Radhak Krishna. So he who guide was Dr. Radhak Krishna. So he who sort of you know told my granddad okay sort of you know told my granddad okay you have to let this happen and figure you have to let this happen and figure it out. And then uh he came back and it out. And then uh he came back and became one of the how should I say of became one of the how should I say of the senior u people at the Orurvinda the senior u people at the Orurvinda asham for instance you know so that was asham for instance you know so that was another strain of thought that was another strain of thought that was happening. One was in the political happening. One was in the political sphere which was not elitist at all you sphere which was not elitist at all you know because what happened in Bengal know because what happened in Bengal politics and the rest of it was uh politics and the rest of it was uh there were some very dynamic there were some very dynamic forwardthinking forwardthinking forwardthinking uh things happening for a stage. Of uh things happening for a stage. Of course partition happened all the things course partition happened all the things changed but he was a minister for changed but he was a minister for instance his fuzzul hak's government who instance his fuzzul hak's government who who was a krishak praa party he had set who was a krishak praa party he had set up after he separated from the muslim up after he separated from the muslim league and it was interesting how many league and it was interesting how many people were al members of the muslim people were al members of the muslim league as well as the congress and set league as well as the congress and set up their own things and did everything up their own things and did everything like that so the on the one hand there's like that so the on the one hand there's that and we've seen it through the that and we've seen it through the 50s60s because this people used to come 50s60s because this people used to come over work and when we were here uh in over work and when we were here uh in Mumbai and the family. I was just born. Mumbai and the family. I was just born. I had over recollections in Pali Hill in I had over recollections in Pali Hill in Union Park and later in Madu Park. There Union Park and later in Madu Park. There were a lot of friends who were working were a lot of friends who were working uh in film who and there would be uh in film who and there would be millions and bed hugs and things and millions and bed hugs and things and singalongs and all the rest of it. uh singalongs and all the rest of it. uh you could name them uh sort of you know you could name them uh sort of you know uh so uh so uh so at that time in film there in the at that time in film there in the popular lyrics in the songs and there popular lyrics in the songs and there there was a certain hope uh there was a there was a certain hope uh there was a certain sort of there was an innocence certain sort of there was an innocence of that period and there was dreams of of that period and there was dreams of what in India could be cut to a cornba what in India could be cut to a cornba where somebody put it India met bat we where somebody put it India met bat we had people coming from everywhere where had people coming from everywhere where people who you would never necessarily people who you would never necessarily meet another which is one of been one of meet another which is one of been one of the fascinations Swamita Bachan actually the fascinations Swamita Bachan actually you know meeting and getting to know you know meeting and getting to know them and I think through him uh to them and I think through him uh to people people people where the great silent majority is not where the great silent majority is not so visible and there is a I mean right so visible and there is a I mean right there they are not necessarily sort of there they are not necessarily sort of hardcore adherence of what you would hardcore adherence of what you would call the you know the people who've been call the you know the people who've been guided only by the Gita press and all guided only by the Gita press and all the rest that has certainly been there the rest that has certainly been there and it's a very important factor to but and it's a very important factor to but we have many indas we have many indas and if we I believe we have to have a and if we I believe we have to have a future we have to be a future of many future we have to be a future of many indas not one uh commisar state indas not one uh commisar state you know with one thing and that is our you know with one thing and that is our genius uh that is what is wonderful genius uh that is what is wonderful about our people and things imagine if about our people and things imagine if you only ate one food if you only heard you only ate one food if you only heard one kind of music. If we only did one one kind of music. If we only did one kind of worship and faith, it would be kind of worship and faith, it would be ridiculous. In Hinduism, there's so many ridiculous. In Hinduism, there's so many strands. Take the Ram Krishna mission strands. Take the Ram Krishna mission for instance. Uh the organization for instance. Uh the organization itself, the mission is influenced uh by itself, the mission is influenced uh by by in a correct me if I'm wrong, in a by in a correct me if I'm wrong, in a sense, it's a kind of Hindu church, you sense, it's a kind of Hindu church, you know, in the sense of the way it is at know, in the sense of the way it is at least organized or administered and it least organized or administered and it put together, which was one of the put together, which was one of the thoughts kind of took from there. But thoughts kind of took from there. But again I believe it is an enlightened again I believe it is an enlightened kind of view of the religion and an kind of view of the religion and an understanding of it and it was certainly understanding of it and it was certainly not dogmatic not dogmatic not dogmatic and you know how powerful it is. I'm the and you know how powerful it is. I'm the only member of the family who hasn't only member of the family who hasn't taken dika or initiation or whatever it taken dika or initiation or whatever it is. I didn't think it was necessary. We is. I didn't think it was necessary. We also country of the Buddha which is you also country of the Buddha which is you know not so visible at all in the know not so visible at all in the country as it is where he practiced and country as it is where he practiced and where he was there. But we are that where he was there. But we are that India too. We are we are the India of India too. We are we are the India of the Bakti movement in so many different the Bakti movement in so many different things of the Sufis you know those are things of the Sufis you know those are also strains and the syncratic culture also strains and the syncratic culture is everywhere. is everywhere. is everywhere. So I don't know if I want to accept that So I don't know if I want to accept that it is fundamentally a fundamentalist and it is fundamentally a fundamentalist and you know uh you know uh silent majority country which only sort silent majority country which only sort of has now come to the surface in this of has now come to the surface in this way. It is I think how uh democracy I way. It is I think how uh democracy I think maybe was proving too complicated think maybe was proving too complicated for some people the processes the for some people the processes the redressles the reparations and I think redressles the reparations and I think maybe this is reaction to that when I maybe this is reaction to that when I was a kid used to hear talk of India was a kid used to hear talk of India needs to be a dictatorship we need to needs to be a dictatorship we need to have a simple rule and you know things have a simple rule and you know things will happen like that and what is all will happen like that and what is all this you know and of course there are this you know and of course there are abuses of you know democracy the way abuses of you know democracy the way First pass the post electoral system has First pass the post electoral system has issues. We follow the Westminster issues. We follow the Westminster system. Uh but at one point they said we system. Uh but at one point they said we must have a presidential system and we must have a presidential system and we are largely a presidential are largely a presidential democracy now. I mean we are an democracy now. I mean we are an electoral autocracy I believe at this electoral autocracy I believe at this point of time. And hey you know what point of time. And hey you know what that means that means only one thing and that means that means only one thing and you know what an extreme of electoral you know what an extreme of electoral autocracy can mean when you look at autocracy can mean when you look at Donald Trump and the United States what Donald Trump and the United States what it could mean. Can that be the answer? it could mean. Can that be the answer? So I think between the kind of political So I think between the kind of political system we need for the country and way system we need for the country and way it's practiced between uh federalism uh it's practiced between uh federalism uh true federalism and you know true federalism and you know a strong center how can the twain meet a strong center how can the twain meet and come together these are challenges and come together these are challenges there I don't know if there are simple there I don't know if there are simple answers but we need to find those answers but we need to find those answers answers answers yeah no I I completely agree with you yeah no I I completely agree with you about the multitudes we contain and I uh about the multitudes we contain and I uh you know thinking aloud it strikes me you know thinking aloud it strikes me that of the many strains of this real that of the many strains of this real India of the many strains of Bharat as India of the many strains of Bharat as it were it feels as if the one that is it were it feels as if the one that is most likely to find vocal expression is most likely to find vocal expression is this strident militant one because it's this strident militant one because it's easy to rouse people with that you know easy to rouse people with that you know the German theorist K Schmidt once said the German theorist K Schmidt once said that in politics you need the other here that in politics you need the other here there is an other there are many better there is an other there are many better like the bhti movement has no other you like the bhti movement has no other you know it is all embracing so that's not know it is all embracing so that's not going to rouse people. It is something going to rouse people. It is something that can inspire you at a personal that can inspire you at a personal level, but you're not going to rouse a level, but you're not going to rouse a mob with that. Right? And therefore, it mob with that. Right? And therefore, it feels that there is also a lack of feels that there is also a lack of imagination in our politics that we are imagination in our politics that we are taking the easy way out of appealing to taking the easy way out of appealing to what it is easiest to rouse people with what it is easiest to rouse people with rather than try to reach the better rather than try to reach the better angels of their natures. I mean I think angels of their natures. I mean I think within the silent majority there's a within the silent majority there's a silent majority within the silent silent majority within the silent majority that is perfectly fine and that majority that is perfectly fine and that doesn't go in this direction but it is doesn't go in this direction but it is that vocal minority it's much more that vocal minority it's much more easier to fan hate and to get people easier to fan hate and to get people roused because of that. It's much more roused because of that. It's much more easier to fan divisions uh than you know easier to fan divisions uh than you know to come up with solutions and have get to come up with solutions and have get people about excited about that and lies people about excited about that and lies travel much faster than truth. Uh that's travel much faster than truth. Uh that's the way it is. I'm not a political the way it is. I'm not a political thinker. No pretentions to being one. thinker. No pretentions to being one. But having been in the media for so But having been in the media for so long, one thing I do know long, one thing I do know that between popularity that between popularity and populism and populism and populism there is a chasm there is a chasm and a and a chasm that can be very and a and a chasm that can be very dangerous. And I think we the populism dangerous. And I think we the populism is ruling. It's ruling in terms of the is ruling. It's ruling in terms of the lowest common denominator. lowest common denominator. And it is how do you hit those notes? And it is how do you hit those notes? Hitler hits those notes with his Hitler hits those notes with his demagoguery, demagoguery, demagoguery, right? A failed artist, you know, with right? A failed artist, you know, with his demagoguery. He fed into the his demagoguery. He fed into the insecurity and did it. There's a insecurity and did it. There's a wonderful series on Netflix. I don't wonderful series on Netflix. I don't know if you've seen it. How to become a know if you've seen it. How to become a tyrant. Do you know it? It is terrific. tyrant. Do you know it? It is terrific. It has that little guy as the voice. uh It has that little guy as the voice. uh what's his name from uh uh Game of what's his name from uh uh Game of Thrones. He's the voice over Sardonic. Thrones. He's the voice over Sardonic. But more than that, it's the way it's But more than that, it's the way it's been put together. been put together. One of the early statements which is One of the early statements which is worrying is you know humankind has had worrying is you know humankind has had very fleeting moments of freedom. A lot very fleeting moments of freedom. A lot of the time it's been tyrannies and how of the time it's been tyrannies and how do tyrants do tyrants do tyrants come into power and how do they make it come into power and how do they make it happen? And they have this playbook happen? And they have this playbook which is chilling in the way and how which is chilling in the way and how familiar it all seems to be. how close familiar it all seems to be. how close to home it all seems to be and happening to home it all seems to be and happening in different parts of the world. So I in different parts of the world. So I think there all the buttons of populism think there all the buttons of populism are laid out and that is some of the are laid out and that is some of the populism that we have had to deal with populism that we have had to deal with on a regular basis till we came into on a regular basis till we came into electronic mass media. How? But people electronic mass media. How? But people are hitting those buttons of the lowest are hitting those buttons of the lowest common denominator whether it is hate, common denominator whether it is hate, whether it is paranoia, whether it is whether it is paranoia, whether it is you know sort of prejudices and biases. you know sort of prejudices and biases. How do you make that happen? How do you How do you make that happen? How do you press those buttons and make it happen? press those buttons and make it happen? The basis lowest common denominator is The basis lowest common denominator is also the basis form of human nature and also the basis form of human nature and thought and how do you hit that and that thought and how do you hit that and that can be hugely populist can be hugely populist and I think when democracy and I think when democracy how do you make it swing more from away how do you make it swing more from away from populist decisions to popularity from populist decisions to popularity is the huge challenge of our times. is the huge challenge of our times. There's a very good book by Jean Vera There's a very good book by Jean Vera Müller called what is populism which Müller called what is populism which kind of lays out the playbook in some kind of lays out the playbook in some detail and we' done an episode of this detail and we' done an episode of this for my YouTube show everything is for my YouTube show everything is everything about populism where we everything about populism where we mentioned various world leaders but not mentioned various world leaders but not our dear leader and many many people who our dear leader and many many people who saw the episode said you've basically saw the episode said you've basically made an episode about India only haven't made an episode about India only haven't you and we were like look we haven't you and we were like look we haven't said that it's up to you to draw the said that it's up to you to draw the conclusions but exactly but through conclusions but exactly but through history this has been the kind of history this has been the kind of playbook this particular series I playbook this particular series I mentioned uh This deals with Hitler of mentioned uh This deals with Hitler of course Stalin. It deals with Saddam. It course Stalin. It deals with Saddam. It deals with Idiamin. It deals with uh the deals with Idiamin. It deals with uh the king in Sums and you know whoever is king in Sums and you know whoever is there all of them. Now the cultural there all of them. Now the cultural revolution the entire thing revolution the entire thing and the United States is trying to do a and the United States is trying to do a cultural revolution of a of their own cultural revolution of a of their own kind. uh in our country it's happening kind. uh in our country it's happening in a very different way but in one sense in a very different way but in one sense it is the playbook it is the playbook of you know power and how it works and of you know power and how it works and it's how people work the levers. So in a it's how people work the levers. So in a sense one group of people feel that hey sense one group of people feel that hey if only we had a leader to work the to if only we had a leader to work the to work it in a more sort of you know work it in a more sort of you know enlightened progressive liberal uh enlightened progressive liberal uh equitable diverse plural way that'll be equitable diverse plural way that'll be wonderful. wonderful. wonderful. Is that going to happen through one Is that going to happen through one individual, by a group of people, by a individual, by a group of people, by a movement, by an event? I don't know. But movement, by an event? I don't know. But hey man, we have to hope and pray very hey man, we have to hope and pray very hard and work towards that. Wise words. hard and work towards that. Wise words. Let's let's talk about your childhood Let's let's talk about your childhood now. Uh tell me about tell me about your now. Uh tell me about your early years. You were born in Kolkata on early years. You were born in Kolkata on 28th December 1954 as you mentioned, but 28th December 1954 as you mentioned, but then you came to Bombay and spent your then you came to Bombay and spent your early years here. Give me a sense of early years here. Give me a sense of your prehistory. You've already given me your prehistory. You've already given me a little sense of it with your granddad a little sense of it with your granddad and your uncle and whatever. Give me a and your uncle and whatever. Give me a sense of you know what is a world into sense of you know what is a world into which you are born what what's a family which you are born what what's a family mahal what are the values you're growing mahal what are the values you're growing up with what's your dad like what's your up with what's your dad like what's your mom like give me a sense of that mom like give me a sense of that so as I my father was then posted in so as I my father was then posted in uh Bombay what was then called Bombay uh Bombay what was then called Bombay and I have two older sisters but uh my and I have two older sisters but uh my maternal grandfather's home was in maternal grandfather's home was in Kolkata in the Balanch area just off Kolkata in the Balanch area just off southern avenue across the lake which is southern avenue across the lake which is uh quite lovely now I think That's what uh quite lovely now I think That's what one nice thing that uh Ma D has done. one nice thing that uh Ma D has done. And this one house which is a sprawling And this one house which is a sprawling house. My grandfather was a self-made house. My grandfather was a self-made man, maternal grandfather. He u uh came man, maternal grandfather. He u uh came to that's a story. How much of a legend to that's a story. How much of a legend it is I don't know. He came with 14 it is I don't know. He came with 14 rupees which was a lot. Well, it wasn't rupees which was a lot. Well, it wasn't a lot but it was not what it is today. a lot but it was not what it is today. He came into town and then he built a He came into town and then he built a thing as a trader then became a builder thing as a trader then became a builder and then uh all kinds of other things. and then uh all kinds of other things. So there was this grand sprawing 14 So there was this grand sprawing 14 bedroomedroom house in which one room bedroomedroom house in which one room called the aturore called the aturore was for birthing with 13 of us cousins was for birthing with 13 of us cousins were born or more so I was one of them were born or more so I was one of them born in that room uh my mother was one born in that room uh my mother was one of um eight siblings very spirited of um eight siblings very spirited talented talented talented striking looking person of a certain striking looking person of a certain thing who never forgave the world uh and thing who never forgave the world uh and I think my father for pulling the plug I think my father for pulling the plug on uh her education because she left on uh her education because she left midway through her bachelors and and one midway through her bachelors and and one of the things she did was you know sort of the things she did was you know sort of give birth to me and then that was in of give birth to me and then that was in Kolkata and maternal grandmother we used Kolkata and maternal grandmother we used to only visit for holidays. I've never to only visit for holidays. I've never lived in Kolkata or Bengal for the rest lived in Kolkata or Bengal for the rest of my life. Uh I still enjoy going there of my life. Uh I still enjoy going there for visits but I've never lived in that for visits but I've never lived in that city. I've even worked there. My first city. I've even worked there. My first play I directed there professionally play I directed there professionally when I was 19 for the princely amount of when I was 19 for the princely amount of 400 rupees and then I've done some 400 rupees and then I've done some television shows there and so on so television shows there and so on so forth but otherwise I've grown up in forth but otherwise I've grown up in Bombay Mumbai Delhi Madras back to Delhi Bombay Mumbai Delhi Madras back to Delhi and then I used to shuttle between Delhi and then I used to shuttle between Delhi and Bombay for work that's what it is and Bombay for work that's what it is earliest day in Bombay the earliest earliest day in Bombay the earliest memories were in a little there's a five memories were in a little there's a five flats in something called Kantanas flats in something called Kantanas opposite Madu Park and are which was in opposite Madu Park and are which was in some says fantastic because it was a some says fantastic because it was a small community. There was a neighbor uh small community. There was a neighbor uh a kid who was my age Gujati family uh a kid who was my age Gujati family uh opposite them too there were Gujatis opposite them too there were Gujatis opposite us Tamil opposite us Tamil Angar family right on top there was a Angar family right on top there was a Maharashian family and next to me there Maharashian family and next to me there was this hardcore socialist uh sort of was this hardcore socialist uh sort of you know uh gentleman for called Mr. you know uh gentleman for called Mr. Kabadi and his sons who used to I used Kabadi and his sons who used to I used to spend a lot of time at that place to spend a lot of time at that place because um they used to have they all because um they used to have they all lived in one room. Mom used to cook lived in one room. Mom used to cook there. She was very fond of me elderly there. She was very fond of me elderly lady. They used to have a cycle which I lady. They used to have a cycle which I used to standing I used to cycle there used to standing I used to cycle there and they used to have comics and I used and they used to have comics and I used to read endless comics of which we never to read endless comics of which we never had so much in my house. But a as a had so much in my house. But a as a group in car in that flat one is the the group in car in that flat one is the the plur plurality we learned working uh plur plurality we learned working uh gujarati marathi bits of tamil we used gujarati marathi bits of tamil we used to be together my older sister used to to be together my older sister used to direct plays uh to play the piano they direct plays uh to play the piano they were at St. Joseph's I used to study at were at St. Joseph's I used to study at Basin Pontiseri which was a lovely Basin Pontiseri which was a lovely school at that point of time um on Juu school at that point of time um on Juu beach uh which was very different from beach uh which was very different from what it is now. So it was about 2 km and what it is now. So it was about 2 km and I went very early at the age of 2 and a I went very early at the age of 2 and a half or something I think and my friend half or something I think and my friend Amit who was the same class at me we Amit who was the same class at me we used to travel there back uh cycling used to travel there back uh cycling everybody would go cycling in the everybody would go cycling in the morning on hired cycles we would play morning on hired cycles we would play games there we would build things it was games there we would build things it was a wonderfully uh sort of how should I a wonderfully uh sort of how should I say playful and social childhood you say playful and social childhood you know which was which was terrific uh and know which was which was terrific uh and we grew up learning so many things and we grew up learning so many things and as I said uh my parents were very fond as I said uh my parents were very fond of music. My mother used to sing and of music. My mother used to sing and sing in well people used to come over to sing in well people used to come over to hear us sing. She used to go places to hear us sing. She used to go places to sing uh with a lot of bhav uh rainda sing uh with a lot of bhav uh rainda sangh devotional music and all the rest sangh devotional music and all the rest of it. But the friends some of them in of it. But the friends some of them in the film world amya chakraati and the film world amya chakraati and somebody who was in the arts and so on somebody who was in the arts and so on so forth they would from the film world so forth they would from the film world and otherwise. So they would all come and otherwise. So they would all come together and work. So what you heard together and work. So what you heard around you kind of talk was fantastic. around you kind of talk was fantastic. And one of the things my father was in a And one of the things my father was in a bank because my granddad was in politics bank because my granddad was in politics my other uncle was in sort of academics. my other uncle was in sort of academics. I think very early he wanted to become a I think very early he wanted to become a lawyer I think because my father was a lawyer I think because my father was a very rational mental person not as very rational mental person not as intuitive as my mother at all. He was intuitive as my mother at all. He was the one who took a regular job. So he the one who took a regular job. So he was with the multinational bank uh the was with the multinational bank uh the mercantile bank which uh had their mercantile bank which uh had their office in Flora fountain and he was a office in Flora fountain and he was a workaholic uh and he rose to the top he workaholic uh and he rose to the top he became the senior most station in the became the senior most station in the system over the years um but was very system over the years um but was very adventurous in terms of travel loved adventurous in terms of travel loved western classical music. So between western classical music. So between that, one of the things the bank had, that, one of the things the bank had, they had a a shack at Marv they had a a shack at Marv on the beach. on the beach. A lot of weekends was spent at Marv A lot of weekends was spent at Marv just hearing the sound of the sea, the just hearing the sound of the sea, the wind through the leaves, you know, the wind through the leaves, you know, the kitchen was outside. Uh it had two kitchen was outside. Uh it had two bedrooms, it had that kind of thing. It bedrooms, it had that kind of thing. It was a you know a simple kind of shack was a you know a simple kind of shack but on the beach the nearest habitation but on the beach the nearest habitation was half a kilometer in that side or one was half a kilometer in that side or one side and we would play sometimes friends side and we would play sometimes friends would come and we would travel with my would come and we would travel with my father by road he was very fond of that father by road he was very fond of that including I think it was about four or including I think it was about four or five or 5,000 km thing through all of five or 5,000 km thing through all of south India going down the west coast south India going down the west coast coming up the east coast and coming back coming up the east coast and coming back all in one car so it was great days you all in one car so it was great days you know so those are my memories after know so those are my memories after basis for a year I went cathedral uh basis for a year I went cathedral uh both of me and my friend Amit um and it both of me and my friend Amit um and it was uh in the middle of that he was was uh in the middle of that he was transferred to Delhi so basically that's transferred to Delhi so basically that's what happened uh and those were my what happened uh and those were my Bombay days and those my memories of Bombay days and those my memories of Bombay which were uh wonderful really Bombay which were uh wonderful really wonderful but it was a very different wonderful but it was a very different city at that point of time and where we city at that point of time and where we are doing this conversation now was not are doing this conversation now was not like this at all they were called seven like this at all they were called seven bungalows and four bungalows for a bungalows and four bungalows for a reason there seven bungalows and there reason there seven bungalows and there were four bungalows and not a teeming were four bungalows and not a teeming sort of you know population what it is sort of you know population what it is there so uh it was very different Bombay there so uh it was very different Bombay and the right to uh Marv used to be like and the right to uh Marv used to be like uh almost through wilderness you know uh almost through wilderness you know before you got there it's not the mud before you got there it's not the mud island sort of you know cornucopia that island sort of you know cornucopia that you you know see now you know all this you you know see now you know all this concrete which is built up and things I concrete which is built up and things I went there uh some time back and between went there uh some time back and between the there was a studio between the I the there was a studio between the I think it's called the resort or think it's called the resort or something like that uh What is it? something like that uh What is it? Resort next. It's still there that Marvy Resort next. It's still there that Marvy thing but it's behind walls. I don't thing but it's behind walls. I don't know what it's like. I would have loved know what it's like. I would have loved to have gone in and seen but there are to have gone in and seen but there are little black and white pictures which little black and white pictures which are just you know magical coastal sort are just you know magical coastal sort of things and uh one of my fondest of things and uh one of my fondest memories of that among my daydreams that memories of that among my daydreams that is there a place like that somewhere in is there a place like that somewhere in the world that one could go back to uh the world that one could go back to uh you know uh so those were those were you know uh so those were those were really sort of you know wonderful times really sort of you know wonderful times and school also because basin bondary and school also because basin bondary you could do what you want. You could you could do what you want. You could run around from shack to shack. You run around from shack to shack. You could do stuff. I think one of the first could do stuff. I think one of the first plays on it I was a bogey in an engine. plays on it I was a bogey in an engine. So I have those memories of uh of early So I have those memories of uh of early Mumbai uh as it were. First movies at Mumbai uh as it were. First movies at the other end of town. I got frightened the other end of town. I got frightened through my wits 20,000 leagues under the through my wits 20,000 leagues under the sea or Charlie Chaplain which my mother sea or Charlie Chaplain which my mother would take us you know to watch and but would take us you know to watch and but it was an expedition. you took a train it was an expedition. you took a train and you went to the other end of town and you went to the other end of town and you know the theater and you watched and you know the theater and you watched and that magic stayed with me. So the and that magic stayed with me. So the the magic of cinema first began I think the magic of cinema first began I think in the Bombay theaters just by listening in the Bombay theaters just by listening to you it it feels like you avoided the to you it it feels like you avoided the danger of getting trapped in two danger of getting trapped in two different kinds of bubbles which I different kinds of bubbles which I probably got trapped in for a while. So probably got trapped in for a while. So let me ask you about those and one of let me ask you about those and one of those is the urban bubble that typically those is the urban bubble that typically if you are a city kid all you see around if you are a city kid all you see around you is city and you lose that you is city and you lose that instinctive feeling for nature where you instinctive feeling for nature where you are you intentionally look at birds and are you intentionally look at birds and you actually listen to the sound of the you actually listen to the sound of the sea and you enjoy all of that and I sea and you enjoy all of that and I think it took me a long time in my life think it took me a long time in my life to come to an appreciation for those to come to an appreciation for those things and to actually be mindful of things and to actually be mindful of those things but in your case uh you those things but in your case uh you know what your friends say about you is know what your friends say about you is that he loves birds he loves nature I've that he loves birds he loves nature I've heard a lot about uh you know how your heard a lot about uh you know how your home at Neosanic Farms is constructed home at Neosanic Farms is constructed and it's so open and beautiful and the and it's so open and beautiful and the light and everything. So, and and it light and everything. So, and and it feels that that surely must then hark feels that that surely must then hark back to that childhood where your father back to that childhood where your father is driving around with you on these long is driving around with you on these long trips. And so, tell me about that that trips. And so, tell me about that that tell me about um uh you know when that tell me about um uh you know when that love of nature begins to manifest as an love of nature begins to manifest as an actual thing where you actually think actual thing where you actually think about it and you like could you identify about it and you like could you identify different birds? Were you um you know different birds? Were you um you know because it's it feels like and I'm because it's it feels like and I'm jealous of this that you avoided that jealous of this that you avoided that jadedness which otherwise happens to us jadedness which otherwise happens to us city kids when it comes to nature again city kids when it comes to nature again I think circumstance I think circumstance one is my father was he used to love one is my father was he used to love traveling so we used to go on a lot of traveling so we used to go on a lot of road trips with him all over and you road trips with him all over and you know at that time there were those know at that time there were those hotels that kind of thing and sometimes hotels that kind of thing and sometimes unplanned you would stop at a dark unplanned you would stop at a dark bungalow dark bungalows to where you bungalow dark bungalows to where you stayed and if you're very lucky a stayed and if you're very lucky a circuit house because you know suddenly circuit house because you know suddenly you're told even when you move in that you're told even when you move in that hey uh some sahab might come and you may hey uh some sahab might come and you may have to ship out whatever and mother have to ship out whatever and mother family kids everything like that but he family kids everything like that but he used to take that chance and we used to used to take that chance and we used to travel by road which was very different travel by road which was very different and stay in dark bungalows and circuit and stay in dark bungalows and circuit houses so that was one kind of thing houses so that was one kind of thing when we moved to Delhi apart from a when we moved to Delhi apart from a community those were flats so neblo community those were flats so neblo defense colony I don't know if you know defense colony I don't know if you know those were those 500 to,000 square yard those were those 500 to,000 square yard plots. All our neighbors were firis on plots. All our neighbors were firis on all side and it was open and then where all side and it was open and then where you went out to in Delhi. In Delhi was you went out to in Delhi. In Delhi was still very green but it was not so built still very green but it was not so built up at all and they were full of parks up at all and they were full of parks and gardens and uh the expedition out of and gardens and uh the expedition out of Delhi in every direction towards the Delhi in every direction towards the hills towards Rajasthan towards whatever hills towards Rajasthan towards whatever was there was open stuff. So that was was there was open stuff. So that was always there. always there. always there. In Chennai, what was then Madras where In Chennai, what was then Madras where my father moved, my father moved, the bank's house where we stayed, had a the bank's house where we stayed, had a 6acre garden at Boat Club Avenue, which is, you know, at Boat Club Avenue, which is, you know, I mean, it's the Toniest address in I mean, it's the Toniest address in Chennai at this point of time. And in Chennai at this point of time. And in the middle of that which is you know the middle of that which is you know whatever it is they inherited I think it whatever it is they inherited I think it was from the nab of arot bad debt to the was from the nab of arot bad debt to the bank or something and they built a hotel bank or something and they built a hotel on it. If you've been to Chennai I think on it. If you've been to Chennai I think it was called the RDR gate hotel then it was called the RDR gate hotel then the RDR park hotel and then the park the RDR park hotel and then the park sheritton and now somebody else has sheritton and now somebody else has bought it. So there were all these huge bought it. So there were all these huge trees and things. I learned driving in trees and things. I learned driving in that uh garden in the driveway as a that uh garden in the driveway as a 12-year-old 12-year-old 12-year-old and school was and school was I'd moved from Delhi and in Madras then I'd moved from Delhi and in Madras then there was only Madras metric and you there was only Madras metric and you know other systems where you had to lose know other systems where you had to lose a year effectively if you wanted to get a year effectively if you wanted to get back to the Indian system. So there was back to the Indian system. So there was only one place where you could do a only one place where you could do a 11-year kind of course which is a kendra 11-year kind of course which is a kendra vidyal vidyal vidyal and that happened to be mostly for and that happened to be mostly for central government employees army kids central government employees army kids and so on so forth but and so on so forth but few spots they kept for transferable few spots they kept for transferable people as they did for my in in my case people as they did for my in in my case our school kidal IT Madras was in the our school kidal IT Madras was in the IIT Madras campus which is 600 plus IIT Madras campus which is 600 plus acres of deer forest designated still as acres of deer forest designated still as a natural reserve. You can't build them a natural reserve. You can't build them a certain amount. Uh school was built at a certain amount. Uh school was built at that time. It's changed now by some that time. It's changed now by some Germans because they collaborated with Germans because they collaborated with Madras as a biplane. Madras as a biplane. There's 500 600 kids and the classrooms There's 500 600 kids and the classrooms uh half of the class opened up as swivel uh half of the class opened up as swivel doors in a building was all PWD style. doors in a building was all PWD style. Swivel doors opened up Swivel doors opened up to expanses of tree forest gardens and to expanses of tree forest gardens and deer would be at your arms distance deer would be at your arms distance literally and it's still like that. I literally and it's still like that. I went a few years back. You have chinara, went a few years back. You have chinara, you have black buck, you have antelopes, you have black buck, you have antelopes, you have you know all kind of things you have you know all kind of things right there. It was so in that sense it right there. It was so in that sense it was circumstantial was circumstantial was circumstantial birds. I now start recognizing I'm not a birds. I now start recognizing I'm not a bird but I'm fascinating because our bird but I'm fascinating because our home we've been lucky to have a bit of a home we've been lucky to have a bit of a garden home uh in South Delhi and so garden home uh in South Delhi and so right outside and everywhere I find right outside and everywhere I find these birds uh I photograph them these birds uh I photograph them sometimes just off my camera sometimes sometimes just off my camera sometimes through a lens and I figure then I through a lens and I figure then I figure out how they are I go to Google figure out how they are I go to Google lens and I check out what they are to lens and I check out what they are to find out what it is where it is so in find out what it is where it is so in that sense it's a more recent kind of that sense it's a more recent kind of you know interest and something that you know interest and something that I've done but yeah I think we are I've done but yeah I think we are blessed blessed with the pollution in blessed blessed with the pollution in Delhi to have a bit of a garden and Delhi to have a bit of a garden and trees. There's 70-year-old people tree trees. There's 70-year-old people tree at one end. There's a lovely kachnar. at one end. There's a lovely kachnar. There's a a simil there's you know this There's a a simil there's you know this is all these lovely trees to live among is all these lovely trees to live among them. It's one of the blessings and I them. It's one of the blessings and I wish and I it opens the mind. Damit it I wish and I it opens the mind. Damit it I wish people had much more time living wish people had much more time living away from concrete boxes and just be away from concrete boxes and just be there because I think you think there because I think you think differently and you act differently and differently and you act differently and with the natural cycles gardening itself with the natural cycles gardening itself my wife loves gardening growing things my wife loves gardening growing things figuring it out it's you know I think it figuring it out it's you know I think it uh it makes you feel and think a little uh it makes you feel and think a little differently if that was around you so differently if that was around you so that interest in nature and I think has that interest in nature and I think has been circumstantial But the love of it been circumstantial But the love of it and I would like to do much more and I would like to do much more traveling into our sanctuaries into uh traveling into our sanctuaries into uh and learning about that and some of the and learning about that and some of the people who I've worked with this place people who I've worked with this place where we were doing film making in Delhi where we were doing film making in Delhi uh one of my colleagues uh was um Praep uh one of my colleagues uh was um Praep Krishna who Krishna who Krishna who uh you know uh you know what he's done for documenting what he's done for documenting trees of Delhi of central Indian jungles trees of Delhi of central Indian jungles of you know and uh sort of what he's of you know and uh sort of what he's done in Rajasthan with these sort of you done in Rajasthan with these sort of you know uh tree projects and is fascinating know uh tree projects and is fascinating and one's also learned about all of that and one's also learned about all of that through that and as a generalist as through that and as a generalist as naturalists not as botonists or you know naturalists not as botonists or you know uh because that's been the interest and uh because that's been the interest and that's my interest to all of the world that's my interest to all of the world of knowledge I come to it as a of knowledge I come to it as a generalist you know I mean and that's generalist you know I mean and that's why there's a connection I've never been why there's a connection I've never been a quizzer a quizzer a quizzer so you know but the interest is as a so you know but the interest is as a somebody who's just interested and somebody who's just interested and naturalists. I think that's where the naturalists. I think that's where the passion and interest comes from in this passion and interest comes from in this entire area. Before I go on to asking entire area. Before I go on to asking you about the next bubble I had in mind, you about the next bubble I had in mind, let's double click on that like u you let's double click on that like u you know a term that I've come up with uh is know a term that I've come up with uh is foxhog. It comes from you know Isaiah foxhog. It comes from you know Isaiah Berlin's essay the hedgehog and the fox Berlin's essay the hedgehog and the fox where he talks about how the fox knows a where he talks about how the fox knows a little bit about many things and the little bit about many things and the hedgehog knows one thing really well. hedgehog knows one thing really well. And I keep telling people that you can't And I keep telling people that you can't just be a hedgehog that you have to be a just be a hedgehog that you have to be a foxhog in the sense that there might be foxhog in the sense that there might be one or two things that you know pretty one or two things that you know pretty well but you absolutely have to be a well but you absolutely have to be a generalist. It's like what uh you know generalist. It's like what uh you know CLRGM says what do they of cricket know CLRGM says what do they of cricket know who only cricket know which was of who only cricket know which was of course taken from Kipling's phrase what course taken from Kipling's phrase what do they of England know who only England do they of England know who only England know and I would say you can replace know and I would say you can replace that with anything. What do they of X that with anything. What do they of X know who only X know. What do they of know who only X know. What do they of trees know who only botney know as uh trees know who only botney know as uh you know Praep Krishnan might uh uh in you know Praep Krishnan might uh uh in his book is such a masterpiece uh his book is such a masterpiece uh absolutely magnificent. I mean tell me a absolutely magnificent. I mean tell me a little bit about this the importance of little bit about this the importance of both breadth and depth because how both breadth and depth because how important is it to you to be that kind important is it to you to be that kind of Renaissance man that you're of Renaissance man that you're interested in a number of different interested in a number of different things and they play into each other and things and they play into each other and they enhance your appreciation of each they enhance your appreciation of each of them and of the whole world as a of them and of the whole world as a whole. You know in that sense that's whole. You know in that sense that's been one of the guiding concerns through been one of the guiding concerns through a lot of the things that I've done a lot of the things that I've done particularly in the in quotes knowledge particularly in the in quotes knowledge area and the knowledge shows that one area and the knowledge shows that one has done because to put in more pro term has done because to put in more pro term what you were talking about the the what you were talking about the the hedgehog and the fox and the fox hog as hedgehog and the fox hog as it were it were it were you have people who know a lot about a you have people who know a lot about a little who are specialists and there are little who are specialists and there are people who know a lot about a lot and people who know a lot about a lot and somewhere between them are most of us somewhere between them are most of us but I think you need your specialists but I think you need your specialists and you need specialist knowledge but I and you need specialist knowledge but I think even as specialists think even as specialists if you can open up your mind and if you can open up your mind and interest to other things I think it's interest to other things I think it's wonderful you need to combine depth with wonderful you need to combine depth with breadth too which doesn't mean it has to breadth too which doesn't mean it has to be one or the other that would never be be one or the other that would never be an approach in television terms Even an approach in television terms Even within a purist show like mastermind within a purist show like mastermind India, you had the specialized subject India, you had the specialized subject the Islamic caliphate from this year to the Islamic caliphate from this year to that year or duratars that year or duratars or you know or you know world war one aircraft of this world war one aircraft of this particular type or whatever it is to the particular type or whatever it is to the Indian railways of another kind. The Indian railways of another kind. The span of subject specialist is wonderful span of subject specialist is wonderful to have that knowledge but of course to have that knowledge but of course there was a bit of general knowledge but there was a bit of general knowledge but you couldn't really play along. Now look you couldn't really play along. Now look at convenati at convenati at convenati where the whole point of the expanded where the whole point of the expanded time and thinking along it also engages time and thinking along it also engages the audience where they are trying to the audience where they are trying to figuring out key what is it is it this figuring out key what is it is it this is it that why isn't this person going is it that why isn't this person going in that direction we always thought it in that direction we always thought it was this and in my mind it's always was this and in my mind it's always interesting in a good quiz question interesting in a good quiz question where it opens up it's half known and it where it opens up it's half known and it opens up layers which you never knew opens up layers which you never knew about or you learn more about about or you learn more about you know things that you've been seeing you know things that you've been seeing every day but it's something else every day but it's something else it you know it turns out to be something it you know it turns out to be something else uh how does that happen how can you else uh how does that happen how can you figure that one out how can you combine figure that one out how can you combine a bit of breadth so everybody doesn't a bit of breadth so everybody doesn't have it in them to be a polymath right have it in them to be a polymath right and one admires polymaths but equally and one admires polymaths but equally you I admire people who know one thing you I admire people who know one thing very well but it's always interesting very well but it's always interesting where there's a bit of where there's a bit of And I think people should to enrich And I think people should to enrich their own lives to empower themselves. their own lives to empower themselves. They take an interest in a number of They take an interest in a number of things and find out enough about them. things and find out enough about them. And I think that's always been my And I think that's always been my approach to general knowledge. It's not approach to general knowledge. It's not about, you know, about, you know, being a just obscure information. It's being a just obscure information. It's not about something that only a group of not about something that only a group of people know and, you know, trading that people know and, you know, trading that enough. At the same time, it it should enough. At the same time, it it should be something that engages people's be something that engages people's imagination. It just kindles that imagination. It just kindles that interest that if you didn't know, you interest that if you didn't know, you would want to know. would want to know. And that's part of the brief when you And that's part of the brief when you get a team together. How do we do that? get a team together. How do we do that? How do we deal with sometimes unknown, How do we deal with sometimes unknown, but also the half-known which is better but also the half-known which is better known and which is good to know. known and which is good to know. And if you can build an aha, it's And if you can build an aha, it's fantastic. And also in a little in some fantastic. And also in a little in some senses I compare it with a haiku 17 senses I compare it with a haiku 17 syllables. syllables. syllables. In that question what do you have that In that question what do you have that you know sets off little sparks or maybe you know sets off little sparks or maybe even an explosion and you say wow is even an explosion and you say wow is that what was it was something like that that what was it was something like that and I think that is the key. I also and I think that is the key. I also think the key to the right answers are think the key to the right answers are the right questions. To be able to ask the right questions. To be able to ask things around us and to query them, things around us and to query them, which is also the root of factecking. which is also the root of factecking. Somebody says a whole lot of things, Somebody says a whole lot of things, things we take for granted, but then you things we take for granted, but then you look a little deeper, it turns out to be look a little deeper, it turns out to be something else. And now we have the kind something else. And now we have the kind of tools that human beings have never of tools that human beings have never had in history to find out what they had in history to find out what they are. are. are. you know what is actually the truth of you know what is actually the truth of something what it is are there many something what it is are there many stories is it is a rashimon situation it stories is it is a rashimon situation it depends on who's looking at it and some depends on who's looking at it and some things are but you know how do you get things are but you know how do you get to as close to what it is that was it to as close to what it is that was it isn't is something I think which is isn't is something I think which is fascinating but also we are empowered in fascinating but also we are empowered in a way never before and we should use a way never before and we should use that you know I really believe uh that's that you know I really believe uh that's something that needs to happen uh in my something that needs to happen uh in my own is you know I was a middling student in my you know I was a middling student in my academics uh I was my master's course I academics uh I was my master's course I loved bachelors it was all theater I did loved bachelors it was all theater I did nothing else uh and those were you know nothing else uh and those were you know that was a era where say if you were at that was a era where say if you were at college between 71 and 76 my bachelor's college between 71 and 76 my bachelor's and mast's years uh the mahul was swung and mast's years uh the mahul was swung or the spectrum let's put it like that or the spectrum let's put it like that in one hand you got flaw post woodstock in one hand you got flaw post woodstock the psychedelic era and experimentation the psychedelic era and experimentation and the other hand was revolution and and the other hand was revolution and Marxism Marxism Marxism at college you had the Marxist study at college you had the Marxist study circle and you had you know other things circle and you had you know other things that going on on the other side and so that going on on the other side and so on so forth so you know on so forth so you know between those streams as it were but between those streams as it were but where was I you have to remind me I've where was I you have to remind me I've lost a thread what we were talking about lost a thread what we were talking about we we were on the line of generalists we we were on the line of generalists and uh specialists and then you spoken and uh specialists and then you spoken for I was coming back to what it was and for I was coming back to what it was and then I was trying to make a living of then I was trying to make a living of theater because the big theater thing theater because the big theater thing happened for me during my college years happened for me during my college years which if you like we can talk about it which if you like we can talk about it at some other point but then having at some other point but then having tried and failed to do it in cinema was tried and failed to do it in cinema was the other fascination though I wasn't the other fascination though I wasn't Hindi speaking primarily uh never had Hindi speaking primarily uh never had enough command on it to think that aa enough command on it to think that aa Mumbai Janga and I'll try to make a Mumbai Janga and I'll try to make a living of it or whatever it is and I living of it or whatever it is and I didn't want to go to the film institute didn't want to go to the film institute because all of the people who were going because all of the people who were going there either wanted to become actors or there either wanted to become actors or they had to know enough of their they had to know enough of their language to be able to make cinema in language to be able to make cinema in that stage. So the one opportunity to that stage. So the one opportunity to learn film making was at a place in learn film making was at a place in Delhi which was the only place Delhi which was the only place that these were during post emergency that these were during post emergency years years years uh actually during emergency I started uh actually during emergency I started in 77 were making two regular series on in 77 were making two regular series on Dur Dashan Dur Dashan Dur Dashan on very limited scope films in 16 mm on very limited scope films in 16 mm black and white working with pix black and white working with pix machines for editing camera and they had machines for editing camera and they had a laboratory the only one in North India a laboratory the only one in North India for 60 m black and white which was in for 60 m black and white which was in the kitchen of an A block flat in the kitchen of an A block flat in defense colony. Okay. So one series was defense colony. Okay. So one series was called development news features called development news features all the good things are happening in all the good things are happening in laboratory schemes. It could be in laboratory schemes. It could be in appropriate technology. It could be on appropriate technology. It could be on gober gas. It could be on you know XY Z gober gas. It could be on you know XY Z etc etc. Or it could be the science etc etc. Or it could be the science feature which was really initially an feature which was really initially an expanded form of that. So you know expanded form of that. So you know national physical laboratory is doing national physical laboratory is doing this and so on and so forth all our this and so on and so forth all our national laboratories so on so forth but national laboratories so on so forth but that was the only place where things that was the only place where things were happening were happening were happening and uh for 8 years I cut my teeth. and uh for 8 years I cut my teeth. The science programs grew with the likes The science programs grew with the likes of Pradep Prishan into becoming of Pradep Prishan into becoming conceptual films and we worked on that conceptual films and we worked on that but the rigor of research and finding but the rigor of research and finding about a subject about a subject partly from academics from literature partly from academics from literature and partly from sort of you know and partly from sort of you know studying science which is precise and studying science which is precise and which you have to find out about things which you have to find out about things if you're getting into a subject and on if you're getting into a subject and on minuscule budgets. So on the one hand minuscule budgets. So on the one hand there was learning film making on the there was learning film making on the other hand there was the discipline of other hand there was the discipline of finding out about a subject and then finding out about a subject and then making it comprehensible and interesting making it comprehensible and interesting to other people. My first science film to other people. My first science film was life before birth. was life before birth. What happens pre-birth What happens pre-birth in the animal world and in human beings. in the animal world and in human beings. The first child birth I recorded. So and The first child birth I recorded. So and this was in black and white. So how do this was in black and white. So how do you certain things could only be you certain things could only be animated. Some things you only use animated. Some things you only use pictures. But how do you how do you tell pictures. But how do you tell that story in that way? But how do you that story in that way? But how do you also find out about it you know and what also find out about it you know and what you learned about it in the kind of you learned about it in the kind of books we learned from encyclopedic books we learned from encyclopedic works or you know there was a wonderful works or you know there was a wonderful time illustrated series that used to time illustrated series that used to have on different subject and one of have on different subject and one of those series was Leonard Nelson's those series was Leonard Nelson's pictures within the womb of the pictures within the womb of the development at different stages and it's development at different stages and it's magical you know in a sense the magical you know in a sense the evolution of humans from single cell to evolution of humans from single cell to you know what eventually become is you know what eventually become is mimicked mimicked mimicked and formed and how pictorially what it and formed and how pictorially what it is. So that you know sort of was is. So that you know sort of was absolutely terrific and the rigor of absolutely terrific and the rigor of research came in from them. research came in from them. How do you find out about something? One How do you find out about something? One of my other films which I enjoyed making of my other films which I enjoyed making at that time was on avalanches. at that time was on avalanches. How you do it? How they controlled? What How you do it? How they controlled? What was happening in our country? Snow and was happening in our country? Snow and avalanche study establishment above avalanche study establishment above Koti. They had a center. Uh and a lot of Koti. They had a center. Uh and a lot of that on the film making side we had to that on the film making side we had to use not only available footage from the use not only available footage from the very limited funds that we had but also very limited funds that we had but also through animation to explain what it is through animation to explain what it is how they can be controlled and then at how they can be controlled and then at SAS how they do by firing and things SAS how they do by firing and things like that how they try and control like that how they try and control avalanches how they get warning it was a avalanches how they get warning it was a fascinating subject to try and find out fascinating subject to try and find out about Praep of course did some of the about Praep of course did some of the most fascinating things most fascinating things and for me it was a learning you get and for me it was a learning you get into say the organization of a a bee into say the organization of a a bee comb honey bee comb and it's such a comb honey bee comb and it's such a complex society and the dance of the complex society and the dance of the honeybee the you know the figure of honeybee the you know the figure of eight the orientation towards the sun eight the orientation towards the sun the distance the sweetness of the source the distance the sweetness of the source being signified for the whole team being signified for the whole team through the dance and people going to it through the dance and people going to it so so so the dance of the honeybee was one of his the dance of the honeybee was one of his films and just filming it and showing it films and just filming it and showing it in as I said our budgets I mean it must in as I said our budgets I mean it must have mean what 30,000 rupees a film and have mean what 30,000 rupees a film and very controlled and you have to use very controlled and you have to use whatever is there the animation we whatever is there the animation we learned cell animation learned cell animation so it makes cell by cell to you know we so it makes cell by cell to you know we would do it over there so the one hand would do it over there so the one hand you were learning film making and the you were learning film making and the rudiments of it and then the other hand rudiments of it and then the other hand you were uh you know doing your own you were uh you know doing your own edits on pixing cutting the positives edits on pixing cutting the positives the negative cutting of course was done the negative cutting of course was done by professional editors and seeing it go by professional editors and seeing it go together and then you were encouraged at together and then you were encouraged at that time because it was all voiceover that time because it was all voiceover stuff there was no sound to go with it stuff there was no sound to go with it and recording writing the commentaries and recording writing the commentaries and making it narrative that was an and making it narrative that was an education in terms of on the one hand education in terms of on the one hand there was the research the rigor we there was the research the rigor we floated off far from the subject but I'm floated off far from the subject but I'm saying on the one hand there's the saying on the one hand there's the imagination of theater and you know uh imagination of theater and you know uh free flowing imagination at work free flowing imagination at work Shakespeare in an Aristotleian Shakespeare in an Aristotleian you know sort of virtues kicking in and you know sort of virtues kicking in and or even Indian aspects of the nati or even Indian aspects of the nati shastra and uh batmoney's work and shastra and uh batmoney's work and kalidas on one hand there's just kalidas on one hand there's just imagination how you put it how you put imagination how you put it how you put thought and feeling and expression thought and feeling and expression together into narrative on the other together into narrative on the other hand there's the rigor of science how hand there's the rigor of science how you put it you put it Praep's other films was on bird song and Praep's other films was on bird song and in that area of communicating the sound in that area of communicating the sound the first one he called love songs which the first one he called love songs which was frogs and crickets. was frogs and crickets. What do they say when they croak and What do they say when they croak and what are they communicating and how do what are they communicating and how do they communicating they communicating they communicating for the limited place that it was where for the limited place that it was where it's supposed to be I think it began as it's supposed to be I think it began as making a raast stuff for government making a raast stuff for government propagandist propagandist propagandist this is happening that is happening this is happening that is happening here's a new scheme you're turning rice here's a new scheme you're turning rice husk into bricks and you're doing this husk into bricks and you're doing this and that and whatever which is also I and that and whatever which is also I did a lot of that you know because that did a lot of that you know because that was the only earning was the only earning to to to research research research write, write, write, shoot, shoot, shoot, voice, edit, put together a 5-minute voice, edit, put together a 5-minute film which kept me going for 8 years was film which kept me going for 8 years was 500 rupees. Mhm. And if you did a 500 rupees. Mhm. And if you did a science film, it took you a month and a science film, it took you a month and a half, sometimes two months, and you did half, sometimes two months, and you did an ambitious thing of Pratok take more an ambitious thing of Pratok take more and more time was 1,500 bucks. But I and more time was 1,500 bucks. But I lived of that and I learned of that and lived of that and I learned of that and that was for the longest time the that was for the longest time the education, you know, of doing those education, you know, of doing those things. uh and I enjoyed it thoroughly. things. uh and I enjoyed it thoroughly. But the rigor of research came from But the rigor of research came from there and that taught me research and there and that taught me research and because when we got into quizzing because when we got into quizzing and quizzing circles what passes must and quizzing circles what passes must when it comes onto mass media with a when it comes onto mass media with a captive audience with the nation captive audience with the nation watching can turn into a monster if you watching can turn into a monster if you get some details wrong. get some details wrong. The amount of court cases we've had to The amount of court cases we've had to contend with on facts and figures on contend with on facts and figures on what you say and what you don't and what you say and what you don't and challenges is something else and challenges is something else and especially on KBC it got magnified to an especially on KBC it got magnified to an extreme amount but early days the first extreme amount but early days the first quiz time I did which was was the first quiz time I did which was was the first national intercol quiz that I I hosted national intercol quiz that I I hosted and I came into quizzing as a quiz and I came into quizzing as a quiz master never as a quizzer the research master never as a quizzer the research was done by other people by journalists was done by other people by journalists very you know good journalists with very you know good journalists with credentials and they would pra questions credentials and they would pra questions and this that and the other. I had to and this that and the other. I had to put it into you know language to make it put it into you know language to make it elegant and then there would be a elegant and then there would be a reaction. At that time it was newspaper reaction. At that time it was newspaper editors letters to the editor at that editors letters to the editor at that time or uh sort of doans like Amit Malik time or uh sort of doans like Amit Malik who would normally pick you on who would normally pick you on pronunciation something but on fact you pronunciation something but on fact you would say how could so and so say this would say how could so and so say this or that and you know and the rafters or that and you know and the rafters would shudder when things would happen would shudder when things would happen and the dash bras would want to know and and the dash bras would want to know and whatever it is. The second year I took whatever it is. The second year I took over the content in the research and all over the content in the research and all the learnings from the science from the the learnings from the science from the research cross-checking sources research cross-checking sources uh and errors could be not only of uh and errors could be not only of sources it could be of research because sources it could be of research because textbooks can be wildly wrong. textbooks can be wildly wrong. Newspapers every day we found at that Newspapers every day we found at that time there could be 100 errors of fact. time there could be 100 errors of fact. Where do you get it from? At that time Where do you get it from? At that time there was no internet. there was no internet. You have to get special library access You have to get special library access and write letters to them. This is what and write letters to them. This is what we are doing. we are doing. This is what we are doing. So you know central secretarian library So you know central secretarian library was a huge source. National archive was a huge source. National archive library, IIC library. You have to get library, IIC library. You have to get special membership so that you know special membership so that you know people could go and find and the kind of people could go and find and the kind of sources and get the kind of thing you sources and get the kind of thing you know sort of say that okay now this is know sort of say that okay now this is verified fact what passes must as I said verified fact what passes must as I said in in in quiz circles which is in in in quiz circles which is conversation which is picked up from conversation which is picked up from here and there now of course it's here and there now of course it's changed but even sources I'm using AI a changed but even sources I'm using AI a lot I'm having a lot of fun with AI and lot I'm having a lot of fun with AI and you think that something is give you a you think that something is give you a very analytic sort of fact check it a very analytic sort of fact check it a great amount of detail in every aspect great amount of detail in every aspect which is the other thing you learn about which is the other thing you learn about facteing. It's not just one question and facteing. It's not just one question and one answer. It's all the constituent one answer. It's all the constituent parts of information that goes into it parts of information that goes into it needs to be checked is this you know and needs to be checked is this you know and that is one of the rigors we had to go that is one of the rigors we had to go through say for a KBC or whatever through say for a KBC or whatever because everything there was money because everything there was money writing on and people would challenge writing on and people would challenge things sometimes legitimately but a lot things sometimes legitimately but a lot of the time just because I thought it of the time just because I thought it was something else and I thought you was something else and I thought you were wrong but you have to then prove were wrong but you have to then prove that you were right and you have to have that you were right and you have to have handy sources sometimes you know you can handy sources sometimes you know you can have 15 sources which say one thing and have 15 sources which say one thing and then a whole lot of sources which say then a whole lot of sources which say something else something else something else so these have all been learning you know so these have all been learning you know sort of you know in between detail and sort of you know in between detail and interest on the one hand you have to interest on the one hand you have to engage people engage people engage people on a KBC on a mastermind on any quiz on a KBC on a mastermind on any quiz based knowledge based factual based knowledge based factual entertainment show that you have on the entertainment show that you have on the other hand you have to be absolutely other hand you have to be absolutely right in what you're saying and right in what you're saying and sometimes it's not easy to bridge that sometimes it's not easy to bridge that it's not easy to to find out so there it's not easy to to find out so there how do you work around that how do you how do you work around that how do you work it into what you're trying to do work it into what you're trying to do always a challenge Beautiful always a challenge Beautiful answer. I mean it also strikes me as you answer. I mean it also strikes me as you were speaking that that whole were speaking that that whole distinction between an hedgehog and a distinction between an hedgehog and a fox and a foxhog as it were of the fox and a foxhog as it were of the importance of being a generalist comes importance of being a generalist comes through in both quizzing and theater through in both quizzing and theater like and I'm thinking aloud here but a like and I'm thinking aloud here but a good quiz question is always in the good quiz question is always in the domain of the particular but requires uh domain of the particular but requires uh you know that general sense a general you know that general sense a general knowledge of the world to be able to knowledge of the world to be able to crack because after all you're working crack because after all you're working it out and there'll be clues within it it out and there'll be clues within it and equally when you're in theater every and equally when you're in theater every good play is about a particular thing good play is about a particular thing but it has to have that universal appeal but it has to have that universal appeal where you know it sparks off something where you know it sparks off something into you and you get a better sense of into you and you get a better sense of the human condition and therefore the human condition and therefore yourself uh through it and I guess a lot yourself uh through it and I guess a lot of the research required you you to be a of the research required you you to be a foxhog because every little bit of foxhog because every little bit of research would take you into the research would take you into the particular but accumulated together you particular but accumulated together you are gathering a sense of the world which are gathering a sense of the world which is also just to jump in which is also I is also just to jump in which is also I think the relevance of general knowledge think the relevance of general knowledge today because you're fed stuff today because you're fed stuff including from the internet. Google will including from the internet. Google will give you the most popular right on top give you the most popular right on top though chat GPT or Grock or whatever though chat GPT or Grock or whatever will tell you that you know you better will tell you that you know you better check your facts or whatever it you tend check your facts or whatever it you tend to take for uh granted the things that to take for uh granted the things that are thrown up at you say okay this is are thrown up at you say okay this is what it is but unless you have that what it is but unless you have that context context context of other information you're not going to of other information you're not going to query that you take it for what it is query that you take it for what it is and sometimes if it's you know what is and sometimes if it's you know what is most popular on Google what is most most popular on Google what is most sought sought sought and at at one stage age if you put in and at at one stage age if you put in Jalal Nu you find out I mean the most Jalal Nu you find out I mean the most sort of scrillous stuff on the stuff sort of scrillous stuff on the stuff which we write on top are you supposed which we write on top are you supposed to take that for granted or on any to take that for granted or on any subject for that matter on matters of subject for that matter on matters of health and any detail how do you health and any detail how do you navigate your way through this jungle of navigate your way through this jungle of information that we now have and I think information that we now have and I think you need a certain amount of general you need a certain amount of general knowledge and I think you need to have knowledge and I think you need to have that awareness of you know a breadth of that awareness of you know a breadth of knowledge which helps you not only get knowledge which helps you not only get to the particular but also to to the particular but also to cross-check the particular and question cross-check the particular and question it. I think along with curiosity you it. I think along with curiosity you need skepticism. need skepticism. need skepticism. Let me double click on that. There's a Let me double click on that. There's a distinction between the facts and the distinction between the facts and the truth. Right now in my time as a quizzer truth. Right now in my time as a quizzer I would often find that there is a I would often find that there is a particular kind of quizzer who just particular kind of quizzer who just wants lots of facts. So it'll come in wants lots of facts. So it'll come in handy sometime in a quiz. And then there handy sometime in a quiz. And then there is a particular kind of person who is a particular kind of person who doesn't particularly care about facts doesn't particularly care about facts but the truth. they are reading widely but the truth. they are reading widely and whatever they know they just happen and whatever they know they just happen to know but they're not memorizing stuff to know but they're not memorizing stuff purely for the sake quiz right and I purely for the sake quiz right and I find myself in that latter kind of group find myself in that latter kind of group but it also sort of hurts me because but it also sort of hurts me because sometimes I'll forget particular facts sometimes I'll forget particular facts I'll have a broad sense of what is going I'll have a broad sense of what is going on which is why I was never like an on which is why I was never like an A-list quizzer like I would not have A-list quizzer like I would not have been a quiz time winner I would have been a quiz time winner I would have been something like a zonal finalist been something like a zonal finalist just I was in school in those days of just I was in school in those days of course and it was a dream to be on the course and it was a dream to be on the show but I would not have been among show but I would not have been among those elites needs because my set of those elites needs because my set of facts would have been lower. But a lot facts would have been lower. But a lot of the people who gather all of those of the people who gather all of those facts I would sometimes criticize just facts I would sometimes criticize just have really superficial knowledge of the have really superficial knowledge of the subject. They will know everything about subject. They will know everything about a book but they haven't read the book. I a book but they haven't read the book. I have read the book and I don't remember have read the book and I don't remember the things. And I think that the quality the things. And I think that the quality that goes into good factchecking of that goes into good factchecking of reading something on the internet and reading something on the internet and having an intuitive sense that there is having an intuitive sense that there is something off here is with the truth something off here is with the truth seeker not the fact seeker. seeker not the fact seeker. I I'm with you completely on this and I I I'm with you completely on this and I think that is what needs strengthening think that is what needs strengthening when I talk about you know how should I when I talk about you know how should I say reinforcing a factual culture of you say reinforcing a factual culture of you know sort of making it second nature know sort of making it second nature which we need now to find out about which we need now to find out about anything not only for its own sake on anything not only for its own sake on health. the first thing you hit could be health. the first thing you hit could be completely alarmist or completely completely alarmist or completely misleading but you have to get to the misleading but you have to get to the point of it and how do you cross check point of it and how do you cross check how do you find out about anything you how do you find out about anything you have things which are uh you know the have things which are uh you know the tools that we have are miraculous in a tools that we have are miraculous in a way that in front of us I mean there's way that in front of us I mean there's no other way to put it but how it can be no other way to put it but how it can be misused and how it can be sort of what misused and how it can be sort of what is the other thing and also one of the is the other thing and also one of the things that has happened is that there's things that has happened is that there's so much now that I think people find so much now that I think people find that look people need to have a simple that look people need to have a simple sort of fact to follow or to believe or sort of fact to follow or to believe or to go on that this is easy let's put it to go on that this is easy let's put it through till that that is the thing but through till that that is the thing but I think the savoring I think the savoring is in the breadth combined with the is in the breadth combined with the depth you know I think you have to have depth you know I think you have to have enough depth without that isn't and as enough depth without that isn't and as you put it I think it's important to get you put it I think it's important to get to the truth of the matter and to be to to the truth of the matter and to be to for it to be a motivating thing I don't for it to be a motivating thing I don't think you know being a so how should I think you know being a so how should I say say say a factual sort of you know uh having a a factual sort of you know uh having a fetish for facts is the same as having fetish for facts is the same as having an appreciation of facts and the truth an appreciation of facts and the truth and I think they're two different things and I think they're two different things and in that sense I've always as I said and in that sense I've always as I said I've never been a quizzer and I you know I've never been a quizzer and I you know it just so happens that that's the way it just so happens that that's the way it is. I used to enjoy uh playing games it is. I used to enjoy uh playing games in class and I still Wordle is my uh you in class and I still Wordle is my uh you know when I wake up in the middle of the know when I wake up in the middle of the night which I do is that is my that is night which I do is that is my ritual that is something that I have my ritual that is something that I have to do or you know play a curtain quiz to do or you know play a curtain quiz game or something and I go back but I'm game or something and I go back but I'm not I've never been a quizzer I enjoyed not I've never been a quizzer I enjoyed class games especially to English class games especially to English language and things like that but that language and things like that but that small group the cery quizzing small group the cery quizzing good luck to them And I'm all for that good luck to them And I'm all for that and there's wonderful people over there and there's wonderful people over there but that has never been my thing you but that has never been my thing you know though we did cater to that in the know though we did cater to that in the sense of mastermind but we've done sense of mastermind but we've done everything in between you know the quiz everything in between you know the quiz shows that we've done in the live domain shows that we've done in the live domain as live quizzes Amit we've done as live quizzes Amit we've done for the national literacy mission for for the national literacy mission for people who just read learn to read and people who just read learn to read and write which is the new literates and the write which is the new literates and the new numerates the first three months we new numerates the first three months we did two television thing shows also did two television thing shows also called axar mea for the national called axar mea for the national literacy mission. The sense of literacy mission. The sense of empowerment that one felt from that and empowerment that one felt from that and we had simple literacy numeracy and we had simple literacy numeracy and general knowledge games where we general knowledge games where we combined everything and put it together combined everything and put it together but they felt that all the hieroglyphics but they felt that all the hieroglyphics were coming alive and that would empower were coming alive and that would empower them and it was wonderful. the one one them and it was wonderful. the one one actually I remember one season was this actually I remember one season was this goat herd girl from the Ajmir district goat herd girl from the Ajmir district and uh she was asked so why because you and uh she was asked so why because you know she was the first one with some know she was the first one with some education in the family because they education in the family because they didn't think girls needed to be educated didn't think girls needed to be educated and in a gungert and she raised her head and in a gungert and she raised her head for the first time she said you know why for the first time she said you know why she said I want to become the serpunch she said I want to become the serpunch and what she wanted to do with it and it and what she wanted to do with it and it was such a uh you was such a uh you It was a wonderful emotional empowering It was a wonderful emotional empowering moment you know to do that. So on the moment you know to do that. So on the one hand we've done that on the other one hand we've done that on the other hand we've done Amit for the entire hand we've done Amit for the entire nuclear science community of Baba atomic nuclear science community of Baba atomic research center research center research center from professors emmeriti to people who from professors emmeriti to people who are just researchers they came from all are just researchers they came from all over I don't know anything on the over I don't know anything on the subject but we have a a sort of you know subject but we have a a sort of you know uh proprietary software we call cuisine uh proprietary software we call cuisine with a zed where you know we can done with a zed where you know we can done different kind of games and this that different kind of games and this that and the other so we familiarize with and the other so we familiarize with them that information and we did that them that information and we did that for them with a hall full of people and for them with a hall full of people and it worked wonderfully. We've done live it worked wonderfully. We've done live quizzes four years running in Thihar quizzes four years running in Thihar jail. Wow. jail. Wow. jail. Wow. And we've done a TV show only for And we've done a TV show only for members of parliament. members of parliament. You know, two extremes. We've done stuff You know, two extremes. We've done stuff on food and cuisine. We've done on other on food and cuisine. We've done on other things. So doing all of this stuff, you things. So doing all of this stuff, you know, you have to address how do you not know, you have to address how do you not only as in a television show, not only only as in a television show, not only address it to the contestants, but how address it to the contestants, but how do you engage the public imagination do you engage the public imagination with it? So here's my follow-up with it? So here's my follow-up question. There's a term public choice question. There's a term public choice used called rational ignorance. What it used called rational ignorance. What it essentially postulates is that for most essentially postulates is that for most voters in any democracy, their vote is voters in any democracy, their vote is likely to count for very little because likely to count for very little because no election is decided by one vote, no election is decided by one vote, right? And the the apparently one right? And the the apparently one election in UP was and the loser's wife election in UP was and the loser's wife hadn't voted but uh leave that aside. hadn't voted but uh leave that aside. But no election is decided by one vote But no election is decided by one vote and therefore for any voter it is and therefore for any voter it is rational to not put too much effort into rational to not put too much effort into informing herself about what is informing herself about what is happening in economics, policy etc etc. happening in economics, policy etc etc. you just go with your tribal instinct you just go with your tribal instinct and vote if you feel like or don't vote and vote if you feel like or don't vote at all, which is also rational. Equally, at all, which is also rational. Equally, a new term I've come to like is a new term I've come to like is strategic ignorance, which is that if strategic ignorance, which is that if you want to be focused in your life, it you want to be focused in your life, it is okay to be ignorant about most things is okay to be ignorant about most things and not give a damn. And therefore, for and not give a damn. And therefore, for most of us, we don't have the bandwidth most of us, we don't have the bandwidth to seek the truth in every domain. We to seek the truth in every domain. We will take the conventional wisdom, will take the conventional wisdom, whatever is out there for granted in whatever is out there for granted in most things. And in whatever particular most things. And in whatever particular domain that are high stakes to us where domain that are high stakes to us where we have skin in the game, we find out we have skin in the game, we find out more. Now what I want to ask you is that more. Now what I want to ask you is that there is a quality that both of us there is a quality that both of us admire that you are trying to inculcate admire that you are trying to inculcate in more people which as you said is a in more people which as you said is a quality of curiosity that be curious. quality of curiosity that be curious. The curiosity The curiosity The curiosity um feeds into skeptic uh skepticism. It um feeds into skeptic uh skepticism. It is a two-way interaction between the is a two-way interaction between the two. You are skeptical so you're two. You are skeptical so you're curious. You're curious so you're curious. You're curious so you're skeptical. And I wonder to what extent skeptical. And I wonder to what extent it is that this is natural and to what it is that this is natural and to what extent this is something that can be extent this is something that can be inculcated. Uh because it it strikes me inculcated. Uh because it it strikes me that the girl who says I want to be that the girl who says I want to be educated because I want to be s punch is educated because I want to be s punch is awesome and more power to her but she's awesome and more power to her but she's an outlier among the girls. So is it an outlier among the girls. So is it something that can be inculcated in something that can be inculcated in people or is it something that you will people or is it something that you will see more and more around you because of see more and more around you because of the selection effect but actually it is the selection effect but actually it is either inherent or it is not. So what is either inherent or it is not. So what is what is your sense of this? I think you what is your sense of this? I think you know where you're talking about know where you're talking about strategic ignorance you can't be open to strategic ignorance you can't be open to everything all the time because you everything all the time because you would be drowned would be drowned very early on very early on but there is a certain sense of basics I but there is a certain sense of basics I think which are very important we do think which are very important we do this u series of books for junior school this u series of books for junior school you know where we address this in areas you know where we address this in areas which are not in the textbooks because which are not in the textbooks because to me general knowledge has always been to me general knowledge has always been what's not in your textbooks what's not in your textbooks and to move away from the very and to move away from the very utilitarian approach utilitarian approach utilitarian approach of a lot of narrow thinking education is of a lot of narrow thinking education is is it going to be useful in exam? Is it is it going to be useful in exam? Is it going to get you a job? Is it going to going to get you a job? Is it going to get you a better job? That is one way of get you a better job? That is one way of looking at it. There's another way of looking at it. There's another way of looking at it. Hey, this can enrich what looking at it. Hey, this can enrich what are you you bring to your jobs that is are you you bring to your jobs that is expanded utilitarianism. expanded utilitarianism. expanded utilitarianism. But also it can enrich your life. That's But also it can enrich your life. That's another way of looking at it. But even another way of looking at it. But even there you decide what are the essentials there you decide what are the essentials just like you have the three Rs in just like you have the three Rs in education in general knowledge too in a education in general knowledge too in a number of areas there are certain number of areas there are certain something that I think you need to know something that I think you need to know it could be about civics and government it could be about civics and government it could be about what it is it could be it could be about what it is it could be about history in a different it could be about history in a different it could be civilizational it could be about the civilizational it could be about the geography of what is around you it could geography of what is around you it could be about flora and fauna it could be be about flora and fauna it could be about uh you know logical thinking and about uh you know logical thinking and what has happened. It could be about what has happened. It could be about science. It could be about medicine. It science. It could be about medicine. It could be the health. In those areas, it could be the health. In those areas, it could be the arts and culture. There is could be the arts and culture. There is a certain it can keep on expanding but a certain it can keep on expanding but there are certain expansion which I there are certain expansion which I think is necessary for everybody and I think is necessary for everybody and I think that is something that you know it think that is something that you know it can be inculcated and I think it's can be inculcated and I think it's important to do that in in our country. important to do that in in our country. One of the things is to celebrate the One of the things is to celebrate the diversity to celebrate what is around diversity to celebrate what is around you to begin with and then to expanding you to begin with and then to expanding worlds of you know just beyond your worlds of you know just beyond your village and your society and your city village and your society and your city other peoples other languages other other peoples other languages other cultures other foods other music you cultures other foods other music you know to slowly expand your sort of you know to slowly expand your sort of you know world to that and I think to have know world to that and I think to have an appreciation you don't have to get an appreciation you don't have to get into become a specialist in any one into become a specialist in any one thing and it shouldn't be compulsory at thing and it shouldn't be compulsory at all it should be something where your all it should be something where your just lead you but to know about them just lead you but to know about them you know what's the point of only know you know what's the point of only know the rules of cricket you know uh ser the rules of cricket you know uh ser James what do they of cricket know who James what do they of cricket know who only cricket know I mean the same way only cricket know I mean the same way that's that's the whole point of it but that's that's the whole point of it but to have an appreciation of things uh so to have an appreciation of things uh so you don't have to be a cricket you don't have to be a cricket statistician and sort of you know get statistician and sort of you know get into the minute of you know in how many into the minute of you know in how many runs at a particular day when it was runs at a particular day when it was raining and whatever it is if there's a raining and whatever it is if there's a nice story to it is Great. And to nice story to it is Great. And to appreciate that, but to know enough to appreciate that, but to know enough to make it interesting and to appreciate it make it interesting and to appreciate it is important and I think it it it helps is important and I think it it it helps you to savor that and to know a little you to savor that and to know a little bit more about that and I think that is bit more about that and I think that is the area in which you need to appreciate the area in which you need to appreciate and know things and as and know things and as as human beings in the 21st century as as human beings in the 21st century as citizens of this country and as global citizens of this country and as global citizens there is certain something and citizens there is certain something and I think it's it it's good to know what I think it's it it's good to know what it is also important. important to know it is also important. important to know beyond that it's where life and your beyond that it's where life and your experience and your interests take you experience and your interests take you and I think we should be open to that and I think we should be open to that but we should not make it a compulsion but we should not make it a compulsion and I don't think it's something which and I don't think it's something which should be an examination but to enjoy should be an examination but to enjoy that just like you can enjoy competition that just like you can enjoy competition without wanting to man winning is without wanting to man winning is everything or winning is the only thing everything or winning is the only thing you have to have a healthy approach to you have to have a healthy approach to competition and enjoy it you know you competition and enjoy it you know you can enjoy a parlor game without sort of can enjoy a parlor game without sort of having a killer instinct and you know having a killer instinct and you know why to do that and it's fun competition why to do that and it's fun competition can be fun and I think that's the can be fun and I think that's the approach you need to bring it but if approach you need to bring it but if it's you know make or break a win or it's you know make or break a win or take all that worries me it should not take all that worries me it should not be that you know one of my laments about be that you know one of my laments about adulthood is that we lose curiosity in adulthood is that we lose curiosity in the sense that I think all children are the sense that I think all children are naturally curious they're always asking naturally curious they're always asking questions and they're asking questions questions and they're asking questions for their own sake not that this will for their own sake not that this will help me achieve something and somehow as help me achieve something and somehow as adults we lose that and I'm thinking a adults we lose that and I'm thinking a out and wondering if one way of out and wondering if one way of rekindling that in some way is actually rekindling that in some way is actually quizzing because quizzing is addictive quizzing because quizzing is addictive because it's a game and there's because it's a game and there's competition but then it can spark your competition but then it can spark your brain to think in other directions. Have brain to think in other directions. Have you seen that happening? Do you think you seen that happening? Do you think that's the case? Yeah, it should happen that's the case? Yeah, it should happen and at one stage people thought hey man and at one stage people thought hey man this is a revolution happened when KBZ this is a revolution happened when KBZ first began. I'll take you back to those first began. I'll take you back to those days in the year 2000. My god. One is days in the year 2000. My god. One is the streets would go quiet in a city the streets would go quiet in a city like Mumbai. The traffic would thin, like Mumbai. The traffic would thin, restaurant business was affected, cinema restaurant business was affected, cinema uh halls would have a you know the uh halls would have a you know the business falling off. Then people business falling off. Then people started like they do with cricket now started like they do with cricket now you know IPL they would the TV screens you know IPL they would the TV screens before they said that no no you can't before they said that no no you can't show it for whatever reasons they tried show it for whatever reasons they tried to stop that and you know you would go to stop that and you know you would go in a locality in Delhi for instance we in a locality in Delhi for instance we in Vasanti you would go from street to in Vasanti you would go from street to all you heard was the music ringing out all you heard was the music ringing out from the you know the the signature from the you know the the signature music which would go on that was magical music which would go on that was magical but at that time if you remember things but at that time if you remember things burgeoned burgeoned burgeoned books burggeoned in sort of, you know, books burggeoned in sort of, you know, the street side books. People were doing the street side books. People were doing things, they were going around, they things, they were going around, they were finding out about things and I I were finding out about things and I I think I thought it was wonderful and I think I thought it was wonderful and I thought there would be more of it and thought there would be more of it and not just because you could get on the not just because you could get on the show, but hey, it opened up doors and show, but hey, it opened up doors and windows of your mind and you know to windows of your mind and you know to what other things were possible and I what other things were possible and I thought it was fantastic. Short while thought it was fantastic. Short while back you were talking about an app I back you were talking about an app I think it was that you know sort of a think it was that you know sort of a innovation there that you tried which innovation there that you tried which made a go of it. So much was happening made a go of it. So much was happening apart from wannabe shows. There was so apart from wannabe shows. There was so many shows that you know tried to do the many shows that you know tried to do the same thing and a lot of them most of same thing and a lot of them most of them came to grief but there was them came to grief but there was something about this that made it work something about this that made it work but that didn't necessarily lead to the but that didn't necessarily lead to the knowledge revolution that could have knowledge revolution that could have happened. Some people still say that it happened. Some people still say that it made a lasting impact on they say quisty made a lasting impact on they say quisty made an impact on them. They say made an impact on them. They say mastermind ran and that's one of the mastermind ran and that's one of the things that I take some satisfaction things that I take some satisfaction from. I we the team the shows was a catalyst I we the team the shows was a catalyst and something good happened. I think one and something good happened. I think one can draw some satisfaction out of that. can draw some satisfaction out of that. That was never my aim in life but once That was never my aim in life but once having got down to it that's something having got down to it that's something you tried to make the most of and do it you tried to make the most of and do it as best as you could. Um and if it as best as you could. Um and if it worked wonderful and that was gratifying worked wonderful and that was gratifying but did the knowledge revolution happen but did the knowledge revolution happen the way you see what's happening on the way you see what's happening on WhatsApp universities people believing WhatsApp universities people believing any damn thing that comes their any damn thing that comes their direction is worrying you have news direction is worrying you have news channels claiming okay this city has channels claiming okay this city has been captured this city has been shelled been captured this city has been shelled uh from the sea this has happened that uh from the sea this has happened that has happened and you wonder hey man has happened and you wonder hey man you're in a news channel you have a you're in a news channel you have a responsibility beyond just responsibility beyond just sensationalizing things and exciting a sensationalizing things and exciting a few people. You have to find out about few people. You have to find out about the things and not just report what the things and not just report what somebody fed into your ear from one side somebody fed into your ear from one side or the other. Like that line from or the other. Like that line from Hansel's movie, you know that if people Hansel's movie, you know that if people are saying you're saying it's raining, are saying you're saying it's raining, you don't just report it. You look out you don't just report it. You look out and see if it's raining. I think that and see if it's raining. I think that thing has to happen. thing has to happen. Yeah. Uh no I mean and for for my Yeah. Uh no I mean and for for my listeners who are wondering what is this listeners who are wondering what is this KBC related thing that I tried uh I was KBC related thing that I tried uh I was uh telling him that in 2000 we came up uh telling him that in 2000 we came up with this site called CRM master uh with this site called CRM master uh which no longer exists no sign of it which no longer exists no sign of it exists where we created a game where exists where we created a game where there was an animated quiz master called there was an animated quiz master called Babu Mushai who would ask questions and Babu Mushai who would ask questions and my quizzing friends put together for me my quizzing friends put together for me some 8,000 questions. So we had a some 8,000 questions. So we had a tremendous data bank, no repeats and tremendous data bank, no repeats and that was addictively viral but we had to that was addictively viral but we had to be hosted on VSSNL because uh your be hosted on VSSNL because uh your backend server had to be closed so backend server had to be closed so everything would happen quickly and VSNL everything would happen quickly and VSNL charged as per traffic and there was one charged as per traffic and there was one month where just one month where uh we month where just one month where uh we were number two in traffic in India were number two in traffic in India between Rediff and Cricket Info I forget between Rediff and Cricket Info I forget in what order who was one who was three in what order who was one who was three and that bankrupted the out of us and that bankrupted the out of us and we had to sh shut down. answer that and we had to sh shut down. answer that was quite an experience but you know I was quite an experience but you know I mean I have vivid memories of quiz time mean I have vivid memories of quiz time and mastermind so you actually did and mastermind so you actually did achieve that like it is imprinted in my achieve that like it is imprinted in my mind for example that the last season of mind for example that the last season of quiz time was won by rushand and praep quiz time was won by rushand and praep mammana mammana mammana right I I uh like so many of the other right I I uh like so many of the other participants are you know famous raguram participants are you know famous raguram rajan and jans were there for IT my rajan and jans were there for IT my friend joy though I didn't know him then friend joy though I didn't know him then and didn't notice him then was there in and didn't notice him then was there in 88 university yeah raj sardai Xavier's 88 university yeah raj sardai Xavier's course though again I didn't notice him course though again I didn't notice him then but uh so these shows are part of then but uh so these shows are part of the culture of a certain set of elites the culture of a certain set of elites which is a good way before we go in for which is a good way before we go in for a break to come to my second question a break to come to my second question about the second bubble that I found about the second bubble that I found myself in that one unfortunate bubble I myself in that one unfortunate bubble I did find myself in because of my Elliot did find myself in because of my Elliot English speaking urban upbringing was English speaking urban upbringing was that I put western culture on a that I put western culture on a pedestal. I would listen to rock I or pedestal. I would listen to rock I or western classical or jazz or whatever. I western classical or jazz or whatever. I would watch Hollywood and I had a would watch Hollywood and I had a disdain for Indian culture and uh disdain for Indian culture and uh Bollywood and etc etc which took many Bollywood and etc etc which took many years to go. Thankfully it went in my years to go. Thankfully it went in my adulthood in my 20ies. I kind of fell in adulthood in my 20ies. I kind of fell in love with all of those again. But there love with all of those again. But there were there were a few years when I was a were there were a few years when I was a terrible culture snob. Now from terrible culture snob. Now from everything that one hears about you, you everything that one hears about you, you were the opposite of this. It has been were the opposite of this. It has been said about you that you could quote said about you that you could quote Shakespeare and Tagore in equal measure Shakespeare and Tagore in equal measure by the time you were in college. You by the time you were in college. You have mentioned that your dad liked to have mentioned that your dad liked to listen to western classical music but at listen to western classical music but at the same time all the Indian music is the same time all the Indian music is also all around you and I think that also all around you and I think that that is in a sense beautiful like one of that is in a sense beautiful like one of my favorite phrases that I learned on my favorite phrases that I learned on the show came from Sugatasar Raju who the show came from Sugatasar Raju who described himself as a rooted described himself as a rooted cosmopolitan and my lament has been that cosmopolitan and my lament has been that yeah of course I'm a cosmopolitan but yeah of course I'm a cosmopolitan but I'm not rooted enough you know and one I'm not rooted enough you know and one can try in later years to uh nurture can try in later years to uh nurture some of the innate rootedness wherever some of the innate rootedness wherever it is but if It feels like you are also it is but if It feels like you are also besides being a Renaissance man as we besides being a Renaissance man as we have discussed earlier, you're also a have discussed earlier, you're also a rooted cosmopolitan. So tell me a little rooted cosmopolitan. So tell me a little bit about this rootedness and the bit about this rootedness and the cosmopolitanness, the Shakespeare and cosmopolitanness, the Shakespeare and the Tagore. Give me a sense of all of the Tagore. Give me a sense of all of these different influences on you. I these different influences on you. I mean, you know, uh I'm not as rooted as mean, you know, uh I'm not as rooted as I would have liked to be. I'm the only I would have liked to be. I'm the only one in the family who can't read or one in the family who can't read or write Bangla, write Bangla, write Bangla, you know, because you know, because First seven years were in Bombay. We First seven years were in Bombay. We used to speak Bangla at home. But when used to speak Bangla at home. But when things got serious, we would arguments things got serious, we would arguments etc. It was in English and then and then etc. It was in English and then and then after this Delhi and then after that after this Delhi and then after that sort of Chennai back to Delhi and sort of Chennai back to Delhi and college I came back to Delhi and and college I came back to Delhi and and lived over there. But one thing I did lived over there. But one thing I did learn was a respect learn was a respect Bangla literature of course because you Bangla literature of course because you know the family was aware of it. People know the family was aware of it. People around me were aware of the arts uh around me were aware of the arts uh because our community there among the because our community there among the family friends and all they were artists family friends and all they were artists painters uh so you learned about the you painters uh so you learned about the you know the indigenous uh sort of roots of know the indigenous uh sort of roots of art where it is not western. You learn art where it is not western. You learn to respect that and there was a certain to respect that and there was a certain they had it was inculcated in the family they had it was inculcated in the family to begin with and elsewhere you saw to begin with and elsewhere you saw there was a certain respect for there was a certain respect for indigenous cultures and in work too when indigenous cultures and in work too when you found that you had to work I you found that you had to work I mentioned I don't know if I mentioned we mentioned I don't know if I mentioned we worked in eight languages doing shows worked in eight languages doing shows for instance right and in those for instance right and in those languages languages languages if you did knowledge shows if you did knowledge shows you learned again of how many indas you learned again of how many indas there are because we would have to make there are because we would have to make what I would take the team through who what I would take the team through who are doing content a mind map are doing content a mind map because one of the things the wonderful because one of the things the wonderful things about the millionaire format things about the millionaire format which is a populist chantaa kind of quiz which is a populist chantaa kind of quiz is people could come from diverse is people could come from diverse educational backgrounds educational backgrounds educational backgrounds uh societies exposure different sort of uh societies exposure different sort of you know social segments you know social segments but also if you go to Andra Telangana but also if you go to Andra Telangana whether you go to Kerala it's a whether you go to Kerala it's a different world. Some things are different world. Some things are panindian panindian panindian but most of it is not. If you were to ask an Assam's name a If you were to ask an Assam's name a contemporary Gujarati literature or a contemporary Gujarati literature or a 19th century giant or vice versa 19th century giant or vice versa what is the likelihood of anybody what is the likelihood of anybody knowing knowing knowing if you go to Tamil Nad if you go to if you go to Tamil Nad if you go to Kerala etc et what is the kind who are Kerala etc et what is the kind who are the heroes what are the things that you the heroes what are the things that you would know for instance and what are the would know for instance and what are the things you also have to have you know things you also have to have you know degrees of uh how should I say uh degrees of uh how should I say uh complexity and challenge within in a complexity and challenge within in a quiz format but others but you know you quiz format but others but you know you figure that this everybody would know figure that this everybody would know and this only some people so that's a and this only some people so that's a challenge even on a KBC but on in challenge even on a KBC but on in languages you have to figure out what it languages you have to figure out what it is and then you realize how different it is and then you realize how different it is in our especially in our developed is in our especially in our developed language cultures things are completely language cultures things are completely sort of so distinct especially in south sort of so distinct especially in south and east of India but even in the Hindi and east of India but even in the Hindi speaking world the number of dialects speaking world the number of dialects the youngest language in this country is the youngest language in this country is Hindi Yeah, batindu harish chandra and Hindi Yeah, batindu harish chandra and you know what happened after and this you know what happened after and this sort of you know a kind of Hindi which sort of you know a kind of Hindi which has come in that is literally has come in that is literally postindependence postindependence postindependence you know it is not a sort of how should you know it is not a sort of how should I say a golden mean which is flying down I say a golden mean which is flying down from the vimman you know for forever it from the vimman you know for forever it is it is very recent and you know uh and is it is very recent and you know uh and that too there are levels and levels of that too there are levels and levels of it but if you travel from you know it but if you travel from you know western most Rajasthan and to eastern western most Rajasthan and to eastern most Bihar most Bihar most Bihar and jarand the Hindi being spoken are so and jarand the Hindi being spoken are so varied. One side doesn't know what the varied. One side doesn't know what the other is is speaking other is is speaking from sort of you know from Mitila uh you from sort of you know from Mitila uh you know speaking people to what is spoken know speaking people to what is spoken in Marvad and a particular kind of in Marvad and a particular kind of dialect or bundel kandi or what it's dialect or bundel kandi or what it's it's a vast worlds of difference over it's a vast worlds of difference over there and one side doesn't necessarily there and one side doesn't necessarily understand the other at all understand the other at all you know so there needs to be lingua you know so there needs to be lingua frana commonalities but not a frana commonalities but not a monolingual entity. That's one thing monolingual entity. That's one thing that you learn that you when you're that you learn that you when you're getting into it. But this is something getting into it. But this is something that you learn to respect that you learn to respect and to and and to you know have a regard and to and and to you know have a regard for at the same time you have to find for at the same time you have to find the commonalities too and you need the commonalities too and you need certain communalities that has been a learning experience for that has been a learning experience for me going through everything. Kashmir I me going through everything. Kashmir I explained to you the Kashmir KBC is one explained to you the Kashmir KBC is one of the biggest challenges that we had of the biggest challenges that we had because there there you know even the because there there you know even the language now the way things have language now the way things have developed to arrive at a commonality or developed to arrive at a commonality or a language or you know to uh the kind of a language or you know to uh the kind of a script which can be followed a script which can be followed universally is a huge challenge but universally is a huge challenge but that's something that has to be dealt that's something that has to be dealt with and something that you have to find with and something that you have to find out. So it's been a learning in all of out. So it's been a learning in all of these areas and there are people who've these areas and there are people who've done you know we are just you know we done you know we are just you know we parachute in and try to make something parachute in and try to make something of it but only out of respect. You can't of it but only out of respect. You can't make things work just as there's a magic make things work just as there's a magic wand you have one sort of you know wand you have one sort of you know solution to it and you do it like that solution to it and you do it like that or makes everybody speak one language. or makes everybody speak one language. That can't happen. But when you do that That can't happen. But when you do that you realize that hey some people have you realize that hey some people have done wonderful work and in each language done wonderful work and in each language has its magic and you know uh how to let has its magic and you know uh how to let that come in. One of the things from the that come in. One of the things from the very first KBC very first KBC we had people calling and said you know we had people calling and said you know we've learned to appreciate we've learned to appreciate the richness and the music of Hindi the richness and the music of Hindi by listening to Bachan speak it. Wow. So by listening to Bachan speak it. Wow. So many people came to us from there. The many people came to us from there. The Hindi Pachchar committee who was name Hindi Pachchar committee who was name what is his name? He used to Ashok what is his name? He used to Ashok Chakraar used to do a lot of stuff and Chakraar used to do a lot of stuff and he said you know he came as a at one he said you know he came as a at one stage as a guest expert or something stage as a guest expert or something like that and you know he said what like that and you know he said what we've been trying to do for years in we've been trying to do for years in Hindi prar this one show has done in a Hindi prar this one show has done in a different but if you because if you hear different but if you because if you hear it spoken beautifully and language and it spoken beautifully and language and you know in Banglad there's a term you know in Banglad there's a term called abriti called abriti called abriti which is u which is u recitation or speaking you know whether recitation or speaking you know whether it's poetry whether it's pros or it's poetry whether it's pros or whatever it is I don't know what the whatever it is I don't know what the word for it is in Hindi is I think word for it is in Hindi is I think Amitab Bachan is an exemplar of that you Amitab Bachan is an exemplar of that you know in the sense the way he speaks the know in the sense the way he speaks the language or or uses it and so on so language or or uses it and so on so forth and that of course comes from his forth and that of course comes from his sansscar uh is something that is there I sansscar uh is something that is there I used to have from used to have from all sorts of people including wives of all sorts of people including wives of industrialists you know that I make my industrialists you know that I make my children sit down and listening to Hindi children sit down and listening to Hindi the way it is that too can't be the way it is that too can't be force-fed force-fed force-fed you listen into it and you work it. you listen into it and you work it. somebody who was a complete elitist somebody who was a complete elitist Roshan S wonderful terrific actor who Roshan S wonderful terrific actor who used to do a lot of voicing in TV and used to do a lot of voicing in TV and her films and so on so forth but in a her films and so on so forth but in a sense a very much a sab uh who would say sense a very much a sab uh who would say things to me like you know babu you know things to me like you know babu you know what's wrong with India it's India what's wrong with India it's India but Roshan said said in an interview but Roshan said said in an interview about Amitab Bachan he said on your show about Amitab Bachan he said on your show what he teaches is the best of Indian what he teaches is the best of Indian manners, manners, manners, linguistically linguistically linguistically in the way you respect the person in the way you respect the person sitting opposite you, the point of view, sitting opposite you, the point of view, what he or she stands for, what he or what he or she stands for, what he or she has gone for, you know, gone she has gone for, you know, gone through. through. through. That is one of the things and you know That is one of the things and you know Roshan put it in his words in that way. Roshan put it in his words in that way. He put it as manners you know but the He put it as manners you know but the language if it expresses a certain hash language if it expresses a certain hash say a certain sanscar in the best way say a certain sanscar in the best way possible is something that you know possible is something that you know happens and that's something you learn happens and that's something you learn to respect and that happens in the other to respect and that happens in the other languages too languages too languages too speaks Telugu beautifully speaks Telugu beautifully and you I don't understand Telugu but and you I don't understand Telugu but you know because of the colleagues and you know because of the colleagues and things like that I I find out and in different languages that's what and in different languages that's what it is that's how you so I I don't know it is that's how you so I I don't know how rooted I am but I certainly have a how rooted I am but I certainly have a you know I've learned to respect four you know I've learned to respect four roots and culture which I think we roots and culture which I think we really need to have in this country. I really need to have in this country. I want to ask you about two opposing want to ask you about two opposing forces even two opposing impulses the forces even two opposing impulses the second of which I wasn't actually aware second of which I wasn't actually aware of until recently which have to do with of until recently which have to do with languages like one of the laments the languages like one of the laments the translators who've come on my show uh translators who've come on my show uh have expressed and I think sugata first have expressed and I think sugata first said it is that the languages don't talk said it is that the languages don't talk to each other that the different to each other that the different languages will get translated into languages will get translated into English but they won't get translated to English but they won't get translated to each other so a Gujarati novel won't get each other so a Gujarati novel won't get translated to Tamil which is why as a translated to Tamil which is why as a point you correctly made that you cannot point you correctly made that you cannot ask a tamilian about a famous Gujarati ask a tamilian about a famous Gujarati literary figure because how will the literary figure because how will the poor guy know? Yeah. Now there are two poor guy know? Yeah. Now there are two forces at play here. One force is the forces at play here. One force is the sort of the equalizing force of the sort of the equalizing force of the lingua franaqua as it were whether it is lingua franaqua as it were whether it is English or whether it is Hindi in the English or whether it is Hindi in the Hindi heartland. Uh which at one level Hindi heartland. Uh which at one level is necessary and good because it is a is necessary and good because it is a common language of communication and common language of communication and people can understand each other. But at people can understand each other. But at another level there is a danger of it another level there is a danger of it being a great flattening force where all being a great flattening force where all of these beautiful dialects like bhjpuri of these beautiful dialects like bhjpuri and methili and all those dialects like and methili and all those dialects like every 10 miles there is the language every 10 miles there is the language changes. Um those have a danger of changes. Um those have a danger of getting flattened out completely. Uh and getting flattened out completely. Uh and and that's one force that homogenization and that's one force that homogenization that one worries about. But there's an that one worries about. But there's an interesting opposing force I came to interesting opposing force I came to know about when I did an episode with know about when I did an episode with Vinn Single who has this company called Vinn Single who has this company called stage where he said he's building a stage where he said he's building a Netflix for Bhat but not a Netflix for Netflix for Bhat but not a Netflix for Bhat in terms of Hindi content or Tamil Bhat in terms of Hindi content or Tamil content but in terms of the dialects. So content but in terms of the dialects. So they've got hanvi and bhjpuri and all of they've got hanvi and bhjpuri and all of those dialects and that has proved to be those dialects and that has proved to be wildly popular wildly popular beyond uh wildly popular wildly popular beyond uh you know anyone's expectations where he you know anyone's expectations where he says that kids in small towns now come says that kids in small towns now come to him and say that you know until I to him and say that you know until I downloaded your app I was ashamed of downloaded your app I was ashamed of speaking in this bhpuri way and I would speaking in this bhpuri way and I would try to speak in Hindi but now I'm not try to speak in Hindi but now I'm not ashamed anymore you've made me proud and ashamed anymore you've made me proud and it almost feel as if technology and it almost feel as if technology and markets which you earlier thought were markets which you earlier thought were producing the homogenization and the producing the homogenization and the flattening sound are now producing flattening sound are now producing something else which is beautiful and I something else which is beautiful and I think both of these forces are think both of these forces are important. You need the lingua frana but important. You need the lingua frana but you also want all of these to stay alive you also want all of these to stay alive because if they die a lot of culture and because if they die a lot of culture and thought dies which cannot come back. So thought dies which cannot come back. So what do you feel about these different what do you feel about these different sort of countervailing forces? sort of countervailing forces? what I was talking about. Of course you what I was talking about. Of course you need the lingo franker need the lingo franker because because because without that you would not have uh uh a without that you would not have uh uh a functioning kind of you know what do you functioning kind of you know what do you call it language for law for science for call it language for law for science for all the rest of it and English has all the rest of it and English has served that function but equally like served that function but equally like you said it's been a flattening force you said it's been a flattening force let's face it when you what you call let's face it when you what you call elitism is a kind of uh brahminism in elitism is a kind of uh brahminism in the worst sense not in the sense of uh the worst sense not in the sense of uh elevatedness or es you know sort of how elevatedness or es you know sort of how should I say uh education or whatever it should I say uh education or whatever it is in the sense that it it it's is in the sense that it it it's exclusivist exclusivist exclusivist it excludes others it should not be it it excludes others it should not be it should include and I think that's very should include and I think that's very important but I think the important but I think the initiatives like you what you mentioned initiatives like you what you mentioned where you can celebrate listen to your where you can celebrate listen to your language understand it glory in it but language understand it glory in it but also sort of understand the nuances get also sort of understand the nuances get a better understanding that needs to a better understanding that needs to happen. How can these coexist happen. How can these coexist interdependently and at the same time is interdependently and at the same time is something that needs to happen and we something that needs to happen and we need to find a a a sort of I think I'm need to find a a a sort of I think I'm told and I'm not sure I can't find the told and I'm not sure I can't find the exact place was it Neu who said that one exact place was it Neu who said that one way to understand India is to think of way to understand India is to think of herself almost like a continent and not herself almost like a continent and not just like Europe. just like Europe. You have so many languages, foods, You have so many languages, foods, cultures and so on so forth. we do in cultures and so on so forth. we do in our country too. There are some things our country too. There are some things which unify us. So that also unity in which unify us. So that also unity in diversity diversity diversity in terms of language in terms of culture in terms of language in terms of culture is something that we have to aspire is something that we have to aspire towards and do. Is there a simple towards and do. Is there a simple solution? I don't know. But there are solution? I don't know. But there are movements in that direction and that movements in that direction and that needs to happen and that's the direction needs to happen and that's the direction I think we need to work towards instead I think we need to work towards instead of making it all a monolith, a of making it all a monolith, a monoculture, a monolingual monoculture, a monolingual monorreligious kind of thing. and in monorreligious kind of thing. and in Hinduism to try and impose that is Hinduism to try and impose that is ridiculous because that was never what ridiculous because that was never what the religion was. the religion was. On those wise words, let's take a quick On those wise words, let's take a quick commercial break and give ourselves a commercial break and give ourselves a diverse lunch and then we'll resume diverse lunch and then we'll resume after that. Long before I was a podcaster, I was a Long before I was a podcaster, I was a writer. In fact, chances are that many writer. In fact, chances are that many of you first heard of me because of my of you first heard of me because of my blog India uncart which was active blog India uncart which was active between 2003 and 2009 and became between 2003 and 2009 and became somewhat popular at the time. I love the somewhat popular at the time. I love the freedom the form gave me and I feel I freedom the form gave me and I feel I was shaped by it in many ways. I was shaped by it in many ways. I exercised my writing muscle every day exercised my writing muscle every day and was forced to think about many and was forced to think about many different things because I wrote about different things because I wrote about many different things. Well, that phase many different things. Well, that phase in my life ended for various reasons and in my life ended for various reasons and now it is time to revive it. only now now it is time to revive it. only now I'm doing it through a newsletter. I I'm doing it through a newsletter. I have started the India uncut newsletter have started the India uncut newsletter at indiaun uncut.substack.com at indiaun uncut.substack.com where I will write regularly about where I will write regularly about whatever catches my fancy. I'll write whatever catches my fancy. I'll write about some of the themes I cover in this about some of the themes I cover in this podcast and about much else. So please podcast and about much else. So please do head on over to indiaun do head on over to indiaun uncut.substack.com uncut.substack.com uncut.substack.com and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign up each new installment that I write up each new installment that I write will land up in your email inbox. You will land up in your email inbox. You don't need to go anywhere. So subscribe don't need to go anywhere. So subscribe now for free the India uncut newsletter now for free the India uncut newsletter at indiaun uncut.substack.com. at indiaun uncut.substack.com. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome back to the scene in the unseen. Welcome back to the scene in the unseen. A diverse lunch is over filled with many A diverse lunch is over filled with many different kinds of dishes with u different kinds of dishes with u no discrimination towards one or the no discrimination towards one or the other and we are finally back. So Sedat other and we are finally back. So Sedat you know before the break we got as far you know before the break we got as far as uh your school days KV and IIT as uh your school days KV and IIT Chennai and then eventually of course Chennai and then eventually of course you moved to Delhi. I'm very keen to you moved to Delhi. I'm very keen to know about your college years in Delhi know about your college years in Delhi Stephens and then Hindu because uh that Stephens and then Hindu because uh that seems to be where a lot of the formative seems to be where a lot of the formative stuff especially you're falling in love stuff especially you're falling in love with theater starts to happen. So tell with theater starts to happen. So tell me about that. me about that. Thanks and thanks to you and Jasmine for Thanks and thanks to you and Jasmine for a wonderful uh lunch with um vian choice a wonderful uh lunch with um vian choice vans. There were no vines. What are you vans. There were no vines. What are you saying? Vions. What I meant is you know saying? Vions. What I meant is you know morsels of different kinds you know morsels of different kinds you know which is which was put out there. Um which is which was put out there. Um yes. So to go back to uh Delhi, we used yes. So to go back to uh Delhi, we used to join uh college when we were just to join uh college when we were just over 16 17 as a matter of fact and that over 16 17 as a matter of fact and that was since my family was then in Chennai was since my family was then in Chennai and uh so I came here and my ammones was and uh so I came here and my ammones was Amit Jeram who was um the younger Amit Jeram who was um the younger brother of a very um a classmate and brother of a very um a classmate and good friend of my older sister uh who good friend of my older sister uh who was Aruna Roy and her husband Bunkar Roy was Aruna Roy and her husband Bunkar Roy who was uh um Inc. Stevens Arna was then who was uh um Inc. Stevens Arna was then in the I is and my teacher earlier had in the I is and my teacher earlier had taught at Indras College and they were taught at Indras College and they were my local guardian. So I moved in with my local guardian. So I moved in with them and Amit was my guide uh through uh them and Amit was my guide uh through uh initially Delhi theater as well as uh initially Delhi theater as well as uh St. Stevens, you know, so that um I got St. Stevens, you know, so that um I got into college. My association with into college. My association with theater had actually begun way before uh theater had actually begun way before uh I was about 7 years old. Um my mother I was about 7 years old. Um my mother and Mikla Ja uh they used to run and Mikla Ja uh they used to run something called a Sunday school at the something called a Sunday school at the Ram Krishna mission. Mlaja was um she Ram Krishna mission. Mlaja was um she used to do a lot of social work was very used to do a lot of social work was very active as was my mother in that field active as was my mother in that field and her husband was Elkija who was and her husband was Elkija who was principal secretary all kind of various principal secretary all kind of various things in the Indian civil service and things in the Indian civil service and at that time Mikla you ja used to direct at that time Mikla you ja used to direct plays. The first place she directed was plays. The first place she directed was um at the auditorium at the Ram Krishna um at the auditorium at the Ram Krishna mission in Paragan and uh she cast me it mission in Paragan and uh she cast me it was played by children in the role of was played by children in the role of Sri Ram Krishna. The next year it was Sri Ram Krishna. The next year it was something to do with Buddha again you something to do with Buddha again you know uh I had a role to do so I I got a know uh I had a role to do so I I got a taste of theater very early on. uh in taste of theater very early on. uh in school I used to find myself being asked school I used to find myself being asked to read aloud lessons uh various things to read aloud lessons uh various things for elecution competitions and that kind for elecution competitions and that kind of thing that was an interest in school of thing that was an interest in school in uh Madras again this was something in uh Madras again this was something that continued I did a couple of plays that continued I did a couple of plays uh there's something called all India uh there's something called all India kandra vidal meet even at that time so I kandra vidal meet even at that time so I was sent first in the 9th and then in was sent first in the 9th and then in the 11th which was my last year two the 11th which was my last year two years going at the All India Kendra years going at the All India Kendra Vidya meet uh and the first time I went Vidya meet uh and the first time I went there was a sort of play which was done there was a sort of play which was done a 45minut play in Sanskrit. Wow. It was a 45minut play in Sanskrit. Wow. It was a Sanskrit translation adaptation of a a Sanskrit translation adaptation of a Leo Toltoy play. Wow. Okay. Leo Toltoy play. Wow. Okay. It was uh I think toolsto's play was It was uh I think toolsto's play was where love is goddess and in Sanskrit it where love is goddess and in Sanskrit it was uh was uh was uh prima yatra ishwara I think whatever it prima yatra ishwara I think whatever it is I won a best actor award for that so is I won a best actor award for that so uh and our school had done exceptionally uh and our school had done exceptionally well uh in the sense that uh it had gone well uh in the sense that uh it had gone on the merit list and things like that on the merit list and things like that so it was a special large contingent so it was a special large contingent normally just two people go and then I normally just two people go and then I was sent back in the 11th I think and uh was sent back in the 11th I think and uh I think there was a little play called I think there was a little play called man in a bowler hat which we staged man in a bowler hat which we staged again I'd done that so theater was an again I'd done that so theater was an ongoing thing in school itself I used to ongoing thing in school itself I used to often be asked to read at assembly and I often be asked to read at assembly and I to be given some freedom of choice it to be given some freedom of choice it could be a poem it could be whatever I could be a poem it could be whatever I wanted you know to read out so obviously wanted you know to read out so obviously uh that was something which was a sense uh that was something which was a sense of theater immediacy immediate response of theater immediacy immediate response which uh I got a taste of and I used to which uh I got a taste of and I used to enjoy so that was always an interest I enjoy so that was always an interest I used to read of course and literature used to read of course and literature was a uh I used to you know was a was a uh I used to you know was a logical thing I would have liked to logical thing I would have liked to actually after school I know applying to actually after school I know applying to several medical colleges taking tests several medical colleges taking tests and I didn't make the cut but and I didn't make the cut but fortunately because of that and because fortunately because of that and because of in school uh I'd uh played both of in school uh I'd uh played both volleyball and football for the school volleyball and football for the school and I was football captain so on the and I was football captain so on the basis of all those I got admission to basis of all those I got admission to St. Stevens and thanks of course to uh St. Stevens and thanks of course to uh the good offices of bunker and what he the good offices of bunker and what he knew and my sister taught in the knew and my sister taught in the principal of IP college I was admitted principal of IP college I was admitted to St. Stevens College. Before that, to St. Stevens College. Before that, Amit had introduced me to some people, Amit had introduced me to some people, somebody who had just come to Delhi, somebody who had just come to Delhi, Barry John Barry John Barry John and who was a Britisher who in those and who was a Britisher who in those days had turned his back on England and days had turned his back on England and western values as it were first come to western values as it were first come to Bangalore now Bengaluru as a sort of Bangalore now Bengaluru as a sort of teacher of English but had moved to teacher of English but had moved to Delhi doing theater. Joy Michael of Delhi doing theater. Joy Michael of Yatri had brought him to Delhi and they Yatri had brought him to Delhi and they were in Shiram center because there was were in Shiram center because there was a Yatri Shiram center association and a Yatri Shiram center association and Marcus Merch Marcus Merch Marcus Merch who famously of the who famously of the Shakespe Shakespe Shakespe tour and he was sort of picked up and he tour and he was sort of picked up and he was very small very witty very you know was very small very witty very you know sort of swave and thought on his feet sort of swave and thought on his feet and those two people were there in Delhi and those two people were there in Delhi I was introduced to them so even before I was introduced to them so even before I did anything at college in S Stevens I did anything at college in S Stevens there was a play called mixed doubles there was a play called mixed doubles uh medley of plays which had the who'su uh medley of plays which had the who'su of Delhi English language theater for a of Delhi English language theater for a yatric production with Barry directed yatric production with Barry directed and I had the you know the role and and I had the you know the role and there were about four or five things in there were about four or five things in between uh the playlets that there were between uh the playlets that there were in different characters that I would in different characters that I would step down from the apron of the stage step down from the apron of the stage and perform and perform and perform to a paying public from Delhi and Yatri to a paying public from Delhi and Yatri was the premier English language group was the premier English language group and it was well reviewed. So that was and it was well reviewed. So that was very early that was a good start and I very early that was a good start and I was encouraged by that. Then I joined was encouraged by that. Then I joined college and the college at that time was college and the college at that time was you know St. Stevens had just about five you know St. Stevens had just about five or 600 students but it had a great staff or 600 students but it had a great staff and it had a society of cult uh culture and it had a society of cult uh culture of societies by there were 32 separate of societies by there were 32 separate societies on different kind of subjects. societies on different kind of subjects. There was a Shakespeare society, there There was a Shakespeare society, there was a dramatic society, there was was a dramatic society, there was English literary society, there was the English literary society, there was the informal discussion group at night after informal discussion group at night after dinner over coffee and we had thought dinner over coffee and we had thought leaders coming in from all over with leaders coming in from all over with wonderful discussions. There was so many wonderful discussions. There was so many Viking clubs, you name it. So there was Viking clubs, you name it. So there was an active culture of you know doing that an active culture of you know doing that kind of thing. The first play I think kind of thing. The first play I think was uh uh Benjamin Gillani. Benji was was uh uh Benjamin Gillani. Benji was then teaching at college before he went then teaching at college before he went to film institute and came here. He uh to film institute and came here. He uh did a play called Peter Schaffer's royal did a play called Peter Schaffer's royal under the sun. I was just part of the under the sun. I was just part of the chorus. The next was a Shakespeare play chorus. The next was a Shakespeare play which was merchant of Venice which one which was merchant of Venice which one of our lecturers did Sunil Shand. I of our lecturers did Sunil Shand. I played the prince of Morocco in played the prince of Morocco in absolutely brava style as he wanted me absolutely brava style as he wanted me to uh you know and to uh you know and there was appreciation which was very there was appreciation which was very encouraging. encouraging. encouraging. The next year because of her association The next year because of her association with Barry and Yatric with Barry and Yatric Shakespeare society St. Stevens got Shakespeare society St. Stevens got ambitious and they invited Barry to ambitious and they invited Barry to direct the college play for Dramock. It direct the college play for Dramock. It was called was called was called uh disorderly women which was a uh disorderly women which was a contemporary take on a Greek play. This contemporary take on a Greek play. This was remember postwoodstock. was remember postwoodstock. So all you know it was in modern costume So all you know it was in modern costume long. There was a rock band in the long. There was a rock band in the balcony. There was Dianisis character in balcony. There was Dianisis character in the play who roared up on a motorbike the play who roared up on a motorbike onto the aisle. There were seven very onto the aisle. There were seven very attractive attractive attractive actresses from Miranda House as well as actresses from Miranda House as well as Lady Shirram College and it created a Lady Shirram College and it created a sensation. It went on to a production of sensation. It went on to a production of Hamlet in modern costume designed by Hamlet in modern costume designed by Fasil Alcazi Ibrahaz. But Barry again Fasil Alcazi Ibrahaz. But Barry again was asked to direct. was asked to direct. Uh I played Pelonius in that uh full of Uh I played Pelonius in that uh full of his saws and maxims and apherisms as an his saws and maxims and apherisms as an old man character and uh we toured with old man character and uh we toured with that play that play that play to Dune School and we performed in the to Dune School and we performed in the Rose Bowl which is a sort of open air Rose Bowl which is a sort of open air lovely theater with wonderful acoustics lovely theater with wonderful acoustics with a bamboo groove as backdrop and with a bamboo groove as backdrop and then we went to Mayor College as well then we went to Mayor College as well with a play. So we all travel together with a play. So we all travel together and that taste and and because Barry was and that taste and and because Barry was pushing the envelope in terms of not in pushing the envelope in terms of not in just what in television terms call just what in television terms call production values but in thinking production values but in thinking through character interplay through character interplay characterization more than what was just characterization more than what was just amateur because he had an arts college amateur because he had an arts college background and uh characterization in background and uh characterization in body not just in words uh in how you body not just in words uh in how you took that through how you built up took that through how you built up moments and how music was used in every moments and how music was used in every kind of way kind of way that led at the end of my second year in that led at the end of my second year in the summer of 73 to a theater group that the summer of 73 to a theater group that was formed which became a sort of was formed which became a sort of benchmark of experimentation of benchmark of experimentation of excellence in theater certainly English excellence in theater certainly English language theater. It was called theater language theater. It was called theater action group or tag and uh I was part of action group or tag and uh I was part of the dozen or so uh of the founding the dozen or so uh of the founding members of the performance that summer members of the performance that summer there was an intensive workshop of a there was an intensive workshop of a good few months we prepared a production good few months we prepared a production of a play called a mcbth by Charles of a play called a mcbth by Charles Marowitz who used Shakespeare's text Marowitz who used Shakespeare's text entirely reconstructed it as a collage entirely reconstructed it as a collage playing up the themes of the play, the playing up the themes of the play, the study of power of uh the dynamic between study of power of uh the dynamic between McBth and Lady McBth and the politics of McBth and Lady McBth and the politics of it all but also the occult and the it all but also the occult and the interpretation was in the style of interpretation was in the style of theater of cruelty which was not theater of cruelty which was not naturalistic at all. It was very naturalistic at all. It was very stylized. It was very kinetic stylized. It was very kinetic and you used not just words but voice and you used not just words but voice too and very fluid movements and too and very fluid movements and formations and you know sort of formations and you know sort of groupings and how you did it that was groupings and how you did it that was one part of the thing we did a workshop one part of the thing we did a workshop shared it that was a typical day program shared it that was a typical day program so in the morning we would do a child's so in the morning we would do a child's knockabout play it was called how yan knockabout play it was called how yan class and cured the king Danish name but class and cured the king Danish name but it was slapstick comedy for kids uh very it was slapstick comedy for kids uh very physical humor, pratt falls, all the physical humor, pratt falls, all the rest of it. Then we would do a workshop. rest of it. Then we would do a workshop. We would involve teachers, students from We would involve teachers, students from schools, colleges, everything. And in schools, colleges, everything. And in the evening, we would perform a makbet. the evening, we would perform a makbet. It we were an ensemble of about 15 or 16 It we were an ensemble of about 15 or 16 of us. Uh and we toured of us. Uh and we toured so many of the schools and colleges of so many of the schools and colleges of Msuri and the Simla Hills Msuri and the Simla Hills and institutions too and public shows in and institutions too and public shows in at Gay Gate Theater at Gay Gate Theater and it was fantastic and we lived as an and it was fantastic and we lived as an ensembler. That means you lugged ensembler. That means you lugged equipment together, you set up lights, equipment together, you set up lights, you performed, you did the workshops, you performed, you did the workshops, you did occasional leg dems, you did you did occasional leg dems, you did this and that. And remember we were 17 this and that. And remember we were 17 going on 18. I mean that was the age. It going on 18. I mean that was the age. It was heady and it was wonderful and also was heady and it was wonderful and also you were pushing the boundaries of you were pushing the boundaries of theater. When we came back to Delhi we theater. When we came back to Delhi we did uh public shows at which one of the did uh public shows at which one of the main halls there Kamani at St. Stevens main halls there Kamani at St. Stevens too and so on so forth packed halls and too and so on so forth packed halls and we wowed Delhi at that point of time. So we wowed Delhi at that point of time. So it was a very heady feeling it was a very heady feeling and one thing led to the other. Then tag and one thing led to the other. Then tag did a number of sort of you know waiting did a number of sort of you know waiting for God was the next production and so for God was the next production and so on so there was then even if he done on so there was then even if he done social comedy and so forth Mrs. Gandhi social comedy and so forth Mrs. Gandhi as prime minister would come to see the as prime minister would come to see the plays and the who's who of Delhi and plays and the who's who of Delhi and very discerning theater people and very discerning theater people and lovers young people there and that lovers young people there and that became if we could if I could have made became if we could if I could have made theater a calling I would have and we theater a calling I would have and we tried very hard to do that kind of tried very hard to do that kind of stuff. Um in college we were doing that. stuff. Um in college we were doing that. uh next year I became the secretary of uh next year I became the secretary of the Shakespeare society when we' formed the Shakespeare society when we' formed earlier doing Hamlet I was assistant earlier doing Hamlet I was assistant secretary that too when we came back to secretary that too when we came back to college with that play we did it not in college with that play we did it not in the auditorium but outside the dining the auditorium but outside the dining hall uh you know using that as a sort of hall uh you know using that as a sort of facade and the ghost appeared on top the facade and the ghost appeared on top the lighting was like that it was lighting was like that it was interesting it was done in a very interesting it was done in a very interesting way and because then you interesting way and because then you started dreaming differently at college started dreaming differently at college I want I got over ambitious I wanted to I want I got over ambitious I wanted to do Midsummer Night's Dream I wanted to do Midsummer Night's Dream I wanted to do in the forcourt with you know the uh do in the forcourt with you know the uh college sort of you know facade in the college sort of you know facade in the background and so on so forth and then background and so on so forth and then one of the staff advisor said no no no one of the staff advisor said no no no we need to go back to you know old ways we need to go back to you know old ways so I quit so I quit my son much later became secretary my son much later became secretary Shakesawkins he saw the year through it Shakesawkins he saw the year through it so but I kept doing theater uh talking so but I kept doing theater uh talking old men characterizations became one of old men characterizations became one of my uh specialtities uh there was an my uh specialtities uh there was an Italian lady uh later Barry took over of Italian lady uh later Barry took over of course because she was uncertain she did course because she was uncertain she did classic uh Italian fast in the comedia classic uh Italian fast in the comedia deatte style and I played panthalone deatte style and I played panthalone from which actually the palunius from which actually the palunius character came the old codger who sort character came the old codger who sort of you know did things so I was of you know did things so I was experimenting with characterizations experimenting with characterizations roles but also how to develop sort of roles but also how to develop sort of theater and I directed one of my first theater and I directed one of my first plays for tag it was a open theater plays for tag it was a open theater experiment called calm down mother there experiment called calm down mother there was another one uh which Barry directed was another one uh which Barry directed it was a double bill called keep tightly it was a double bill called keep tightly closed in a cool dry case and that was closed in a cool dry case and that was three men. This was three women. My play three men. This was three women. My play had three women who became prominent in had three women who became prominent in very different ways. One was Lelette who very different ways. One was Lelette who was my classmate doing my MA. One was was my classmate doing my MA. One was Mika Gandhi. The other one was Jot Mika Gandhi. The other one was Jot Najamal Dr. Karn Singh's daughter who Najamal Dr. Karn Singh's daughter who went on to do lots of things in life. So went on to do lots of things in life. So and the other play we did interestingly and the other play we did interestingly scoop keep tightly placed once there was scoop keep tightly placed once there was a Harold Clerman who was a leading light a Harold Clerman who was a leading light of group theater from the United States of group theater from the United States had come at us. We did the plays. had come at us. We did the plays. Clement then critiqued our play and what Clement then critiqued our play and what is all this montage production because is all this montage production because even in a mcbth to just go back to it even in a mcbth to just go back to it there were three mcbths. there were three mcbths. I was one of the mukbs. Uh men played I was one of the mukbs. Uh men played witches witches witches later after one of the players had an later after one of the players had an accident. Barry played one of the accident. Barry played one of the witches and everything was guiding. witches and everything was guiding. Everything was very dramatic. So you Everything was very dramatic. So you know sometimes as other mcbets we played know sometimes as other mcbets we played alter egos. Sometimes we put echo sounds alter egos. Sometimes we put echo sounds for effect. the DJan what should I do for effect. the DJan what should I do with the tagger the tagger the tagger with the tagger the tagger the tagger the tager it would go it was very the tager it would go it was very polyhonic you know the productions and polyhonic you know the productions and there were gliding movements there were there were gliding movements there were effects there were chants there was uh effects there were chants there was uh you know you used your voice in you know you used your voice in different ways there was humming that different ways there was humming that you created sort of sound and atmosphere you created sort of sound and atmosphere and forests you evoked you know and all and forests you evoked you know and all that kind of thing we were doing as as that kind of thing we were doing as as actors we were going forward in the actors we were going forward in the direction then later in the summer of 75 direction then later in the summer of 75 I I did a mukba for red curtain which I I did a mukba for red curtain which was effectively while doing a mugbath we was effectively while doing a mugbath we were all paid a little stipen but the were all paid a little stipen but the first time I got paid a fee for first time I got paid a fee for something was in the red curtain play as something was in the red curtain play as a 19year-old I think 400 rupees I got as a 19year-old I think 400 rupees I got as red curtain and jen krylani a very good red curtain and jen krylani a very good friend now he played mcmedth in that friend now he played mcmedth in that gulan his wife played one of the things gulan his wife played one of the things and a number of interesting cargo swami and a number of interesting cargo swami was an economist I don't know if you've was an economist I don't know if you've heard of him he used to be an anchor he heard of him he used to be an anchor he played one of the roles uh so it was a played one of the roles uh so it was a very interesting cast very interesting cast Then we did other very interesting Then we did other very interesting productions at tag. Uh for me some of productions at tag. Uh for me some of the things that my pachan in Delhi was the things that my pachan in Delhi was really as an actor and then I started really as an actor and then I started doing workshops and directing but one of doing workshops and directing but one of the things I did this was in 76 was uh the things I did this was in 76 was uh it was it was it was Ted Hughes adaptation of Senica's Ted Hughes adaptation of Senica's Edypus. Edypus. Edypus. I played Edypus. Leillet played I played Edypus. Leillet played Chakcasta but it was a cast of about 60 Chakcasta but it was a cast of about 60 in mostly with a chorus J rags and that in mostly with a chorus J rags and that kind of thing and Paramir who used to kind of thing and Paramir who used to be a classical musicians but who took to be a classical musicians but who took to avangad stuff created sounds with avangad stuff created sounds with crumpling paper with tin foil with wood crumpling paper with tin foil with wood blocks and all the rest of it and it was blocks and all the rest of it and it was a huge huge success in Delhi people a huge huge success in Delhi people still remember that play. Um there was a still remember that play. Um there was a theater festival with you there was a theater festival with you know sort of well-known theater groups know sort of well-known theater groups in different languages. Gassiram Kotwal in different languages. Gassiram Kotwal was huge. Vinod Nakpal very good actor was huge. Vinod Nakpal very good actor singer uh he was playing the lead role singer uh he was playing the lead role in that but I got the best actor award in that but I got the best actor award that year. So I was you know very sort that year. So I was you know very sort of you know chuffed by that and of you know chuffed by that and encouraged by that but also by the kind encouraged by that but also by the kind of theater we were doing you know of theater we were doing you know I tried after that. So doing my masters I tried after that. So doing my masters that was one of the things I wanted to that was one of the things I wanted to do and I knew my dad would be concerned do and I knew my dad would be concerned because there was no jada then he was because there was no jada then he was you know uh he retired and while you you know uh he retired and while you live like a king while you're in there live like a king while you're in there there was not you know there's things there was not you know there's things stored away that you could do it so stored away that you could do it so while I was going through college I was while I was going through college I was earning my pocket money from radio earning my pocket money from radio mainly and voicing and that kind of mainly and voicing and that kind of things because that's what you did at things because that's what you did at Yuvani and general overseas service you Yuvani and general overseas service you know you did announcements and you're know you did announcements and you're reading and readings of novels and reading and readings of novels and things which you know which which which things which you know which which which today audio books and things have today audio books and things have started happening but I I earned a lot started happening but I I earned a lot of my pocket money through that and a of my pocket money through that and a modest sort of you know expense from my modest sort of you know expense from my father at that time things were he was father at that time things were he was retired and it was you know he was for a retired and it was you know he was for a brief while in Rachi and then in Kolkata brief while in Rachi and then in Kolkata and so I had to fend for myself and and so I had to fend for myself and theater there was no livelihood one year theater there was no livelihood one year I tried I did plays for colleges for I tried I did plays for colleges for schools I did a workshop at Northeast schools I did a workshop at Northeast Hill University and so on and so forth Hill University and so on and so forth but it was not happening and then the but it was not happening and then the film things happened and uh I learned film things happened and uh I learned about it about it about it and the funniest thing is Romesh Chandra and the funniest thing is Romesh Chandra who was the times of India he was called who was the times of India he was called Tangawala chalie because he was a trade Tangawala chalie because he was a trade union leader for the Tangawalas from union leader for the Tangawalas from Lahore and he was for the longest time Lahore and he was for the longest time the critic drama critic of the times of the critic drama critic of the times of India. He was the one who gave me a good India. He was the one who gave me a good review and subsequently for that first review and subsequently for that first play I did in Delhi mixed doubles. He play I did in Delhi mixed doubles. He was a very little guy. There was a car was a very little guy. There was a car called a standard herald. I had some called a standard herald. I had some friends at UNDP who told me about friends at UNDP who told me about operation flood operation flood operation flood you know which was about to happen. you know which was about to happen. There were no mother dairy sort of There were no mother dairy sort of kiosks and you know all the rest of it kiosks and you know all the rest of it over there. Milk was in short supply and over there. Milk was in short supply and he was telling me about it. So I wanted he was telling me about it. So I wanted to learn about filmmaking. I knew a to learn about filmmaking. I knew a little about this artful called little about this artful called television news features. I was hitching television news features. I was hitching a ride from defense colony to Indian a ride from defense colony to Indian international center and I saw this international center and I saw this headless car you know because he was a headless car you know because he was a little guy in the standard held you little guy in the standard held you couldn't see you know and suddenly couldn't see you know and suddenly stopped and out popped Charlie Chandar stopped and out popped Charlie Chandar with a bald p said what are you waiting with a bald p said what are you waiting for come come we used to hitch rides at for come come we used to hitch rides at that time that was the big thing till that time that was the big thing till Sanjay chopra ga chopra and the murder Sanjay chopra ga chopra and the murder thing happened the way to get around in thing happened the way to get around in Delhi's vast distance with a terrible Delhi's vast distance with a terrible bus service was hitching rides bus service was hitching rides he said and he asked me Grandly well he he said and he asked me Grandly well he wasn't grand he asked me so what are you wasn't grand he asked me so what are you doing I said I'm going to make a film he doing I said I'm going to make a film he said on what he said operation flood he said on what he said operation flood he said why don't you come and work with us said why don't you come and work with us and television news features he used to and television news features he used to be he was the first director of dur be he was the first director of dur dashan kendra in Delhi he had joined dashan kendra in Delhi he had joined television news features which in in a television news features which in in a evolved avatar we now know as ani m the evolved avatar we now know as ani m the news agencies at that time Asian news news agencies at that time Asian news used to be uh they used to do a lot of used to be uh they used to do a lot of news for viz news which was Reuters and news for viz news which was Reuters and all the rest of it for international all the rest of it for international stuff and television news features was stuff and television news features was the two sort of you know features they the two sort of you know features they used to do for durashan the only ones in used to do for durashan the only ones in the entire country that's how I came to the entire country that's how I came to 16 mm film the and learning the grammar 16 mm film the and learning the grammar and the ropes of film making program and the ropes of film making program making putting it all together uh making putting it all together uh because I couldn't make a go of theater because I couldn't make a go of theater I occasionally did plays And years later I occasionally did plays And years later I did a couple of there was Amados in I did a couple of there was Amados in which uh I did another production in which uh I did another production in Kolkata which was equis then we did uh Kolkata which was equis then we did uh uh amados I played Mozart in that and uh uh amados I played Mozart in that and uh there was a fool for love another play there was a fool for love another play which was um which was um um trying to remember the name the Sam um trying to remember the name the Sam sheepard sheepard sheepard uh so there was four persons with Pam uh so there was four persons with Pam Ruks who was then a little kid in the Ruks who was then a little kid in the group we did it together little kid group we did it together little kid meaning young. Uh so those are some of meaning young. Uh so those are some of the theater things I did much later. I the theater things I did much later. I did a play we did 40 50 60 shows all did a play we did 40 50 60 shows all over the country and even in the Gulf over the country and even in the Gulf called dance like a man. called dance like a man. Yeah that's right. the first 45th then Yeah that's right. the first 45th then it became too much later. It had moved it became too much later. It had moved to uh Bombay and you know we used to to uh Bombay and you know we used to call then the the tickets fairs used to call then the the tickets fairs used to be you know complimentary from all the be you know complimentary from all the various airlines which had just come up various airlines which had just come up uh if you remember East West and uh the uh if you remember East West and uh the various names which are now escaping me. various names which are now escaping me. But then sometimes they would cancel But then sometimes they would cancel flights and things. So I found myself flights and things. So I found myself paying for the privilege of coming to paying for the privilege of coming to some distant town and playing and I some distant town and playing and I couldn't do it was too much you know it couldn't do it was too much you know it was got too hectic. So I stepped back was got too hectic. So I stepped back but that play is still going on. they've but that play is still going on. they've done I don't know what a thousand done I don't know what a thousand sort of shows of that all over the world sort of shows of that all over the world and it was a nicely put together play and it was a nicely put together play and Mahes is a friend uh and that's what and Mahes is a friend uh and that's what had happened so in theater had happened so in theater after that much as I would have liked to after that much as I would have liked to I could not continue theater because it I could not continue theater because it needs a sustained period of time to needs a sustained period of time to rehearse and to get it together to do it rehearse and to get it together to do it in a fixed point chart and then we had in a fixed point chart and then we had got into television production at a got into television production at a certain stage we moved to Mumbai and big certain stage we moved to Mumbai and big ticket shows where there's too much at ticket shows where there's too much at stake and you have to be on call all the stake and you have to be on call all the time because of something the other that time because of something the other that happens. So I could never do more of it happens. So I could never do more of it much as I would have liked to uh still much as I would have liked to uh still can't can't can't uh at a stage where your stamina is uh at a stage where your stamina is different and you know what you can play different and you know what you can play also is very different but uh hey I do also is very different but uh hey I do that and uh but I have done a few acting that and uh but I have done a few acting roles uh at the request of friends roles uh at the request of friends really uh and I find I don't really really uh and I find I don't really enjoy this whole business of acting for enjoy this whole business of acting for screen because the start and stops and screen because the start and stops and waiting and you know the discon waiting and you know the discon continuity is too much but at the ripe continuity is too much but at the ripe age of 59 I made a debut uh in Shujit's age of 59 I made a debut uh in Shujit's uh Madras cafe I don't know whether uh Madras cafe I don't know whether you've seen it uh but uh it's a you've seen it uh but uh it's a political thriller and at for its time political thriller and at for its time very well made I think I was effectively very well made I think I was effectively the raw chief intelligence chief in that the raw chief intelligence chief in that so that was something that you know I so that was something that you know I enjoyed doing again for friends on enjoyed doing again for friends on occasion I've done things the last thing occasion I've done things the last thing I did was for Ban in a film called uh I did was for Ban in a film called uh Mata Boys which I think again has turned Mata Boys which I think again has turned out very well tiny role. I've done a out very well tiny role. I've done a malalum film which was also done in uh malalum film which was also done in uh Tamil which has been hugely successful. Tamil which has been hugely successful. The malalum one was called how old are The malalum one was called how old are you? Very unlikely title but typically you? Very unlikely title but typically of malalum films uh very interesting of malalum films uh very interesting theme comeback film of Mju Warrior after theme comeback film of Mju Warrior after 14 years. I think she quit acting when 14 years. I think she quit acting when she was 21 having won I don't know how she was 21 having won I don't know how many state awards, national awards and many state awards, national awards and all that. She came back after I think all that. She came back after I think there was something to do with the there was something to do with the marriage having come apart and she made marriage having come apart and she made a comeback. In the film there's this a comeback. In the film there's this firebrand character firebrand character firebrand character in college. Her husband gets called away in college. Her husband gets called away to Ireland. He's does radio or something to Ireland. He's does radio or something like that. The daughter fires off a like that. The daughter fires off a letter to the president letter to the president saying, "What is the retirement age of a saying, "What is the retirement age of a woman's dreams?" President asked to see the mother who President asked to see the mother who doesn't know what it's about. I play the doesn't know what it's about. I play the president. president. president. I come and I meet and she faints. She's I come and I meet and she faints. She's spooked so much by the security and this spooked so much by the security and this and that everything and became a and that everything and became a everybody the media reports her a shame everybody the media reports her a shame and so but alongside she's plays a lowly and so but alongside she's plays a lowly government officer. government officer. government officer. She does rooftop cultivation and that's She does rooftop cultivation and that's the story of the film of how one thing the story of the film of how one thing leads to the other. She becomes a leads to the other. She becomes a spokesperson and an advocate and it spokesperson and an advocate and it works tremendously and that's a works tremendously and that's a comeback. At the end the president meets comeback. At the end the president meets you saying you made your weakest point you saying you made your weakest point your uh strength and you bounced back your uh strength and you bounced back from it and that's what it's all about from it and that's what it's all about and it did a 100 nights uh which was and it did a 100 nights uh which was huge. So you know very happy to play a huge. So you know very happy to play a part in it but I didn't I really don't part in it but I didn't I really don't enjoy the screen acting a in theater you enjoy the screen acting a in theater you project so you have to get used to sort project so you have to get used to sort of you know dialing it down. Bumman used of you know dialing it down. Bumman used to keep telling me dial it down dial it to keep telling me dial it down and and he lived very closely with down and and he lived very closely with me ma boys for the longest time uh me ma boys for the longest time uh father son dynamic I played the son's father son dynamic I played the son's boss and uh but if you see the play such boss and uh but if you see the play such controlled per the movie such controlled controlled per the movie such controlled performances and he lived with it for 9 performances and he lived with it for 9 years Band did no from script to end he years Band did no from script to end he co-wrote the script with the Oscar co-wrote the script with the Oscar winning script writer Alex Dilleres who winning script writer Alex Dilleres who wrote Birdman man. M uh but he wrote, wrote Birdman man. M uh but he wrote, directed, directed, directed, acted and produced uh meta boys. So I acted and produced uh meta boys. So I was happy to be part of that because was happy to be part of that because it's a very interesting film about it's a very interesting film about father-son dynamics. Actually father-son dynamics. Actually all to do with acting, performances, all to do with acting, performances, different themes, works. So there you different themes, works. So there you are. You should have told Bhan that are. You should have told Bhan that boss, you can't ask Bengales to dial it boss, you can't ask Bengales to dial it down like what do you think? We are made down like what do you think? We are made for drama. theater wallers. I think for drama. theater wallers. I think theater wallers I think theater. Yeah. theater wallers I think theater. Yeah. So let's go back to theater. It strikes So let's go back to theater. It strikes me that had there been a Sedhhat Basu me that had there been a Sedhhat Basu who never discovered theater that person who never discovered theater that person would be a very different person. I'm would be a very different person. I'm guessing that everything you learned not guessing that everything you learned not just about theater but about life from just about theater but about life from not just from Barry but the the people not just from Barry but the the people you played with the ensemble that you you played with the ensemble that you traveled with etc. would have changed traveled with etc. would have changed you and made you a different person at you and made you a different person at the end of that process. So tell me a the end of that process. So tell me a little bit about that. What are the little bit about that. What are the theater lessons you learned from Barry? theater lessons you learned from Barry? What are the life lessons you learned What are the life lessons you learned during that period? How did you change? during that period? How did you change? A very important lesson, life lesson A very important lesson, life lesson that impacted a number of us who were that impacted a number of us who were part of that group part of that group was how Barry was how Barry managed to survive as an artist. managed to survive as an artist. single room, single room, single room, basatti, injura or you know for the basatti, injura or you know for the longest time every possible square longest time every possible square millimeter of world space with books millimeter of world space with books whatever little money he would spend on whatever little money he would spend on the most expensive books and what a the most expensive books and what a collection what a library he had and collection what a library he had and varied kinds of things and there was a varied kinds of things and there was a monastic aspect and austerity to what he monastic aspect and austerity to what he did but he stuck it out that was a life did but he stuck it out that was a life lesson which a lot of us took and said lesson which a lot of us took and said hey hey hey you sacrifice but as long as you're you sacrifice but as long as you're doing one of the reasons I didn't doing one of the reasons I didn't continue in theater I wasn't looking for continue in theater I wasn't looking for a luxurious life but a luxurious life but I had to feed myself Roti Kapra Makan at I had to feed myself Roti Kapra Makan at the most basic level he managed to do it the most basic level he managed to do it living through very tough times but he living through very tough times but he managed to do it for us uh I tried but managed to do it for us uh I tried but it didn't happen which is one of the it didn't happen which is one of the reasons why I took to making even at reasons why I took to making even at very uh sort of nominal uh uh earnings very uh sort of nominal uh uh earnings on on film for eight years almost I did on on film for eight years almost I did that. So that was one thing but in that. So that was one thing but in theater itself theater itself theater itself one was the examination and exploration one was the examination and exploration of themes. of themes. of themes. The other one was the art of theater The other one was the art of theater that there is not just one kind of that there is not just one kind of theater. There's just not one kind of theater. There's just not one kind of performance performance performance or one way to do it. There's not just or one way to do it. There's not just precenium theater. One of the plays I precenium theater. One of the plays I directed directed directed I should have mentioned. I should have mentioned. I did a couple of plays directed even I did a couple of plays directed even after leaving St. Stevens from across after leaving St. Stevens from across the road I joined Hindu because they the road I joined Hindu because they gave me a room and in St. Stevens uh you gave me a room and in St. Stevens uh you know after a certain stage they're very know after a certain stage they're very limited rooms for postgraduates limited rooms for postgraduates one of the plays I directed was an open one of the plays I directed was an open theater uh production it was called the theater uh production it was called the serpent ceremony which I did at the serpent ceremony which I did at the chapel at St. Stevens chapel at St. Stevens in the round with an ensemble of 16 in the round with an ensemble of 16 people. Miraa who had acted in my people. Miraa who had acted in my production of Amakbet in Kolkata. She production of Amakbet in Kolkata. She was part of it and she introduced me to was part of it and she introduced me to somebody who became my wife in the somebody who became my wife in the serpent. But the serpent was the book of serpent. But the serpent was the book of Genesis interpreted in contemporary Genesis interpreted in contemporary terms what it means and was entirely terms what it means and was entirely kinetic in its language. Again, kinetic in its language. Again, chance chance chance sounds, effects, body formations, sounds, effects, body formations, births. So and so begat so and so begat births. So and so begat so and so began and so as a very visual so and so began and so as a very visual physical thing that happened in front of physical thing that happened in front of your eyes. That was one production that your eyes. That was one production that I enjoyed doing and the whole ensembler. I enjoyed doing and the whole ensembler. It was a fantastic thing which came out It was a fantastic thing which came out of a workshop. of a workshop. Very intensive work with the body and Very intensive work with the body and the voice which are the tools that we the voice which are the tools that we have apart from the words and the facial have apart from the words and the facial expressions. The next year environmental expressions. The next year environmental theater we were exploring there was a theater we were exploring there was a wonderful uh group Richard Sheckchner's wonderful uh group Richard Sheckchner's um group which was touring and they had um group which was touring and they had done a fantastic production of mother done a fantastic production of mother courage at the modern school Jim Khana courage at the modern school Jim Khana and so I did a play of the rebel bal by and so I did a play of the rebel bal by berthal brush at the reading room and berthal brush at the reading room and Stephens and the entire area was defined Stephens and the entire area was defined by ropes by ropes by ropes done in different ways and people sat done in different ways and people sat everywhere and they followed the action. everywhere and they followed the action. So that was another production that we So that was another production that we experimented with form experimented with form and pressed again again is not natural and pressed again again is not natural but we also did it in the environmental but we also did it in the environmental way uh you know sort of staged it in way uh you know sort of staged it in that way. that way. that way. What I wanted to do was push the What I wanted to do was push the boundaries and not just annual plays boundaries and not just annual plays where you know everybody's in costume where you know everybody's in costume and does something or the other. Those and does something or the other. Those opportunities were not coming. How could opportunities were not coming. How could you convince somebody as a 21 year old you convince somebody as a 21 year old to say okay now this is what you have to to say okay now this is what you have to do with your play and do in two foot I do with your play and do in two foot I didn't have that bandwidth and I didn't have that bandwidth and I couldn't do it but those were the things couldn't do it but those were the things learned learned learned in terms of subject area how do you do in terms of subject area how do you do it how do you explore it and the little it how do you explore it and the little plays that we did you know at festivals plays that we did you know at festivals at college festivals and all the rest of at college festivals and all the rest of it we were experimenting with a the it we were experimenting with a the content what we were saying with the content what we were saying with the content but also how we were presenting content but also how we were presenting it in different ways. Naturalistic it in different ways. Naturalistic theater 2 was there and you did it and theater 2 was there and you did it and you controlled it in a particular way you controlled it in a particular way but that was not all. There's much more but that was not all. There's much more to it and you wanted to push the to it and you wanted to push the boundaries. It's like you know in art boundaries. It's like you know in art you do sort of you know conventional you do sort of you know conventional portraits and you know but you think portraits and you know but you think that's too superficial, that's too that's too superficial, that's too photographic. You want to go beyond photographic. You want to go beyond that. In theater we wanted to do that. that. In theater we wanted to do that. We wanted to push past the fourth wall We wanted to push past the fourth wall and do different things. And those and do different things. And those opportunities were few and far between. opportunities were few and far between. And that was not happening And that was not happening which is why I looked for other things which is why I looked for other things to do and one of those things left to to do and one of those things left to film and learned it and then quite by film and learned it and then quite by accident accident accident quizzing happened. That's another story. quizzing happened. That's another story. There's an interesting disjunction that There's an interesting disjunction that happens when one gets so deeply into happens when one gets so deeply into something when one is young. Whereas something when one is young. Whereas when I think of you during this time you when I think of you during this time you were working with people like Barry and were working with people like Barry and doing all of these things and directing doing all of these things and directing your own plays and at a certain level your own plays and at a certain level achieving a certain kind of mastery in achieving a certain kind of mastery in this new craft which you were learning this new craft which you were learning in the ways that you throw your voice or in the ways that you throw your voice or project yourself or the just the way project yourself or the just the way that you design a play and put it that you design a play and put it together and there is a mastery there. together and there is a mastery there. There's a consumate control of the There's a consumate control of the craft. I guess all of that is happening. craft. I guess all of that is happening. You are the king of that domain when You are the king of that domain when you're in that moment and in that place you're in that moment and in that place but at the same time you're a young man. but at the same time you're a young man. and you're 18, you're 19, you're 20. Uh and you're 18, you're 19, you're 20. Uh you know, uh hormones must be raging in you know, uh hormones must be raging in different ways. You have the typical different ways. You have the typical youthful anxieties all of us do of how youthful anxieties all of us do of how do I fit into this world and you want to do I fit into this world and you want to impress other people at the same time impress other people at the same time you want to find yourself. And so there you want to find yourself. And so there is the certainty of the artist who is is the certainty of the artist who is finding both passion and mastery in the finding both passion and mastery in the craft. But there is also at the same craft. But there is also at the same time the awkwardness of the young person time the awkwardness of the young person trying to find their way in the young trying to find their way in the young world. So paint me a portrait of you world. So paint me a portrait of you know you as an artist as a young man. know you as an artist as a young man. You know that was our last novel during You know that was our last novel during your bachelor's portrait of the artist your bachelor's portrait of the artist as young man and choice. That last line as young man and choice. That last line I go forth for the millionth time to I go forth for the millionth time to experience so and so forth and forge in experience so and so forth and forge in the smithy of my soul the uncreated the smithy of my soul the uncreated conscience of my race. Oh my god. Do you conscience of my race. Oh my god. Do you remember the and there was there was remember the and there was there was that that was very very motivating that that was very very motivating and in our innocence and nit and sort of and in our innocence and nit and sort of idealism idealism idealism that is what we wanted to do. I wanted that is what we wanted to do. I wanted to do and I tried to do and I tried in my own way to do that but I had to in my own way to do that but I had to feed myself. So I was living in feed myself. So I was living in literally with a roomy uh in a garage literally with a roomy uh in a garage you know with collapsible doors sleeping you know with collapsible doors sleeping on the floor in a little sort of privy on the floor in a little sort of privy to ourselves and a kind couple who sort to ourselves and a kind couple who sort of you know would feed us from time to of you know would feed us from time to time otherwise you ate in dhabas and did time otherwise you ate in dhabas and did that so we did all that then we stayed that so we did all that then we stayed in bersati for a while where the roof in bersati for a while where the roof was asbestous so Delhi summer you can was asbestous so Delhi summer you can imagine what it was like so went through imagine what it was like so went through all of that all of that however however however was Was I being able to do what I was was Was I being able to do what I was trying to do? I tried trying to do? I tried uh even while doing film that is what I uh even while doing film that is what I wanted to eventually do. I wanted to get wanted to eventually do. I wanted to get to cinema if I could make the kind of to cinema if I could make the kind of films I do and I was trying to figure films I do and I was trying to figure out what can you do in that space and out what can you do in that space and remember parallel cinema was then remember parallel cinema was then peaking and even in theater we were peaking and even in theater we were trying to do things we lived through the trying to do things we lived through the emergency 75 to 77 which was grim emergency 75 to 77 which was grim and during that time Barry did a and during that time Barry did a production of Maharasad for theater production of Maharasad for theater action group if you know the themes that action group if you know the themes that dealt with you know what was happening dealt with you know what was happening around and how you sort of go with it so around and how you sort of go with it so the thought that maybe you could do the thought that maybe you could do subversive work and sort of make it be subversive work and sort of make it be counted. We thought that you know let's counted. We thought that you know let's give it our best shot wherever we can and later through the film thing I this and later through the film thing I this is one thing that I wanted to do. is one thing that I wanted to do. I had assisted sort of helped Praep when I had assisted sort of helped Praep when he won a national award for a script he he won a national award for a script he did called Massi Sab. He wanted me to did called Massi Sab. He wanted me to play Massie play Massie play Massie and I was about to NFDC didn't want this and I was about to NFDC didn't want this unknown called Sedhad Basu to do Massie unknown called Sedhad Basu to do Massie and and and so it was waiting one and a half two so it was waiting one and a half two years at one stage between documentaries years at one stage between documentaries on and off and waiting for it didn't on and off and waiting for it didn't happen and there was and I had known happen and there was and I had known Anita now for almost 8 years and then Anita now for almost 8 years and then there was an opportunity to say there was an opportunity to say there was a friend Ravi Dui who was part there was a friend Ravi Dui who was part of our group he was at the Taj and Lelet of our group he was at the Taj and Lelet was married to him and said you know I was married to him and said you know I want to do stuff while I'm doing this want to do stuff while I'm doing this and said you know they're looking for and said you know they're looking for somebody to do stuff in town which is somebody to do stuff in town which is performances theaters shows why don't performances theaters shows why don't you go and meet him I met somebody you go and meet him I met somebody called Chamilia Punjabi who is the called Chamilia Punjabi who is the reigning queen on marketing at the Taj reigning queen on marketing at the Taj and she says what would you do what and she says what would you do what could you do and I said you know you're could you do and I said you know you're part of the hotel you could give back in part of the hotel you could give back in these many ways. You can do theater for these many ways. You can do theater for children. You can do shows. You can do children. You can do shows. You can do you know classical music festivals. You you know classical music festivals. You can do uh you know jam sessions. You can can do uh you know jam sessions. You can do this and that and the other. She said do this and that and the other. She said you're on and I needed a white collar you're on and I needed a white collar job to be able to marry because my job to be able to marry because my wife's Kashmir Pandit parents were in wife's Kashmir Pandit parents were in England and so on so forth and she'd England and so on so forth and she'd lasted out that time. She was a lasted out that time. She was a journalist and sort of trained journalist and sort of trained journalist. She was then at India today journalist. She was then at India today which is a leading news magazine of the which is a leading news magazine of the time. So I took that job for two years. time. So I took that job for two years. during that job what things we did to during that job what things we did to the hotel I really I mean everything the hotel I really I mean everything from non-aligned meet heads of from non-aligned meet heads of government what got together government what got together commonwealth heads of uh government commonwealth heads of uh government world energy conference and so forth at world energy conference and so forth at that level as a oneperson army as the that level as a oneperson army as the cultural attache attachi as they call it cultural attache attachi as they call it we would mount things which would we would mount things which would involve hundreds of performances and involve hundreds of performances and shows of different kinds we did shows of different kinds we did classical music festivals we did classical music festivals we did classical dance we did everything at the classical dance we did everything at the Taj Palace. There was a wonderful Taj Palace. There was a wonderful dynamic general manager called Subir dynamic general manager called Subir Bhik when we they opened the tea house Bhik when we they opened the tea house of the August we commissioned that play of the August we commissioned that play as a musical in town which I enjoyed as a musical in town which I enjoyed doing and I roped in Chang who was a doing and I roped in Chang who was a Chinese captain of the restaurant to Chinese captain of the restaurant to play it. He wasn't happening. Barry play it. He wasn't happening. Barry wasn't getting through to him. Then I wasn't getting through to him. Then I showed him a movie of Marlon Brando showed him a movie of Marlon Brando playing the same role in a movie and he playing the same role in a movie and he performed it and he stole the show. performed it and he stole the show. Wonderful design because Suman J Krishna Wonderful design because Suman J Krishna had designed the sets. It was so and so. had designed the sets. It was so and so. It made waves. Uh and you know hotels It made waves. Uh and you know hotels they have to occupy things. They did they have to occupy things. They did shows in the morning, kids plays in the shows in the morning, kids plays in the morning, jam sessions in the underground morning, jam sessions in the underground sort of hall where we had a group. I put sort of hall where we had a group. I put together a group that time at a kind of together a group that time at a kind of super group a wonderful musicians. There super group a wonderful musicians. There was seven of them. So I called it Lyra. was seven of them. So I called it Lyra. One of them composed the music for our One of them composed the music for our first quiz show Ly Menuna who's part of first quiz show Ly Menuna who's part of Shankarisan. employee. But then there Shankarisan. employee. But then there were other very gifted musicians in that were other very gifted musicians in that group too. Gassi Rick now teaches sort group too. Gassi Rick now teaches sort of music mainly. There was Jenny used to of music mainly. There was Jenny used to sing. Said Roberts used to wonderful sing. Said Roberts used to wonderful Louis Armstrong and uh there was Sabi on Louis Armstrong and uh there was Sabi on the sacks. It was a outstanding KL the sacks. It was a outstanding KL Peters major basist who was world class. Peters major basist who was world class. We put that group together. I had great We put that group together. I had great fun at the hotel but did as much as I fun at the hotel but did as much as I could. But when I was in the hotel when could. But when I was in the hotel when these foreign groups would come and they these foreign groups would come and they watch something and they said watch something and they said so I used to sort of MC by default I so I used to sort of MC by default I used to MC New Year's shows used to MC New Year's shows some of my ex buddies from TVNF days some of my ex buddies from TVNF days Sanjay Kak the documentaries one of them Sanjay Kak the documentaries one of them is Bach who later joined NDTV were the is Bach who later joined NDTV were the other one of them they were producing a other one of them they were producing a pilot of a show called Safe Cracker and pilot of a show called Safe Cracker and the afternoon Sanjay said I said and he the afternoon Sanjay said I said and he said that used to be the default sort of said that used to be the default sort of you know uniform at the hotel and I said you know uniform at the hotel and I said huh he said just well we are a kamani huh he said just well we are a kamani that's down the road from you just come that's down the road from you just come and introduce the show give it a ra and introduce the show give it a ra thing I said well who what where he said thing I said well who what where he said come now we'll tell you so in 2 minutes come now we'll tell you so in 2 minutes I had to introduce partasu venerable I had to introduce partasu venerable quiz master from Kolkata open quizzing quiz master from Kolkata open quizzing days who was then managing director for days who was then managing director for something called mercury travels and something called mercury travels and there was a group of sort of you know there was a group of sort of you know dummy mock participants sagurika gosh dummy mock participants sagurika gosh was the scorer was the scorer uh Anita was one of the participants but uh Anita was one of the participants but there was also Kanti Vajbai Baja's there was also Kanti Vajbai Baja's brother who now Singapore he was major brother who now Singapore he was major international relations person from JNU international relations person from JNU and then principal of Dune for a while and then principal of Dune for a while he's now in Singapore there was Pam WHMA he's now in Singapore there was Pam WHMA who later bec you know joined the there who later bec you know joined the there was debu chakraarti was also a sort of was debu chakraarti was also a sort of flotist and all of these guys were flotist and all of these guys were contestants I don't know what the show contestants I don't know what the show is about I remember something to do with is about I remember something to do with that having done that about a month that having done that about a month later I get a call saying later I get a call saying you know the sponsors and dudes and all you know the sponsors and dudes and all saying why don't you host it and that's saying why don't you host it and that's my first exposure to quizzing and that my first exposure to quizzing and that show was quiz time quiz time a national show was quiz time quiz time a national intercol contest we went on for one year intercol contest we went on for one year on the only network in the country on on the only network in the country on dur dash and Sunday 9:00 p.m. came quiz dur dash and Sunday 9:00 p.m. came quiz time. We did three se seasons of it. The time. We did three se seasons of it. The next year was a shorter season and then next year was a shorter season and then after that I did. So next year I took after that I did. So next year I took over the content as well as you know over the content as well as you know other aspects of it than the year and I other aspects of it than the year and I joined the company. I left the hotel. It joined the company. I left the hotel. It was scary because Rosa, that's Anita, my was scary because Rosa, that's Anita, my wife, she was uh about uh wife, she was uh about uh 7 months pregnant when I did it and I 7 months pregnant when I did it and I did the play and I chucked up the job. did the play and I chucked up the job. The company that made it, ITV, which was The company that made it, ITV, which was a Sanjay Damia company. I joined them as a Sanjay Damia company. I joined them as a program director. But then it was that a program director. But then it was that in that interim that it began and in that interim that it began and luckily it took off. But questions have luckily it took off. But questions have dogged my every step since then. Amazing dogged my every step since then. Amazing story and I story and I did Partha Vasu react to uh this because did Partha Vasu react to uh this because for him this must be like you know uh for him this must be like you know uh Pete Best of the Beatles the drummer Pete Best of the Beatles the drummer before Ringo Star came in or you know uh before Ringo Star came in or you know uh you know his daughter then later you know his daughter then later interned with us and he was a real interned with us and he was a real gentleman you know those are different gentleman you know those are different times I think the open quizzing style times I think the open quizzing style was different when you have to do was different when you have to do television within a certain amount of television within a certain amount of time. Uh one of the things I used to time. Uh one of the things I used to have to do at the hotel was have to do at the hotel was they used to have videos tapes which they used to have videos tapes which Ronnie Screwala's company used to run Ronnie Screwala's company used to run various films and programs which they various films and programs which they used to give from time to time and I had used to give from time to time and I had to program that and watch that and what to program that and watch that and what was going on when and you know all this was going on when and you know all this time in the hotel. One of the things I time in the hotel. One of the things I saw a lot of were quizzes and game shows saw a lot of were quizzes and game shows and learned the sort of you know grammar and learned the sort of you know grammar and vocabulary and the structure of how and vocabulary and the structure of how that worked. So that had sort of you that worked. So that had sort of you know gotten to me. So that how you have know gotten to me. So that how you have to what the how stage crafted is adapted to what the how stage crafted is adapted to that how it works how much you have to that how it works how much you have to say how little you have to say now in to say how little you have to say now in open cuisine it's a different kind of open cuisine it's a different kind of thing altogether you know so it's more thing altogether you know so it's more leisurely it's more sort of you know leisurely it's more sort of you know conversation the structure is not so conversation the structure is not so structured and all the so how do you do structured and all the so how do you do all that and the duration of those all that and the duration of those programs is 24 minutes and with breaks programs is 24 minutes and with breaks and all it came to even less so you had and all it came to even less so you had to accomplish a certain amount of stuff to accomplish a certain amount of stuff in that so I think I don't know all in that so I think I don't know all considered maybe they wanted a young considered maybe they wanted a young person to do it. So uh Partha was very person to do it. So uh Partha was very gentleman about it. Didn't hear much gentleman about it. Didn't hear much about it but later got to know him. He about it but later got to know him. He was a mastermind in the very first was a mastermind in the very first mastermind he was a participant and his mastermind he was a participant and his daughter interned with us for a while. daughter interned with us for a while. So that was a to answer your question So that was a to answer your question that was a that was not an issue. It that was a that was not an issue. It didn't become an issue fortunately. It didn't become an issue fortunately. It almost feels like all the qualities that almost feels like all the qualities that you polished in your career up till then you polished in your career up till then actually made you the perfect person to actually made you the perfect person to do this in the sense that theater gave do this in the sense that theater gave you the sense of stage craft and how to you the sense of stage craft and how to build something like this in your build something like this in your television years. as you described television years. as you described before the break that gave you the rigor before the break that gave you the rigor and uh you know the respect for truth and uh you know the respect for truth over facts and the research and the over facts and the research that you put in and equally research that you put in and equally while you were in the Taj that gave you while you were in the Taj that gave you the ability to do that kind of event the ability to do that kind of event management where you're putting management where you're putting everything together and constructing everything together and constructing things tightly so it almost came things tightly so it almost came naturally and language too from naturally and language too from literature how do you express things literature how do you express things crisply and yet imaginately and yet hook crisply and yet imaginately and yet hook interest in how you put it together. interest in how you put it together. Question writing at the end of it's Question writing at the end of it's partly art, partly science, you know, uh partly art, partly science, you know, uh because there has to be veracity. Uh you because there has to be veracity. Uh you can't mislead, but at the same time, you can't mislead, but at the same time, you have to phrase things in a certain way have to phrase things in a certain way where you evoke the interest and give where you evoke the interest and give away enough clues or sort of you know uh away enough clues or sort of you know uh guidelines to what you want to get out guidelines to what you want to get out of it. So I think the literature and the of it. So I think the literature and the reading and the writing really helped. reading and the writing really helped. Give me an example of uh exactly that Give me an example of uh exactly that that a mundane question but then the that a mundane question but then the phrasing makes it come alive. phrasing makes it come alive. There are so many instances you know who There are so many instances you know who was the first air chief of was the first air chief of India is different from who was the India is different from who was the first air chief of India after first air chief of India after independence is different from who was independence is different from who was the first Indian air chief of the Indian the first Indian air chief of the Indian air force after independence. They did air force after independence. They did different things altogether. They're different things altogether. They're different people at different point of different people at different point of view and people most people don't know view and people most people don't know about it you know the first chief of the about it you know the first chief of the Indian army before karapa was roy Indian army before karapa was roy butcher I mean and that's not known then butcher I mean and that's not known then karapa came in and whatever it is and karapa came in and whatever it is and for a long time it was only in 56 you for a long time it was only in 56 you know effectively know effectively know effectively mukushi became the sort of you know sort mukushi became the sort of you know sort of chief of the Indian air force so till of chief of the Indian air force so till then there were sort of you know then there were sort of you know Britishers mainly who were doing it one Britishers mainly who were doing it one of the live quizzes we tease people and of the live quizzes we tease people and say you say you say you Who has been the only queen of Pakistan? Who has been the only queen of Pakistan? The head of state of Pakistan. Do you The head of state of Pakistan. Do you have an answer to that? The only queen have an answer to that? The only queen of Pakistan. of Pakistan. of Pakistan. Tell me. I mean I I I guess would have Tell me. I mean I I I guess would have happened during the transition in 47 happened during the transition in 47 where it was part of the British Empire. where it was part of the British Empire. You're getting there. Warm. You're getting there. Warm. So Elizabeth. Yes. Elizabeth II. Indeed. So Elizabeth. Yes. Elizabeth II. Indeed. Because the first president of Pakistan Because the first president of Pakistan was Mira. uh which was way into the 50s. was Mira. uh which was way into the 50s. So you know in the sense of so that's So you know in the sense of so that's effectively you know the head of state effectively you know the head of state uh that's how it works was the queen. uh that's how it works was the queen. Oh, interesting. I didn't know that. So, Oh, interesting. I didn't know that. So, you know, well, veracity if you probe you know, well, veracity if you probe further, maybe it doesn't hold up to further, maybe it doesn't hold up to that extent or whatever. People say, that extent or whatever. People say, Fatima, they think of so many people, Fatima, they think of so many people, you know, it goes in so many directions, you know, it goes in so many directions, but that's exactly what it is. But but that's exactly what it is. But language and words make such a language and words make such a difference and we've learned that that difference and we've learned that that you have to be very careful in you know you have to be very careful in you know what you say, how you ask for, but at what you say, how you ask for, but at the same time evoke an interest. the same time evoke an interest. Sometimes it's misdirection. If I were Sometimes it's misdirection. If I were to ask you something that I asked a lot to ask you something that I asked a lot in my life quizzes and instances, in my life quizzes and instances, what is the southernmost tip of India? what is the southernmost tip of India? Which country? Sorry, let me revise Which country? Sorry, let me revise that. Which country neighbors the that. Which country neighbors the southernmost tip of India? I am certain southernmost tip of India? I am certain I'm going to get this wrong. No, you may I'm going to get this wrong. No, you may not. I mean the standard answer would be not. I mean the standard answer would be Sri Lanka, right? No. Um, keep going. Sri Lanka, right? No. Um, keep going. Try a few other places. My geography is Try a few other places. My geography is very bad. This could be embarrassing very bad. This could be embarrassing broadly. Not a Maldi use or something. broadly. Not a Maldi use or something. No, No, No, the southernmost tip of India. Okay, the southernmost tip of India. Okay, I'll help you. It's not on the mainland. I'll help you. It's not on the mainland. Which country borders the southernmost Which country borders the southernmost tip of India? Yeah, tip of India? Yeah, I pass. Just tell me. The southernmost I pass. Just tell me. The southernmost tip of India used to be called Pig tip of India used to be called Pig Million Point. Now Indra point, which is Million Point. Now Indra point, which is 100 kilometers from Sumatra in 100 kilometers from Sumatra in Indonesia. Oh my god. What the So Indonesia. Oh my god. What the So you know now you know now when you say that you figure out you when you say that you figure out you know how how you get there. Yeah. You know how how you get there. Yeah. You know another similarly geography know another similarly geography question is you know the chief minister question is you know the chief minister of which place in India has to travel of which place in India has to travel across different states to administer across different states to administer his territories. has to travel across different states to has to travel across different states to administer his territories administer his territories or her territories as the case may be. It's in four different places. I'm trying to figure it out. No, just I'm trying to figure it out. No, just tell me. Don't I don't want to embra tell me. Don't I don't want to embra Mah is in Kerala Mah is in Kerala and on the east coast there's Karayal and on the east coast there's Karayal and Yanam. So they're all former French and Yanam. So they're all former French enclaves. Leave out Chandanagar because enclaves. Leave out Chandanagar because that was not part of it. Pondicherry is that was not part of it. Pondicherry is these four places. Brilliant. Yeah. And these four places. Brilliant. Yeah. And so you just have to go from place to so you just have to go from place to place. How do you you know intrigue place. How do you you know intrigue interest and make people want to know interest and make people want to know and say oh so one knows that this is and say oh so one knows that this is what it is and figures it out. So what it is and figures it out. So language can have a hell of a role in language can have a hell of a role in you know how you actually put a certain you know how you actually put a certain thing and be very careful and you have thing and be very careful and you have to be really sure. to be really sure. One of the One of the questions questions questions which went into litigation and then went which went into litigation and then went on for several years that's another on for several years that's another story was story was story was you know on the phone a friend in the you know on the phone a friend in the beginning the question used to be uh it beginning the question used to be uh it was an approximation question what's the was an approximation question what's the distance between here and the moon you distance between here and the moon you know and whoever gets closest because know and whoever gets closest because otherwise it was multiple choice otherwise it was multiple choice questions but to have a tiebreaker you questions but to have a tiebreaker you need an approximation what's the height need an approximation what's the height of kutubinar how many rooms in rashi of kutubinar how many rooms in rashi bhavan and so on so forth bhavan and so on so forth One of the questions was One of the questions was how many years ago was the Golden Temple how many years ago was the Golden Temple built and it got into a loop all the history books the architects and all the history books the architects and everything counts a certain year 1763 or everything counts a certain year 1763 or 64 when 64 when 64 when when it begins. when it begins. But here's the thing. Since it was first But here's the thing. Since it was first set up, set up, set up, right, it was destroyed several times right, it was destroyed several times over by the Afghans and the structure over by the Afghans and the structure which is there now of Harander Sahab which is there now of Harander Sahab which is the name of the Golden Temple. which is the name of the Golden Temple. This particular structure was built in This particular structure was built in that year but it was gilded only in 1815 that year but it was gilded only in 1815 by Maharajanjit Singh by Maharajanjit Singh which is the golden temple. Was it the which is the golden temple. Was it the golden temple before the gold came on? golden temple before the gold came on? It's a golden temple. Was it when it was It's a golden temple. Was it when it was made in the beginning? It's a bit of a made in the beginning? It's a bit of a sheep of ship of thesis situation. sheep of ship of thesis situation. That's what I was about to say. Golden That's what I was about to say. Golden temple of thesis. Yeah. Exactly. So when temple of thesis. Yeah. Exactly. So when does it become that? So it was uh now does it become that? So it was uh now most as I said architectural digest most as I said architectural digest histories RC mazundar x y z take a histories RC mazundar x y z take a certain year but it was built much certain year but it was built much before that you know so this is before that you know so this is typically we learned we've learned to be typically we learned we've learned to be very very careful you know with language very very careful you know with language and how you put it and that's part of and how you put it and that's part of the learning of quiz writing if you the learning of quiz writing if you like. like. like. Tell me about that period of learning Tell me about that period of learning research, learning that rigor, learning research, learning that rigor, learning that like someone who's worked with you that like someone who's worked with you once said that um your rigor was when once said that um your rigor was when you were his boss was absolutely you were his boss was absolutely unfreaking believable. You were so unfreaking believable. You were so meticulous, meticulous, meticulous, you know, was a phrase I used in a good you know, was a phrase I used in a good way. And I'm just thinking that for a way. And I'm just thinking that for a modern person who is doing this stuff modern person who is doing this stuff today, you have the greatest rules on today, you have the greatest rules on the planet and you can research anything the planet and you can research anything sitting on your laptop. Yes. In the ' sitting on your laptop. Yes. In the ' 70s when you're doing your documentary 70s when you're doing your documentary film making and you're researching all film making and you're researching all of these things. How was it? How the of these things. How was it? How the hell did you do it? When even during the hell did you do it? When even during the early quiz days, I I I mentioned to you early quiz days, I I I mentioned to you we had to get special memberships of we had to get special memberships of certain libraries certain libraries certain libraries to access reference books that we to access reference books that we wouldn't let them out. doing TVNF days wouldn't let them out. doing TVNF days we used to somehow borrow steal beg you we used to somehow borrow steal beg you know to take pictures and this that and know to take pictures and this that and the other allowed and sort of put them the other allowed and sort of put them on but later on it became a challenge to on but later on it became a challenge to do that to actually get there and to get do that to actually get there and to get the stuff and you needed people with a the stuff and you needed people with a orientation to research orientation to research a lot of quizzers would get absolutely a lot of quizzers would get absolutely fed up and say yeah fed up and say yeah I know it I've heard it from this this I know it I've heard it from this this is famous it's a famous can you quantify is famous it's a famous can you quantify famous what's fame you know, you have to famous what's fame you know, you have to peg it down to something specific. So, a peg it down to something specific. So, a lot of quizzes don't last the course at lot of quizzes don't last the course at all because they find out what is all all because they find out what is all this about, you know, getting on to this about, you know, getting on to this. But if you have to be careful, you this. But if you have to be careful, you have to be careful and you have to find have to be careful and you have to find out what it is and you have to be true out what it is and you have to be true to what you're asking. If there it has to what you're asking. If there it has to be unambiguous to be unambiguous the answers because the in the nature of the answers because the in the nature of the public quizzing or television the public quizzing or television quizzing or competitive quizzing is that quizzing or competitive quizzing is that there has to be a precision in what you there has to be a precision in what you ask as well as what you answer. They ask as well as what you answer. They can't be three answers. They can't be can't be three answers. They can't be four answers and sometimes you learn four answers and sometimes you learn while you're going hey it may be while you're going hey it may be something else when you always thought something else when you always thought it was something but actually turns out it was something but actually turns out to be something else. Actually some of to be something else. Actually some of the most interesting questions turn out the most interesting questions turn out to be that. Have you been to Delhi? Yeah to be that. Have you been to Delhi? Yeah INA market. I don't know Delhi very INA market. I don't know Delhi very well. So uh you've heard of INA market. well. So uh you've heard of INA market. It's the one of the premier sort of you It's the one of the premier sort of you know everything grocery etc kind of know everything grocery etc kind of shops over there. So one of the common shops over there. So one of the common questions I ask Dilliwalas what is INA? questions I ask Dilliwalas what is INA? My guess would be Indian National Army. My guess would be Indian National Army. The first but it's not Wow. And it's The first but it's not Wow. And it's very interesting very interesting very interesting that diagonally opposite INA is what that diagonally opposite INA is what began as Willington Aerod Drrome began as Willington Aerod Drrome which then became called Sabjang Aerod which then became called Sabjang Aerod Drrome because it was next to Sajjang Drrome because it was next to Sajjang tomb tomb tomb which was where civil aviation it was which was where civil aviation it was one of the first civilian airports in one of the first civilian airports in Delhi my grandfather when he used to Delhi my grandfather when he used to come as me he used to often land there come as me he used to often land there and so on so forth that's where Sanja and so on so forth that's where Sanja Gandhi took off from and crash not far Gandhi took off from and crash not far from from from There were two civilian airlines at the There were two civilian airlines at the time of independence. One was Tata time of independence. One was Tata Airlines and one was Indian National Airlines and one was Indian National Airways. So the colony next to that Airways. So the colony next to that was Vinay Nagar. was Vinay Nagar. It was earlier called INA colony and the It was earlier called INA colony and the market across the road that served uh market across the road that served uh Indian the colony was ina market. Indian the colony was ina market. Nothing to do with Indian National Army. Nothing to do with Indian National Army. So you know even in Delhi there are So you know even in Delhi there are things all around which you know which things all around which you know which which which which wake you up to which which which wake you up to different things and you say wow so this different things and you say wow so this is what it was. So I think in that sense is what it was. So I think in that sense think the revelatory aspect or the aha think the revelatory aspect or the aha aspect aspect aspect of of quizzing to the extent that it's of of quizzing to the extent that it's you can't do that with everything but to you can't do that with everything but to that extent I think is interesting. It that extent I think is interesting. It opens your eyes and your minds to things opens your eyes and your minds to things which you always thought it was which you always thought it was something but it turns out to be something but it turns out to be something else. I I mean both of these something else. I I mean both of these geographical factoids about Pondicher geographical factoids about Pondicher being in four different places and this being in four different places and this one actually take you down rabbit holes one actually take you down rabbit holes of history and narrative. Yes. Yes. So of history and narrative. Yes. Yes. So that's the beauty of it. It it opens up that's the beauty of it. It it opens up different things and whichever way you different things and whichever way you go you find out oh so this is what it go you find out oh so this is what it is. This is how it was and for me that's is. This is how it was and for me that's very interesting and that's what drives very interesting and that's what drives me. As I said I've never been a quizzer. me. As I said I've never been a quizzer. Uh I would say I you know averely Uh I would say I you know averely wellinformed. I enjoy playing quiz games wellinformed. I enjoy playing quiz games and things like that. But uh in a sort and things like that. But uh in a sort of you know how would I fair in one of of you know how would I fair in one of my own quizzes I really don't know in in my own quizzes I really don't know in in if it's general in a certain way in the if it's general in a certain way in the way you know we've been speaking about way you know we've been speaking about it yeah I would do well but I think I'm it yeah I would do well but I think I'm a better quiz communicator quiz show a better quiz communicator quiz show maker maker maker uh quiz show setter possibly a quiz uh quiz show setter possibly a quiz master than I am a quizzer. master than I am a quizzer. No I imagine you would do pretty well. No I imagine you would do pretty well. So, you you have a great episode of your So, you you have a great episode of your podcast with uh Derek O'Brien, the two podcast with uh Derek O'Brien, the two of you, legends of different types. I of you, legends of different types. I think we should, you know, you should think we should, you know, you should record an episode where you ask him record an episode where you ask him questions, he asks you questions and questions, he asks you questions and he's he's been talking about going he's he's been talking about going around the country doing shows and as a around the country doing shows and as a as fundraiser. And he said, I don't know as fundraiser. And he said, I don't know if there are any takers for that kind of if there are any takers for that kind of thing. I'm open if somebody wants to ask thing. I'm open if somebody wants to ask and they still think that uh he's and they still think that uh he's younger than me that you know, two old younger than me that you know, two old codgers might pull them in. I'm open. codgers might pull them in. I'm open. I'm fine. Yeah. No, no. There's this I'm fine. Yeah. No, no. There's this nice little quiz show about sometimes nice little quiz show about sometimes called uh quizzing with a K on YouTube called uh quizzing with a K on YouTube by Kumar Bun and he does a really nice by Kumar Bun and he does a really nice job but they're all with young job but they're all with young celebrities and young standups and uh celebrities and young standups and uh Kumar if you're listening to this or if Kumar if you're listening to this or if anyone listening to this knows him. anyone listening to this knows him. Please tell him to do one with Siddhhat Please tell him to do one with Siddhhat Basu with Derrick and perhaps a couple Basu with Derrick and perhaps a couple of others. I'll gladly join and so much of others. I'll gladly join and so much fun and nostalgia do quizzes. Yeah, joy fun and nostalgia do quizzes. Yeah, joy is joy who's been hosting quizzes and is joy who's been hosting quizzes and what have you and so on and so forth. what have you and so on and so forth. This time during da puja I was learning This time during da puja I was learning again and him rishab they were taking again and him rishab they were taking part in doula puja pendal quizzes in part in doula puja pendal quizzes in chitranjan park in Delhi you know and chitranjan park in Delhi you know and losing meaning not always but I mean in losing meaning not always but I mean in the sense they were happy to lose but it the sense they were happy to lose but it was the taking part they are they're was the taking part they are they're quizzers they're enthusiast from that quizzers they're enthusiast from that point of view you know what I mean it's point of view you know what I mean it's like people who enjoy playing a game of like people who enjoy playing a game of cricket you don't have to do it at the cricket you don't have to do it at the IPL level or whatever but you play IPL level or whatever but you play because you enjoyed it and that's great because you enjoyed it and that's great I really appreciate that you know to be I really appreciate that you know to be able to do that to do things for the able to do that to do things for the love of them yeah let's talk about love of them yeah let's talk about literature now since you mentioned that literature now since you mentioned that and I'm very keen to know about your and I'm very keen to know about your reading habits right from childhood reading habits right from childhood through college I I right from childhood through college I I I want to sort of understand everything I want to sort of understand everything that went into the shaping of the way that went into the shaping of the way that you thought about the world the that you thought about the world the frameworks you adopted um and the books frameworks you adopted um and the books that stayed with you and really moved that stayed with you and really moved you and u you know made you who you are you and u you know made you who you are you know as a kid one was of course you know as a kid one was of course comic books of all kinds including those comic books of all kinds including those which were classics remember Ivanho which were classics remember Ivanho uh treasure island all that kind of uh treasure island all that kind of things. So early sampling as very young things. So early sampling as very young was that when we moved to Delhi was that when we moved to Delhi you know it was much more isolated than you know it was much more isolated than Bombay there's huge flats mostly firangi Bombay there's huge flats mostly firangi neighbors in Delhi term neighborers neighbors in Delhi term neighborers comparers comparers comparers and I was then in a school which had a lot I was then in a school which had a lot of corporal punishments and very rough of corporal punishments and very rough culture I'd gone towards the end of the culture I'd gone towards the end of the year academic year that in some ways is year academic year that in some ways is unspecified ways sort of you know shook unspecified ways sort of you know shook me one year I almost didn't go to me one year I almost didn't go to college I didn't school I didn't realize college I didn't school I didn't realize what it was all about I mostly stayed at what it was all about I mostly stayed at home and I read home and I read right from Bombay we had my father had a right from Bombay we had my father had a sort of band of British library books of sort of band of British library books of all the how should I say children's all the how should I say children's classics you can think of you know I classics you can think of you know I mentioned some of them in comic books mentioned some of them in comic books but they were also in books there was but they were also in books there was black beauty there was you name it there black beauty there was you name it there was Jane Austin there was uh uh as I was Jane Austin there was uh uh as I said Walter Scott there was you know said Walter Scott there was you know Charles Dickens you name it all of them Charles Dickens you name it all of them were lined out and I started reading were lined out and I started reading massively then continued massively then continued in Delhi exhaustively I used to spend a in Delhi exhaustively I used to spend a lot of time on my own especially those lot of time on my own especially those days when I was home just reading days when I was home just reading reading voraciously reading voraciously reading voraciously for the first time I was gifted I must for the first time I was gifted I must have been seven going on eight Raj's have been seven going on eight Raj's versions of the Ramayan in the versions of the Ramayan in the Mahabharat and I poured over it and I Mahabharat and I poured over it and I knew a lot of it and thoroughly enjoyed knew a lot of it and thoroughly enjoyed it because of my mother's orientation I it because of my mother's orientation I was reading a lot of Vive Kan who was a was reading a lot of Vive Kan who was a very powerful writer very powerful writer those are some of the earliest things those are some of the earliest things when we moved to Madras and that was when we moved to Madras and that was even more isolated in this vast expanse even more isolated in this vast expanse of a home you know in a sixacre garden of a home you know in a sixacre garden or whatever it is I read even further or whatever it is I read even further ste the American classics uh uh the ste the American classics uh uh the early sort of how should I say early sort of how should I say existential writing uh kamu existential writing uh kamu little bits of satra you know the maybe little bits of satra you know the maybe some of the plays and that kind of some of the plays and that kind of thing. thing. thing. This was before 60 which is what formed This was before 60 which is what formed my interest in doing literature in my interest in doing literature in college. college. college. um um um even the wanting to say okay take to even the wanting to say okay take to medicine I forget the name of the novels medicine I forget the name of the novels the couple of novels set in the medical the couple of novels set in the medical world of healers I thought you know that world of healers I thought you know that is what something that you know I would is what something that you know I would want to do when I came to college then want to do when I came to college then of course one started reading wide of course one started reading wide variety thing but also English variety thing but also English literature itself began to you know come literature itself began to you know come to grips with it through the bachelor's to grips with it through the bachelor's days we only some of the teachers was days we only some of the teachers was very interesting one of Kalyandre who very interesting one of Kalyandre who was also a poet now married to Barnas was also a poet now married to Barnas uh who was a poet himself and in college uh who was a poet himself and in college we used to have a sort of you know um a we used to have a sort of you know um a poetry magazine you know which is very poetry magazine you know which is very interesting a friend called Siliki it interesting a friend called Siliki it was called Vinharatkar used to run it was called Vinharatkar used to run it and a number of friends used to sort of and a number of friends used to sort of write for it but really good stuff and write for it but really good stuff and we were exposed to fine poetry writing we were exposed to fine poetry writing of the time but it is during my masters of the time but it is during my masters that you know the mind really expanded that you know the mind really expanded because of the nature of the books from because of the nature of the books from different periods different periods different periods during the undergraduate days I've been during the undergraduate days I've been exposed to French literature the poets exposed to French literature the poets Bodilair Rambo so those were powerful Bodilair Rambo so those were powerful influences what they were doing beat influences what they were doing beat poetry poetry poetry you were reading Ginsburg you were you were reading Ginsburg you were reading Jack Carowak or you know the reading Jack Carowak or you know the road books and you know and the fluidity road books and you know and the fluidity and importantly James Joyce uh I I told and importantly James Joyce uh I I told you the portrait of the artist but after you the portrait of the artist but after that he gets into interior monologues that he gets into interior monologues and stream of consciousness. So it opens and stream of consciousness. So it opens you up to language in a different way. you up to language in a different way. But in the master's course the all the But in the master's course the all the texts texts texts were huge. They were enormous. were huge. They were enormous. Especially the novel which was Especially the novel which was brilliantly taught by Ian Cole. The 20th brilliantly taught by Ian Cole. The 20th century novel, the 19th century novel, century novel, the 19th century novel, American literature. It was each one of American literature. It was each one of them was them was them was mindexpanding and he made fantastic mindexpanding and he made fantastic connections between literature, connections between literature, society, society, society, life, philosophy, life, philosophy, life, philosophy, how it all interacted and came together how it all interacted and came together was to he had a soft voice. He looked was to he had a soft voice. He looked like a Buddha, young, you know, rooted, like a Buddha, young, you know, rooted, glowing face. Uh, and he would at arts glowing face. Uh, and he would at arts faculty because, uh, in the university faculty because, uh, in the university when you get to your masters, you you when you get to your masters, you you don't have classes in college. It's at don't have classes in college. It's at the arts faculty and they come from all the arts faculty and they come from all different colleges. different colleges. different colleges. So he would start and about 60 people So he would start and about 60 people would sit in a classroom by the end of would sit in a classroom by the end of it people from different departments etc it people from different departments etc would be overflowing because he so start would be overflowing because he so start softly but then he would weave a spell. softly but then he would weave a spell. So as a teacher and what he taught but So as a teacher and what he taught but also we had such different works. Uh you also we had such different works. Uh you know even Tennyson there was this long know even Tennyson there was this long Paradise Lost by Milton what he does Paradise Lost by Milton what he does with the language and the epic scope of with the language and the epic scope of it. Um it. Um it. Um there's one long lament and ex thing by there's one long lament and ex thing by Tennyson. I'm trying to remember the Tennyson. I'm trying to remember the name of the poem Mort. name of the poem Mort. It's skipping my mind now. put it down It's skipping my mind now. put it down to a senior moment. It's a meditation on to a senior moment. It's a meditation on death death death and it really shook me up you know and it really shook me up you know because he examines he it moves from because he examines he it moves from grief to understanding through grief to understanding through bereiement what is it all about how is bereiement what is it all about how is it is and in and in his way so emotion it is and in and in his way so emotion experience life and the why of it what experience life and the why of it what of it was something that was that was of it was something that was that was huge and I really enjoyed my master's huge and I really enjoyed my master's course uh the books the literature At course uh the books the literature At the time it was fantastic whether it was the time it was fantastic whether it was Shakespeare, whether it was poetry of Shakespeare, whether it was poetry of different centuries, periods, different centuries, periods, contemporary TS Elliott was a contemporary TS Elliott was a revelation, you know, to us. And even revelation, you know, to us. And even modern theater, modern American theater, modern theater, modern American theater, you know, the the great works, Death of you know, the the great works, Death of a Salesman, the all of that was sort of, a Salesman, the all of that was sort of, you know, was terrific. And uh it was you know, was terrific. And uh it was very sort of, you know, shook you up, very sort of, you know, shook you up, made you think. And uh I think all of my made you think. And uh I think all of my education that was a period which I education that was a period which I really treasured and I cared for. There really treasured and I cared for. There was a paper on criticism that was one of was a paper on criticism that was one of my best papers because then you how you my best papers because then you how you analyze something analyze something analyze something u and criticism is not just dissing u and criticism is not just dissing something. It is being able to analyze something. It is being able to analyze it to understand it to play it in it to understand it to play it in perspective and to you know figure out perspective and to you know figure out between the content and the form the you between the content and the form the you know the how it relates. So that was for know the how it relates. So that was for me academically one of the most me academically one of the most interesting periods and enjoy reading. interesting periods and enjoy reading. Subsequently uh I used to read different Subsequently uh I used to read different kinds of things but by and large I've kinds of things but by and large I've taken to writing reading Indian writing taken to writing reading Indian writing in English. Salman Rushi uh number of my in English. Salman Rushi uh number of my friends right Amitav gosh couple of friends right Amitav gosh couple of years junior to me mul keshawan uh Rukun years junior to me mul keshawan uh Rukun Adwani um Vikram Sait who's I think Adwani um Vikram Sait who's I think slightly more senior all of those people slightly more senior all of those people are writing wonderful works go are writing wonderful works go particularly I think is just outstanding particularly I think is just outstanding shashi has written so many books uh uh I shashi has written so many books uh uh I I've not read much of his fiction though I've not read much of his fiction though I've read his uh other work uh some of I've read his uh other work uh some of which I really like and he is a very which I really like and he is a very good good good I think you know and how he he handles I think you know and how he he handles that very well and I enjoy the way he that very well and I enjoy the way he uses language and he masters that. Um so uses language and he masters that. Um so I read a lot of that Jumper Alan Cely I read a lot of that Jumper Alan Cely who was just senior to me in college I who was just senior to me in college I never knew him but he used to have a never knew him but he used to have a sort of Simon Gafuncle group with sort of Simon Gafuncle group with somebody called Christopher Lug and they somebody called Christopher Lug and they were legendary. So some of his books his were legendary. So some of his books his you know are just outstandingly written. you know are just outstandingly written. Um uh Trottonama one of them uh Everest Um uh Trottonama one of them uh Everest Hotel I think is another one. uh he's Hotel I think is another one. uh he's written some very fine books seems to written some very fine books seems to have sort of gone into a little bit of have sort of gone into a little bit of the shadow but thoroughly enjoy them and the shadow but thoroughly enjoy them and Praep's friend that's how we met for the first friend that's how we met for the first time when she was an architect Arundati time when she was an architect Arundati Roy and uh the writing that she did in Roy and uh the writing that she did in her first novel was some of it was so her first novel was some of it was so outstanding outstanding outstanding uh you know she's a was a friend from uh you know she's a was a friend from that time so a number of them have that time so a number of them have written terrific stuff you know some of written terrific stuff you know some of them took to publishing was a friend of them took to publishing was a friend of mine called Sanjiv S who's to do work mine called Sanjiv S who's to do work with us as a photographer also he took with us as a photographer also he took to publishing Indian inc I think he to publishing Indian inc I think he called his imprint called his imprint uh published one very interesting book uh published one very interesting book where I recommend to everybody it was where I recommend to everybody it was called Alu Falu is it the legend of called Alu Falu is it the legend of Alufalu or the story of Alufalu who's Alufalu or the story of Alufalu who's actually a reus monkey and he's an alu actually a reus monkey and he's an alu falu he's in barahindu drinks benadryil falu he's in barahindu drinks benadryil glancing down so he's a typical of a glancing down so he's a typical of a certain kind of you certain kind of you campus student gets fascinated by this campus student gets fascinated by this girl monkey on on Fallstaff House where girl monkey on on Fallstaff House where a lot of sort of mooning couples go but a lot of sort of mooning couples go but sees a murder sees a murder but following is written by Ranjit Lal but following is written by Ranjit Lal who is a naturalist. So he follows Reus who is a naturalist. So he follows Reus Macak behavior through Delhi but also Macak behavior through Delhi but also the culture and history of Delhi through the culture and history of Delhi through that that that right from the battles in North Delhi of right from the battles in North Delhi of the British and the Indians the 1857 the British and the Indians the 1857 uprising all of that he tracks through uprising all of that he tracks through it some people have done remarkable it some people have done remarkable books you know uh I think and I still books you know uh I think and I still follow them Junali I enjoy a lot um follow them Junali I enjoy a lot um there you are I don't know if I yeah the there you are I don't know if I yeah the books to William Del Rimple. I think books to William Del Rimple. I think again the theme I think I've gotten a again the theme I think I've gotten a little cloistered in the sense of I've little cloistered in the sense of I've been reading mainly Indian material. The been reading mainly Indian material. The life and times of Alu Falu by Ranjit Lal life and times of Alu Falu by Ranjit Lal is indeed on Amazon. It cost 4,300 is indeed on Amazon. It cost 4,300 bucks. So I think that's because it's bucks. So I think that's because it's been out of print for the time like some been out of print for the time like some copies of mastermind I find are like copies of mastermind I find are like costless because they stopped printing costless because they stopped printing it long back. That's ridiculous. It's a it long back. That's ridiculous. It's a little paperback and it's wonderful. little paperback and it's wonderful. I'll I'll figure out a way to get it I'll I'll figure out a way to get it somehow or the other. It's so funny and somehow or the other. It's so funny and yet so true. And if you're a dillywalla, yet so true. And if you're a dillywalla, my god, it makes sense in a different, my god, it makes sense in a different, you know, you understand it so you know, you understand it so differently. And I think the tenny poem differently. And I think the tenny poem you meant is m the author. M the mur. So you meant is m the author. M the mur. So all day long the noise of battle rolled all day long the noise of battle rolled among the mountains by the winter sea. among the mountains by the winter sea. Tennis was wonderful with words, the Tennis was wonderful with words, the sound of words. The sound of words, you sound of words. The sound of words, you know, he made them come alive know, he made them come alive magnificently. The brook, I mean, you magnificently. The brook, I mean, you know, so how it clatters. My friend Jen know, so how it clatters. My friend Jen and some others, they co a place in and some others, they co a place in Titan River. Titan River. Titan River. And literally the brook comes alive over And literally the brook comes alive over there. You know I mean the eliteration there. You know I mean the eliteration the the you know the the music of words. the the you know the the music of words. But math is also this meditation and But math is also this meditation and examination of death is is is something examination of death is is is something which really you know is which really you know is thoughtprovoking and shakes you up and thoughtprovoking and shakes you up and at that time you would you know it at that time you would you know it really it it sometime it made me really it it sometime it made me dysfunctional almost you know that's the dysfunctional almost you know that's the kind of impact it had. So tell me around kind of impact it had. So tell me around that time when you're doing your MA that time when you're doing your MA you're reading all these great books you're reading all these great books you're reading the history of the novel you're reading the history of the novel in the 19th century in the 20th century in the 19th century in the 20th century etc etc reading poems like this etc etc reading poems like this meditating on death playing pollonius so meditating on death playing pollonius so on and so forth what's your vision of on and so forth what's your vision of yourself in this world because I would yourself in this world because I would imagine that a young man going through imagine that a young man going through that kind of a phase then can that kind of a phase then can contemplate nothing but a life in the contemplate nothing but a life in the arts because there can be nothing arts because there can be nothing greater and more worthy and more greater and more worthy and more satisfying than becoming a television satisfying than becoming a television hack. hack. hack. Come on, let's not say that. Yeah. No, Come on, let's not say that. Yeah. No, but yes, in many ways, in many ways but yes, in many ways, in many ways that's what happened because um it was a that's what happened because um it was a livelihood and then there was a team and livelihood and then there was a team and then there was a family and you know then there was a family and you know sort of you know so one thing led to the sort of you know so one thing led to the other that work came to us and most of other that work came to us and most of the work was unsolicited. It came to us the work was unsolicited. It came to us and we made the most of it in different and we made the most of it in different ways. In television we worked on ways. In television we worked on different genres and done a current different genres and done a current program with virang called a question of program with virang called a question of answers. It was a debate program with answers. It was a debate program with substance which was informed which we substance which was informed which we decided I spoke to him we agreed let's decided I spoke to him we agreed let's have light not heat but we had terrific have light not heat but we had terrific people sort of taking part in it that people sort of taking part in it that was current affairs we've done science was current affairs we've done science shows we've done comedy shows I did a shows we've done comedy shows I did a thing in improv uh show called Munch thing in improv uh show called Munch Masala lifestyle program called style Masala lifestyle program called style today uh we've done you know uh today uh we've done you know uh different kinds of shows talent shows different kinds of shows talent shows like uh India's got talentarinda and like uh India's got talentarinda and then we did uh India's Got Talent and then we did uh India's Got Talent and you know founded we set the template and you know founded we set the template and we're happy to do different kinds of we're happy to do different kinds of shows. We did a shows. We did a how should I say uh civil case how should I say uh civil case adjudication show for for for I don't adjudication show for for for I don't know a couple of hundred shows with know a couple of hundred shows with Kirani called Abki Kacheri which was Kirani called Abki Kacheri which was civil cases alternate dispute redressle civil cases alternate dispute redressle on the basis of law and equity on the basis of law and equity being sorted in front of your eyes and being sorted in front of your eyes and in that year and we were given a very in that year and we were given a very tough slot at 10:30 at night succeeding tough slot at 10:30 at night succeeding We were doing a show with Salman at that We were doing a show with Salman at that time. We were doing a show with Shah Ruk time. We were doing a show with Shah Ruk and Kacher that year had the highest and Kacher that year had the highest average rating through the year because average rating through the year because it was gi because people are not aware it was gi because people are not aware of what the laws were. A kid who's sort of what the laws were. A kid who's sort of you know 18 21 whatever says huck and of you know 18 21 whatever says huck and you says the law says it is not your you says the law says it is not your huck once you're an adult it's not your huck once you're an adult it's not your huck at all. This is what your huck is. huck at all. This is what your huck is. If it is ancestral property coming in a If it is ancestral property coming in a certain way but if it's not and if it's certain way but if it's not and if it's father then it's something else or father then it's something else or matrimonial disputes or property matrimonial disputes or property disputes or you know sort of problems of disputes or you know sort of problems of the age all the civil disputes it was the age all the civil disputes it was actually is happening in other home but actually is happening in other home but they don't know the issues but how it they don't know the issues but how it was the intrinsic was the intrinsic drama of disputes and redress drama of disputes and redress and informing them you know there was and informing them you know there was the structure we figured was sunai nai the structure we figured was sunai nai and samja and samja and samja You know we had to try and and we didn't You know we had to try and and we didn't always effect a sort of raproma but you always effect a sort of raproma but you tried to explain the role this is your tried to explain the role this is your rights this is your reparation at the rights this is your reparation at the end of it you tried to do something for end of it you tried to do something for the people involved that was the the people involved that was the structure typically in a half an hour structure typically in a half an hour show and show and show and it was for us and we had legal people it was for us and we had legal people teams sitting we got the cases what are teams sitting we got the cases what are the things it was it thoroughly enjoyed the things it was it thoroughly enjoyed doing that but you know what you spoke doing that but you know what you spoke about a little while ago while making about a little while ago while making all these shows and what one would love all these shows and what one would love before things got ultra specialized before things got ultra specialized you have to think of content you have to you have to think of content you have to think of research you have to think of think of research you have to think of presentation you have to think of how presentation you have to think of how you put it together how you communicated you put it together how you communicated to people it's a it's a it's an all to people it's a it's a it's an all round kind of perspective ideally that round kind of perspective ideally that you should have and I think it's you should have and I think it's possibly coming back to that in social possibly coming back to that in social media as the media is getting media as the media is getting democratized as it moving away only from democratized as it moving away only from the control of executive producer the control of executive producer producers in, you know, broadcast houses producers in, you know, broadcast houses or OTT or whatever it is. You know, or OTT or whatever it is. You know, there was a joke. What's the difference there was a joke. What's the difference between God and an EP? Executive between God and an EP? Executive producer. Do you know the answer? No. producer. Do you know the answer? No. God doesn't think he's an EP. You know, and they're trying to somehow You know, and they're trying to somehow hook people through moments or to do hook people through moments or to do this or to do that and completely, you this or to do that and completely, you know, the the the integrity of the show know, the the the integrity of the show of uh you know, what is happening gets of uh you know, what is happening gets lost. So at this time you can be your lost. So at this time you can be your own EP own EP own EP and try and go out there and do thing. and try and go out there and do thing. But if you have a rounded perspective, But if you have a rounded perspective, the medium from big to small, I believe the medium from big to small, I believe you're much better equipped to do stuff you're much better equipped to do stuff and put it together. Does that mean that and put it together. Does that mean that has all the magic formulas of making it has all the magic formulas of making it work? No. There are things that work work? No. There are things that work which you know between you and me and which you know between you and me and the high heavens, nobody can predict the high heavens, nobody can predict what makes it work. We were talking what makes it work. We were talking casually, informally about Mr. beast and casually, informally about Mr. beast and you know uh I don't for the life of me you know uh I don't for the life of me know what it is that makes it work but know what it is that makes it work but it works it works it works you know the highest viewership you know the highest viewership subscriber in on YouTube or 369 million subscriber in on YouTube or 369 million my god what is it about him or what he my god what is it about him or what he does maybe I'm the wrong generation I does maybe I'm the wrong generation I don't know but something works don't know but something works and so I think the thing is to do at a and so I think the thing is to do at a micro scale in terms of depth more can micro scale in terms of depth more can be done now than ever before at whatever be done now than ever before at whatever level. Let me uh digress on an aspect of level. Let me uh digress on an aspect of that. I do want to go back later but I that. I do want to go back later but I want to uh and I also want to explore want to uh and I also want to explore your television times in much greater your television times in much greater detail but to double click on that detail but to double click on that aspect of what works and not knowing aspect of what works and not knowing what works and that is very typical that what works and that is very typical that you don't know what works. It's a good you don't know what works. It's a good thing to try many different things with thing to try many different things with an open mind but I would imagine that in an open mind but I would imagine that in your um decadesl long journey of doing your um decadesl long journey of doing television and etc etc you would have television and etc etc you would have gotten insights into Indian society on gotten insights into Indian society on the basis of what people want to watch the basis of what people want to watch and what people don't want to watch and what people don't want to watch which would have surprised even yourself which would have surprised even yourself at some points in time like I would at some points in time like I would rather listen to someone like you or an rather listen to someone like you or an advertising man talk about Indian advertising man talk about Indian society than an actual sociologist or an society than an actual sociologist or an anthropologist because you actually your anthropologist because you actually your making a living depends on that making a living depends on that giving people what they want figuring it giving people what they want figuring it out etc etc. So what through this out etc etc. So what through this journey through uh the popular arts and journey through uh the popular arts and cultures you know what what are the cultures you know what what are the things that you have learned about us things that you have learned about us you know you know you know I don't know if there are any simple or I don't know if there are any simple or easy answers easy answers easy answers and this search began early Sraep and this search began early Sraep Krishna was a guest editor during my Krishna was a guest editor during my TVNF days of a intentional center sort TVNF days of a intentional center sort of you know fairly academic exercise on of you know fairly academic exercise on on popular cinema I worked on on with on popular cinema I worked on on with him on loosely it was called curry him on loosely it was called curry westerns westerns westerns the anti-hero who worked on the margins the anti-hero who worked on the margins who was the outlier who came in who who was the outlier who came in who fixed things took the law into his own fixed things took the law into his own hands and you compared it with society hands and you compared it with society and what was there and what was there and what was there the Sanjay Gandhi phenomenon the angry the Sanjay Gandhi phenomenon the angry young man young man young man and you looked at it academically rigor and you looked at it academically rigor to try and find out there are never easy to try and find out there are never easy answers on you know what works and don't answers on you know what works and don't work and I don't know if I found that work and I don't know if I found that out to this stage out to this stage but but but we straddled we straddled we straddled according to the trade according to the trade what our team at synergy straddled what our team at synergy straddled was two worlds one is what in the trade was two worlds one is what in the trade is misused is called messy is misused is called messy and we were thought to be classy and we were thought to be classy pains in the Yes. pains in the Yes. So between but we managed to put them So between but we managed to put them together in certain shows in certain together in certain shows in certain ways and made it work like that. ways and made it work like that. So Synergy Siddhad Basu always but they looked at us a fresh when we but they looked at us a fresh when we made a corn benega karpati work. made a corn benega karpati work. It was not entirely because of what we It was not entirely because of what we brought to the show. That was only part brought to the show. That was only part of it. It was the the format itself. It of it. It was the the format itself. It was uh what the broadcaster put into it. was uh what the broadcaster put into it. Samir was very dynamic in positioning Samir was very dynamic in positioning and Sam Nay that is he was program head and Sam Nay that is he was program head at star at that time. The figure of at star at that time. The figure of Bachan, Bachan, Bachan, the size of the prize, the open context the size of the prize, the open context which we help put together and how do which we help put together and how do you get people from all over? How do you you get people from all over? How do you open out to people and genuinely with open out to people and genuinely with integrity follow a certain procedure of integrity follow a certain procedure of selection which is transparent? How do selection which is transparent? How do you conduct it during the show? you conduct it during the show? Actually, what works? What is the kind Actually, what works? What is the kind of content? All of that came together of content? All of that came together to create a communicator's dream. It was to create a communicator's dream. It was magnificently successful in its first magnificently successful in its first outing particularly. It's still around. outing particularly. It's still around. The longevity has been exceptional and The longevity has been exceptional and we've done it in several places. Could we've done it in several places. Could that be replicated in all other shows? that be replicated in all other shows? No. I mentioned Abki Kacheri which was No. I mentioned Abki Kacheri which was hugely popular. Duskadum when it came it hugely popular. Duskadum when it came it repositioned Salman Khan completely. He repositioned Salman Khan completely. He had a certain bad boy image and he knows had a certain bad boy image and he knows it and he acknowledges it you know that it and he acknowledges it you know that humanized him because that's that side humanized him because that's that side of Salman which is very generous which of Salman which is very generous which is very open which is very sort of you is very open which is very sort of you know uh open to people. He genuinely has know uh open to people. He genuinely has no problems with whoever he's talking no problems with whoever he's talking to. He He's not class conscious in that to. He He's not class conscious in that sense at all. He's the opposite of that. sense at all. He's the opposite of that. I think that came through in a certain I think that came through in a certain way and he was seen in a different way. way and he was seen in a different way. He was one of those who didn't have too He was one of those who didn't have too many endorsements but then it changed many endorsements but then it changed completely after that and you know uh completely after that and you know uh so we managed to capture that side of so we managed to capture that side of him and that did I think wonders for him him and that did I think wonders for him and he's uh he's one of those guys who and he's uh he's one of those guys who remembers stuff you know and and and and remembers stuff you know and and and and uh sort of you know for him that meant a uh sort of you know for him that meant a lot so he enjoyed doing a show like that lot so he enjoyed doing a show like that to understand what works at the popular to understand what works at the popular level level level I I think KBC has a had a lot to teach I I think KBC has a had a lot to teach us in terms of till then we were doing us in terms of till then we were doing masterminds we were doing a question of masterminds we were doing a question of answers we were doing science show answers we were doing science show called ureka we doing other quiz shows called ureka we doing other quiz shows and you know sort of to the intent and you know sort of to the intent people were interested by that time people were interested by that time channels had proliferated there was uh channels had proliferated there was uh sort of more to sort of you know engage sort of more to sort of you know engage people sahu shows became people sahu shows became sort of the ruling thing lowest common sort of the ruling thing lowest common denominator kicked in big time you know denominator kicked in big time you know uh the so-called reality contrived uh the so-called reality contrived reality show was, you know, where really reality show was, you know, where really sort of, you know, scraped the bottom of sort of, you know, scraped the bottom of the barrel on on the content they were the barrel on on the content they were with, you know, sort of um uh how they with, you know, sort of um uh how they came up with the basist forms of human came up with the basist forms of human nature and sort of what people wanted nature and sort of what people wanted and you know that found an audience and and you know that found an audience and that was very worrying. But here we that was very worrying. But here we found found found there were people coming from everywhere who you learned more about or what life who you learned more about or what life was there, was there, was there, what it meant to them. You found out what it meant to them. You found out more about them and we started telling more about them and we started telling their stories their stories their stories in miniature whatever it is. There we in miniature whatever it is. There we learned about what makes it work in learned about what makes it work in those places. those places. those places. One thing of course was the money but One thing of course was the money but other people when we started KBC was other people when we started KBC was were offering more there was a show were offering more there was a show called Sawalas Kroka I don't know called Sawalas Kroka I don't know whether you remember Chapar Park they whether you remember Chapar Park they were on offering much more money but the were on offering much more money but the format the content the the hosting all format the content the the hosting all of that had to come together of that had to come together and work in a certain way for it to work and work in a certain way for it to work but in terms of our society and you know but in terms of our society and you know what uh people want you're constantly what uh people want you're constantly trying to find out I think worked trying to find out I think worked because they could relate to the because they could relate to the content. You had demands from the content. You had demands from the broadcaster saying yeah middle class lower. middle class lower. He said look they're willing to come and He said look they're willing to come and they're willing to talk and they're they're willing to talk and they're willing to put it all out there. The willing to put it all out there. The others are not. Then we tried but then others are not. Then we tried but then the cases became so complex and what the cases became so complex and what they were willing to talk about and let they were willing to talk about and let it all out there became completely it all out there became completely different. different. different. and human issues, relationships, laws and human issues, relationships, laws don't change because of what class you don't change because of what class you come from. advertiser you know sort of you know advertiser you know sort of you know I said yeah I said yeah I mean sort of they may be in I mean sort of they may be in workingclass jobs and whatever it is but workingclass jobs and whatever it is but they are people and the issues are they are people and the issues are universal universal universal that's what made it work that's what made it work you know I mean intergenerational issues you know I mean intergenerational issues property disputes matrimonial disputes property disputes matrimonial disputes you know we could only deal with civil you know we could only deal with civil disputes because that's the nature of disputes because that's the nature of alter dispute redressle which the courts alter dispute redressle which the courts and the laws of the country encourage and the laws of the country encourage you can't deal with criminal cases and you can't deal with criminal cases and all that kind of stuff. So that was all that kind of stuff. So that was that's what made it work. We did another that's what made it work. We did another show which became very controversial show which became very controversial almost got almost got almost got us whereas the channel sort of you know us whereas the channel sort of you know parliament was in uproar. It was called parliament was in uproar. It was called Satka samna Satka samna Satka samna which was absolutely sensational which was absolutely sensational international show called the moment of international show called the moment of truth truth truth and you had to sort of f it and you had to sort of f it internationally. There are detectives internationally. There are detectives here. We had to teach people and the here. We had to teach people and the then uh management at star said you have then uh management at star said you have to do this. It's happening. We have to to do this. It's happening. We have to shake up things or whatever it is but do shake up things or whatever it is but do it. But we tried to do it in as socially it. But we tried to do it in as socially responsible a way as possible. responsible a way as possible. I believe it was one of the first mature psychological mature psychological mature psychological shows that was on in that you found out shows that was on in that you found out what happened inside people's minds and what happened inside people's minds and what it was. It was not about people what it was. It was not about people spilling the beans alone. We tried to spilling the beans alone. We tried to make it like that internationally. make it like that internationally. You heard it. You you were allowed two You heard it. You you were allowed two lies, third lie, and you were out. and lies, third lie, and you were out. and you had a uh lie detector in this case you had a uh lie detector in this case we don't have lie detectors over there we don't have lie detectors over there so an FBI uh licensed lie detector so an FBI uh licensed lie detector polygraphist came all the way to do it polygraphist came all the way to do it and so on so forth we found a host who and so on so forth we found a host who was empathetic and sympathetic in Rajiv was empathetic and sympathetic in Rajiv Kandelwal Kandelwal Kandelwal but what we found out then especially in but what we found out then especially in the first outing and it became a the first outing and it became a sensation and it connected with people sensation and it connected with people is what are people actually thinking is what are people actually thinking apart from what apart from what is actually out there. So psychology is actually out there. So psychology in the way that of of what goes on in in the way that of of what goes on in people's mind, what are they thinking, people's mind, what are they thinking, what is going out which shocked the hell what is going out which shocked the hell out of people but the intention was not out of people but the intention was not shock. The intention was to probe why do shock. The intention was to probe why do people do the things that they do? Why people do the things that they do? Why do they hide the things that they do do they hide the things that they do what it is? And we used to counsel what it is? And we used to counsel people at a certain stage that look this people at a certain stage that look this is going to live far beyond the studio. is going to live far beyond the studio. See how far you want to say how far and See how far you want to say how far and it's the disclosure whatever they came it's the disclosure whatever they came up with and we trained a group of people up with and we trained a group of people around us to become very good listeners. around us to become very good listeners. So all the things that they found out So all the things that they found out about people and their lives were for about people and their lives were for just for just listening to the people just for just listening to the people themselves to the people around them themselves to the people around them their friends their foes that's how we their friends their foes that's how we found out stuff. What surprised you in found out stuff. What surprised you in that show? that show? that show? The unintended consequences was The unintended consequences was something that something that something that really shook me up. People would respond really shook me up. People would respond to one of the things was people came to one of the things was people came onto the show for validation onto the show for validation in many ways. It was in many ways. It was uh it was confession uh it was confession you know in public in front of people you know in public in front of people saying what it was. Some people came for saying what it was. Some people came for the money and some people came to prove the money and some people came to prove something to somebody else. There was something to somebody else. There was one guy I remember who came he confessed one guy I remember who came he confessed to booth capturing in Bihar at that time to booth capturing in Bihar at that time which was you know jungle Raj was going which was you know jungle Raj was going oning oning oning his wife his wife his wife you know married to somebody else but you know married to somebody else but Utalia kidnap Kerali kidnapping was huge Utalia kidnap Kerali kidnapping was huge confessed to all of that confessed to all of that but once but once but once the polygraph prove the polygraph prove to his wife and the family they were all to his wife and the family they were all there that he hadn't cheated on her there that he hadn't cheated on her after that he was ready to quit after that he was ready to quit and all sorts of sensational disclosures and all sorts of sensational disclosures could have made beyond that but had come could have made beyond that but had come only for validation to prove something only for validation to prove something to somebody else. to somebody else. A lot of people came for that kind of A lot of people came for that kind of validation. Some people came just to validation. Some people came just to confess. Some people thought that okay confess. Some people thought that okay they may earn something out of it. they may earn something out of it. They could quit at any point. That was They could quit at any point. That was the nature during the research, during the nature during the research, during the polygraphy, during the show. They the polygraphy, during the show. They could quit at any point. That was the could quit at any point. That was the nature. But people would hear something nature. But people would hear something and then they would do something and then they would do something outside. People we didn't know because outside. People we didn't know because the newspapers were full of that. I think it was I think it was Rupa Ganguli the actress in one of the Rupa Ganguli the actress in one of the last and that is one of the few in that last and that is one of the few in that season celebrity episodes. season celebrity episodes. She had a child and she had a former She had a child and she had a former marriage and she spoke we thought quite marriage and she spoke we thought quite she was very forthcoming. She spoke I she was very forthcoming. She spoke I think very candidly about think very candidly about in she was divorced if you spent so many in she was divorced if you spent so many years with somebody etc etc etc they years with somebody etc etc etc they remain part of your family of your blood remain part of your family of your blood and so on so forth and certain things and so on so forth and certain things that you know that couldn't happen that you know that couldn't happen something somebody sitting in Agra something somebody sitting in Agra who had left her husband who had left her husband suddenly remembered what her formerly suddenly remembered what her formerly life and took her life life and took her life having seen the program that could having seen the program that could happen after a movie that could happen happen after a movie that could happen to everybody. But this kind of thing to everybody. But this kind of thing which you know also the press was which you know also the press was finding any association with the show finding any association with the show was this happened because of Satchkasna. The broadcasters put me and Kandelwal The broadcasters put me and Kandelwal everywhere in every news show and everywhere in every news show and everywhere to you know sort of you know everywhere to you know sort of you know face the firing squad and we were trying face the firing squad and we were trying to explain that what we was trying to do to explain that what we was trying to do with the show whatever it is etc etc. It with the show whatever it is etc etc. It was and it's voluntary people were you was and it's voluntary people were you know what they wanted to do but why did know what they wanted to do but why did we want to exploit it we didn't want to we want to exploit it we didn't want to exploit it we wanted to understand at exploit it we wanted to understand at least my approach was trying to least my approach was trying to understand if you look at it again if understand if you look at it again if you see Rajie it was one of the few you see Rajie it was one of the few versions in the world where people were versions in the world where people were allowed to give their safi allowed to give their safi why did they do what they did they spoke why did they do what they did they spoke about it they were allowed to do it we about it they were allowed to do it we were also at great stress through the were also at great stress through the show explaining that the polygraph the show explaining that the polygraph the lie detector is not 100%. lie detector is not 100%. If you're saying something as a lie If you're saying something as a lie according to the lie detector which need according to the lie detector which need not be accurate there may be a truth not be accurate there may be a truth beyond that but we don't know we are beyond that but we don't know we are going by what the lie detector says we going by what the lie detector says we would get brains to explain that but would get brains to explain that but despite that some of the reactions so despite that some of the reactions so there was somebody came over here we there was somebody came over here we didn't expect an unintended consequences didn't expect an unintended consequences he was exceptionally upfront of what he was exceptionally upfront of what he'd been up to and the family didn't he'd been up to and the family didn't know about it and that kind of thing and know about it and that kind of thing and so on so forth so on so forth and we spoke to them We always had and we spoke to them We always had psychological counseling before and psychological counseling before and after we had psych they spoke to them. A after we had psych they spoke to them. A son went into a prolonged depression. son went into a prolonged depression. I hadn't signed up for that. I didn't I hadn't signed up for that. I didn't know that that would happen when you you know that that would happen when you you know uh know uh know uh and I didn't want to continue. I wanted and I didn't want to continue. I wanted to just drop it like a hot potato. There was one after the uh whole app and There was one after the uh whole app and sort of India against corruption thing. sort of India against corruption thing. Suddenly we were told and we done a Suddenly we were told and we done a second season. They say you can do second season. They say you can do everything but don't go below the belt everything but don't go below the belt and the greatest embarrassments to and the greatest embarrassments to people are not other things but you know people are not other things but you know pecker deals are something they've done pecker deals are something they've done and so on so forth which was difficult and so on so forth which was difficult was another season but in between they was another season but in between they said India can make one only on said India can make one only on corruption corruption corruption and we realized that had no because it and we realized that had no because it was so everyday it was so mundane it was was so everyday it was so mundane it was so you know nobody cared and we dealt so you know nobody cared and we dealt with politicians with policemen with uh with politicians with policemen with uh production controllers of television production controllers of television shows every every private sector, call shows every every private sector, call centers, everybody was corrupt and had centers, everybody was corrupt and had no compunctions about talking about it. no compunctions about talking about it. So it didn't have the same impact at So it didn't have the same impact at all. So that is one thing you learned all. So that is one thing you learned about Indian society through that you about Indian society through that you know that corruption is normalized and know that corruption is normalized and sexuality is repressed. Yes. Yes. So you learned a lot of things going So you learned a lot of things going along that you know and and and and along that you know and and and and Saskatcha people watch boy they did the Saskatcha people watch boy they did the first season it really uh you know it first season it really uh you know it did for a star what they wanted it to do did for a star what they wanted it to do but we did for different reasons. but we did for different reasons. We thought we did it with a certain We thought we did it with a certain amount of integrity amount of integrity a certain amount of empathy uh listening a certain amount of empathy uh listening to try and understand and try to make to try and understand and try to make people understand why people do what people understand why people do what they do. they do. they do. Uh but as I said the unintended Uh but as I said the unintended consequences was something that I was consequences was something that I was not prepared for and that still disturbs not prepared for and that still disturbs me. You know me. You know let's go back to a happier phase uh of let's go back to a happier phase uh of your life which is the start of synergy your life which is the start of synergy in the mid80s. So tell me about that in the mid80s. So tell me about that because what happens here for the first because what happens here for the first time is that you become an entrepreneur. time is that you become an entrepreneur. You know before this you have been You know before this you have been working for people with people etc etc. working for people with people etc etc. I think on another show somewhere you I think on another show somewhere you mentioned how Prana Roy calls you the mentioned how Prana Roy calls you the typical Bengali in that he will not typical Bengali in that he will not start a business he will work for a start a business he will work for a company right and uh and yet here you company right and uh and yet here you are you know that's the that's that's the you know that's the that's that's the mindset more than this you know salaried mindset more than this you know salaried not because I've you know apart from not because I've you know apart from that brief interregnum at the Taj I've that brief interregnum at the Taj I've been self-employed all my life actually been self-employed all my life actually in that sense but not an entrepreneur I in that sense but not an entrepreneur I don't think I've been a successful don't think I've been a successful entrepreneur entrepreneur entrepreneur uh you know the company did well enough uh you know the company did well enough we were never in the red we were never in the red but to go back to that you want to but to go back to that you want to complete uh the question in a particular complete uh the question in a particular way yeah I think my my broad question is way yeah I think my my broad question is about um how that process played out about um how that process played out because you had to not just start a because you had to not just start a company but make a mental shift to company but make a mental shift to thinking like an entrepreneur and thinking like an entrepreneur and actually managing people which is a actually managing people which is a different kind of skill when you're different kind of skill when you're actually running the company and all of actually running the company and all of that so I I'm curious about that phase that so I I'm curious about that phase of your life where you become from of your life where you become from everything else you know the theater everything else you know the theater person and the actor and the quiz master person and the actor and the quiz master and all that to the entrepreneur what and all that to the entrepreneur what was that like you know I mean frankly it was that like you know I mean frankly it wasn't wasn't wasn't conscious decision to become an conscious decision to become an entrepreneur I don't think I've been an exceptional I don't think I've been an exceptional entrepreneur in that space entrepreneur in that space but to form a company an independent but to form a company an independent company rather than work for a producer company rather than work for a producer as a talent or a specialized kind of you as a talent or a specialized kind of you professional professional professional was really to gain creative control was really to gain creative control in my case in my case that you wanted to do it in the way you that you wanted to do it in the way you thought it needed to be done thought it needed to be done and a lot of that work was you know the and a lot of that work was you know the IP was signed over to other people. IP was signed over to other people. Our b biggest success is that you know Our b biggest success is that you know even things that we originated even things that we originated at synergy was not our IP at all. We at synergy was not our IP at all. We signed it over to people. We did so many signed it over to people. We did so many different kinds of shows. We did kid different kinds of shows. We did kid shows. We did that and that when we shows. We did that and that when we originated it and sort of in a handed originated it and sort of in a handed over to other people over to other people but the company that was formed it was but the company that was formed it was there was a earlier sort of aftar called there was a earlier sort of aftar called intermediate services which then became intermediate services which then became synergy that has really to corporatize synergy that has really to corporatize to regularize and also to be financially to regularize and also to be financially on a certain basis and a lot of that on a certain basis and a lot of that credit goes to large extent to Anita who credit goes to large extent to Anita who is a pragmatist and who's taken care of is a pragmatist and who's taken care of that uh more painful side of things and that uh more painful side of things and another colleague called Karun Prabhaka another colleague called Karun Prabhaka who was a one-man army a production kind who was a one-man army a production kind of you know gung-ho guy we formed of you know gung-ho guy we formed synergy a because I believe in synergy I synergy a because I believe in synergy I believe the whole is greater than the believe the whole is greater than the sum of the parts that you know when you sum of the parts that you know when you work with a gifted writer you just don't work with a gifted writer you just don't tell her or him that this is what you tell her or him that this is what you write or a DP or a host or a talent or write or a DP or a host or a talent or an actor. It is everything coming an actor. It is everything coming together and creating something much together and creating something much greater than they would individually greater than they would individually have been able to do. I believed in have been able to do. I believed in synergy. I believed in the in in the synergy. I believed in the in in the concept of synergy and you know what it concept of synergy and you know what it could come up with and I thought that could come up with and I thought that you know that was important and we you know that was important and we worked with some wonderful people worked with some wonderful people through different phases whether on through different phases whether on research whether in terms of research whether in terms of presentation technical side you name it presentation technical side you name it the organizational part of it and if you the organizational part of it and if you find out in the industry we have a find out in the industry we have a certain certain certain reputation reputation reputation had because now we're no longer part of had because now we're no longer part of synergy of playing by the book, synergy of playing by the book, by being as good as our word, by being by being as good as our word, by being prompt masters at a time when this prompt masters at a time when this industry industry industry when we got into a sort of how should I when we got into a sort of how should I say into a a joint venture and as it say into a a joint venture and as it were it was because were it was because the budgets became huge. People were the budgets became huge. People were dependent on us. We didn't have our own dependent on us. We didn't have our own funds and because there were certain funds and because there were certain broadcasters who were taking 125 days to broadcasters who were taking 125 days to pay pay pay and people sort of you know the how how and people sort of you know the how how are the kitchens going to run if things are the kitchens going to run if things were so that's at a certain stage we got were so that's at a certain stage we got into that so really running the company into that so really running the company the legal obligations the sort of all the legal obligations the sort of all the rest of it all of that has the rest of it all of that has principally been taken care of by Anita principally been taken care of by Anita and she was an active journalist she too and she was an active journalist she too has a creative side and so on so forth has a creative side and so on so forth but she's always been more of the but she's always been more of the pragmatist list and she's held that pragmatist list and she's held that together and current for a long time did together and current for a long time did that. Uh that. Uh that. Uh so really it was not so much to become so really it was not so much to become an entrepreneur as to have creative an entrepreneur as to have creative control over work that we did what we control over work that we did what we did. Having said that synergy has never did. Having said that synergy has never ever been in the red. ever been in the red. It has always in the black. it didn't It has always in the black. it didn't become an exponential success become an exponential success as NDTV did at one stage and sort of you as NDTV did at one stage and sort of you know expansion because I frankly I know expansion because I frankly I didn't have it it neither in her DNA nor didn't have it it neither in her DNA nor in mine so we didn't have it I mean in mine so we didn't have it I mean apart from not wanting to do it or apart from not wanting to do it or whatever it is then I think it was 20067 whatever it is then I think it was 20067 we got into we we we we sold effectively we got into we we we we sold effectively half the company more 51% to adlabs half the company more 51% to adlabs because puja shetty we spoke to And we because puja shetty we spoke to And we needed that that that comfort of knowing needed that that that comfort of knowing that hey if somebody sort of delays that hey if somebody sort of delays things for reasons of fluidity for any things for reasons of fluidity for any other reasons or if you wanted to grow other reasons or if you wanted to grow there was somebody believed in you and there was somebody believed in you and Manu and Shetty had a tremendous Manu and Shetty had a tremendous reputation and so did Puja and so on so reputation and so did Puja and so on so forth. So we got into an agreement with forth. So we got into an agreement with them first season I think of Jalaka them first season I think of Jalaka and within 3 months they shipped out and and within 3 months they shipped out and it was Reliance uh ADAG you know which it was Reliance uh ADAG you know which sort of you know that that that became sort of you know that that that became the people to be very fair there was a the people to be very fair there was a very fine gentleman that side we dealt very fine gentleman that side we dealt with called Amitam Junjunala with called Amitam Junjunala what happened though at that stage is what happened though at that stage is that that that they didn't invest in the company they didn't invest in the company Right. They bought the shares and I Right. They bought the shares and I believe at that time uh no it was Manm believe at that time uh no it was Manm Shetty I think when he did it that there Shetty I think when he did it that there was what they call Tali and they was what they call Tali and they recovered that from the uh you know recovered that from the uh you know stock exchange or whatever it is or stock exchange or whatever it is or whatever you know the cost was and whatever you know the cost was and multiples of that. So at that time multiples of that. So at that time Reliance ADAG was on a massive expansion Reliance ADAG was on a massive expansion you know left right center with Steven you know left right center with Steven Spielberg and so forth there was a Spielberg and so forth there was a massive exp you know they were adding massive exp you know they were adding things we were part of that so they things we were part of that so they never really invested in our company but never really invested in our company but they never interfered they never interfered to be fair you know and we grew we grew to be fair you know and we grew we grew five times five times five times because we were handling different kinds because we were handling different kinds of shows in all the we grew into of shows in all the we grew into different languages in the regions we different languages in the regions we were doing different things till at a were doing different things till at a certain stage what they call non-fiction certain stage what they call non-fiction in the trade which is really factual in the trade which is really factual entertainment sort of started drying up entertainment sort of started drying up and you know sort of and we couldn't and you know sort of and we couldn't sustain a huge team in an operation and sustain a huge team in an operation and so fortunately we were able to uh divest so fortunately we were able to uh divest completely and ship out uh ADA gifted completely and ship out uh ADA gifted 25% of it to Phantom which I was very 25% of it to Phantom which I was very happy about and I thought things would happy about and I thought things would happen but then Phantom imploded and it happen but then Phantom imploded and it went the way of all flesh and we went the way of all flesh and we retreated to Delhi to do a little bit of retreated to Delhi to do a little bit of content work and so on. So we step back content work and so on. So we step back from act active production we're doing from act active production we're doing small things and so that is the story small things and so that is the story the entrepreneurial story coming over the entrepreneurial story coming over there but now we have an app which I'm there but now we have an app which I'm trying to interest people to do but not trying to interest people to do but not simply an entrepreneur but really to be simply an entrepreneur but really to be able to spread the good word and uh able to spread the good word and uh thinking of certain things on a small thinking of certain things on a small scale which is really legacy work in the scale which is really legacy work in the knowledge field in the kind of shows knowledge field in the kind of shows that we have done to be able to that we have done to be able to encourage talent and uh to do things in encourage talent and uh to do things in this exciting new universe of podcasts, this exciting new universe of podcasts, of micro shows, of uh interactivity of micro shows, of uh interactivity through apps uh but gradually stepping through apps uh but gradually stepping back and letting young blood back and letting young blood take things forward. take things forward. That's the story of the That's the story of the not quite entrepreneur. not quite entrepreneur. So you know earlier when I mentioned So you know earlier when I mentioned your Hindu years was glorious years how your Hindu years was glorious years how you must have wanted to uh live a life you must have wanted to uh live a life in the arts. Has there also been an in the arts. Has there also been an interior dialogue within you about the interior dialogue within you about the stuff that you really really like to do? stuff that you really really like to do? And I I don't I don't view any of this And I I don't I don't view any of this television stuff as uh you know any television stuff as uh you know any lesser than that. I think it's a very lesser than that. I think it's a very honorable thing to you know to build a honorable thing to you know to build a business of this sort and uh to create business of this sort and uh to create content of this sort. At the same time content of this sort. At the same time you know you obviously had your theater you know you obviously had your theater dreams but did you also have other dreams but did you also have other artistic dreams things you wanted to do artistic dreams things you wanted to do in the mid '90s? Of course, like you in the mid '90s? Of course, like you said, you did dance like a man to great said, you did dance like a man to great claim and so on and so forth. But what claim and so on and so forth. But what what was going on inside you all this what was going on inside you all this time? And perhaps is there something time? And perhaps is there something going on inside you as well even now going on inside you as well even now that beyond that particular track of that beyond that particular track of building a business and building a building a business and building a career in showbiz and all of that beyond career in showbiz and all of that beyond all of that you know where do you get all of that you know where do you get your uh sort of what what validates you your uh sort of what what validates you to yourself? What's your to yourself? What's your self-actualization self-actualization self-actualization at this point of time? One thing through at this point of time? One thing through those years at Synergy those years at Synergy the kind of people we worked with and the kind of people we worked with and the way we've developed shows of the way we've developed shows of different kinds and the people who different kinds and the people who worked with us one of the most worked with us one of the most gratifying things gratifying things gratifying things is since we brought a certain method to is since we brought a certain method to the madness and a certain integrity a the madness and a certain integrity a lot of the people who've gone on to do lot of the people who've gone on to do wonderful things wonderful things wonderful things value that remember that and one has earned a certain love out of and one has earned a certain love out of that which one would like to spread. So that which one would like to spread. So one of the things that I would love to one of the things that I would love to do in whatever capacity in whatever way do in whatever capacity in whatever way is to encourage young people to work in is to encourage young people to work in the same way in the round way and to the same way in the round way and to build a certain thought and content into build a certain thought and content into the public sphere. the public sphere. We've spoken earlier about the kind of We've spoken earlier about the kind of things that are happening around us. So things that are happening around us. So whether it is through storytelling or whether it is through storytelling or whether it is through other whether it is through other interventions on whatever platform in interventions on whatever platform in whatever way to be able to encourage whatever way to be able to encourage people to work one of remember the people to work one of remember the growing years communes were big all over growing years communes were big all over the world that you lived in communes. the world that you lived in communes. The ensembler was a kind of commune you The ensembler was a kind of commune you know you ate together you cooked know you ate together you cooked together you stayed together you do together you stayed together you do stuff. stuff. stuff. I would love to be part of a you know I would love to be part of a you know sort of a community of people where original work is coming out where people original work is coming out where people are learning young people you're finding are learning young people you're finding new talent because we found whether as new talent because we found whether as hosts or whether as I said different hosts or whether as I said different kinds of writers people have really you kinds of writers people have really you know come into their own and done know come into their own and done different things different things different things one would love that to continue without one would love that to continue without me necessarily being part of You know at 70 you You know at 70 you realize your mortality more than ever realize your mortality more than ever because the different things are because the different things are happening in the body things around you happening in the body things around you uh your stamina is being affected in the uh your stamina is being affected in the you know you can't work in the some way you know you can't work in the some way and you want to do different things and you want to do different things which are not necessarily to do with which are not necessarily to do with work but at the same time those are work but at the same time those are things that you want to do so so that is things that you want to do so so that is one thing that I would love to be part one thing that I would love to be part of is of is of is be part of a creative community be part of a creative community which is which is which is doing doing doing work of value, work of value, pathbreaking work pathbreaking work pathbreaking work and discovering talent of different kind and discovering talent of different kind of encouraging that and empowering of encouraging that and empowering people and through that hopefully people and through that hopefully being an empowering force in society being an empowering force in society for the kind of values which one has for the kind of values which one has always believed. always believed. always believed. So, let's travel through 50 years. You So, let's travel through 50 years. You know, in the early '7s when you're doing know, in the early '7s when you're doing all of your theater, there is a creative all of your theater, there is a creative community of people, the ensembler community of people, the ensembler you're with and everyone Barry John has you're with and everyone Barry John has put together and they're not doing it put together and they're not doing it for the money because there is no money. for the money because there is no money. They're doing it for love and it it's They're doing it for love and it it's just that the creative energy of doing just that the creative energy of doing something new with like-minded people something new with like-minded people and uh I can only imagine how you know and uh I can only imagine how you know stimulating that must have been. I can stimulating that must have been. I can also imagine that that same community if also imagine that that same community if you transplant them in time and they're you transplant them in time and they're again 18 years old in the modern day it again 18 years old in the modern day it is not quite so easy to bring people is not quite so easy to bring people together to do something like that again together to do something like that again because the temptations of the modern because the temptations of the modern world influencer they all get in the way and there might they all get in the way and there might be creative sparks but then there are be creative sparks but then there are all of these temptations of doing many all of these temptations of doing many different things which all of which can different things which all of which can make you a living while you know going make you a living while you know going out there and uh uh uh doing the unusual out there and uh uh uh doing the unusual quirky production of magbet you did with quirky production of magbet you did with three magbets is actually not going to three magbets is actually not going to make you any money right in in the make you any money right in in the modern time. Yes. Uh some people managed modern time. Yes. Uh some people managed Lynette is still doing theater and and Lynette is still doing theater and and and surviving of it and not just all and surviving of it and not just all over India all over the world. A friend over India all over the world. A friend who's taken the path less traveled who's taken the path less traveled in really in the creative field is a in really in the creative field is a publisher Naven Kishor. He lit my first publisher Naven Kishor. He lit my first uh uh play of McBth and in Seagull uh uh play of McBth and in Seagull they one of the few successful they one of the few successful publishing houses in this very unusual publishing houses in this very unusual offbeat way and the kind of titles they offbeat way and the kind of titles they do in the way they do it with a certain do in the way they do it with a certain elegance and an aesthetic way. Hats off elegance and an aesthetic way. Hats off to him. So I love what Naven has been to him. So I love what Naven has been doing. So people h can take the path doing. So people h can take the path less traveled and make it happen and uh less traveled and make it happen and uh hey I'm part of that mindset people and hey I'm part of that mindset people and if that can come together and do if that can come together and do different things more power to it in on different things more power to it in on KBC we introduced something called kumir KBC we introduced something called kumir who were people who did who were people who did unlikeliest of people did amazing unlikeliest of people did amazing things. things. things. It could be a taxi wallala who's put It could be a taxi wallala who's put things together to start a school for things together to start a school for little children somewhere. That is one little children somewhere. That is one kind of thing. There is not as a kumu kind of thing. There is not as a kumu but somebody who was formerly in the but somebody who was formerly in the BSF. He was a you know sort of a lower BSF. He was a you know sort of a lower commissioned officer whatever they commissioned officer whatever they called it the junior commissioned called it the junior commissioned officer who won 25 lakhs managed to get officer who won 25 lakhs managed to get a bank loan and set up an international a bank loan and set up an international school school school in a sort of you know semi-ural plane I in a sort of you know semi-ural plane I think hey if there's a way to do it it think hey if there's a way to do it it happens happens happens there's somebody doing something for the there's somebody doing something for the aged there's something somebody doing it aged there's something somebody doing it for sort of you know people people have for sort of you know people people have forgotten you know sort of mental health forgotten you know sort of mental health people in Kolkata or somewhere else people in Kolkata or somewhere else another part of the country somebody another part of the country somebody who's doing sort of water harvesting and who's doing sort of water harvesting and sort of making Rajendas you know sort of making Rajendas you know whatever there's a whatever there's a Sonam in Ladak Sonam in Ladak who made the ice tupas and who set up who made the ice tupas and who set up the schooly setup for innovation was for the schooly setup for innovation was for failures for people who just didn't make failures for people who just didn't make the cut there are people doing the cut there are people doing interesting things and making it happen interesting things and making it happen more power to them you know I'd be very more power to them you know I'd be very happy to join them or to do something happy to join them or to do something like that And you know whether it like that And you know whether it becomes a mainstream thing or not I becomes a mainstream thing or not I don't know. But you would say that don't know. But you would say that there's greater scope for such there's greater scope for such communities actually forming and communities actually forming and flourishing today because of all the flourishing today because of all the empowering tools you have available to empowering tools you have available to you as individuals you as individuals to a great extent. Yes. Yes. but also to a great extent. Yes. Yes. but also from having the grit apart from the from having the grit apart from the vision having the grit being able to uh vision having the grit being able to uh innovate innovate innovate uh to do jar to live with it and to be uh to do jar to live with it and to be able to pull off things despite the able to pull off things despite the odds. odds. odds. So you know we were discussing in the So you know we were discussing in the break about how the mainstream is kind break about how the mainstream is kind of crumbling and we were chatting about of crumbling and we were chatting about the creator economy and how both of us the creator economy and how both of us have so much hope for it but I'll ask have so much hope for it but I'll ask you a question about the mainstream you a question about the mainstream itself even if it is crumbling which is itself even if it is crumbling which is about how Indian television has changed about how Indian television has changed because my sense of what happened the because my sense of what happened the mid '90s onwards is that you know mid '90s onwards is that you know whereas in the west television really whereas in the west television really established itself in a so slow process established itself in a so slow process over decades. So institutions took time over decades. So institutions took time to form and mature. Uh you know best to form and mature. Uh you know best practices came into place, processes practices came into place, processes came into place. It was a way of came into place. It was a way of thinking about something in India. It thinking about something in India. It practically happened overnight in the practically happened overnight in the '90s after liberalization. So your after '90s after liberalization. So your after the Gulf War I think the satellite the the Gulf War I think the satellite the satellite revolution and uh the satellite revolution and uh the institutions didn't have time to mature. institutions didn't have time to mature. You didn't have processes in place. What You didn't have processes in place. What you described earlier about how you did you described earlier about how you did not own IP in the west the shows you not own IP in the west the shows you created you would have owned IP but created you would have owned IP but that's not in place. and also the that's not in place. and also the halfpick thinking of suits sometimes who halfpick thinking of suits sometimes who are saying give us this give us that are saying give us this give us that break break break etc etc so what is your sense of how etc etc so what is your sense of how Indian television has kind of changed Indian television has kind of changed because in my view it started off not because in my view it started off not very good and in some ways became worse very good and in some ways became worse but you've been an insider and a player but you've been an insider and a player so what's your insider in the sense not so what's your insider in the sense not with the broadcaster you know as as a with the broadcaster you know as as a program maker as a producer the program maker as a producer the television bubble has burst Uh one is because of the crazy Uh one is because of the crazy proliferation proliferation proliferation more than a thousand channels so many more than a thousand channels so many 24/7 news channels and very few people 24/7 news channels and very few people know that in the area of news for know that in the area of news for instance the viewership is minuscule instance the viewership is minuscule subdigit meaning subzero in many cases. subdigit meaning subzero in many cases. So that's you know so the funding comes So that's you know so the funding comes from all sorts of places sometimes from all sorts of places sometimes vested interests sometimes politicals vested interests sometimes politicals sometimes you know industrial houses who sometimes you know industrial houses who have a certain sort of you know agenda have a certain sort of you know agenda and how they do it and how they do it in in in general entertainment space in in in general entertainment space appointment television because of the appointment television because of the proliferation of you know your devices proliferation of you know your devices and streaming and everything else and streaming and everything else is now an endangered species. It's is now an endangered species. It's almost gone. almost gone. almost gone. No bajia is now no longer possible No bajia is now no longer possible because you know nobody is watching for because you know nobody is watching for that time. If the same program comes you that time. If the same program comes you watch it at your convenience and watch it at your convenience and whatever it is now more than second whatever it is now more than second screen every handheld device is a screen screen every handheld device is a screen and people are watching things. So I and people are watching things. So I think you know so so the budgets to run think you know so so the budgets to run that in that way is gone and some things that in that way is gone and some things are working. The days of sort of are working. The days of sort of astronomical ratings have gone. ratings astronomical ratings have gone. ratings themselves are now sort of you know themselves are now sort of you know sort of they only partially useful and sort of they only partially useful and partially true. So you know what the partially true. So you know what the kind of pictures that they do but even kind of pictures that they do but even the OTT platforms now are feeling the the OTT platforms now are feeling the pinch. This is not a country that pays pinch. This is not a country that pays for what they get. If you paid for news for what they get. If you paid for news maybe you would actually get news. News maybe you would actually get news. News channels don't have money to cover news. channels don't have money to cover news. That's why they put together eight That's why they put together eight people, 16 people at one time and have people, 16 people at one time and have them shout at each other and engineer a them shout at each other and engineer a street fight and you know do a tamasha street fight and you know do a tamasha and sort of you know attract and through and sort of you know attract and through this you know this recent uh uh uh time this you know this recent uh uh uh time operation sindur and otherwise there operation sindur and otherwise there were people who were running the siren were people who were running the siren continuously for 8 hours at the back as continuously for 8 hours at the back as a background track to just a background track to just sensationalize things and make it happen sensationalize things and make it happen in that way and coming out with all in that way and coming out with all kinds of halftruths and untruths. kinds of halftruths and untruths. Similarly, the lowest common denominator Similarly, the lowest common denominator thing that was happening even that has thing that was happening even that has bottomed out in television on OTT bottomed out in television on OTT certain decisions that people have made certain decisions that people have made certain kind of programs that they've certain kind of programs that they've been thrown money at certain projects been thrown money at certain projects and they haven't paid dividends in this and they haven't paid dividends in this country country country there's only so much that people are there's only so much that people are willing to pay willing to pay for any kind of service. If it comes for any kind of service. If it comes free it's different things. So free it's different things. So aggregator channels aggregator channels aggregator channels have it rosy at this point of time. But have it rosy at this point of time. But how will that other thing come into play how will that other thing come into play is the big question mark. Is it only is the big question mark. Is it only through subscription? Is anything with through subscription? Is anything with any ambition and scale going to survive any ambition and scale going to survive unless somebody funds it for other unless somebody funds it for other reasons and makes it work is a big reasons and makes it work is a big question mark. Otherwise it's little question mark. Otherwise it's little things that people are going to be able things that people are going to be able to see and do it. Now I think they've to see and do it. Now I think they've started on sort of you know the kind of started on sort of you know the kind of you know open aggregator channels that you know the kind of budgets that you you know the kind of budgets that you would have in advertising and some would have in advertising and some people really would make sort of a mega people really would make sort of a mega budget now ads how many ads got known budget now ads how many ads got known I've just did a live quiz for the retail I've just did a live quiz for the retail uh you know physical retail convention uh you know physical retail convention where number of the ads which are some where number of the ads which are some of them are interesting some of them of them are interesting some of them were just indulgent most people haven't were just indulgent most people haven't seen them because who's watching ads on seen them because who's watching ads on what channel unless they pop up in the what channel unless they pop up in the middle of a real or they pop up in the middle of a real or they pop up in the middle of YouTube you are not getting to middle of YouTube you are not getting to see a lot of the ads which at one stage see a lot of the ads which at one stage when you had captive viewing when you had captive viewing on a broadcaster when we did quiz time on a broadcaster when we did quiz time it was there was only one national it was there was only one national network so you had to watch it at Sunday network so you had to watch it at Sunday that's how you know sort of one sort of that's how you know sort of one sort of go now everybody can be famous in go now everybody can be famous in whatever way somebody by dropping their whatever way somebody by dropping their clothes somebody by saying something clothes somebody by saying something outrageous uh by or whatever it is when outrageous uh by or whatever it is when that becomes the name of the game the that becomes the name of the game the fight is not so much for information and fight is not so much for information and variety the fight is for attention now variety the fight is for attention now what is going to get you attention what is going to get you attention And that's the big one and nobody really And that's the big one and nobody really knows and they're trying different knows and they're trying different things. Um things. Um things. Um so television and OTT both now so television and OTT both now are struggling for funds and viewership to be viable after Bezos. Somebody was just telling after Bezos. Somebody was just telling me said I'm shipped out of you know me said I'm shipped out of you know active management of Amazon. active management of Amazon. Andrew Jesse is not so much into Prime Andrew Jesse is not so much into Prime Video. Bezos had a little interest, you Video. Bezos had a little interest, you know, Emmys, Oscars, that kind of thing. know, Emmys, Oscars, that kind of thing. So on so forth and you paid $15.99 or So on so forth and you paid $15.99 or something for a Amazon Prime and video something for a Amazon Prime and video was part of it. You got fast service and was part of it. You got fast service and you got video. Now they're offering you you got video. Now they're offering you because in the overall worth of what is because in the overall worth of what is happening in Amazon and the engagement happening in Amazon and the engagement in India, video is not worth shaking the in India, video is not worth shaking the boat. The business is too small. boat. The business is too small. And now they offering you that prime And now they offering you that prime without video without video without video for $999 or whatever it is. So there are for $999 or whatever it is. So there are people may may opt for that and they say people may may opt for that and they say free MX otherwise I don't want to pay free MX otherwise I don't want to pay for it. Netflix the only thing where for it. Netflix the only thing where people are subscribing relatively higher people are subscribing relatively higher values but very cheap according to values but very cheap according to American standards. What are you going American standards. What are you going to get at the end of it? So really to get at the end of it? So really you're facing a time of great change you're facing a time of great change of what is going to happen of what is going to happen and here and here and here if people pay for whatever they're if people pay for whatever they're getting they may get something of value getting they may get something of value but otherwise during television's heyday but otherwise during television's heyday for me I always believed in a balance of for me I always believed in a balance of public service television and popular public service television and popular television which became became populist television which became became populist television in Britain. Initially it was television in Britain. Initially it was BBC and ITV. BBC and ITV. BBC was entirely through license fees BBC was entirely through license fees and it was public service broadcasted and it was public service broadcasted and what brilliant things they did from and what brilliant things they did from drama to all the David Atenburgh nature drama to all the David Atenburgh nature stuff everything. I mean you know what stuff everything. I mean you know what standards and what quality there was and standards and what quality there was and that was balanced by ITV which had that was balanced by ITV which had advertising. BBC had no advertising but advertising. BBC had no advertising but then ITV too had to have a mix of you then ITV too had to have a mix of you know current affairs and everything to know current affairs and everything to balance with things. Then later Channel balance with things. Then later Channel 4 and then once sky came everything 4 and then once sky came everything began to change in this country too. began to change in this country too. Ideally a balance of public service Ideally a balance of public service where where you know you had to have where where you know you had to have certain kind of content along with certain kind of content along with whatever else you did tried that for a whatever else you did tried that for a while you know so they had a initial while you know so they had a initial years there was a mix of great stuff years there was a mix of great stuff you know they would have serious stuff you know they would have serious stuff along with you know pure popular stuff along with you know pure popular stuff or mythology or whatever it is done in a or mythology or whatever it is done in a certain way but later than that too gave certain way but later than that too gave way to you know open house way to you know open house when the broadcasters took the populist when the broadcasters took the populist track track track the beginning of the end began to happen the beginning of the end began to happen and then with technology and with and then with technology and with multiplicity of platforms things have multiplicity of platforms things have changed and we are going to see much changed and we are going to see much more change now uh original how much more change now uh original how much original work we're going to see is a original work we're going to see is a question mark coming out of the country question mark coming out of the country uh but let's hope let's hope things uh but let's hope let's hope things change in a certain way and there too a change in a certain way and there too a lot of people started putting out such lot of people started putting out such rubbish even on OTT and things like that rubbish even on OTT and things like that you had different kind kind of content. you had different kind kind of content. But like the crisis in cinema, But like the crisis in cinema, nobody is going to the theaters any nobody is going to the theaters any longer, including multiplex theaters longer, including multiplex theaters because that kind of work is available because that kind of work is available on OTT platforms and they would buy it on OTT platforms and they would buy it out and do it. But that didn't out and do it. But that didn't necessarily mean quality was coming necessarily mean quality was coming through except in flashes. We're going through except in flashes. We're going to see I fear less and less of that. to see I fear less and less of that. You know, I think I think one seinal You know, I think I think one seinal moment in the shifting of popular moment in the shifting of popular culture was around the time Facebook culture was around the time Facebook bought Instagram because that is where bought Instagram because that is where as Zuckerberg famously put it, he as Zuckerberg famously put it, he realized that social media had shifted realized that social media had shifted away from connecting with people to away from connecting with people to becoming a business of attention and becoming a business of attention and everyone could be a creator. And that everyone could be a creator. And that kind of innocence started this deeply kind of innocence started this deeply polarized dopamine addiction, constant polarized dopamine addiction, constant dopamine fixes and all of that. And uh dopamine fixes and all of that. And uh to sort of recap our listeners on what to sort of recap our listeners on what we were talking about during the break, we were talking about during the break, it's about how you know creators are it's about how you know creators are connecting with audiences directly. So connecting with audiences directly. So your mainstream your mainstream your mainstream uh uh sort of channels are less relevant uh uh sort of channels are less relevant and advertising is absolutely less and advertising is absolutely less relevant today because like the the the relevant today because like the the the uh analogy I like to give is when I uh analogy I like to give is when I wrote in the 1990s, I might write a wrote in the 1990s, I might write a column and give it to Times of India. column and give it to Times of India. Times of India aggregates columns and Times of India aggregates columns and they use that to aggregate eyeballs and they use that to aggregate eyeballs and they sell that to advertisers and I get they sell that to advertisers and I get a tiny chunk of that. But today what has a tiny chunk of that. But today what has happened is I reach my uh community of happened is I reach my uh community of breeders and viewers directly. I don't breeders and viewers directly. I don't need the times of India and I don't need need the times of India and I don't need the advertisers. So where do the the advertisers. So where do the advertisers go? And I you know I asked advertisers go? And I you know I asked this question to both Prolad Kakar and this question to both Prolad Kakar and Rami recently in the episodes I did with Rami recently in the episodes I did with them and they were convinced that hey them and they were convinced that hey it's not going anywhere. Praad said you it's not going anywhere. Praad said you just have to make good ad films. But I just have to make good ad films. But I mean ad films are not an end in mean ad films are not an end in themselves. They are a means to an end. themselves. They are a means to an end. They are there because uh you you're They are there because uh you you're selling people's attention to them. But selling people's attention to them. But you know it's going to become redundant. you know it's going to become redundant. So you're absolutely right. I can't So you're absolutely right. I can't remember the last time I saw a remember the last time I saw a commercial per se. Absolutely. And uh so commercial per se. Absolutely. And uh so tell me this and perhaps you can use as tell me this and perhaps you can use as a reference point the way you consume a reference point the way you consume entertainment today or perhaps you can entertainment today or perhaps you can use as a reference point what you see use as a reference point what you see around you. But I'm trying to figure out around you. But I'm trying to figure out the future of entertainment that how do the future of entertainment that how do we consume what we consume in terms of we consume what we consume in terms of entertainment 15 years from now like entertainment 15 years from now like let's say in 2040 how are we let's say in 2040 how are we entertaining ourselves you wake up in entertaining ourselves you wake up in the morning what are we doing where does the morning what are we doing where does our entertainment come from our entertainment come from you know you know you know it would need a soothsay no Nostradamus it would need a soothsay no Nostradamus to say what's going to happen in the to say what's going to happen in the future I mean we can just speculate the future I mean we can just speculate the future is under the middle of an AI future is under the middle of an AI revolution where man you tell Sora what revolution where man you tell Sora what to do and creates a video. How are you to do and creates a video. How are you going to use that? How you going to do going to use that? How you going to do that? In the middle of this welter of, that? In the middle of this welter of, you know, mediocrity and sameness and you know, mediocrity and sameness and everything that is on the streaming everything that is on the streaming platforms, it's like a hypermarket. If platforms, it's like a hypermarket. If you don't know what you want, sometimes you don't know what you want, sometimes you can be looking and looking and you you can be looking and looking and you don't find what you want. But suddenly don't find what you want. But suddenly comes an adolescence. comes an adolescence. Yeah. What a show. And it blows your Yeah. What a show. And it blows your mind. mind. mind. You have to hope that something like You have to hope that something like that happens. But in today's days, that happens. But in today's days, you're talking about creators and you're talking about creators and finding their own audiences. If you want finding their own audiences. If you want to do something with a certain ambition, to do something with a certain ambition, a certain scale, a certain scale, how are you going to pull that off? Is how are you going to pull that off? Is it only going to be sort of little it only going to be sort of little dreams dreams dreams and little stories? and little stories? That would be very sad, you know, for That would be very sad, you know, for our society, for our community, for our our society, for our community, for our times where only little stories are times where only little stories are happening. If something has to have happening. If something has to have scale, depth, impact, scale, depth, impact, where is that going to come from? where is that going to come from? In cinema, unless you get bums on seats, In cinema, unless you get bums on seats, you know what do you have? Or even if you know what do you have? Or even if it's a select audience, as long as they it's a select audience, as long as they come and they get figured out, what is come and they get figured out, what is going to pay for it? How is it going to going to pay for it? How is it going to happen? Similarly, I think there needs happen? Similarly, I think there needs to be some ways one of course a to be some ways one of course a breakthrough in how you deal with breakthrough in how you deal with content and you know what kind of movies content and you know what kind of movies are made for instance or what is made are made for instance or what is made for what used to pass for television for what used to pass for television entertainment or what are the things entertainment or what are the things that and the story is constant that and the story is constant innovation I think innovation I think constant innovation and disruption is constant innovation and disruption is the key I'd like to think that 15 years the key I'd like to think that 15 years down the line down the line that you can see something to which you that you can see something to which you can say wow this wouldn't have been can say wow this wouldn't have been possible before. You felt that with possible before. You felt that with adolescence adolescence adolescence not only in the way it was shot you know not only in the way it was shot you know the continuous stakes but the subject the continuous stakes but the subject itself and what it dealt with and how itself and what it dealt with and how people are seeing themselves and what people are seeing themselves and what the world young adolescence are growing the world young adolescence are growing up in up in up in this whole incel thing. It's a thing this whole incel thing. It's a thing and how it becomes such an overpowering and how it becomes such an overpowering thing for many. They didn't know what it thing for many. They didn't know what it was. I didn't know what an incel was. was. I didn't know what an incel was. But it was, you know, that it could be But it was, you know, that it could be so upsetting for people the way they saw so upsetting for people the way they saw themselves or how they see their life, themselves or how they see their life, how society is changing, but it how society is changing, but it reflected what was going on. reflected what was going on. More of that needs to happen and more More of that needs to happen and more people needs to watch things like that. people needs to watch things like that. I think are the streaming platforms I think are the streaming platforms going to be able to pick those? Are they going to be able to pick those? Are they going to be able to encourage this? I going to be able to encourage this? I hope they can because even the hope they can because even the aggregator platforms hopefully won't aggregator platforms hopefully won't take an attitude. They have to invest in it and they have They have to invest in it and they have to be made to invest in things. I think to be made to invest in things. I think you know just like public service you know just like public service television there's an obligation to do television there's an obligation to do stuff to encourage uh socially stuff to encourage uh socially responsible content but even artistic responsible content but even artistic content content content you know I think that's the you know I think that's the latent socialist in me coming out and latent socialist in me coming out and saying well uh the the community owes it saying well uh the the community owes it to the society you know the the the to the society you know the the the people who run it uh need to give back people who run it uh need to give back need to do stuff and that's the one hope need to do stuff and that's the one hope that there is because if it's only that there is because if it's only in the capitalist mode in the capitalist mode of you know that can't be the only thing that is that can't be the only thing that is happening. I you know I see two happening. I you know I see two contrasting things. On the one hand I contrasting things. On the one hand I hear horror stories from friends about hear horror stories from friends about say Netflix in India and all the OTTs in say Netflix in India and all the OTTs in India essentially the kind of things India essentially the kind of things that they want the notion within Netflix that they want the notion within Netflix that is popular is that um people should that is popular is that um people should be able to have your show on in the be able to have your show on in the background while doing something else. background while doing something else. So I've actually a friend told me he got So I've actually a friend told me he got critiqued because a few scenes in what critiqued because a few scenes in what he was making weren't background enough he was making weren't background enough that you actually had to focus on them. that you actually had to focus on them. So there are these bizarre concepts So there are these bizarre concepts going around but but at the same time in going around but but at the same time in this deeply capitalist age as it were this deeply capitalist age as it were which I celebrate because it's all about which I celebrate because it's all about uh you know freedom and different people uh you know freedom and different people trying different things and not trying different things and not commisars commissioning films division commisars commissioning films division documentaries in this age we have had a documentaries in this age we have had a relence which I share your uh uh I I relence which I share your uh uh I I won't even say admiration I adore that won't even say admiration I adore that show I think it is so incredible it's show I think it is so incredible it's like in the by the middle of the fourth like in the by the middle of the fourth episode I was just in awe at episode I was just in awe at you know, not just in terms of the you know, not just in terms of the theme, but just the craft, the acting, theme, but just the craft, the acting, the the screenplay, the the the screenplay, the conceptualization, conceptualization, conceptualization, every aspect is ridiculous. And I every aspect is ridiculous. And I actually think I keep saying this, we actually think I keep saying this, we live in the golden age of world cinema. live in the golden age of world cinema. Like every year I just my annual Like every year I just my annual vacation is I camp at the Mommy Film vacation is I camp at the Mommy Film Festival and watch five films a day. And Festival and watch five films a day. And this is just the golden age. We are we this is just the golden age. We are we are talking now in a year where a are talking now in a year where a beautiful film Anora won at both Khan beautiful film Anora won at both Khan and it won the best film Oscar. There and it won the best film Oscar. There was a time where winning an Oscar was was a time where winning an Oscar was something that mediocre films did. But something that mediocre films did. But if you look at what is happening in if you look at what is happening in world cinema, it's just a golden age out world cinema, it's just a golden age out there and that fills me with hope. You there and that fills me with hope. You know the best thing about adolescence know the best thing about adolescence wasn't just how bloody good it was or wasn't just how bloody good it was or that Netflix commissioned it. It is that that Netflix commissioned it. It is that people loved it. You know it is that people loved it. You know it is that you don't have to you it's not that you you don't have to you it's not that you have to you only get there with lowest have to you only get there with lowest common denominator and kabi exactly you common denominator and kabi exactly you know that's what was so encouraging know that's what was so encouraging about it and sometimes that works about it and sometimes that works sometimes that doesn't you know this is sometimes that doesn't you know this is the thing a lot of Oscar cinema now and the thing a lot of Oscar cinema now and the war that the current administration the war that the current administration has declared on on it is it's considered has declared on on it is it's considered art film now the things that work are art film now the things that work are where everything is getting blown up, where everything is getting blown up, the Avengers, the, you know, the the Avengers, the, you know, the Transformers, you know, all that kind of Transformers, you know, all that kind of stuff. That is the shore shot stuff. stuff. That is the shore shot stuff. That's the executive stuff. Even now, if That's the executive stuff. Even now, if market research, if they come down to market research, if they come down to you, and I was trying to explain to you, and I was trying to explain to people, you think you can put together people, you think you can put together market research and make a show out of market research and make a show out of that, listen to it, take into account, that, listen to it, take into account, but then you have to see, you know, how but then you have to see, you know, how you can transcend it and still make you can transcend it and still make things work and sort of, you know, things work and sort of, you know, rewrite it. Understand what's going on, rewrite it. Understand what's going on, what people are watching, not that can't be the story that can't be that can't be the story that can't be all that you have to do other things. So all that you have to do other things. So I think there yes more stuff can happen I think there yes more stuff can happen provided people go and watch and listen provided people go and watch and listen enough people do that but it's not enough people do that but it's not always possible to crack you know it always possible to crack you know it never has been but you never has been it never has been but you know again I'm not talking about know again I'm not talking about commisars for culture but BBC we talked commisars for culture but BBC we talked about the excellent I mean blinders about the excellent I mean blinders is BBC they don't get ads but somebody is BBC they don't get ads but somebody commissioned it it wasn't a commisa commissioned it it wasn't a commisa or admirers planet earth or whatever it or admirers planet earth or whatever it is. It's I mean there they get is. It's I mean there they get commissioned in the public interest. You commissioned in the public interest. You have great comedy coming out of it. have great comedy coming out of it. You're it's depends on who is working You're it's depends on who is working what and doing it in what way. And there what and doing it in what way. And there are all things for all people but you are all things for all people but you figure there has to be minority viewing. figure there has to be minority viewing. When I say minority I just don't mean When I say minority I just don't mean religious but minority interests that religious but minority interests that there could be great programs in there could be great programs in literature. There could be great literature. There could be great programs on you know of different kinds. programs on you know of different kinds. There has to be that breadth of vision There has to be that breadth of vision to ensure that that keeps happening. If to ensure that that keeps happening. If you say each man for himself and let it you say each man for himself and let it happen, what I'm saying Amit is I don't happen, what I'm saying Amit is I don't know if it's going to happen now with know if it's going to happen now with the way things are going. You know, you the way things are going. You know, you spoke of market research. This reminds spoke of market research. This reminds me of this anecdote that I discovered me of this anecdote that I discovered recently about Seinfeld and Jerry recently about Seinfeld and Jerry Seinfeld spoke about how in 1989 they Seinfeld spoke about how in 1989 they made the pilot and of course they showed made the pilot and of course they showed it to a survey group that how are they it to a survey group that how are they going to react and the first point of going to react and the first point of feedback that came uh came back was no feedback that came uh came back was no segment of the audience wants to watch segment of the audience wants to watch the show again. And the second point of the show again. And the second point of feedback was that Jerry's backup feedback was that Jerry's backup ensembler is very bad. Can you imagine ensembler is very bad. Can you imagine this is Seinfeld? It's the same this is Seinfeld? It's the same ensembler. Can you imagine? You you you ensembler. Can you imagine? You you you have to you know you have to use market have to you know you have to use market research but you have to have insights research but you have to have insights into you know to what extent is it into you know to what extent is it useful and you have to have you know useful and you have to have you know beyond the thing you have to take the beyond the thing you have to take the punt beyond that and some people do and punt beyond that and some people do and some people did I mean Seinfeld did some people did I mean Seinfeld did appear and millions of people loved it appear and millions of people loved it but how many Seinfelds never happened in but how many Seinfelds never happened in the first place because of this kind of the first place because of this kind of thinking is also and you have thinking is also and you have exceptional things happening even in exceptional things happening even in Indian OTT some programs have been Indian OTT some programs have been exceptional uh uh scam 92 exceptional uh uh scam 92 uh uh Sam at applause took that punt. uh uh Sam at applause took that punt. Sony took that punt. Danish Khan took Sony took that punt. Danish Khan took that punt. Our friend Indanil who saw it that punt. Our friend Indanil who saw it through. He was our chief executive. He through. He was our chief executive. He had joined Studio Next at they saw it had joined Studio Next at they saw it through. And that whole story of Arshad through. And that whole story of Arshad I understand nothing of the stock I understand nothing of the stock exchange but the way it was put together exchange but the way it was put together and mounted you know I think it was and mounted you know I think it was exceptional. It was one of the most exceptional. It was one of the most exceptional OTT things that have exceptional OTT things that have happened and people watched and that happened and people watched and that sort of you know for Sony live it was a sort of you know for Sony live it was a huge sort of you know impactful show huge sort of you know impactful show that they did on that there needs to be that they did on that there needs to be lots more of that and that needs to lots more of that and that needs to happen and people can still connect and happen and people can still connect and you know but that was tragedy also you you know but that was tragedy also you know it was it was like a Shakespearean know it was it was like a Shakespearean tragedy because how one guy gamed the tragedy because how one guy gamed the system it wasn't the same with the system it wasn't the same with the second one and I don't know what they're second one and I don't know what they're going to do with the third one which is going to do with the third one which is Shra Shra Shra But hey, you know, those kind of things But hey, you know, those kind of things can happen. I loved something that uh uh can happen. I loved something that uh uh Zoya and Reema and people put together Zoya and Reema and people put together and not that many people have watched and not that many people have watched it. It's called Dar. Do you know the it. It's called Dar. Do you know the hard? I've heard of it. I've heard it's hard? I've heard of it. I've heard it's very good. Set Rajasthan and it is it is very good. Set Rajasthan and it is it is re you know it brings alive re you know it brings alive that those issues and it's about the that those issues and it's about the serial killer but in the the most serial killer but in the the most amazing way. It's it's it's it's a it's amazing way. It's it's it's it's a it's a very well-made show but then the same a very well-made show but then the same team goes and does Archie. So I mean you team goes and does Archie. So I mean you don't know you know it's not to do with don't know you know it's not to do with the team it's to do with what the the team it's to do with what the content you do and how and that Vijay content you do and how and that Vijay WHMA and Sonakshi are exceptional in WHMA and Sonakshi are exceptional in that just as Pratik was fantastic in that just as Pratik was fantastic in scam 92 but how much of that are you scam 92 but how much of that are you going to do and there are other good going to do and there are other good things happening I mean too many to name things happening I mean too many to name now but now but now but the people making the decisions have to the people making the decisions have to make those decisions everything can't be make those decisions everything can't be a success but they have to you know make a success but they have to you know make them in a well-intentioned way and take them in a well-intentioned way and take those kind of decisions instead of those kind of decisions instead of saying you know those things have to happen. So you know those things have to happen. So let's move away from the depressing let's move away from the depressing state of the industry and back to the state of the industry and back to the personal which is so first of all I want personal which is so first of all I want to ask you boss and I'm I'm saying this to ask you boss and I'm I'm saying this with deep envy how the freaking hell do with deep envy how the freaking hell do you have so much energy like you know you have so much energy like you know all day you've you've just been flowing all day you've you've just been flowing with energy and passion for what you do with energy and passion for what you do and etc etc and you know so many people and etc etc and you know so many people in your place would happily retire sit in your place would happily retire sit with the birds and the trees and just be with the birds and the trees and just be in that state of mind but you are still in that state of mind but you are still an entrepreneur again you are uh you an entrepreneur again you are uh you know trying new things so what drives know trying new things so what drives you today what excites you what what's you today what excites you what what's uh throughout I've tried to uh throughout I've tried to make my work make my work a coalence of things that I'm interested a coalence of things that I'm interested in even if it's not my own thing in even if it's not my own thing quizzing was never my domain you know quizzing was never my domain you know but I try to do it as in as interesting but I try to do it as in as interesting way as possible I try to do justice to way as possible I try to do justice to it uh and I try to get the team excited it uh and I try to get the team excited about it and we try to push the about it and we try to push the boundaries in many cases it worked in boundaries in many cases it worked in some cases not as well as it should some cases not as well as it should have. That is something excites me till have. That is something excites me till now, you know. Uh but I really would now, you know. Uh but I really would like to take it easy and walk into the like to take it easy and walk into the sunset and I'm not being able to at one sunset and I'm not being able to at one stage it was a obligation to the team. stage it was a obligation to the team. Now we've sort of downsized massively Now we've sort of downsized massively but there are still people who are but there are still people who are asking me to you know do things and if I asking me to you know do things and if I think I can bring value to them up to a think I can bring value to them up to a point I'm doing it. uh point I'm doing it. uh I'm a creative consultant on the Gandhi I'm a creative consultant on the Gandhi project that of Ram Gua's books which project that of Ram Gua's books which are being made into film uh with Hansel are being made into film uh with Hansel directing Pratik as Gandhi with Samir directing Pratik as Gandhi with Samir it's a wonderful project and I've it's a wonderful project and I've enjoyed being part of it that interests enjoyed being part of it that interests me and we mentioned they've asked me to me and we mentioned they've asked me to become a they've roped me in as a become a they've roped me in as a consultant on to try and spin off a consultant on to try and spin off a whole lot of sort of you know things in whole lot of sort of you know things in the game interactivity shows the game interactivity shows not as a producer. I'm not interested as not as a producer. I'm not interested as a producer any longer and I'm definitely a producer any longer and I'm definitely not doing for a quick buck. But hey, if not doing for a quick buck. But hey, if I can make good things happen, help to I can make good things happen, help to make it happens. If Anita can be part of make it happens. If Anita can be part of it and the other people and uh the young it and the other people and uh the young rishabs of the world and you know rishabs of the world and you know compatriots can it do it. So I've I've compatriots can it do it. So I've I've taken that approach to whatever is taken that approach to whatever is happening energy-wise. Hey man, actually happening energy-wise. Hey man, actually I'm in one sense I love to goof off, you I'm in one sense I love to goof off, you know, and do nothing. But yes, if know, and do nothing. But yes, if something excites me, I throw myself something excites me, I throw myself into it and I try and enjoy it as much into it and I try and enjoy it as much as possible. Importantly, try to get as possible. Importantly, try to get people part of it and people who are people part of it and people who are going to be watching or being part of it going to be watching or being part of it in a more indirect way also excited in a more indirect way also excited about it. That's what keeps me going. about it. That's what keeps me going. That's fantastic. I've taken a lot of That's fantastic. I've taken a lot of your uh uh time today and hopeull your uh uh time today and hopeull hopefully this is not our last hopefully this is not our last conversation here but uh I'll I'll leave conversation here but uh I'll I'll leave it with one final question which is it with one final question which is routine for um on the show which is for routine for um on the show which is for me and my guests recommend any kind of me and my guests recommend any kind of art at all books films music which you art at all books films music which you absolutely love which has meant so much absolutely love which has meant so much to you in your life that you want to to you in your life that you want to share it with the world. share it with the world. Uh I don't have a quick answer to that Uh I don't have a quick answer to that frankly. Take your time. Take your time. frankly. Take your time. Trying to think uh what it is. We Trying to think uh what it is. We mentioned some of the shows in that area mentioned some of the shows in that area that uh and some of the kind of movies. that uh and some of the kind of movies. Uh my friend Shujit who used to work Uh my friend Shujit who used to work with me at one stage has made some very with me at one stage has made some very interesting films in a very interesting interesting films in a very interesting way including one which sadly could way including one which sadly could never get released. It was called Shoe never get released. It was called Shoe Bite. Oh my god. With Amitab Bachan. Why Bite. Oh my god. With Amitab Bachan. Why didn't it get released? It got into a didn't it get released? It got into a bit of a tangle over rights over bit of a tangle over rights over stories. Manoj Knight Shyamalan had stories. Manoj Knight Shyamalan had written a one-page story and he told written a one-page story and he told Ronnie, "Yeah, you can go ahead and made Ronnie, "Yeah, you can go ahead and made it and somebody shall percepted made it it and somebody shall percepted made it or whatever it is." Finally Fox said, or whatever it is." Finally Fox said, "No, you can't make it." So, it got "No, you can't make it." So, it got stuck. But really a remarkable film with stuck. But really a remarkable film with a remarkable premise. Films that like a remarkable premise. Films that like that need to be seen by people. That's that need to be seen by people. That's one film. And Shu Shujit was one of your one film. And Shu Shujit was one of your proteéées and from what I have heard one proteéées and from what I have heard one of many many many people whose journeys of many many many people whose journeys you kickstarted you kickstarted you kickstarted which I'm which they did it on their own which I'm which they did it on their own steam because their own talent but hey steam because their own talent but hey if they got something out of that if they got something out of that wonderful there's a young lad who worked wonderful there's a young lad who worked with us uh uh who was from a Hindi with us uh uh who was from a Hindi speaking Hindi medium background he's speaking Hindi medium background he's been running a daily column been running a daily column on Delhi called the Dilliwala His name on Delhi called the Dilliwala His name is Mayank Austin Sufi in the Hindustan is Mayank Austin Sufi in the Hindustan Times. He runs a column. He's been Times. He runs a column. He's been running for five, six or more years. running for five, six or more years. He's been doing the DillyWala thing I He's been doing the DillyWala thing I think on his blog for some 25 years. He think on his blog for some 25 years. He began his blog. He used to be one of our began his blog. He used to be one of our researchers. Yeah. Uh researchers. Yeah. Uh learned to say things crisply, cleanly learned to say things crisply, cleanly over there, but went on. But he's now a over there, but went on. But he's now a flaer. Somebody just walks around, picks flaer. Somebody just walks around, picks up stuff, does stuff, writes about up stuff, does stuff, writes about little people, a changing one. a little people, a changing one. a chronicler of our times which is chronicler of our times which is exceptional. I would urge people to read exceptional. I would urge people to read his stuff and watch his watch his his stuff and watch his watch his column. He's been invited by Venice to column. He's been invited by Venice to set up something similar there in set up something similar there in Australia the ex he remains what he is a Australia the ex he remains what he is a simple guy with a tangled mess of hair. simple guy with a tangled mess of hair. Every night he goes to the shrine of Every night he goes to the shrine of Nisamuin Nisamuin Nisamuin and in the same place every night come and in the same place every night come rain come high water and he does this rain come high water and he does this kind of stuff. But his column and his kind of stuff. But his column and his things and his chronicling things and his chronicling of a time that is passing a lot of that of a time that is passing a lot of that in Purana Dilli is just something in Purana Dilli is just something amazing you know that I would urge amazing you know that I would urge people to see. Uh and I think in terms people to see. Uh and I think in terms of books of books of books I enjoy the novels Amos I enjoy the novels Amos uh flood of fire the last one shadow uh flood of fire the last one shadow lines which I think is absolutely lines which I think is absolutely outstanding. outstanding. outstanding. Sanman Rushi's novels I think uh the god Sanman Rushi's novels I think uh the god of small things I think Arunati's first of small things I think Arunati's first novel I think is just exceptional which novel I think is just exceptional which I would recommend to everybody. Tanama I would recommend to everybody. Tanama because of its magnificent canvas and because of its magnificent canvas and play with words and thoughts is play with words and thoughts is exceptional. The works of William Dal exceptional. The works of William Dal Rimple. I'm just calling out things as Rimple. I'm just calling out things as I'm sort of you know going through them I'm sort of you know going through them and thinking like that. What else? Uh I and thinking like that. What else? Uh I don't know in terms of music the music don't know in terms of music the music of Shillong Chamber Choir which I spoke of Shillong Chamber Choir which I spoke about a little before we started about a little before we started recording. uh they're doing such recording. uh they're doing such interesting work in terms of you know interesting work in terms of you know melding harmonies with Indian melodies melding harmonies with Indian melodies and uh putting it together in a new kind and uh putting it together in a new kind of way and I love uh interesting fusion of way and I love uh interesting fusion music and and music uh whether it's music and and music uh whether it's traditional whether it's popular it's traditional whether it's popular it's whatever it is uh I used to watch on whatever it is uh I used to watch on reals I used to not the program itself I reals I used to not the program itself I used to watch Indian Idol and some of used to watch Indian Idol and some of the talent was so exceptional that it's the talent was so exceptional that it's heartening you know uh there was a young heartening you know uh there was a young lad called Shoubjit the girl who one lad called Shoubjit the girl who one name escapes and the another girl called name escapes and the another girl called Sneha who sang guzzles but in a Sneha who sang guzzles but in a different way. They are such exceptional different way. They are such exceptional talents. My god, people should listen to talents. My god, people should listen to them and more like that and hey, maybe them and more like that and hey, maybe more like that should come up. So, I'm more like that should come up. So, I'm just sort of you know just sort of you know uploading everything that's coming out uploading everything that's coming out of mind through free association but I of mind through free association but I don't know if I can say something and don't know if I can say something and rediscover the classics. TS Elliott, rediscover the classics. TS Elliott, Wasteland, James Joyce, Shakespeare, Wasteland, James Joyce, Shakespeare, Shakespeare for what he's done with his Shakespeare for what he's done with his language and you know the amount of language and you know the amount of words that he brought into the language words that he brought into the language but the way he dealt with themes and how but the way he dealt with themes and how he did with it uh movies like what he did with it uh movies like what Vishal did with with Onara with Mbul Vishal did with with Onara with Mbul even with Heather which is the closest even with Heather which is the closest kind of he came closest to dealing with kind of he came closest to dealing with what Shakespeare did in Heather and what what Shakespeare did in Heather and what was happening in Kashmir was magnificent was happening in Kashmir was magnificent I I think it was outstanding and I think I I think it was outstanding and I think there again the classics I think it there again the classics I think it means something of the novels we spoke means something of the novels we spoke about the great Dickens about the great Dickens it was the best of times it was the it was the best of times it was the worst of times the tale of two cities or worst of times the tale of two cities or any of his great works and he was a any of his great works and he was a serial writer you know he was like a serial writer you know he was like a television he had to every chapter had television he had to every chapter had to end on a hang and take you to the to end on a hang and take you to the next that was the original serial sort next that was the original serial sort of you know thinking that came into it of you know thinking that came into it and then they were made into those but and then they were made into those but you know what they achieved at the end you know what they achieved at the end of it and they will stand the test of of it and they will stand the test of time. I believe the classics will stand time. I believe the classics will stand the Henry James, you name it. Uh I mean, the Henry James, you name it. Uh I mean, you know, uh I think to rediscover the you know, uh I think to rediscover the classics classics classics and in a new way, I think it's and in a new way, I think it's fantastic. I like that kind of fantastic. I like that kind of television show and and and and movies television show and and and and movies too, you know, in the sense of which too, you know, in the sense of which which deal with the classics but sort of which deal with the classics but sort of reinvent them in a different way. More reinvent them in a different way. More power to them. The timeless stuff is power to them. The timeless stuff is timeless for a reason. Yes. Sa thank you timeless for a reason. Yes. Sa thank you so much. you've been so kind to spend so so much. you've been so kind to spend so much time with me today. I had an much time with me today. I had an amazing time. But thank you for being amazing time. But thank you for being patient enough to listen to me through patient enough to listen to me through and for all the people who are and for all the people who are listening. Hey, even if I rambled, you listening. Hey, even if I rambled, you know, you absolutely did not ramble. know, you absolutely did not ramble. Every every I mean, there are so many Every every I mean, there are so many gems in there and every moment was so gems in there and every moment was so stimulating for me. So, thank you so stimulating for me. So, thank you so much. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank much. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Amit. you, Amit. you, Amit. If you enjoyed listening to this If you enjoyed listening to this episode, forward it to anyone you think episode, forward it to anyone you think might be interested. If you know anyone might be interested. If you know anyone who quizzes, trust me, they'll be who quizzes, trust me, they'll be interested. Check out the show notes. interested. Check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. You can Enter rabbit holes at will. You can follow Siddhhat on most social media follow Siddhhat on most social media platforms at the handle Babu Basu. That platforms at the handle Babu Basu. That applies to Twitter and Instagram. You applies to Twitter and Instagram. You can follow me on Twitter at Amitwarma can follow me on Twitter at Amitwarma AMI TV RMA. You can browse past episodes AMI TV RMA. You can browse past episodes of the scene and the unseen at seen of the scene and the unseen at seen unseen. And every podcast app of your unseen. And every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of the scene Did you enjoy this episode of the scene and the unseen? If so, would you like to and the unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You support the production of the show? You can go over to seen ununseene.in/support can go over to seen ununseene.in/support and contribute any amount you like to and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.