================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: _CvN4nbj8qo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CvN4nbj8qo
TITLE: EPL 25/26 preview: Leeds, Liverpool, Man City, Man Utd & Newcastle
CHANNEL: Total Soccer Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-13
DURATION: 1h 15m 37s
VIEWS: 133
LIKES: 8
COMMENTS: 2

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The TSS Gang is back with the third Premier League preview episode of the week, diving deep into Leeds, Liverpool, Man City, Man United, and Newcastle! 

How did those five teams do last season? What’s changed in the summer transfer window? How will they play? And what should we expect from them this season? All that — and more — on the show.

Thumbnail photo by Carl Recine/Getty Images

EPL PREVIEW PART 3 PREVIEW

0:00 - Intro
03:36 - Leeds
14:02 - Liverpool
25:06 - Man City
44:59 - Man Utd
1:03:43 - Newcastle

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 34,877

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and part three of our Premier League part three of our Premier League previews. On this episode, we've got previews. On this episode, we've got promoted hopefuls leads. We've got promoted hopefuls leads. We've got defending champions Liverpool, their defending champions Liverpool, their title rivals Man City, whatever Man title rivals Man City, whatever Man United are these days, and another of United are these days, and another of the major players, although not the major players, although not necessarily in the transfer market, necessarily in the transfer market, Newcastle United. All coming at you Newcastle United. All coming at you today. We'll be looking at where each today. We'll be looking at where each team left off last season, their summer team left off last season, their summer business, their manager and style of business, their manager and style of play, their key players, and of course, play, their key players, and of course, as you know and love, our patented Total as you know and love, our patented Total Soccer Show, very specific predictions Soccer Show, very specific predictions for each team. My name's Ryan Bailey for each team. My name's Ryan Bailey joining me today. Hi, Taylor Rockwell. joining me today. Hi, Taylor Rockwell. How are you? I am doing well, my friend. How are you? I am doing well, my friend. How are you? A lovely introduction and How are you? A lovely introduction and really well done given that I'm assuming really well done given that I'm assuming your wife is still at the DMV 24 hours your wife is still at the DMV 24 hours later. That seems to be how it went. later. That seems to be how it went. Yeah, the North Carolina DMV has some Yeah, the North Carolina DMV has some issues I think. Taylor, I believe it was issues I think. Taylor, I believe it was coming on seven hours. She was there coming on seven hours. She was there yesterday for um services at the counter yesterday for um services at the counter which took less than five minutes. Fun. which took less than five minutes. Fun. Awesome. Great. Awesome. Great. Awesome. Great. &gt;&gt; We were serving our party in Selma. &gt;&gt; We were serving our party in Selma. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. It was one of those days &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. It was one of those days where they like to move uh move the line where they like to move uh move the line slowly. They call those weekdays. All slowly. They call those weekdays. All right. All right. right. All right. But I'm excited to be here. I'm excited But I'm excited to be here. I'm excited to talk Manchester City. And I mean that to talk Manchester City. And I mean that genuinely even though I am a Manchester genuinely even though I am a Manchester United fan and United fan and &gt;&gt; the hope has crept back in. I I'm I &gt;&gt; the hope has crept back in. I I'm I don't feel good about it. I don't want don't feel good about it. I don't want that to be the case. But here we are that to be the case. But here we are with me thinking maybe just maybe things with me thinking maybe just maybe things could go well. could go well. &gt;&gt; Let's revisit that hope in uh &gt;&gt; Let's revisit that hope in uh midepptember shall we Taylor? I look midepptember shall we Taylor? I look forward to doing that. Uh joining us on forward to doing that. Uh joining us on this episode it's Joe Lowry. Hi Joe. this episode it's Joe Lowry. Hi Joe. How's it going? How's it going? &gt;&gt; Hey it's going well Taylor. Suppress &gt;&gt; Hey it's going well Taylor. Suppress man. Suppress it. Suppress it. Shove it man. Suppress it. Suppress it. Shove it down. Shove it into that deep dark down. Shove it into that deep dark corner inside of you and never open it corner inside of you and never open it again. At least don't open it yet. like again. At least don't open it yet. like just just not yet. Just wait. just just not yet. Just wait. &gt;&gt; There we go. All right. Well, you're &gt;&gt; There we go. All right. Well, you're going to look forward to talking about going to look forward to talking about Manchester Manchester United and much Manchester Manchester United and much more on this episode. Joining us to help more on this episode. Joining us to help us do that, we've got um Liverpool us do that, we've got um Liverpool correspondent Graeme Rman. Hi, Graeme. correspondent Graeme Rman. Hi, Graeme. How's it going? How's it going? &gt;&gt; Hello, Ryan Bailey. Yes, Liverpool &gt;&gt; Hello, Ryan Bailey. Yes, Liverpool correspondent because I refuse to talk correspondent because I refuse to talk about Man City out of boycotting their about Man City out of boycotting their away shirt, which we spoke about away shirt, which we spoke about yesterday on the on on the Patreon. yesterday on the on on the Patreon. Worst worst shirt I've ever seen in my Worst worst shirt I've ever seen in my life, the Man City third shirt season. life, the Man City third shirt season. So, So, So, &gt;&gt; the third the third kit. &gt;&gt; the third the third kit. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Ryan. Ryan missed this one. Ryan, &gt;&gt; Yeah. Ryan. Ryan missed this one. Ryan, the third one is gray with it's meant to the third one is gray with it's meant to have like water drops on it, I think, to have like water drops on it, I think, to represent cloudy gray Manchester, but represent cloudy gray Manchester, but then it's also got like neon yellow then it's also got like neon yellow green sort of accents to it. It's an green sort of accents to it. It's an interesting choice they've made. interesting choice they've made. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; they have had &gt;&gt; they have had &gt;&gt; Go right. &gt;&gt; Go right. &gt;&gt; I was going to say they they've had some &gt;&gt; I was going to say they they've had some Stinkers before, didn't they? Had that Stinkers before, didn't they? Had that one that was kind of the color of like a one that was kind of the color of like a stained mattress. Was that last year or stained mattress. Was that last year or the year before? the year before? &gt;&gt; Yeah, there's one every season. There's &gt;&gt; Yeah, there's one every season. There's one every season. I like to think that one every season. I like to think that they are um it's like preemptive they are um it's like preemptive self-punishment to try and get out of self-punishment to try and get out of the 115 charges. If they have 115 the 115 charges. If they have 115 terrible Puma shirts, then maybe the terrible Puma shirts, then maybe the Premier League will let them away with Premier League will let them away with it. it. it. &gt;&gt; Puma Puma just don't have any sort of &gt;&gt; Puma Puma just don't have any sort of like medium chill, do they? It's either like medium chill, do they? It's either we're going to go very basic and just do we're going to go very basic and just do like Puma Man City like you remember like Puma Man City like you remember those kits that were just so basic and those kits that were just so basic and just had the lettering on them and then just had the lettering on them and then &gt;&gt; so bad &gt;&gt; so bad &gt;&gt; swing the other direction with a giant &gt;&gt; swing the other direction with a giant swing with crazy colors and a crazy swing with crazy colors and a crazy aesthetic. Nothing in between. Wonderful aesthetic. Nothing in between. Wonderful stuff. Well, you can hear about our stuff. Well, you can hear about our opinions on Premier League kits on our opinions on Premier League kits on our bonus feed. As Graeme outlined, bonus feed. As Graeme outlined, patreon.com/total soccer shows, how you patreon.com/total soccer shows, how you get there, bonus episodes, bonus video, get there, bonus episodes, bonus video, and access to our Discord server. It's and access to our Discord server. It's it's a real Premier League theme this it's a real Premier League theme this week on the bonus feed, including that week on the bonus feed, including that kit chat. And we've got uh some uh some kit chat. And we've got uh some uh some predictions coming up. We're going to predictions coming up. We're going to predict our top fives, our relegation predict our top fives, our relegation candidates, our top scorers, all that candidates, our top scorers, all that jazz coming to the bonus feed. Do join jazz coming to the bonus feed. Do join us there. patreon.com/totalsockshow, us there. patreon.com/totalsockshow, please. Anna, thank you. But for now, please. Anna, thank you. But for now, it's time to crack on with our Premier it's time to crack on with our Premier League previews. We're going to go to League previews. We're going to go to Mr. Joe Lowry, who's going to tell us Mr. Joe Lowry, who's going to tell us all about the Champo Champs, Leads all about the Champo Champs, Leads United. How's it going to go for them United. How's it going to go for them this season, Joe? Uh, probably bad, but this season, Joe? Uh, probably bad, but we can talk more about that later. I do we can talk more about that later. I do want to celebrate them for a moment. want to celebrate them for a moment. First, they were Cho Champs last year, First, they were Cho Champs last year, first in the league, promoted to the to first in the league, promoted to the to the Premier League on their second try the Premier League on their second try after finishing third the previous year after finishing third the previous year and losing in the playoff final to and losing in the playoff final to Southampton. So, they are back. They Southampton. So, they are back. They were the most dominant attacking team in were the most dominant attacking team in the Championship last year. They led in the Championship last year. They led in expected goals and chances created, expected goals and chances created, goals scored. I mean, all these things, goals scored. I mean, all these things, right? Uh Brendan Arensson bagged nine right? Uh Brendan Arensson bagged nine goals last year, which I think gives you goals last year, which I think gives you some context of of like how much some context of of like how much firepower there was in this team. In firepower there was in this team. In general, they were wildly dominant this general, they were wildly dominant this past year. I want to paint the picture. past year. I want to paint the picture. They had an expected goal differential They had an expected goal differential of plus 59 in the league. Okay, so of plus 59 in the league. Okay, so that's that's a topline number. Maybe that's that's a topline number. Maybe that doesn't mean a lot to you. Let's that doesn't mean a lot to you. Let's let's drop down. The next closest team let's drop down. The next closest team was Burnley at plus 18. For reference, was Burnley at plus 18. For reference, that is double the gap. Double between that is double the gap. Double between PSG's expected goal differential and the PSG's expected goal differential and the next best team in LIA. We talked about next best team in LIA. We talked about how how Liga is a one-horse race. Uh the how how Liga is a one-horse race. Uh the Champa last year was way more than that. Champa last year was way more than that. The Champa was like what, a quarter of a The Champa was like what, a quarter of a horse? I don't know, however you want to horse? I don't know, however you want to go about that. I don't really know if go about that. I don't really know if that works, but they were amazingly that works, but they were amazingly dominant, like historically so in the dominant, like historically so in the league last year. Still surprising league last year. Still surprising surviving, excuse me, in the Premier surviving, excuse me, in the Premier League is really hard as a newly League is really hard as a newly promoted team, especially this year. So promoted team, especially this year. So I am not all that optimistic. This could I am not all that optimistic. This could be in my mind the third year in a row be in my mind the third year in a row where it's been right back down for all where it's been right back down for all three promoted teams. Now what have three promoted teams. Now what have leads done this summer? Well, I think leads done this summer? Well, I think they have in some ways positioned they have in some ways positioned themselves to be the team and they themselves to be the team and they already were coming up from the Champo already were coming up from the Champo with the best odds to stay up. You look with the best odds to stay up. You look at the betting odds and that is true. So at the betting odds and that is true. So this is not a season where we write them this is not a season where we write them off. Absolutely not. But it is going to off. Absolutely not. But it is going to be difficult. They've added a a number be difficult. They've added a a number of players. They haven't lost a lot of players. They haven't lost a lot which could be an encouraging step for which could be an encouraging step for this leads team. Junior Junior Fo has this leads team. Junior Junior Fo has left for Bettis uh Ryan's favorite left for Bettis uh Ryan's favorite Barcelona player of all time. Manor Barcelona player of all time. Manor Solomon who put up 22 non-penalty goal Solomon who put up 22 non-penalty goal contributions in the attacking line last contributions in the attacking line last year had his loan from Tottenham expire. year had his loan from Tottenham expire. He's got interest. Leadeds have interest He's got interest. Leadeds have interest in him according to reports. Uh although in him according to reports. Uh although Tottenham have interest in him from Tottenham have interest in him from other clubs as well. So I don't know other clubs as well. So I don't know what's going to happen yet with Manor what's going to happen yet with Manor Solomon. Leads are in this weird spot Solomon. Leads are in this weird spot like a lot of other non-top tier clubs like a lot of other non-top tier clubs where they're waiting for the big boys where they're waiting for the big boys to do their business so that they can to do their business so that they can then get in and figure out what on earth then get in and figure out what on earth is going on in the market. That's is going on in the market. That's generally how these things go and they generally how these things go and they are in the waiting game at the moment. A are in the waiting game at the moment. A lot of incomings for leads as you would lot of incomings for leads as you would expect for a team trying to survive this expect for a team trying to survive this year. In the attack, Dominic Calbert year. In the attack, Dominic Calbert Leuen is on his way to sign as a free Leuen is on his way to sign as a free agent up top. Lucas Nemeta as well agent up top. Lucas Nemeta as well coming in from Wolsburg on a free. coming in from Wolsburg on a free. 26-year-old had shown promise for 26-year-old had shown promise for Wolsburg and that has been injured a ton Wolsburg and that has been injured a ton the last few years. Jack Harrison's back the last few years. Jack Harrison's back after his loan to Everton. Looking a after his loan to Everton. Looking a little bit deeper down the field, Sean little bit deeper down the field, Sean Longstaff has brought in from Newcastle Longstaff has brought in from Newcastle in central midfield for 14 million in central midfield for 14 million euros. Uh Anton Stock from Hoffenheim euros. Uh Anton Stock from Hoffenheim coming in for 20 million euros. A coming in for 20 million euros. A 25-year-old who started 29 Bundesliga 25-year-old who started 29 Bundesliga games last season. Uh Yaka Beiel from games last season. Uh Yaka Beiel from Udines is coming in for 18 million Udines is coming in for 18 million euros. 26-year-old center back. He was a euros. 26-year-old center back. He was a starter last year for that mid-table starter last year for that mid-table Syria team. Uh Gabriel Gundenson 7 Syria team. Uh Gabriel Gundenson 7 million 7 million euro left back coming million 7 million euro left back coming in from Leo. He's the replacement for in from Leo. He's the replacement for Furo on that side. And and one of my Furo on that side. And and one of my favorite moves, maybe my favorite move favorite moves, maybe my favorite move of the bunch, signing Lucas Perry from of the bunch, signing Lucas Perry from Leon. uh in the the cycle and goal for Leon. uh in the the cycle and goal for Leon was Lucas Perry out, Matt Turner in Leon was Lucas Perry out, Matt Turner in because that's what John Texter wanted because that's what John Texter wanted and now it's Matt Turner out to New and now it's Matt Turner out to New England and Leon are going other England and Leon are going other directions. Lucas Perry was excellent directions. Lucas Perry was excellent last year for Leon. 27-year-old last year for Leon. 27-year-old Brazilian goalkeeper. He's been really Brazilian goalkeeper. He's been really good at both Bodafogo and Leon, saving good at both Bodafogo and Leon, saving 17 goals more than expected over the 17 goals more than expected over the last two seasons. That's one in Brazil's last two seasons. That's one in Brazil's top flight and one in France's top top flight and one in France's top flight. More on him later. I think he's flight. More on him later. I think he's going to be a really key X-factor sort going to be a really key X-factor sort of type for this team. I do still expect of type for this team. I do still expect a little bit more business for leads. a little bit more business for leads. think they'd like to add a little bit think they'd like to add a little bit more on the attack. So, they are a team more on the attack. So, they are a team worth watching between now and the end worth watching between now and the end of the transfer window. Manager Daniel of the transfer window. Manager Daniel Farca, a name that we know quite well, Farca, a name that we know quite well, not just from the Premier League, but not just from the Premier League, but also from trying to steer promoted teams also from trying to steer promoted teams to survival in the Premier League. to survival in the Premier League. 48-year-old German manager who yo-yoed 48-year-old German manager who yo-yoed with Norwich a few years ago. He's with Norwich a few years ago. He's coached in Russia, left because of the coached in Russia, left because of the war last year at Glabback, then took war last year at Glabback, then took over Leads ahead of that 23-24 season. over Leads ahead of that 23-24 season. Now, he's back in the Premier League. Now, he's back in the Premier League. Tactically, what do we expect from Tactically, what do we expect from Leads? Well, they they were the most Leads? Well, they they were the most ball dominant team of the championship ball dominant team of the championship last year. We're were they were great at last year. We're were they were great at everything, right? You look at the everything, right? You look at the numbers, pressing, possessing, creating numbers, pressing, possessing, creating chances, denying chances. They were chances, denying chances. They were elite, but we have seen teams who have elite, but we have seen teams who have gone from controlling games in the gone from controlling games in the Champo come up and just be completely Champo come up and just be completely unable to do that at all in the Premier unable to do that at all in the Premier League, Burnley, a Vincent company. Uh League, Burnley, a Vincent company. Uh it happens basically with every promoted it happens basically with every promoted team and it's it's happened with Thank team and it's it's happened with Thank you, Ryan. You're the only one really. I you, Ryan. You're the only one really. I mean, it's shocking at the end of the mean, it's shocking at the end of the day. We've seen this kind of thing with day. We've seen this kind of thing with Farca before as well. He won promotion Farca before as well. He won promotion with Norwich in uh in 2019. They had 58% with Norwich in uh in 2019. They had 58% possession that year. Then in the possession that year. Then in the Premier League the following season, Premier League the following season, they dropped below 50% of the ball and they dropped below 50% of the ball and finished dead last in the table. The finished dead last in the table. The exact same thing happened with Farca in exact same thing happened with Farca in the next promotion cycle and he didn't the next promotion cycle and he didn't last the season with Norwich. So I I last the season with Norwich. So I I don't really think we should read a lot don't really think we should read a lot into lead's numbers from last season. into lead's numbers from last season. This year I would expect a good amount This year I would expect a good amount of direct play, aka a lot of direct of direct play, aka a lot of direct play. Uh a lot of mid block, some low play. Uh a lot of mid block, some low block. Occasionally they will control block. Occasionally they will control the ball. I could see them controlling the ball. I could see them controlling the ball against a team like Brenford or the ball against a team like Brenford or a team like Bournemouth or or some of a team like Bournemouth or or some of the other teams that are coming up the other teams that are coming up through the promotion last season in the through the promotion last season in the championship. But really, when you think championship. But really, when you think about some of the the profiles of the about some of the the profiles of the players in their squad, Dan James, players in their squad, Dan James, Wilfrid Yonto, uh Brendan Aronson, those Wilfrid Yonto, uh Brendan Aronson, those guys are are effective on the break. guys are are effective on the break. Like I don't I don't think you want Like I don't I don't think you want Brendan Aronson as your you're at number Brendan Aronson as your you're at number 10 or playing a lot of minutes for you 10 or playing a lot of minutes for you in a possession style in the Premier in a possession style in the Premier League. I don't think that is anybody's League. I don't think that is anybody's idea really of a of a great time. So, I idea really of a of a great time. So, I do think they're going to be far more do think they're going to be far more transitional than they were last year to transitional than they were last year to the point where we can dump a lot of the point where we can dump a lot of what last season was out the table what last season was out the table because Farca knows that that is not how because Farca knows that that is not how you survive in the Premier League. He's you survive in the Premier League. He's got experience doing this kind of thing got experience doing this kind of thing before. Key players, the upgraded spine. before. Key players, the upgraded spine. I think about be at center back next to I think about be at center back next to Joe Rodon. I think about stock and long Joe Rodon. I think about stock and long staff added to that center mid group. staff added to that center mid group. Another center mid while we're on the Another center mid while we're on the topic, Aayot Tanaka, 26-year-old topic, Aayot Tanaka, 26-year-old Japanese defensive midfielder. He was Japanese defensive midfielder. He was one of the best ball winners in the one of the best ball winners in the championship by many, many metrics last championship by many, many metrics last year. He's a player to watch this year. He's a player to watch this season. I think could have a real impact season. I think could have a real impact on on their squad. Uh whoever can step on on their squad. Uh whoever can step up in the attack is going to be a key up in the attack is going to be a key player. Like I don't I don't know who player. Like I don't I don't know who this is. Piro at striker last year this is. Piro at striker last year haven't hasn't been mentioned yet. haven't hasn't been mentioned yet. 26-year-old was a reliable 15 plus goal 26-year-old was a reliable 15 plus goal striker in the championship. Can he be striker in the championship. Can he be something more? Or James or Ny or something more? Or James or Ny or Arensson or Nemeta. Maybe a new signing Arensson or Nemeta. Maybe a new signing in there besides Calvert Leuen. Like in there besides Calvert Leuen. Like it's not super inspiring to be honest. it's not super inspiring to be honest. And and maybe the new signing will be And and maybe the new signing will be that. But the attack needs to show that. But the attack needs to show something for them to survive. And then something for them to survive. And then Lucas Perry, goalkeeper is going to face Lucas Perry, goalkeeper is going to face shots this season, which takes me to my shots this season, which takes me to my very specific prediction for Leads very specific prediction for Leads United. Lucas Perry will save more goals United. Lucas Perry will save more goals than expected for the fourth straight than expected for the fourth straight top flight season of his career. He top flight season of his career. He moved to the top flight in the middle of moved to the top flight in the middle of 2022, was good for Bodafogo across a few 2022, was good for Bodafogo across a few starts, then explodes in 23, was very starts, then explodes in 23, was very good last year. If he's great, and he good last year. If he's great, and he has been great truly, um I think he's a has been great truly, um I think he's a really really savvy pickup. If he's really really savvy pickup. If he's great, leads can survive. If he is not, great, leads can survive. If he is not, if he is probably even just good or if he is probably even just good or worse than good and the attack doesn't worse than good and the attack doesn't explode, I think leadeds are going to be explode, I think leadeds are going to be in a tough spot this season. So my VSP in a tough spot this season. So my VSP is that Lucas Perry will be good, that is that Lucas Perry will be good, that he will save more goals than expected he will save more goals than expected for the fourth straight top flight for the fourth straight top flight season of his career. That will have an season of his career. That will have an outsized impact on Leads United, who I outsized impact on Leads United, who I think are in for a difficult but not think are in for a difficult but not impossible a Premier League season. impossible a Premier League season. Joey, is there anything Leads could have Joey, is there anything Leads could have done in in your mind that would make you done in in your mind that would make you feel more confident or is are we've sort feel more confident or is are we've sort of reached a point in the Premier League of reached a point in the Premier League where any promoted team is automatically where any promoted team is automatically going to have to like be head and going to have to like be head and shoulders above in a certain way to feel shoulders above in a certain way to feel like they're going to survive? like they're going to survive? &gt;&gt; I mean, yes, yes to that second part. I &gt;&gt; I mean, yes, yes to that second part. I think that is that is true or at least think that is that is true or at least there is a kernel of truth to that. But there is a kernel of truth to that. But if leads had gone out and and they still if leads had gone out and and they still might, right? Again, I expect another might, right? Again, I expect another addition here. If they had gone out and addition here. If they had gone out and added uh a really, you know, added uh a really, you know, experienced, effective Premier League experienced, effective Premier League attacker to this bunch, I would feel attacker to this bunch, I would feel different. Like Dominic Calverin does different. Like Dominic Calverin does not check that box for me. You know, he not check that box for me. You know, he has not been that kind of player. He's has not been that kind of player. He's played for a bad Everton team and put up played for a bad Everton team and put up mediocre numbers, which is not an mediocre numbers, which is not an affront to him, right? It's difficult to affront to him, right? It's difficult to put up great goal scoring numbers on bad put up great goal scoring numbers on bad teams, but he's probably going to be on teams, but he's probably going to be on another bad team this season. So, if another bad team this season. So, if they've gone out and and maybe it is a they've gone out and and maybe it is a getting Manor Solomon done, I'm not even getting Manor Solomon done, I'm not even sure if that really fully gets me there. sure if that really fully gets me there. But that is the area that I look at in But that is the area that I look at in this team and think, man, they just need this team and think, man, they just need more juice. I don't see how they can be more juice. I don't see how they can be this the team that they want to be and this the team that they want to be and that Farc wants them to be where they that Farc wants them to be where they still have some semblance of control in still have some semblance of control in some games, be a third of their games some games, be a third of their games this season. I don't see how that's this season. I don't see how that's effective with the personnel they have effective with the personnel they have right now. right now. right now. &gt;&gt; Would Nico Gonzalez, Joe, who has been &gt;&gt; Would Nico Gonzalez, Joe, who has been linked to to to leads pretty strongly in linked to to to leads pretty strongly in the last couple days, would that make the last couple days, would that make you feel any better? I mean, I know you you feel any better? I mean, I know you weren't as big a fan for for UV, but weren't as big a fan for for UV, but there's levels to this equation here. there's levels to this equation here. Would he be an effective player for Would he be an effective player for leads, cuz I personally think he leads, cuz I personally think he probably would be. probably would be. &gt;&gt; I mean, I think he would be effective &gt;&gt; I mean, I think he would be effective relative to a lot of the pieces they relative to a lot of the pieces they have. I'm still not sure if the needle have. I'm still not sure if the needle was fully moved for me there, but yeah, was fully moved for me there, but yeah, you need to add talent if you're leads, you need to add talent if you're leads, right? And it is it my honest answer, right? And it is it my honest answer, Graham, is I don't really know how Graham, is I don't really know how Nikico Niko Gonzalez scales into this Nikico Niko Gonzalez scales into this team or into the Premier League. My my team or into the Premier League. My my gut says like okay, but not great. and gut says like okay, but not great. and that he doesn't move the needle a ton. that he doesn't move the needle a ton. But that's the kind of move that you But that's the kind of move that you need to be making like more of those need to be making like more of those kinds of moves. It's possible that leads kinds of moves. It's possible that leads don't need they don't need like a don't need they don't need like a best-in-class attack here. They don't best-in-class attack here. They don't even need a top half or top twothirds even need a top half or top twothirds attack to survive. They just need to be attack to survive. They just need to be better than a handful of other teams better than a handful of other teams because I do think they're having they because I do think they're having they will have some of the stability through will have some of the stability through the midfield and through the back line the midfield and through the back line to do and in goal as well. I talked to do and in goal as well. I talked about with Perry to be a solid defensive about with Perry to be a solid defensive team. I'm just a little bit worried team. I'm just a little bit worried about what their upside is on the other about what their upside is on the other end. But that I mean that might matter end. But that I mean that might matter less than I think if their defensive less than I think if their defensive play is is really good. play is is really good. &gt;&gt; Joe, of the three promoted teams, can &gt;&gt; Joe, of the three promoted teams, can you make a case for leads having the you make a case for leads having the best chance? best chance? best chance? &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. They've done a decent &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. They've done a decent amount of work in the window already. I amount of work in the window already. I mean, they they've done a lot of work in mean, they they've done a lot of work in the window already, even if it lacks the window already, even if it lacks some pop. And they were by far the best some pop. And they were by far the best of those three teams coming up from the of those three teams coming up from the championship last year with a lot of championship last year with a lot of players that are sticking around. I players that are sticking around. I don't really even think you have to don't really even think you have to squint to make a convincing case. I squint to make a convincing case. I think they are pretty clearly the team think they are pretty clearly the team of the three coming up that has the best of the three coming up that has the best chance to survive or at least they are chance to survive or at least they are not the worst. Uh I I think we can all not the worst. Uh I I think we can all agree that's Burnley. And between that agree that's Burnley. And between that fact and the fact that there are some fact and the fact that there are some teams that were hovering around in the teams that were hovering around in the in the mid table, even lower midtable in the mid table, even lower midtable last year who don't look like they're in last year who don't look like they're in awesome positions, and we've talked awesome positions, and we've talked about a lot of those teams already. about a lot of those teams already. We'll talk about some more later on on We'll talk about some more later on on tomorrow's episode. Yeah, I think tomorrow's episode. Yeah, I think they've got not just a shot to be better they've got not just a shot to be better than the other, but also a shot to than the other, but also a shot to survive even if it's not a great one. survive even if it's not a great one. Very nice. Thank you very much, Joe Very nice. Thank you very much, Joe Lowry. That is leads. We're going to Lowry. That is leads. We're going to take a quick break. When we come back, take a quick break. When we come back, oh, BB blocks got Liverpool and oh, BB blocks got Liverpool and Manchester City. Maybe a champion coming Manchester City. Maybe a champion coming up after this break. Join us then. Total up after this break. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Premier Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Premier League previews. Defending champions League previews. Defending champions Liverpool up next. Graham Ruven, you're Liverpool up next. Graham Ruven, you're going to tell us all about them. They've going to tell us all about them. They've gone down, spent some money. They're gone down, spent some money. They're looking pretty good to defend that looking pretty good to defend that title. How you feeling? Yeah, a lot of title. How you feeling? Yeah, a lot of people's uh favorites to successfully people's uh favorites to successfully defend their title given how the summer defend their title given how the summer has gone for them. A quick recap on what has gone for them. A quick recap on what happened last season. Um so yes, as you happened last season. Um so yes, as you say, Ryan, Liverpool won the title and say, Ryan, Liverpool won the title and they were dominant in the title race, they were dominant in the title race, which is to say there wasn't really a which is to say there wasn't really a title race last season. Liverpool had a title race last season. Liverpool had a fast start with Arnot as their their new fast start with Arnot as their their new manager. They won 11 of their first 13 manager. They won 11 of their first 13 league games and they never looked back league games and they never looked back really. They were effectively champions really. They were effectively champions by about February. It was a bit more by about February. It was a bit more disappointing in other competitions. disappointing in other competitions. They lost to PSG in the Champions They lost to PSG in the Champions League, which wasn't exactly an an League, which wasn't exactly an an embarrassment given PSG went on to win embarrassment given PSG went on to win the whole thing. H but after finishing the whole thing. H but after finishing top of the league phase, it was top of the league phase, it was disappointing to go out in the first disappointing to go out in the first knockout round. They lost to Newcastle knockout round. They lost to Newcastle in the final of the Caribel Cup pretty in the final of the Caribel Cup pretty convincingly as I remember that game as convincingly as I remember that game as well. They then suffered um the biggest well. They then suffered um the biggest cups set in the FA Cup last season to cups set in the FA Cup last season to Plymouth Argyle. So while there was a Plymouth Argyle. So while there was a point in the season when it appeared point in the season when it appeared Liverpool maybe would do a sweep that Liverpool maybe would do a sweep that they were strong enough to do that that they were strong enough to do that that didn't happen. They did kind of fade in didn't happen. They did kind of fade in the final third of the season but the final third of the season but nonetheless they were the best team in nonetheless they were the best team in England. They won the Premier League England. They won the Premier League title and I think that mattered to a lot title and I think that mattered to a lot of Liverpool fans because they the last of Liverpool fans because they the last time they won it which obviously ended time they won it which obviously ended that what was it 30-year wait for a that what was it 30-year wait for a title was in co times and so fans for title was in co times and so fans for the first time were allowed into the first time were allowed into Anfield. They had that parade around Anfield. They had that parade around Liverpool as well. So I think that Liverpool as well. So I think that mattered a lot to to fans. Uh since then mattered a lot to to fans. Uh since then it has been a notable summer for it has been a notable summer for Liverpool in a a tragic sense Liverpool in a a tragic sense unfortunately. So um I'll start with the unfortunately. So um I'll start with the the the sad passing of Duggo Zota which the the sad passing of Duggo Zota which is still something that um just speaking is still something that um just speaking I'm not even a Liverpool fan here but I'm not even a Liverpool fan here but like just it's kind of difficult to like just it's kind of difficult to comprehend and feels weird that we just comprehend and feels weird that we just sort of all move on from that. And I do sort of all move on from that. And I do think that is something that will have a think that is something that will have a big impact on his former teammates and big impact on his former teammates and friends in in that dressing room. And I friends in in that dressing room. And I think it's something that we um should think it's something that we um should be mindful of heading into this season. be mindful of heading into this season. We don't know how that's going to affect We don't know how that's going to affect the people, not just the players within the people, not just the players within that dressing room. And Liverpool, that dressing room. And Liverpool, they'll be playing with Forever 20 they'll be playing with Forever 20 embroidered on their shirts this season. embroidered on their shirts this season. They've also retired J's number 20 They've also retired J's number 20 jersey. So, um yeah, unfortunately that jersey. So, um yeah, unfortunately that that whole um tragic episode kind of that whole um tragic episode kind of casts a shadow over the over the whole casts a shadow over the over the whole season. No matter what happens in the season. No matter what happens in the the transfer window, it has been the transfer window, it has been blockbuster stuff for Liverpool, who blockbuster stuff for Liverpool, who have done a lot more than I was have done a lot more than I was expecting them to. They moved quickly to expecting them to. They moved quickly to get Jeremy Fong in as the replacement get Jeremy Fong in as the replacement for Alexander Arnold, although he's a for Alexander Arnold, although he's a very, very different sort of right back. very, very different sort of right back. They also signed Milos Kerquez from They also signed Milos Kerquez from Bournemouth to be the long-term Bournemouth to be the long-term successor to Andy Robertson, Sadface at successor to Andy Robertson, Sadface at left back. H then Liverpool broke the left back. H then Liverpool broke the the Premier League transfer record to the Premier League transfer record to sign Florian Verz when he had the pick sign Florian Verz when he had the pick of Europe's biggest clubs. Bayern wanted of Europe's biggest clubs. Bayern wanted him, City wanted him, Real Madrid wanted him, City wanted him, Real Madrid wanted him. So, it was a real statement of him. So, it was a real statement of intent not only for Liverpool to break intent not only for Liverpool to break the Premier League transfer record, but the Premier League transfer record, but to convince him that he's the they're to convince him that he's the they're the perfect place for him to to go to at the perfect place for him to to go to at this point in his career. They then this point in his career. They then followed that up by signing Hugo Eat followed that up by signing Hugo Eat from Ant Frankfurt. And again, there was from Ant Frankfurt. And again, there was a real race to sign him because a real race to sign him because Newcastle in particular were interested. Newcastle in particular were interested. And then to really rub salt into And then to really rub salt into Newcastle's wounds. Liverpool are now Newcastle's wounds. Liverpool are now going hard for uh for Alexander Isac, going hard for uh for Alexander Isac, which would almost certainly be another which would almost certainly be another Premier League record signing 150 Premier League record signing 150 million is the the talk. And of course, million is the the talk. And of course, Isak is one of the best center forwards Isak is one of the best center forwards in in the world. So that would be a huge in in the world. So that would be a huge addition. I I do have some questions addition. I I do have some questions over how all of those pieces fit over how all of those pieces fit together. And there is a world where together. And there is a world where Liverpool essentially have five new Liverpool essentially have five new starters this season, which as good as starters this season, which as good as those players are and as good as they those players are and as good as they were last season is a lot for them to were last season is a lot for them to integrate all at once. But they have for integrate all at once. But they have for Chelsea, right, Graeme, to do that kind Chelsea, right, Graeme, to do that kind of thing. of thing. of thing. &gt;&gt; Chelsea seems to Chelsea seem to that's &gt;&gt; Chelsea seems to Chelsea seem to that's a quiet summer for Chelsea quite a quiet summer for Chelsea quite frankly. Only five new starters. But frankly. Only five new starters. But yeah, Liverpool have a squad full of so yeah, Liverpool have a squad full of so many options. Even if they don't get many options. Even if they don't get Esak, they still have so many options Esak, they still have so many options across the pitch. And this is Slaugh um across the pitch. And this is Slaugh um second season in in charge. I think it's second season in in charge. I think it's fair to say his first season went pretty fair to say his first season went pretty well. He took over pretty seamlessly well. He took over pretty seamlessly from Jurgen Klopp. Didn't do all that from Jurgen Klopp. Didn't do all that much to to change the style of play in a much to to change the style of play in a macro sense. Liverpool are still one of macro sense. Liverpool are still one of the best quick transition teams in the the best quick transition teams in the world. They they still play with speed world. They they still play with speed and intensity both in and out of and intensity both in and out of possession. They are also capable of possession. They are also capable of controlling games with the ball. But controlling games with the ball. But that is a transition. As much as the the that is a transition. As much as the the big shift towards slot ball was built up big shift towards slot ball was built up last season, that was kind of a last season, that was kind of a transition that had already taken place transition that had already taken place towards the end of Klopp's time in towards the end of Klopp's time in charge. So, it was pretty seamless. It's charge. So, it was pretty seamless. It's possible that Slot will make more possible that Slot will make more evolutions this season. He has got some evolutions this season. He has got some new signings to help him do that, but I new signings to help him do that, but I wouldn't expect any kind of grand wouldn't expect any kind of grand overhaul of Liverpool style of play this overhaul of Liverpool style of play this season. One thing that will change how season. One thing that will change how Liverpool play, I think, is Alexander Liverpool play, I think, is Alexander Arnold leaving because he was such a Arnold leaving because he was such a source of creativity for for them. As I source of creativity for for them. As I mentioned earlier, Jeremy Fong is a very mentioned earlier, Jeremy Fong is a very different player. He's more of a sort of different player. He's more of a sort of vroom vroom fullback than someone who is vroom vroom fullback than someone who is going to create with his crossing or his going to create with his crossing or his line breaking passes. So that could line breaking passes. So that could change Liverpool's profile as a team and change Liverpool's profile as a team and might explain why they went big for Vert might explain why they went big for Vert because they they need to make up that because they they need to make up that creativity in the in the aggregate. In creativity in the in the aggregate. In terms of key players, I mean listeners terms of key players, I mean listeners and you guys will will know them already and you guys will will know them already because they're all superstars. There's because they're all superstars. There's this guy called Muhammad Salah, the this guy called Muhammad Salah, the Premier League's top scorer last season Premier League's top scorer last season with 29 goals. Continues to be one of with 29 goals. Continues to be one of the most reliable attackers in the the most reliable attackers in the division even as he gets well into his division even as he gets well into his 30s now. We all know what he wants to 30s now. We all know what he wants to do. He wants to come inside off the do. He wants to come inside off the right wing to get a shot away. He is the right wing to get a shot away. He is the the 2025 Arjent Robin and that everyone the 2025 Arjent Robin and that everyone knows what he wants to do. Stopping him knows what he wants to do. Stopping him is an entirely different matter. And of is an entirely different matter. And of course, there was the contract saga last course, there was the contract saga last season, but he ultimately signed a new season, but he ultimately signed a new two two-year deal, which was great news two two-year deal, which was great news for Liverpool. Virgil van Djk was the for Liverpool. Virgil van Djk was the other key player who signed a new other key player who signed a new contract to stay beyond the end of last contract to stay beyond the end of last season. He is still the central pillar season. He is still the central pillar of Liverpool's defense. Quite a bit of of Liverpool's defense. Quite a bit of chat at the moment that Liverpool are chat at the moment that Liverpool are going to go for Mark Ghee, even if he going to go for Mark Ghee, even if he arrives. I don't think that changes Van arrives. I don't think that changes Van Dijk's status within this this uh this Dijk's status within this this uh this team. I will say Van Djk had a bit of a team. I will say Van Djk had a bit of a stinker in the Community Shield when he stinker in the Community Shield when he gave away a penalty and then was at gave away a penalty and then was at fault for the second Palace goal. So I fault for the second Palace goal. So I don't think he is quite not just based don't think he is quite not just based on that performance by the way going on that performance by the way going back to last season. I don't think he's back to last season. I don't think he's quite the brick wall that he was a few quite the brick wall that he was a few seasons ago, but his reading of the game seasons ago, but his reading of the game is still exceptional. He's commanding in is still exceptional. He's commanding in the air and even if you can run at him a the air and even if you can run at him a bit more these days, he's still an bit more these days, he's still an exceptional defender. Um the central exceptional defender. Um the central center of midfield was a revelation for center of midfield was a revelation for Slaugh last season in the way that he Slaugh last season in the way that he remolded Mallister and Ryan Graven. Grab remolded Mallister and Ryan Graven. Grab Birch in particular, I don't think Birch in particular, I don't think anyone, well, I'll speak for myself, I anyone, well, I'll speak for myself, I didn't see him becoming this deep lying, didn't see him becoming this deep lying, pace setting all round midfielder in the pace setting all round midfielder in the way that he was for Liverpool last way that he was for Liverpool last season. And then ahead of those two, I season. And then ahead of those two, I think most people expect Florian Vertz think most people expect Florian Vertz to be um used as normally a number 10, to be um used as normally a number 10, but with the freedom to drift out to the but with the freedom to drift out to the left as he did for for Leverkusen. So, left as he did for for Leverkusen. So, he'll be a key player for this team. And he'll be a key player for this team. And then some other players, Allison Becker, then some other players, Allison Becker, he is arguably the best goalkeeper in he is arguably the best goalkeeper in the world right now. Oh, by the way, the world right now. Oh, by the way, Liverpool have added, you know, that Liverpool have added, you know, that outstanding goalkeeper from the Euros. A outstanding goalkeeper from the Euros. A couple years ago, Mammard Dash, they couple years ago, Mammard Dash, they signed him last summer, sent him on loan signed him last summer, sent him on loan to Valencia. He's now back. So, yeah, to Valencia. He's now back. So, yeah, even in the sub goalkeeper spot, even in the sub goalkeeper spot, Liverpool are looking pretty strong this Liverpool are looking pretty strong this season. Ekit, he is currently the season. Ekit, he is currently the starting center forward heading to the starting center forward heading to the other side of the pitch. We'll see how other side of the pitch. We'll see how long that lasts. Um, if Alexander Isach long that lasts. Um, if Alexander Isach arrives, maybe he gets shifted out to arrives, maybe he gets shifted out to the left wing. Lewis Diaz has left to go the left wing. Lewis Diaz has left to go to to Bayern Munich. Um, so does that to to Bayern Munich. Um, so does that mean Cody Gapo is the guaranteed starter mean Cody Gapo is the guaranteed starter on the left side? Is he going to play on the left side? Is he going to play there? I'm interested to see what Schlot there? I'm interested to see what Schlot and Liverpool have in mind for that that and Liverpool have in mind for that that area. But as I say, it's a team that has area. But as I say, it's a team that has options all over the pitch in every options all over the pitch in every area. And that brings me to my VSSP, area. And that brings me to my VSSP, which is that Liverpool will be in the which is that Liverpool will be in the top five for dribbles per 90 minutes top five for dribbles per 90 minutes this season. They were only 10th for this season. They were only 10th for dribbles in the Premier League last dribbles in the Premier League last season, but they brought in Florian season, but they brought in Florian Vertz, who was the Bundesliga's most Vertz, who was the Bundesliga's most prolific dribbler, and Ekit was second prolific dribbler, and Ekit was second in the Bundesliga last season. Add in in the Bundesliga last season. Add in Jeremy Fong and Milos Kerquekez, both of Jeremy Fong and Milos Kerquekez, both of whom also like a dribble. And I think whom also like a dribble. And I think Liverpool are going to become a much Liverpool are going to become a much more dribbly team this season. So top more dribbly team this season. So top five for dribbles in the league. five for dribbles in the league. &gt;&gt; That's what does that change how they &gt;&gt; That's what does that change how they play? play? play? &gt;&gt; Not the title race, just the dribble &gt;&gt; Not the title race, just the dribble race. That's what I mean. race. That's what I mean. &gt;&gt; Dribbles and nutmegs. That's what I play &gt;&gt; Dribbles and nutmegs. That's what I play for. for. for. &gt;&gt; I love it. I love it. &gt;&gt; I love it. &gt;&gt; So Gre, does does the dribbly boys &gt;&gt; So Gre, does does the dribbly boys factor change dramatically the style and factor change dramatically the style and how they play, do you think, or does it how they play, do you think, or does it change the outcome? change the outcome? &gt;&gt; Um, not really. I mean, I do have &gt;&gt; Um, not really. I mean, I do have questions over just the chemistry of questions over just the chemistry of that attack, that midfield into the that attack, that midfield into the attack. When you lay it out as it's attack. When you lay it out as it's going to be a double pivot of Graven going to be a double pivot of Graven Burke and and Mallister and then they're Burke and and Mallister and then they're going to have, let's just say they get going to have, let's just say they get ESAC, which I think will probably put my ESAC, which I think will probably put my cards on the table here. I think that cards on the table here. I think that will happen. will happen. will happen. &gt;&gt; Okay, they're going to have they're &gt;&gt; Okay, they're going to have they're going to have Salah, going to they're going to have Salah, Isak, Ekkit, Florians to fit into that Isak, Ekkit, Florians to fit into that attack. can I I just I'm really attack. can I I just I'm really interested to see that how that happens interested to see that how that happens without them essentially becoming Messi without them essentially becoming Messi era PSG and you would think that era PSG and you would think that Liverpool are smarter than that but as I Liverpool are smarter than that but as I mentioned I think last week I saw Grace mentioned I think last week I saw Grace Robertson posting uh who's an excellent Robertson posting uh who's an excellent substack writer she's posting like is substack writer she's posting like is anyone questioning what Liverpool are anyone questioning what Liverpool are doing this summer because it does feel doing this summer because it does feel very unliverpool like so I don't know very unliverpool like so I don't know whether the dribbliness is going to whether the dribbliness is going to change in itself change their change in itself change their effectiveness Ryan but I I do have like effectiveness Ryan but I I do have like questions about the the balance of of questions about the the balance of of that attack but I had questions about that attack but I had questions about their midfield field last season and their midfield field last season and that worked out that worked out pretty that worked out pretty well. well. well. &gt;&gt; I It's interesting, Graham. Oh, sorry, &gt;&gt; I It's interesting, Graham. Oh, sorry, Taylor. I was just going to say it's Taylor. I was just going to say it's interesting you mentioned Messi era PSG. interesting you mentioned Messi era PSG. I don't really think that's on the table I don't really think that's on the table for Liverpool much at all, frankly, for Liverpool much at all, frankly, because because because &gt;&gt; not in terms not in terms of the &gt;&gt; not in terms of the pressing like pressing like pressing like &gt;&gt; Right. That's that's the key &gt;&gt; Right. That's that's the key differentiator to make there. I I think differentiator to make there. I I think I understand what you're saying. They I understand what you're saying. They are tilted to the attack more so than I are tilted to the attack more so than I think anybody expected them to be after think anybody expected them to be after this summer transfer window. But they this summer transfer window. But they will get pressing from Verts and from will get pressing from Verts and from even if ESAC comes in, like they'll even if ESAC comes in, like they'll they'll get pressing from all these they'll get pressing from all these players players players &gt;&gt; and that will help. the the concern I &gt;&gt; and that will help. the the concern I think is is how the attack fits together think is is how the attack fits together in the literal attack. Although I'm less in the literal attack. Although I'm less worried about that as I am just about worried about that as I am just about the defense and the overall balance of the defense and the overall balance of the team. So I don't know I I just the team. So I don't know I I just wanted to delineate that because I think wanted to delineate that because I think Messi Messi PSG presents a very specific Messi Messi PSG presents a very specific picture of a lot of dudes walking around picture of a lot of dudes walking around and I don't think that's what we're and I don't think that's what we're going to see. I think we could see some going to see. I think we could see some chaos maybe more so than Liverpool would chaos maybe more so than Liverpool would have had last season. But yeah, how the have had last season. But yeah, how the balance fits together I think Graham balance fits together I think Graham that that point you're getting at I'm that that point you're getting at I'm totally with. totally with. totally with. &gt;&gt; Yeah. and and it's it's something that &gt;&gt; Yeah. and and it's it's something that maybe I'm focusing on the the top of the maybe I'm focusing on the the top of the team because that's the sexiest part, team because that's the sexiest part, right? But then that then feeds all the right? But then that then feeds all the way through lineup. So then the balance way through lineup. So then the balance in the midfield, you've got two players in the midfield, you've got two players in there. Are they going to be exposed? in there. Are they going to be exposed? I even have questions about, you know, I even have questions about, you know, Jeremy Friong as as good as he is, Jeremy Friong as as good as he is, didn't play as a right back for Bay Lus. didn't play as a right back for Bay Lus. He's a right wing back and he is a a He's a right wing back and he is a a very right wing back if that makes any very right wing back if that makes any sense. So having him on the right and sense. So having him on the right and then Kirk who likes to get forward and then Kirk who likes to get forward and who was a bit of a weakness who was a bit of a weakness in that in that in terms of the space he in that in that in terms of the space he was leaving. He was a bit of a weakness was leaving. He was a bit of a weakness against Crystal Palace at the weekend. against Crystal Palace at the weekend. So yeah, the balance of this team is I'm So yeah, the balance of this team is I'm I'm very interested to see how it all I'm very interested to see how it all all works out. all works out. &gt;&gt; Yeah, very good. It does feel like so &gt;&gt; Yeah, very good. It does feel like so many of the title contender teams have many of the title contender teams have like reinforced with an idea of if we like reinforced with an idea of if we have injuries now we'll have plenty of have injuries now we'll have plenty of cover and then they run into that cover and then they run into that problem of like are you almost hoping problem of like are you almost hoping for injuries at this point because for injuries at this point because you've got a lot of people sitting on you've got a lot of people sitting on the bench waiting to play and maybe some the bench waiting to play and maybe some discontent brews up. So maybe they just discontent brews up. So maybe they just start forcing injuries really quickly start forcing injuries really quickly and then it all works out. and then it all works out. &gt;&gt; Bold strategy. Bold. I like it. A lot of &gt;&gt; Bold strategy. Bold. I like it. A lot of people waiting to play. Also applying to people waiting to play. Also applying to another team we're talking about in this another team we're talking about in this episode. I would suggest Taylor. Anyway, episode. I would suggest Taylor. Anyway, we'll get to them later. Uh thank you we'll get to them later. Uh thank you very much Graeme for the Liverpool chat. very much Graeme for the Liverpool chat. We'll move now to Manchester City and We'll move now to Manchester City and Mr. Taylor Rockwell's assessment Mr. Taylor Rockwell's assessment thereof. thereof. thereof. &gt;&gt; Are they not the team that you were just &gt;&gt; Are they not the team that you were just alluding to? alluding to? alluding to? &gt;&gt; They're a very a local team to them I &gt;&gt; They're a very a local team to them I would suggest but maybe them too. Um would suggest but maybe them too. Um &gt;&gt; sford say &gt;&gt; sford say &gt;&gt; the Sford City. &gt;&gt; the Sford City. &gt;&gt; So Taylor the the title race last year &gt;&gt; So Taylor the the title race last year no one really predicted Liverpool would no one really predicted Liverpool would be in it and obviously they took it by be in it and obviously they took it by storm. I think it's fair to say. storm. I think it's fair to say. &gt;&gt; Is anyone really suggesting that Man &gt;&gt; Is anyone really suggesting that Man City are nailed on for the title this City are nailed on for the title this season? And I think we've got a really season? And I think we've got a really good title race and some really good good title race and some really good candidates, but um can you make the case candidates, but um can you make the case that they are going to storm this season that they are going to storm this season and run away with it? and run away with it? &gt;&gt; Not run away with it. I I think I think &gt;&gt; Not run away with it. I I think I think there's a good argument that they could there's a good argument that they could end up uh with the title. I think end up uh with the title. I think honestly Graham just made a very honestly Graham just made a very compelling argument with some of the compelling argument with some of the uncertainty around how this Liverpool uncertainty around how this Liverpool team fits together. I'm assuming they team fits together. I'm assuming they will. I'm assuming they will score will. I'm assuming they will score plenty of goals. But I think my concern plenty of goals. But I think my concern with City after doing this preview or with City after doing this preview or after doing the research for it rather after doing the research for it rather uh was that they had a lot still to kind uh was that they had a lot still to kind of figure out as the season kicks off of figure out as the season kicks off and and basically will need to figure it and and basically will need to figure it out very quickly with an assumption that out very quickly with an assumption that Liverpool and Arsenal had less to figure Liverpool and Arsenal had less to figure out. And now it feels like Arsenal maybe out. And now it feels like Arsenal maybe are the team with the least to figure are the team with the least to figure out. I think if I'm right with all of out. I think if I'm right with all of their signings they've only really added their signings they've only really added two starters and they were in necessary two starters and they were in necessary areas of the pitch where they needed areas of the pitch where they needed people to come in and start. So, feels people to come in and start. So, feels like maybe Arsenal do have a bit of an like maybe Arsenal do have a bit of an advantage, but I think we should advantage, but I think we should definitely not count out Manchester definitely not count out Manchester City, not least because they're coached City, not least because they're coached by Pep Guardiola. And a stat that I saw by Pep Guardiola. And a stat that I saw that blew my mind, he has been a top that blew my mind, he has been a top flight manager for 16 seasons. He has flight manager for 16 seasons. He has won the league title 12 times. He has won the league title 12 times. He has won the league title 75% of the time won the league title 75% of the time that he has been a manager. That is that he has been a manager. That is insane. The only manager who has a insane. The only manager who has a higher win percentage in terms of games higher win percentage in terms of games won uh versus games played, not even won uh versus games played, not even just titles, is Pep Guardiola. wins 76% just titles, is Pep Guardiola. wins 76% of the games he plays. So he has won 75% of the games he plays. So he has won 75% of the titles in his career. He also of the titles in his career. He also wins 76% of the games. That's no small wins 76% of the games. That's no small feat. And so that's what makes it kind feat. And so that's what makes it kind of hard for me to say like nah, they're of hard for me to say like nah, they're not going to win the title this year. not going to win the title this year. It's because like if they go two years It's because like if they go two years without winning the title, it's very without winning the title, it's very unp. It's a very unp team. I think the unp. It's a very unp team. I think the way you could spin it if they don't end way you could spin it if they don't end up winning it is that this is more or up winning it is that this is more or less a rebuild after what happened last less a rebuild after what happened last season. To quickly run through that season. To quickly run through that because I imagine City supporters are because I imagine City supporters are tired of hearing this narrative. They tired of hearing this narrative. They finished third 13 points behind finished third 13 points behind Liverpool. Uh second best for goals Liverpool. Uh second best for goals scored in the league at 72, but that's scored in the league at 72, but that's still like 20some behind their previous still like 20some behind their previous marks. Uh they slightly overperformed XG marks. Uh they slightly overperformed XG and expecting goals against, but five and expecting goals against, but five more losses uh than Liverpool or Arsenal more losses uh than Liverpool or Arsenal is a very unp team. They weren't even is a very unp team. They weren't even kind of able to pull out draws along the kind of able to pull out draws along the way or or turning draws into wins. Uh way or or turning draws into wins. Uh and from October 30th to December 26th, and from October 30th to December 26th, that's 13 games across all competitions that's 13 games across all competitions with only one win. They start with a with only one win. They start with a loss to Spurs in the League Cup. Uh loss to Spurs in the League Cup. Uh there's a draw and two losses in the there's a draw and two losses in the Champions League along the way. And then Champions League along the way. And then there's one win, six losses, and two there's one win, six losses, and two draws in the Premier League. So that is draws in the Premier League. So that is the time when the wheels truly come off. the time when the wheels truly come off. Not surprisingly, it coincides with that Not surprisingly, it coincides with that injury to Rodri that keeps him out for injury to Rodri that keeps him out for the majority of the season. He is such the majority of the season. He is such an incredibly important player for the an incredibly important player for the City team and he remains one and he also City team and he remains one and he also remains on the bench having gotten uh a remains on the bench having gotten uh a groin injury, I believe, in the Club groin injury, I believe, in the Club World Cup. uh Pep came out this week or World Cup. uh Pep came out this week or last and said basically that he probably last and said basically that he probably won't be back until after the September won't be back until after the September international window. So that does leave international window. So that does leave a bit of a question mark for Manchester a bit of a question mark for Manchester City. But it was not just a a rough City. But it was not just a a rough season for Rodri. Uh it was a rough season for Rodri. Uh it was a rough season for Phil Foden. Uh fell off a season for Phil Foden. Uh fell off a cliff in terms of his production. Uh he cliff in terms of his production. Uh he goes from 19 goals and eight assists in goes from 19 goals and eight assists in 2023 2024 to seven goals and two assists 2023 2024 to seven goals and two assists last year. And that is pretty in keeping last year. And that is pretty in keeping with most of the team. Erling Holland with most of the team. Erling Holland has a much less productive campaign. has a much less productive campaign. Jack Greish certainly does. he doesn't Jack Greish certainly does. he doesn't play there anymore. That's how play there anymore. That's how unproductive he was. Oscar Bob, who felt unproductive he was. Oscar Bob, who felt like he was about to break through and like he was about to break through and become a starter for them, breaks his become a starter for them, breaks his leg and is out for most of the campaign. leg and is out for most of the campaign. And so it ends up feeling like a city And so it ends up feeling like a city team that like struggled to find team that like struggled to find consistency, struggled to kind of deal consistency, struggled to kind of deal with some of the notable injuries, but with some of the notable injuries, but then just looked a little bit older, then just looked a little bit older, looked a little bit slower, looked like looked a little bit slower, looked like they had fewer ideas. I talked about they had fewer ideas. I talked about this uh with the Arsenal preview that this uh with the Arsenal preview that basically City had the lion share of basically City had the lion share of possession in almost every single game. possession in almost every single game. uh they were still able to create plenty uh they were still able to create plenty of shots and plenty of opportunities but of shots and plenty of opportunities but just weren't able to create as many as just weren't able to create as many as quickly and as efficiently or quickly and as efficiently or effectively. And so there has been an effectively. And so there has been an idea similar to Arsenal that they need idea similar to Arsenal that they need more direct play, more direct running, more direct play, more direct running, more 1v one takeons, more individual more 1v one takeons, more individual creativity, which is not something that creativity, which is not something that we've always seen Pep Gordiola we've always seen Pep Gordiola prioritize in his career. So we'll see prioritize in his career. So we'll see how that works out for him that they've how that works out for him that they've gotten rid or let go I should say of gotten rid or let go I should say of Kevin de Brrena. He's gone on a free. Kevin de Brrena. He's gone on a free. Kyle Walker was either sold or left on a Kyle Walker was either sold or left on a free. I'm still kind of confused about free. I'm still kind of confused about that. that. that. &gt;&gt; Banished. Banished, I think, is the &gt;&gt; Banished. Banished, I think, is the word. word. word. &gt;&gt; Well, they just told him you play &gt;&gt; Well, they just told him you play elsewhere now and dumb Kyle Walker elsewhere now and dumb Kyle Walker walked away. Uh, Greish loaned out, Yan walked away. Uh, Greish loaned out, Yan Kotu sold to Dortmund. Uh, none of like Kotu sold to Dortmund. Uh, none of like it doesn't feel like any of those are it doesn't feel like any of those are going to be particularly impactful, going to be particularly impactful, especially when you look at who they especially when you look at who they have brought in. Uh, they've brought in have brought in. Uh, they've brought in Totti Reinders, the Dutch midfielder Totti Reinders, the Dutch midfielder from AC Milan. Uh, Ryan Enori comes in from AC Milan. Uh, Ryan Enori comes in from Wolves. They have an actual left from Wolves. They have an actual left back. Manchester City. I don't know what back. Manchester City. I don't know what to make of it. Not even just a center to make of it. Not even just a center back, but an actual left back. They back, but an actual left back. They bring in uh James Trafford, who they bring in uh James Trafford, who they previously employed and then sold and previously employed and then sold and then brought back for even more money. I then brought back for even more money. I don't know if he will end up being the don't know if he will end up being the starter. More on that later. Uh and then starter. More on that later. Uh and then being City, they bring in Sparen Nepon, being City, they bring in Sparen Nepon, an 18-year-old Norwegian central an 18-year-old Norwegian central midfielder from Rosenborg, who I'm midfielder from Rosenborg, who I'm assuming will play for them at some assuming will play for them at some point or maybe be sold for they brought point or maybe be sold for they brought him in for 13 million pounds. him in for 13 million pounds. &gt;&gt; He's meant to be the business. Like, I &gt;&gt; He's meant to be the business. Like, I don't think they're selling him. I think don't think they're selling him. I think that he's a bit of like an ode wonder that he's a bit of like an ode wonder kids like everyone wanted him so I'm kids like everyone wanted him so I'm excited to see if he gets any minutes excited to see if he gets any minutes this season. this season. this season. &gt;&gt; I I agree with you. It's just a weird &gt;&gt; I I agree with you. It's just a weird thing with City where they they do sign thing with City where they they do sign and and bring through young players who and and bring through young players who are all very good. Some of whom end up are all very good. Some of whom end up breaking through, some of whom now play breaking through, some of whom now play for Chelsea. So it's it's an it's an odd for Chelsea. So it's it's an it's an odd one with with kind of what they do with one with with kind of what they do with some of their signings. Like I kind of some of their signings. Like I kind of completely forgot that Pedro Porro completely forgot that Pedro Porro played for Manchester City a while back, played for Manchester City a while back, then was sold for a loss, and then was then was sold for a loss, and then was sold for four times the amount they sold sold for four times the amount they sold him for back to Spurs from Sporting. So, him for back to Spurs from Sporting. So, a little bit of strange business, but a little bit of strange business, but the best business of all for Manchester the best business of all for Manchester City is the introduction of French City is the introduction of French right-winger uh 21-year-old Ryan Sheri right-winger uh 21-year-old Ryan Sheri from Leon for 31.5 million pounds. from Leon for 31.5 million pounds. &gt;&gt; My goodness, am I excited about him. Uh &gt;&gt; My goodness, am I excited about him. Uh I watched Lewis Dunk's chess pass I watched Lewis Dunk's chess pass compilation. I mentioned that compilation. I mentioned that previously. I watched a compilation of previously. I watched a compilation of just Cherokee's first touch of how much just Cherokee's first touch of how much he like how good he is at controlling he like how good he is at controlling long diagonals, balls over the top. He long diagonals, balls over the top. He kind of brings them down like a wide kind of brings them down like a wide rece wide receiver would over the rece wide receiver would over the shoulder. Uh how good he is like using shoulder. Uh how good he is like using that first touch to attack space but that first touch to attack space but also control in tight areas. I think also control in tight areas. I think he's going to be incredible. I'm so he's going to be incredible. I'm so excited to watch him play for this excited to watch him play for this Manchester City team. I think he is Manchester City team. I think he is going to be exceptional and I will come going to be exceptional and I will come back to him when I get to my specific back to him when I get to my specific prediction. But I think it's also going prediction. But I think it's also going to be a very interesting season for Pep to be a very interesting season for Pep Guardiola. And I mean that in a good way Guardiola. And I mean that in a good way because we we see him kind of having to because we we see him kind of having to evolve for as dominant as they were in evolve for as dominant as they were in so many different categories. And I can so many different categories. And I can run through but it will end up being run through but it will end up being just a lot of stats. But basically they just a lot of stats. But basically they topped the league or were near the top topped the league or were near the top of the league in every single attacking of the league in every single attacking statistic, but that didn't translate to statistic, but that didn't translate to as many goals and it certainly didn't as many goals and it certainly didn't translate to as many wins. And so translate to as many wins. And so there's an idea that they needed to there's an idea that they needed to change things up a little bit. uh he change things up a little bit. uh he brings in uh Guardiola uh Pep Linders uh brings in uh Guardiola uh Pep Linders uh which is Jurgen Klopp's number two for a which is Jurgen Klopp's number two for a good long while and that's an idea that good long while and that's an idea that maybe he wants to kind of get some maybe he wants to kind of get some different looks get some different ideas different looks get some different ideas uh against Polarmo in their most recent uh against Polarmo in their most recent friendly uh there's much more direct friendly uh there's much more direct play there's much more direct balls into play there's much more direct balls into the channels for Jeremy Dku and Savinho the channels for Jeremy Dku and Savinho to run onto and try to attack in space to run onto and try to attack in space obviously Erling Holland is still there obviously Erling Holland is still there and can attack space pretty effectively and can attack space pretty effectively uh but there is still an idea that like uh but there is still an idea that like we don't know what this campaign is we don't know what this campaign is going to Because are they going to have going to Because are they going to have Ederson in goal? Is it going to be James Ederson in goal? Is it going to be James Trafford? Is it going to be Gigi Trafford? Is it going to be Gigi Donnaruma? I don't know. Is Cevino still Donnaruma? I don't know. Is Cevino still going to be playing there? Or is is going to be playing there? Or is is Rodrigo coming in? There's just is Rico Rodrigo coming in? There's just is Rico Lewis leaving for Nottingham Forest? Lewis leaving for Nottingham Forest? That's another offer they've had that That's another offer they've had that they rejected. All of those they say they rejected. All of those they say we're not interested in selling any of we're not interested in selling any of these players. No one is leaving. But these players. No one is leaving. But then also they keep being linked with then also they keep being linked with other players and it feels a little bit other players and it feels a little bit confusing. And so I don't really know. confusing. And so I don't really know. Are they done building? Do they need to Are they done building? Do they need to add more? if they add more, does that add more? if they add more, does that make them better right away or is this a make them better right away or is this a team that needs to kind of find some team that needs to kind of find some consistency over the course of the consistency over the course of the season? And that's where Ryan I go back season? And that's where Ryan I go back to. I don't know if they are title to. I don't know if they are title contenders, but I think if they are contenders, but I think if they are within touching distance, this is not my within touching distance, this is not my specific prediction, it's just a specific prediction, it's just a prediction. If they're within touching prediction. If they're within touching distance or top of the table around distance or top of the table around Christmas, I think they win the league. Christmas, I think they win the league. But I think it's if they basically are But I think it's if they basically are able to use the first half of the season able to use the first half of the season to get everybody together, find some to get everybody together, find some consistency, find some different looks, consistency, find some different looks, and they're still like within three and they're still like within three points or four points or top of the points or four points or top of the table, I think they are very capable of table, I think they are very capable of putting together another one of those putting together another one of those like 10 win runs in the Premier League like 10 win runs in the Premier League where nobody can kind of catch them with where nobody can kind of catch them with that level of ability and attack that that level of ability and attack that they do have. There is also the idea they do have. There is also the idea that there are still 115 charges pending that there are still 115 charges pending against them that could lead to a against them that could lead to a massive points deduction. Probably massive points deduction. Probably won't. feels like it will lead to a won't. feels like it will lead to a massive slap on the wrist or two. Maybe massive slap on the wrist or two. Maybe they'll get a double secret slap on the they'll get a double secret slap on the wrist plus an overt public slap on the wrist plus an overt public slap on the wrist plus an aggressive finger wag and wrist plus an aggressive finger wag and then we'll go on with our business. But then we'll go on with our business. But it's worth noting I I think it kind of it's worth noting I I think it kind of keeps getting lost in the shuffle that keeps getting lost in the shuffle that there's still all of these many many there's still all of these many many charges and we don't know what will charges and we don't know what will happen there. We assume it will end up happen there. We assume it will end up being a lot of lawyers and a lot of being a lot of lawyers and a lot of legal fees and a lot more time spent legal fees and a lot more time spent trying to figure things out. In the trying to figure things out. In the meantime, city still have plenty of very meantime, city still have plenty of very good players including Rodri. I good players including Rodri. I mentioned him. He'll be back uh from mentioned him. He'll be back uh from that groin injury uh in September. In that groin injury uh in September. In his absence in that uh friendly against his absence in that uh friendly against Polarmo, it was Nico Gonzalez who still Polarmo, it was Nico Gonzalez who still plays there for now. We'll see if he plays there for now. We'll see if he ends up at leads or Nico and Nico Riley ends up at leads or Nico and Nico Riley in the double pivot. They have so many in the double pivot. They have so many central midfielders at this point now. central midfielders at this point now. There's Gonzalez, Nico O'Reilly, uh Ryan There's Gonzalez, Nico O'Reilly, uh Ryan Cherokee, more of an attacking Cherokee, more of an attacking midfielder obviously, Kovichic, Rinders, midfielder obviously, Kovichic, Rinders, Bernardo Silva, Gundowan, Rodri, they Bernardo Silva, Gundowan, Rodri, they have plenty of depth. They feel like have plenty of depth. They feel like another team that has maybe too much another team that has maybe too much depth. Uh but with some of the injuries, depth. Uh but with some of the injuries, maybe it'll all be fine. John Stones maybe it'll all be fine. John Stones still there, still the critical leader, still there, still the critical leader, still a veteran for this team. Injuries still a veteran for this team. Injuries meant he only played 11 games last year, meant he only played 11 games last year, only about 500 minutes, but I think his only about 500 minutes, but I think his return goes a long way towards giving return goes a long way towards giving them defensive consistency, but also a them defensive consistency, but also a bit more attacking stability and threat. bit more attacking stability and threat. And then there's Phil Foden, uh, who I And then there's Phil Foden, uh, who I mentioned had a very poor year by his mentioned had a very poor year by his standard, and I think this is a year standard, and I think this is a year where he can kind of rise to the where he can kind of rise to the occasion and prove that this is his occasion and prove that this is his team, that he is the guy. Uh I think team, that he is the guy. Uh I think it's really interesting to note uh it's really interesting to note uh reading more about him that he was kind reading more about him that he was kind of as open as a player is going to be I of as open as a player is going to be I think about the kind of mental health think about the kind of mental health struggles that he dealt with last year. struggles that he dealt with last year. He didn't go into specifics but he He didn't go into specifics but he talked about how it was it was a season talked about how it was it was a season in which he learned that you know like in which he learned that you know like there are many things much bigger than there are many things much bigger than football in his personal life that like football in his personal life that like needed dealing with and and I think needed dealing with and and I think maybe not a distraction necessarily maybe not a distraction necessarily because we're talking about him having because we're talking about him having three children at the age of 25 with his three children at the age of 25 with his long-term partner. He's got a long-term partner. He's got a six-year-old, a four-year-old, and a six-year-old, a four-year-old, and a one-year-old. And I imagine that when one-year-old. And I imagine that when things are going poorly for your at club things are going poorly for your at club level, it just makes life a little bit level, it just makes life a little bit harder. When things are humming and harder. When things are humming and you're top of the table and you're in you're top of the table and you're in the Champions League, you come home, the Champions League, you come home, you're probably a little bit happier. you're probably a little bit happier. And it just I I just think it's a really And it just I I just think it's a really interesting window into that these guys interesting window into that these guys are players, that these or that these are players, that these or that these guys are people rather. They're players, guys are people rather. They're players, but they're also fundamentally people. but they're also fundamentally people. And we forget that sometimes. and Phil And we forget that sometimes. and Phil Fodden goes home to his partner and his Fodden goes home to his partner and his three kids and has to deal with that and three kids and has to deal with that and then has to deal with all of the then has to deal with all of the pressure of England and the expectations pressure of England and the expectations of a country and the club and and so I of a country and the club and and so I find myself at the end of this like find myself at the end of this like rooting for him pretty strongly to have rooting for him pretty strongly to have a bounceback season and to be really a bounceback season and to be really good uh and to just kind of rediscover good uh and to just kind of rediscover that form and become a key player for that form and become a key player for the City team. I absolutely think he the City team. I absolutely think he can. And so my very specific prediction can. And so my very specific prediction is that I'm excited about Ryan Cherokee. is that I'm excited about Ryan Cherokee. I think he's going to bring so much I think he's going to bring so much variety and versatility to this attack. variety and versatility to this attack. I'm excited for Phil Foddin uh as a I'm excited for Phil Foddin uh as a human to rediscover his form and be very human to rediscover his form and be very good. I think they will combine for at good. I think they will combine for at least 18 assists on the year. That would least 18 assists on the year. That would mirror uh the form from when City won mirror uh the form from when City won the league in 2023 2024. Kevin De Bruyne the league in 2023 2024. Kevin De Bruyne got 10 assists that year. Phil Fodin got got 10 assists that year. Phil Fodin got eight in a 96 goal uh season for eight in a 96 goal uh season for Manchester City. Last season De Brrena Manchester City. Last season De Brrena had seven. Foddin had two. So basically had seven. Foddin had two. So basically I'm I think instead of De Bruyne, you've I'm I think instead of De Bruyne, you've got Cherokee coming in and I think got Cherokee coming in and I think they're going to double that number from they're going to double that number from 9 to 18. And I'm very excited for this 9 to 18. And I'm very excited for this Manchester City team because I didn't Manchester City team because I didn't even mention Erling Holland really, but even mention Erling Holland really, but he had a down year. I expect him to be he had a down year. I expect him to be quite good. I have him as my golden boot quite good. I have him as my golden boot winner. Uh spoiler alert. winner. Uh spoiler alert. &gt;&gt; A a down year. He still scored like what &gt;&gt; A a down year. He still scored like what 40 goals or something like that. That 40 goals or something like that. That that is a down year for him to be fair. that is a down year for him to be fair. &gt;&gt; Like when you look at his league form &gt;&gt; Like when you look at his league form it's like oh only the 22 goals down from it's like oh only the 22 goals down from 27 and 36. But then you look at all 27 and 36. But then you look at all competitions and yeah, it's like 40 or competitions and yeah, it's like 40 or something. It's it was a fine year for something. It's it was a fine year for him, but down you're by his standard. him, but down you're by his standard. &gt;&gt; That's just what he does. I um I agree &gt;&gt; That's just what he does. I um I agree with you, Taylor. I think Foden is going with you, Taylor. I think Foden is going to have a better year this year because to have a better year this year because of the way if we think back to the Club of the way if we think back to the Club World Cup when I know they crash out in World Cup when I know they crash out in that game against Alhal, but broadly that game against Alhal, but broadly speaking, I was very impressed with Man speaking, I was very impressed with Man City and they looked much more like a City and they looked much more like a Pep Guardiola team again. And one of the Pep Guardiola team again. And one of the things they were doing was they were things they were doing was they were push because they've now got an actual push because they've now got an actual fullback in the team, they were pushing fullback in the team, they were pushing Nuri really high. And so what that was Nuri really high. And so what that was doing was that was then pushing the sort doing was that was then pushing the sort of wide attackers in field. And I of wide attackers in field. And I thought Douku was really good and I thought Douku was really good and I thought Foden was really good in those thought Foden was really good in those games where he obviously he wants to get games where he obviously he wants to get into like the half spaces and on the into like the half spaces and on the turn and getting him into those areas of turn and getting him into those areas of the pitch feels like how you unlock him the pitch feels like how you unlock him again. So there are some aspects of City again. So there are some aspects of City that I feel really good about. There are that I feel really good about. There are other aspects where I just feel like other aspects where I just feel like there's inconsistencies in their there's inconsistencies in their approach and I don't know whether that approach and I don't know whether that is down to is down to &gt;&gt; Pep Guardiola to his credit has always &gt;&gt; Pep Guardiola to his credit has always been someone to try and reinvent been someone to try and reinvent himself. he went a little bit more himself. he went a little bit more direct in the last couple seasons. It direct in the last couple seasons. It feels like now he's trying to roll that feels like now he's trying to roll that back a little bit. So, I don't know back a little bit. So, I don't know whether the inconsistencies come from whether the inconsistencies come from that process or something like Ugo Vana that process or something like Ugo Vana being in his first summer as the the new being in his first summer as the the new sporting director at Manchester City. sporting director at Manchester City. There's not the the Pep Guardiola cheeky There's not the the Pep Guardiola cheeky boy biggerist union anymore that existed boy biggerist union anymore that existed for such a long time and was so for such a long time and was so successful. It's now a different union. successful. It's now a different union. It's now Vienna calling the shots. And I It's now Vienna calling the shots. And I just look at things like you mentioned just look at things like you mentioned the goalkeeper situation, Taylor, with the goalkeeper situation, Taylor, with Ederson potentially leaving to Turkey or Ederson potentially leaving to Turkey or Saudi Arabia or somewhere else. Saudi Arabia or somewhere else. Apparently, and this has accelerated Apparently, and this has accelerated over the last couple days, the over the last couple days, the goalkeeper that Man City have spoken to goalkeeper that Man City have spoken to and want as a replacement isn't James and want as a replacement isn't James Transfer Trafford. Yeah, Transfer Trafford. Yeah, &gt;&gt; it's Donnaruma who has been ostracized &gt;&gt; it's Donnaruma who has been ostracized at PSG because he's not very good at at PSG because he's not very good at playing with his feet. So, putting him playing with his feet. So, putting him in a Pep Guardola team doesn't really in a Pep Guardola team doesn't really make a whole lot of sense to me. and make a whole lot of sense to me. and even Ryan Sherke who I think is like a even Ryan Sherke who I think is like a baller and I'm so excited excited to see baller and I'm so excited excited to see him play for Man City. He's also there's him play for Man City. He's also there's elements of his game that are unpard elements of his game that are unpard like he kind of reminds me a little bit like he kind of reminds me a little bit of someone like a of a like um Andre of someone like a of a like um Andre Shaven or someone where like I don't Shaven or someone where like I don't know whether we're going to get full know whether we're going to get full core pressing out of him or like full core pressing out of him or like full level intensity out of him and that's level intensity out of him and that's kind of what makes him fun. kind of what makes him fun. &gt;&gt; We get as excellent of a blog as we got. &gt;&gt; We get as excellent of a blog as we got. If we get that then we're fine. He was If we get that then we're fine. He was one of the most fun players. Joe, is one of the most fun players. Joe, is that was that slightly before your time? that was that slightly before your time? Do you remember? Do you remember? &gt;&gt; The 90s, right? The 90s. &gt;&gt; The 90s, right? The 90s. &gt;&gt; 90s. Yeah, the 90s. &gt;&gt; 90s. Yeah, the 90s. &gt;&gt; Joe, he answered everything with a &gt;&gt; Joe, he answered everything with a practicality that was incredible. So, practicality that was incredible. So, like he would get a question from a like he would get a question from a nine-year-old about like, "Can I be a nine-year-old about like, "Can I be a professional footballer one day?" And professional footballer one day?" And his response would be, "I don't know. his response would be, "I don't know. I've never seen you play like like no no I've never seen you play like like no no no cushioning the blow at all." no cushioning the blow at all." &gt;&gt; He's not a big yes and guy is what I'm &gt;&gt; He's not a big yes and guy is what I'm not really. not really. not really. &gt;&gt; Okay, understood. &gt;&gt; Okay, understood. &gt;&gt; But like, do you get what I'm saying &gt;&gt; But like, do you get what I'm saying with that comparison? Shave him with with that comparison? Shave him with someone who would score four goals at someone who would score four goals at Anfield and you Anfield and you'd be Anfield and you Anfield and you'd be like, "Wow, he's the best player in the like, "Wow, he's the best player in the world." But you put him into a world." But you put him into a functional team and there was just functional team and there was just something that was a little bit missing. something that was a little bit missing. So with Cherokee Luke, I could be made So with Cherokee Luke, I could be made to look very very stupid there. to look very very stupid there. &gt;&gt; The first is so great. &gt;&gt; The first is so great. &gt;&gt; It's so good. &gt;&gt; It's so good. &gt;&gt; He's so fun and I can't wait to watch &gt;&gt; He's so fun and I can't wait to watch him, but I I just I need to see a little him, but I I just I need to see a little bit more to know where he fits in not bit more to know where he fits in not just in terms of his position, but also just in terms of his position, but also just in terms of his profile and and just in terms of his profile and and spirit, I guess, into a Pep Guardola spirit, I guess, into a Pep Guardola team. team. team. &gt;&gt; So a topical reference for everyone, &gt;&gt; So a topical reference for everyone, including Joe, would be the T-1000 from including Joe, would be the T-1000 from Terminator 2. the Terminator 2. the &gt;&gt; the Terminator that can morph into all &gt;&gt; the Terminator that can morph into all of the different things except for of the different things except for weapons. And in this case, I guess it weapons. And in this case, I guess it would be a T1000 that can morph into a would be a T1000 that can morph into a Swiss Army knife. I think that is the Swiss Army knife. I think that is the final evolution of this this particular final evolution of this this particular Manchester City team under Pep Manchester City team under Pep Guardiola. I think all of the concerns Guardiola. I think all of the concerns you've mentioned, Graham, are are valid you've mentioned, Graham, are are valid and confusing to me. And I think what and confusing to me. And I think what they speak to is I think Pep is going they speak to is I think Pep is going for a team that can have three different for a team that can have three different like kind of distinct looks based on like kind of distinct looks based on opponent, based on what is needed in the opponent, based on what is needed in the moment. And I think that can be a moment. And I think that can be a slightly more defensive team that's slightly more defensive team that's focused on keeping a clean sheet and focused on keeping a clean sheet and denying opportunities, but also denying opportunities, but also clear-cut opportunities. And that's clear-cut opportunities. And that's maybe where Donnaruma comes in as a more maybe where Donnaruma comes in as a more conventional shots stopper. When you're conventional shots stopper. When you're playing Bayern Munich in the Champions playing Bayern Munich in the Champions League quarters or Barcelona in the League quarters or Barcelona in the semis, and you need someone who's just semis, and you need someone who's just going to make sure that nothing goes in, going to make sure that nothing goes in, you go for a more conventional you go for a more conventional goalkeeper. If you're playing a team goalkeeper. If you're playing a team that is going to be a little bit that is going to be a little bit stretched, maybe you want a more direct stretched, maybe you want a more direct approach. And that's where we've seen approach. And that's where we've seen some of that directness even emphasized some of that directness even emphasized I would say where there is kind of I would say where there is kind of attacks into the channels and attacks attacks into the channels and attacks down the wings with multiple uh like down the wings with multiple uh like wide attackers trying to get involved. wide attackers trying to get involved. But then I suspect against the bunkered But then I suspect against the bunkered teams we're going to have more teams we're going to have more individual creativity still with an individual creativity still with an emphasis on controlling the game through emphasis on controlling the game through possession. But I think that is what I possession. But I think that is what I mean when I say that if he can get this mean when I say that if he can get this team to have all of those sort of looks team to have all of those sort of looks almost automatically. Every team aspires almost automatically. Every team aspires to have different looks for different to have different looks for different occasions, but with PEP, there's such an occasions, but with PEP, there's such an intensity and focus that I I picture a intensity and focus that I I picture a team that can like on a dime change team that can like on a dime change their entire approach based on what their entire approach based on what they've done in practice, what they've they've done in practice, what they've done in training to be able to go from, done in training to be able to go from, okay, the direct approach was working, okay, the direct approach was working, the defense has adjusted, now we're the defense has adjusted, now we're doing this. Okay, now now they've doing this. Okay, now now they've adjusted to this, now we're doing that. adjusted to this, now we're doing that. And I think that level of fluidity and And I think that level of fluidity and variety seems to be what he's going for. variety seems to be what he's going for. I don't know how quickly they can make I don't know how quickly they can make that happen. Hence the idea that if that happen. Hence the idea that if they're in touching distance by they're in touching distance by December, I think it works out quite December, I think it works out quite well for them. But it's an interesting well for them. But it's an interesting gamble and an interesting time for Pep gamble and an interesting time for Pep Guardiola and Manchester City. Guardiola and Manchester City. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I would agree with that, Taylor. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I would agree with that, Taylor. I' I've I've I think they might be my I' I've I've I think they might be my favorites to win this season, but it favorites to win this season, but it does depend on one thing, and it might does depend on one thing, and it might sound a bit simplistic to say, but over sound a bit simplistic to say, but over the Pep Guardiola Man City era, there's the Pep Guardiola Man City era, there's been one position and one player been one position and one player probably who's been the crux of probably who's been the crux of everything, the Rodgery position, or the everything, the Rodgery position, or the Fernandinho position before that, right? Fernandinho position before that, right? So, it's once again, it's simplistic and So, it's once again, it's simplistic and there's a lot of added facets to this there's a lot of added facets to this team, but does it come down this season team, but does it come down this season ultimately to Rodri being fit? ultimately to Rodri being fit? &gt;&gt; I thought this was a Scott Carson point. &gt;&gt; I thought this was a Scott Carson point. &gt;&gt; I thought you were about No, no, no, no. &gt;&gt; I thought you were about No, no, no, no. I think all three of us kind of narrowed I think all three of us kind of narrowed our eyes like what are you doing here? our eyes like what are you doing here? &gt;&gt; No, I was making What joke are you about &gt;&gt; No, I was making What joke are you about to make? to make? to make? &gt;&gt; I was trying to make an actual salient &gt;&gt; I was trying to make an actual salient point in the the defensive midfield point in the the defensive midfield position that Rodri or the Fernandinho position that Rodri or the Fernandinho position. historically when that player position. historically when that player has been out they've done badly and that has been out they've done badly and that is a pretty strong there's a strong is a pretty strong there's a strong correlation there. So how much of this correlation there. So how much of this season is about Rodri? season is about Rodri? &gt;&gt; A lot in my opinion. I think that they &gt;&gt; A lot in my opinion. I think that they have tried to do a lot in preseason and have tried to do a lot in preseason and in the window to sort of strengthen and in the window to sort of strengthen and have different looks with different have different looks with different personnel. I don't think they've tried personnel. I don't think they've tried to just have a person who can deputize to just have a person who can deputize in his absence which is the thing I in his absence which is the thing I thought they might do which is why I thought they might do which is why I thought they might go for somebody like thought they might go for somebody like Zuba Mendy. Uh but they didn't. And so Zuba Mendy. Uh but they didn't. And so instead, I think we're going to see like instead, I think we're going to see like Rodri by committee until he returns in Rodri by committee until he returns in September. But that's why they had the September. But that's why they had the Nikos playing in the double pivot to Nikos playing in the double pivot to kind of try to do a number of different kind of try to do a number of different things that he can do. But again, that's things that he can do. But again, that's two players trying to do the job two players trying to do the job normally done by one. I I think it's a normally done by one. I I think it's a very valid point, Ryan, that like in in very valid point, Ryan, that like in in a way like how goes Rodri goes the a way like how goes Rodri goes the season sort of. And I think getting him season sort of. And I think getting him back and making sure that he stays fit. back and making sure that he stays fit. I think they will have lots of different I think they will have lots of different ways of playing without him. And I think ways of playing without him. And I think Pep will have spent a lot of try time Pep will have spent a lot of try time trying to figure out how to get this trying to figure out how to get this team to look just as good without him as team to look just as good without him as with him. But it is still the big with him. But it is still the big question mark for me heading into the question mark for me heading into the season. season. season. &gt;&gt; Yeah, there we go. Thank you very much, &gt;&gt; Yeah, there we go. Thank you very much, Taylor. We take one more quick break. Taylor. We take one more quick break. When we come back, I will tell you about When we come back, I will tell you about Man United and Joe is going to tell you Man United and Joe is going to tell you about Newcastle. Join us then. Total about Newcastle. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Premier Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Premier League previews. We've come to the point League previews. We've come to the point where we're going to talk about Man where we're going to talk about Man United. Taylor, can we just side by just United. Taylor, can we just side by just you and me for a second? Are are you you and me for a second? Are are you sure you want me to do this in front of sure you want me to do this in front of you? you? you? &gt;&gt; No. &gt;&gt; No. Are you sure? Yeah. &gt;&gt; No. Are you sure? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Graham. Yes. &gt;&gt; Graham. Yes. &gt;&gt; I wonder what they're talking about. &gt;&gt; I wonder what they're talking about. &gt;&gt; You did you did assign me this. Just &gt;&gt; You did you did assign me this. Just Just so you know that you you want me to Just so you know that you you want me to talk about last season. talk about last season. &gt;&gt; I know. &gt;&gt; I know. &gt;&gt; Just Just so you know, right? Yeah. Is &gt;&gt; Just Just so you know, right? Yeah. Is that okay? that okay? that okay? &gt;&gt; This was a mistake. It really was. I &gt;&gt; This was a mistake. It really was. I didn't think of a mistake this quickly. didn't think of a mistake this quickly. I knew it would hurt. I didn't know it I knew it would hurt. I didn't know it would hurt this bad. would hurt this bad. &gt;&gt; All right. Here we go. Manchester United &gt;&gt; All right. Here we go. Manchester United opening their Premier League campaign opening their Premier League campaign this Sunday. Home to Arsenal. this Sunday. Home to Arsenal. Real uh season cut. Unless it's not. We Real uh season cut. Unless it's not. We shall see. shall see. shall see. &gt;&gt; Maybe so. Maybe. So, but it's a it's a &gt;&gt; Maybe so. Maybe. So, but it's a it's a it's a tough start, I'd say, Taylor for it's a tough start, I'd say, Taylor for Man United. Man City away in the fourth Man United. Man City away in the fourth game. Chelsea at home the following game. Chelsea at home the following week. Some big tests. Early doors. week. Some big tests. Early doors. &gt;&gt; Sorry. &gt;&gt; Sorry. &gt;&gt; Sorry. &gt;&gt; This this is the tone with which we're &gt;&gt; This this is the tone with which we're going to continue, is it? Yep. Okay. going to continue, is it? Yep. Okay. &gt;&gt; All right. I mean, here's the thing, &gt;&gt; All right. I mean, here's the thing, though. Like, th those won't be as though. Like, th those won't be as frustrating as like bread foot at home frustrating as like bread foot at home loss. Like, that type of thing was where loss. Like, that type of thing was where maybe I started to lose my mind a little maybe I started to lose my mind a little bit last season. bit last season. &gt;&gt; I do, as I've said, I think they're &gt;&gt; I do, as I've said, I think they're going to be significantly better than going to be significantly better than last year. Cue the joke about how they'd last year. Cue the joke about how they'd have to be or they'd be relegated. Take have to be or they'd be relegated. Take &gt;&gt; I think they are going to be better and &gt;&gt; I think they are going to be better and I think they are going to be, if nothing I think they are going to be, if nothing else, a more fun, complete team that else, a more fun, complete team that does spring some results. I said does spring some results. I said earlier, I said on the Arsenal preview, earlier, I said on the Arsenal preview, I expect that opener to be much more I expect that opener to be much more competitive and much more kind of fiery competitive and much more kind of fiery back and forth than maybe it would have back and forth than maybe it would have been in years past where it's like been in years past where it's like United holding on for dear life and United holding on for dear life and Arsenal winning like 2-0 or 1 nil, but Arsenal winning like 2-0 or 1 nil, but it's kind of a dull affair. I think that it's kind of a dull affair. I think that one's going to be like 3-2, 4-3. I think one's going to be like 3-2, 4-3. I think it's going to be wild. That's what I'm it's going to be wild. That's what I'm hoping for. hoping for. hoping for. &gt;&gt; I mean, I expect my kids to do their &gt;&gt; I mean, I expect my kids to do their homework, but they're on Roblox, so uh homework, but they're on Roblox, so uh here you go, Taylor. Not all these here you go, Taylor. Not all these things. things. things. &gt;&gt; Yes, but you're not Ruben Emmer. You're &gt;&gt; Yes, but you're not Ruben Emmer. You're just a negligent father. Okay, Okay, Okay, on that note, on that note, &gt;&gt; what's up? Let's do it. &gt;&gt; what's up? Let's do it. &gt;&gt; Should the truth hurt? &gt;&gt; Should the truth hurt? &gt;&gt; You're the Eric Tenh hog of the &gt;&gt; You're the Eric Tenh hog of the scenarios. I guess what I'm getting at. scenarios. I guess what I'm getting at. &gt;&gt; Speaking thereof, let's go back to last &gt;&gt; Speaking thereof, let's go back to last season and its greatest hit, shall we, season and its greatest hit, shall we, Taylor? You hope Taylor hopes they had Taylor? You hope Taylor hopes they had their Nadier last season and Taylor their Nadier last season and Taylor hopes as outlined that things can only hopes as outlined that things can only get better. 15th last season under Eric get better. 15th last season under Eric Tenhog. Those glorious few matches under Tenhog. Those glorious few matches under Ru Van Nsteroy as well. And then that Ru Van Nsteroy as well. And then that November entrance for Ruben Amarim, of November entrance for Ruben Amarim, of course, taking the job earlier than he course, taking the job earlier than he wanted to, going on record with that in wanted to, going on record with that in his in his fairly uh not transparent his in his fairly uh not transparent manner. Um the season widely regarded as manner. Um the season widely regarded as one of the worst in the club's modern one of the worst in the club's modern history. Lowest league position since history. Lowest league position since 1990. Oh, the '9s. 42 points, fewest 1990. Oh, the '9s. 42 points, fewest points in the top five season since 1974 points in the top five season since 1974 when they were relegated. They scored when they were relegated. They scored less league goals than West Ham, less league goals than West Ham, Tottenham, Wolves, Palace, and everyone Tottenham, Wolves, Palace, and everyone in the top 10. only won seven home games in the top 10. only won seven home games at Old Trafford. Used to be a fortress. at Old Trafford. Used to be a fortress. Went to the Europa League final of Went to the Europa League final of course, but lost to a Tottenham side who course, but lost to a Tottenham side who are also having a historically modern are also having a historically modern bad season as well. And they failed to bad season as well. And they failed to qualify for Europe for the first time in qualify for Europe for the first time in 11 years. So this season we've got a 11 years. So this season we've got a silver lining of course. No European silver lining of course. No European comp competition to distract Manchester comp competition to distract Manchester United. Probably only a game a week most United. Probably only a game a week most of the time. That's a good thing. Lots of the time. That's a good thing. Lots more time on the training ground, a lot more time on the training ground, a lot less travel, lot less minutes on the less travel, lot less minutes on the field for that squad. But as a result of field for that squad. But as a result of all that and as a result of last season, all that and as a result of last season, no one really knows what this team's no one really knows what this team's going to do this year, I think we're going to do this year, I think we're going to learn a lot in the opening sort going to learn a lot in the opening sort of three or four games as we've outlined of three or four games as we've outlined already. But as Taylor notes, they have already. But as Taylor notes, they have made a lot of improvements over the made a lot of improvements over the summer. Particularly the overhaul of the summer. Particularly the overhaul of the front line, the big signings Mattz Kuna front line, the big signings Mattz Kuna of course coming in from Wolves, Brian of course coming in from Wolves, Brian and Puo from Brenford and Benjamin and Puo from Brenford and Benjamin Shushko for a Mari Leipzig for 74 Shushko for a Mari Leipzig for 74 million. All of those combined, one million. All of those combined, one would hope would get Man United above would hope would get Man United above the 44 goals that they scored last the 44 goals that they scored last season. season. season. &gt;&gt; Better. Honestly, it better. &gt;&gt; Better. Honestly, it better. &gt;&gt; It better because it was 200 million &gt;&gt; It better because it was 200 million worth of enforcements they've got there. worth of enforcements they've got there. &gt;&gt; 45 it is &gt;&gt; 45 it is &gt;&gt; in all competitions. Uh Carlos BVA is &gt;&gt; in all competitions. Uh Carlos BVA is potentially coming in as a defensive potentially coming in as a defensive midfielder. We don't know what that midfielder. We don't know what that one's going to do. It looks like it one's going to do. It looks like it could be nine figures required to get could be nine figures required to get him at this point. But I will say on a him at this point. But I will say on a positive, the spine of the team is positive, the spine of the team is looking pretty good. Particularly if looking pretty good. Particularly if we've mentioned Don Rummer in this we've mentioned Don Rummer in this episode, he's linked with Man United as episode, he's linked with Man United as we record as well. So if you get say him we record as well. So if you get say him at the back uh over Ana, not sure how at the back uh over Ana, not sure how that's going to go and then you've got that's going to go and then you've got sort of you know Lenny Euro Copy Manu if sort of you know Lenny Euro Copy Manu if Copy Manu plays Bruno Cesco, you know, Copy Manu plays Bruno Cesco, you know, that's a it's a pretty solid spine that that's a it's a pretty solid spine that Man United are building of their team, I Man United are building of their team, I would say. Uh but that said, uh I would say. Uh but that said, uh I mentioned I sort of referred to it mentioned I sort of referred to it earlier. A decent amount of players on earlier. A decent amount of players on the wage bill that Man United probably the wage bill that Man United probably don't want to be on their wage bill. don't want to be on their wage bill. Gonacho and Gonacho and Gonacho and &gt;&gt; But they don't have like some sort of &gt;&gt; But they don't have like some sort of clever name for them all because there's clever name for them all because there's so many of them training by themselves, so many of them training by themselves, do they? do they? do they? &gt;&gt; Oh, they do. They do. &gt;&gt; Oh, they do. They do. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Would you like to tell us? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Would you like to tell us? &gt;&gt; Is it the superstars? &gt;&gt; Is it the superstars? &gt;&gt; Is it the highf flyers? &gt;&gt; Is it the highf flyers? &gt;&gt; Something like that. &gt;&gt; Something like that. &gt;&gt; The good boys. &gt;&gt; The good boys. &gt;&gt; Is it the full of potential? &gt;&gt; Is it the full of potential? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's the it's the guys we're glad &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's the it's the guys we're glad to be paying. you're going to have to to be paying. you're going to have to choose your Anthony Sanchos still choose your Anthony Sanchos still cashing in those checks. Um, so yeah, cashing in those checks. Um, so yeah, outgoing players obviously Marcus outgoing players obviously Marcus Rashford now on loan at Barcelona. We're Rashford now on loan at Barcelona. We're hearing that Raasmas Hiler might be hearing that Raasmas Hiler might be getting a move to Ser. We'll see how getting a move to Ser. We'll see how that one goes. Of course, a lot of that one goes. Of course, a lot of outward um um employees heading out from outward um um employees heading out from the backroom staff, your uh your canteen the backroom staff, your uh your canteen workers, your groundsmen, all that kind workers, your groundsmen, all that kind of stuff because somebody's got to pay of stuff because somebody's got to pay Casemiro's £350 grand a week, right? So Casemiro's £350 grand a week, right? So why not? why not? why not? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, the kitchen staff were all &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, the kitchen staff were all on £150,000 a week. It was gratuitous. on £150,000 a week. It was gratuitous. Yeah. So, obviously, yeah, some some Yeah. So, obviously, yeah, some some also some interesting vibes from the also some interesting vibes from the fans over the summer. A lot of fans have fans over the summer. A lot of fans have had some ticket price increases at Old had some ticket price increases at Old Trafford, and some have been forced from Trafford, and some have been forced from the seats they've had for decades. All the seats they've had for decades. All super good PR stuff that's happening super good PR stuff that's happening there. Christian Ericen, Lindelof, and there. Christian Ericen, Lindelof, and Johnny Evans have all departed. I think Johnny Evans have all departed. I think there's a stat, I don't have it down there's a stat, I don't have it down here, but it's something like when with here, but it's something like when with Johnny Evans departure, this is the Johnny Evans departure, this is the first time since 1974 that there hasn't first time since 1974 that there hasn't been a Ferguson player in the Man United been a Ferguson player in the Man United squad, which is a wild stat. That's a squad, which is a wild stat. That's a long time ago. long time ago. &gt;&gt; There we go. Uh so let's head to this &gt;&gt; There we go. Uh so let's head to this season. Ruben Amarim his first full season. Ruben Amarim his first full season. Obviously arrived in very season. Obviously arrived in very difficult circumstances last season. He difficult circumstances last season. He was uh Man United were 13th when he took was uh Man United were 13th when he took over. So they technically got worse and over. So they technically got worse and you could technically argue there's many you could technically argue there's many ways they took a step back from the ways they took a step back from the tenhog era. Um certainly Amaran wasn't tenhog era. Um certainly Amaran wasn't super flexible, but he gets a pass. He super flexible, but he gets a pass. He gets a pass for last season. This season gets a pass for last season. This season pretty much full backing in the transfer pretty much full backing in the transfer market. He owns this now. He owns this market. He owns this now. He owns this team, right? So this is all on Rub Marin team, right? So this is all on Rub Marin going forward from this point. Um and going forward from this point. Um and you know one would hope he is shaping you know one would hope he is shaping his squad in his vision in his in his uh his squad in his vision in his in his uh his 343 in his back three system which his 343 in his back three system which maybe he didn't have the components for maybe he didn't have the components for last season. One would hope maybe he's last season. One would hope maybe he's changed that around in preseason. I changed that around in preseason. I think we've seen a 352 shape in pre uh think we've seen a 352 shape in pre uh in um in attack and defending in a 5-32. in um in attack and defending in a 5-32. I don't know if if things don't start I don't know if if things don't start well. It doesn't feel like he's gonna well. It doesn't feel like he's gonna have the flexibility to change things up have the flexibility to change things up too much, but who knows? Who knows? too much, but who knows? Who knows? Maybe Man United stick to him through Maybe Man United stick to him through through thick and thin Taylor and through thick and thin Taylor and support him financially even more so support him financially even more so rather than just bing him off like rather than just bing him off like everyone else. everyone else. everyone else. &gt;&gt; I know this sounds like it is just &gt;&gt; I know this sounds like it is just setting you up for a joke here. But the setting you up for a joke here. But the like the primary reason why there is an like the primary reason why there is an assumption it won't work or why it would assumption it won't work or why it would go poorly is simply that like because go poorly is simply that like because that's how it's been for Manchester that's how it's been for Manchester United, right? Because I think like if United, right? Because I think like if you put this team in a vacuum and you you put this team in a vacuum and you gave them a different name and then you gave them a different name and then you kind of looked at them, I do think that kind of looked at them, I do think that there is plenty of reason for optimism there is plenty of reason for optimism and reason to believe that they can be a and reason to believe that they can be a a strong team in the Premier League. not a strong team in the Premier League. not a title contender certainly, but I think a title contender certainly, but I think there is enough about this team and there is enough about this team and enough about them like stylistically and enough about them like stylistically and with MRM at the helm, an MRM that maybe with MRM at the helm, an MRM that maybe has got buy in now. I think there's has got buy in now. I think there's reason for belief and I think there's a reason for belief and I think there's a lot of lot of lot of &gt;&gt; problem players that aren't involved as &gt;&gt; problem players that aren't involved as much anymore. Put it that way. much anymore. Put it that way. &gt;&gt; Belief, Taylor, legitimate question, not &gt;&gt; Belief, Taylor, legitimate question, not at all trying to needle here. Like at all trying to needle here. Like belief in what? like what where do you belief in what? like what where do you think if you strip away all the baggage think if you strip away all the baggage and all the all the jokes like belief to and all the all the jokes like belief to finish where when you look at this squad finish where when you look at this squad &gt;&gt; fifth &gt;&gt; fifth &gt;&gt; fifth &gt;&gt; which would be Champions League &gt;&gt; which would be Champions League qualification qualification qualification &gt;&gt; that I I think there's a decent with the &gt;&gt; that I I think there's a decent with the summer that Newcastle have had summer that Newcastle have had &gt;&gt; uh and then I I personally think that &gt;&gt; uh and then I I personally think that Spurs still have work to do like so I I Spurs still have work to do like so I I think there's other teams certainly that think there's other teams certainly that are like have very good teams and have are like have very good teams and have done very good builds. I think that's done very good builds. I think that's probably if I'm if I'm Manchester probably if I'm if I'm Manchester United, what I am targeting is getting United, what I am targeting is getting back to Champions League at a minimum back to Champions League at a minimum maybe. Um I I think like I've said this maybe. Um I I think like I've said this before, I'll say it again. I I think a before, I'll say it again. I I think a huge part of this has just been the rot huge part of this has just been the rot that starts with the Glazers and what that starts with the Glazers and what the Glazers allowed to happen allowed to the Glazers allowed to happen and fester basically. And I think happen and fester basically. And I think that is that bomb squad that Ryan was that is that bomb squad that Ryan was alluding to previously. I think there alluding to previously. I think there are players that just don't care and are players that just don't care and didn't really want to do what was asked didn't really want to do what was asked of them and wanted to play the way they of them and wanted to play the way they wanted to play. Jaden Sancho is the name wanted to play. Jaden Sancho is the name among them. And it's worth noting like among them. And it's worth noting like Eric Denhog gave him like a month of Eric Denhog gave him like a month of like mental health recuperation time and like mental health recuperation time and covered for him in the media. And Jaden covered for him in the media. And Jaden Sancho is still pretty ungrateful about Sancho is still pretty ungrateful about that. And it's not like he has then gone that. And it's not like he has then gone elsewhere and Ben Electric. Chelsea had elsewhere and Ben Electric. Chelsea had to pay a fee to get out of their to pay a fee to get out of their obligation to buy because they so did obligation to buy because they so did not want him as part of their team. not want him as part of their team. Nobody seems to want him as part of Nobody seems to want him as part of their team except for Bashikash who whom their team except for Bashikash who whom he has thus far rejected. We'll see how he has thus far rejected. We'll see how long he does that. But I just feel like long he does that. But I just feel like that's been the biggest thing is there that's been the biggest thing is there are players at this club that thought are players at this club that thought they were bigger than the team, their they were bigger than the team, their personality was bigger and and I think personality was bigger and and I think that just kind of festered and set in. that just kind of festered and set in. And if you're a youngster coming through And if you're a youngster coming through and you see players not trying but still and you see players not trying but still starting, it has to affect morale. It starting, it has to affect morale. It has to affect your feeling that like has to affect your feeling that like none of this matters. It doesn't matter none of this matters. It doesn't matter what I do, Marcus Rashford's still going what I do, Marcus Rashford's still going to start. Jaden Sancho is still going to to start. Jaden Sancho is still going to get an opportunity. Even Garnacho, I get an opportunity. Even Garnacho, I think the way the kind of season played think the way the kind of season played out. And so I think that is a big part out. And so I think that is a big part of it is just that you get rid of some of it is just that you get rid of some of those personalities. My hope is that of those personalities. My hope is that this is a team that are fully bought in this is a team that are fully bought in to Amarim's style and belief and to Amarim's style and belief and approach and and like are willing to run approach and and like are willing to run for him, willing to work for him, for him, willing to work for him, willing to execute, and you see a much willing to execute, and you see a much better team that is back in Europe next better team that is back in Europe next season. season. season. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I think the rot is really &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I think the rot is really key, Taylor. I think Man United are a key, Taylor. I think Man United are a case study in modern soccer for me of case study in modern soccer for me of you can be outrageously well resourced you can be outrageously well resourced but not successful if you don't have the but not successful if you don't have the right philosophy and you don't have the right philosophy and you don't have the right leadership. And I've banged this right leadership. And I've banged this drum time and time again on this podcast drum time and time again on this podcast in that everything starts at the top. If in that everything starts at the top. If you work at a company and you don't you work at a company and you don't think much of the person at the very top think much of the person at the very top of the company, it's going to affect the of the company, it's going to affect the way you do your job, right? And we can way you do your job, right? And we can laugh all we want at what Chelsea are laugh all we want at what Chelsea are doing and it looks ridiculous. They've doing and it looks ridiculous. They've got a plan. They've got a philosophy. got a plan. They've got a philosophy. They they've got everyone knows what They they've got everyone knows what direction they're headed in. What direction they're headed in. What direction are Man United headed in? What direction are Man United headed in? What plan have they had since Alex Ferguson plan have they had since Alex Ferguson retired? They've zigzagged so much. retired? They've zigzagged so much. They've had, you know, different squads They've had, you know, different squads built for different people. They don't built for different people. They don't have a central philosophy. They don't have a central philosophy. They don't have a central leadership core at the have a central leadership core at the very top. I'm talking above the manager very top. I'm talking above the manager in the front office. in the front office. &gt;&gt; That's something that Man City have had &gt;&gt; That's something that Man City have had for, you know, years before they got Pep for, you know, years before they got Pep Guardiola in. All thumbs up on the Guardiola in. All thumbs up on the Riverside there. They that is something Riverside there. They that is something that most top clubs have like a real that most top clubs have like a real structure and philosophy and everything structure and philosophy and everything coming down from the top. Man United coming down from the top. Man United don't have that. And I honestly believe don't have that. And I honestly believe until they have that, until they have a until they have that, until they have a proper structure and philosophy, it proper structure and philosophy, it doesn't matter what coach they have and doesn't matter what coach they have and it doesn't matter what players they it doesn't matter what players they have. That's my firm belief. have. That's my firm belief. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And you're echoing a lot of what &gt;&gt; Yeah. And you're echoing a lot of what Marcus Rashford is saying today in the Marcus Rashford is saying today in the in the interview. I don't know if anyone in the interview. I don't know if anyone has seen that. It's really really has seen that. It's really really interesting. Now, maybe the messenger interesting. Now, maybe the messenger Taylor isn't the messenger that you Taylor isn't the messenger that you would like for that particular message, would like for that particular message, but go and watch that. Go and watch that but go and watch that. Go and watch that Marcus Rashford interview. It's really, Marcus Rashford interview. It's really, really interesting. really interesting. really interesting. &gt;&gt; We reference it all the time. It's Tim &gt;&gt; We reference it all the time. It's Tim Rob the Tim Robinson like who could have Rob the Tim Robinson like who could have done this? done this? done this? I saw someone respond to him talk about I saw someone respond to him talk about like the lack of identity and effort and like the lack of identity and effort and intensity with you know that clip of him intensity with you know that clip of him pressing quote unquote is is against pressing quote unquote is is against Brenford or someone where a player Brenford or someone where a player literally runs round him with the ball literally runs round him with the ball at walking pace but um yeah that's what at walking pace but um yeah that's what he was saying and he's been on the he was saying and he's been on the inside at at that club. inside at at that club. &gt;&gt; Yeah, there you go. So that that's my my &gt;&gt; Yeah, there you go. So that that's my my overriding thought is Man United still overriding thought is Man United still don't know what they are and we don't don't know what they are and we don't know what they are and that is their know what they are and that is their biggest problem frankly and it's it's biggest problem frankly and it's it's it's comes from the very top but anyway it's comes from the very top but anyway uh let's I think it's safe to say Taylor uh let's I think it's safe to say Taylor that they are going to improve this that they are going to improve this season they do have more uh better season they do have more uh better players and better components and players and better components and &gt;&gt; Amarim &gt;&gt; Amarim &gt;&gt; Amarim &gt;&gt; I mean they will they will for sure &gt;&gt; I mean they will they will for sure &gt;&gt; they will they can't not exactly so that &gt;&gt; they will they can't not exactly so that the key players obviously the front the key players obviously the front three Kuna Cesco and Vermo Kuna feels three Kuna Cesco and Vermo Kuna feels like very much an Amarin signing to me like very much an Amarin signing to me sort of a classic Man United signing I sort of a classic Man United signing I would argue as well from you know back would argue as well from you know back in the day sort of hopefully some kind in the day sort of hopefully some kind of free roaming number 10 role he's of free roaming number 10 role he's going to have there Kuno in those sort going to have there Kuno in those sort of deep ling forward positions I think of deep ling forward positions I think could cause Premier League defenses a could cause Premier League defenses a lot of issues this year and you know lot of issues this year and you know creating a space for the wing backs to creating a space for the wing backs to fly up and overlap uh bomb squad bomb fly up and overlap uh bomb squad bomb forward excuse me I think that could be forward excuse me I think that could be very good for them indeed uh I think very good for them indeed uh I think there's there's quite a few key players there's there's quite a few key players I wanted to highlight who as sort of by I wanted to highlight who as sort of by means of being positive about this team means of being positive about this team Patrick Dorggo I think many fans and Patrick Dorggo I think many fans and pundits I I think he is probably the key pundits I I think he is probably the key to the success in this Amarim setup to the success in this Amarim setup given the importance of the wing back given the importance of the wing back position. I think Dio likely will be position. I think Dio likely will be very important on the other flank as very important on the other flank as well. Um an upandcomer Chebi um well. Um an upandcomer Chebi um 17-year-old Danish forward brought in 17-year-old Danish forward brought in from Arsenal youth last season. Scored a from Arsenal youth last season. Scored a wild amount of goals at youth level. He wild amount of goals at youth level. He scored in the postseason Hong Kong scored in the postseason Hong Kong friendly that was super necessary back friendly that was super necessary back in May. He might get a shout going in May. He might get a shout going forward. He might be put out on loan. He forward. He might be put out on loan. He might have be put out on loan by the might have be put out on loan by the time this episode goes out, but he might time this episode goes out, but he might be a name to look for as well Obi going be a name to look for as well Obi going forward. And and there's there's a forward. And and there's there's a couple of interesting cases. Um Kobe Mu couple of interesting cases. Um Kobe Mu a lot of injuries obviously last season. a lot of injuries obviously last season. The perception that Amaran didn't really The perception that Amaran didn't really see him fitting into the team, but he see him fitting into the team, but he plays in a really important position in plays in a really important position in the team and he's really good. So I the team and he's really good. So I don't know whether it's him or Yugati or don't know whether it's him or Yugati or whether there's a few, you know, in the whether there's a few, you know, in the middle of the field for Man United. middle of the field for Man United. It'll be interesting to see how the the It'll be interesting to see how the the starting 11 shapes up there. And um one starting 11 shapes up there. And um one player I'm looking forward to seeing player I'm looking forward to seeing more of and I think will be really more of and I think will be really important, Lenny Euro at the back as important, Lenny Euro at the back as well in the heart defense. Um do do you well in the heart defense. Um do do you know who's named after by the way? Have know who's named after by the way? Have we have we covered this before? we have we covered this before? &gt;&gt; I'm going to assume Lenny Gravitz. &gt;&gt; I'm going to assume Lenny Gravitz. &gt;&gt; You you assume correctly? &gt;&gt; You you assume correctly? &gt;&gt; I was going to say Lenny from the &gt;&gt; I was going to say Lenny from the Simpsons. Simpsons. Simpsons. &gt;&gt; I was going to say someone named Yoro. &gt;&gt; I was going to say someone named Yoro. &gt;&gt; Lenny from the Simpsons would be better. &gt;&gt; Lenny from the Simpsons would be better. &gt;&gt; But um &gt;&gt; But um &gt;&gt; he's named after Lenny Kravitz. He &gt;&gt; he's named after Lenny Kravitz. He legitimately is named because his mother legitimately is named because his mother loved a big scarf. loved a big scarf. He loves her leather pants is what she He loves her leather pants is what she loved. Oh, did his mother. Yeah, but loved. Oh, did his mother. Yeah, but Lenny already know plays to the whistle Lenny already know plays to the whistle because he knows it ain't over till it's because he knows it ain't over till it's over. That's what we say about him. over. That's what we say about him. &gt;&gt; Anywh who, my very specific prediction &gt;&gt; Anywh who, my very specific prediction about Manchester United this season. about Manchester United this season. Obviously, last season they struggled to Obviously, last season they struggled to score uh goals, 44 goals in case we score uh goals, 44 goals in case we haven't covered that several times haven't covered that several times already. They have found the solution already. They have found the solution this season. That is not to even go near this season. That is not to even go near the opposing line of defense. It's just the opposing line of defense. It's just to score loads of goals from distance to score loads of goals from distance instead. I think that's what Manchester instead. I think that's what Manchester United are going to do. Manchester United are going to do. Manchester United will score more goals from United will score more goals from outside the box than any other pre outside the box than any other pre Premier League team and I think they'll Premier League team and I think they'll do so by some distance. So last season do so by some distance. So last season the top two Premier League players for the top two Premier League players for scoring outside the box in all scoring outside the box in all competitions, Bruno and Matt Kuna. competitions, Bruno and Matt Kuna. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; And Benjamin Shesco the big lad 41 shots &gt;&gt; And Benjamin Shesco the big lad 41 shots from outside the box since the start of from outside the box since the start of 23-24 in all competitions according to 23-24 in all competitions according to OPA. Loves to have a poke. Brian Bumo. I OPA. Loves to have a poke. Brian Bumo. I mean, not not necessarily one of his mean, not not necessarily one of his strengths he's known for, but he scored, strengths he's known for, but he scored, I think, two from the outside the box I think, two from the outside the box last season as well. I think Man United last season as well. I think Man United are going to score loads from outside are going to score loads from outside the box. I think you're going to get the box. I think you're going to get some goal of the month contenders. They some goal of the month contenders. They might not be, you know, top of the might not be, you know, top of the table, but what I think is going to be a table, but what I think is going to be a defining part of this team is I think defining part of this team is I think they're going to be quite entertaining. they're going to be quite entertaining. I think they're going to be fun to I think they're going to be fun to watch. I think we're going to get some watch. I think we're going to get some good goals and entertaining whether they good goals and entertaining whether they are terrible or whether they are great. are terrible or whether they are great. Either way, on either side of the Either way, on either side of the spectrum, I'm looking forward to seeing spectrum, I'm looking forward to seeing this Manchester United decide this this Manchester United decide this season. Can they score 45 goals from season. Can they score 45 goals from outside the box? Because those those outside the box? Because those those things I mean, yeah, vibes are great, things I mean, yeah, vibes are great, but I I don't know if I want a team full but I I don't know if I want a team full of players who are taking shots from of players who are taking shots from outside the box for actually creating outside the box for actually creating opportunities. Actually, yeah, as I'm opportunities. Actually, yeah, as I'm not my United fan, I don't want nerd. not my United fan, I don't want nerd. &gt;&gt; Big xG nerd. Calm down. &gt;&gt; Big xG nerd. Calm down. &gt;&gt; The thing with Manchester United, look, &gt;&gt; The thing with Manchester United, look, I've I've by accident watched quite a I've I've by accident watched quite a bit of their preseason games because Sky bit of their preseason games because Sky put them on all the time because they put them on all the time because they get big big viewership. I there's been a get big big viewership. I there's been a lot to like about Manchester United. lot to like about Manchester United. There has been encouragement. There has been encouragement. &gt;&gt; He tripped and fell into the preseason &gt;&gt; He tripped and fell into the preseason game, Taylor. It was a mistake. game, Taylor. It was a mistake. &gt;&gt; If there's a game on on a Saturday night &gt;&gt; If there's a game on on a Saturday night on Sky Sports one at at 10:00, I'm going on Sky Sports one at at 10:00, I'm going to watch it by accident. I've caught a to watch it by accident. I've caught a few games like that, but few games like that, but &gt;&gt; I know you mean it's just like you make &gt;&gt; I know you mean it's just like you make it sound like you went to watch the it sound like you went to watch the studio and then it was like, haha, studio and then it was like, haha, you've been fooled. You thought it was you've been fooled. You thought it was Seth Rogan. It's Matteas Kuna. Seth Rogan. It's Matteas Kuna. &gt;&gt; Well, Manchester United did trick me &gt;&gt; Well, Manchester United did trick me into watching them a lot last season. into watching them a lot last season. Um, but there's there's been a lot to Um, but there's there's been a lot to like about the preseason performances. I like about the preseason performances. I think Amaran has put a big a big focus think Amaran has put a big a big focus and look this isn't the first time we go and look this isn't the first time we go over old ground with Manchester United. over old ground with Manchester United. This isn't the first time I've heard This isn't the first time I've heard this coming into a new season but they this coming into a new season but they do look fitter. They look like more do look fitter. They look like more physical. I just have a concern about physical. I just have a concern about that that that center midfield that that that center midfield supporting that attack of Kuna and Emu supporting that attack of Kuna and Emu and Cesco. And then the wing backs as and Cesco. And then the wing backs as well. It feels like Manchester United well. It feels like Manchester United don't have naturally outstanding wing don't have naturally outstanding wing backs for that position. Amaran has been backs for that position. Amaran has been really rigid. He hasn't really shifted really rigid. He hasn't really shifted away from that. So it feels like they're away from that. So it feels like they're an attacking player down a lot of the an attacking player down a lot of the time which maybe leads to some of the time which maybe leads to some of the numbers that we saw last season. So if numbers that we saw last season. So if they were to go out and get I don't want they were to go out and get I don't want to put it on one player and say to put it on one player and say everything will be fine if they get this everything will be fine if they get this player but if they were to get Carlos player but if they were to get Carlos Biba who would bring that two-way Biba who would bring that two-way physicality as the kind of midfielder physicality as the kind of midfielder that they would they need all of a that they would they need all of a sudden I'd feel so much better about sudden I'd feel so much better about Manchester United and I really could Manchester United and I really could obviously things would need to come obviously things would need to come together pretty quickly. I really could together pretty quickly. I really could see them finishing fifth or sixth this see them finishing fifth or sixth this season until they get that physicality season until they get that physicality in midfield. Keep in mind it looks like in midfield. Keep in mind it looks like Bruno Fernandez is going to have to play Bruno Fernandez is going to have to play as an eight in this team if and Bueno as an eight in this team if and Bueno and Kuna as the dual number 10s. Don't and Kuna as the dual number 10s. Don't feel great about that. If they don't feel great about that. If they don't have that physicality alongside him if have that physicality alongside him if they get that player, I predict a good they get that player, I predict a good season, a positive season. If they season, a positive season. If they don't, I I think they might have more don't, I I think they might have more troubles to be honest. troubles to be honest. Isn't the idea though that like they Isn't the idea though that like they struggled to break down teams that teams struggled to break down teams that teams understood that they weren't getting understood that they weren't getting enough kind of attackers forward and enough kind of attackers forward and attacking involvement so that now you attacking involvement so that now you basically have two advanced ahead of basically have two advanced ahead of Bruno. Bruno can then kind of dictate Bruno. Bruno can then kind of dictate play and arrive late and then you have play and arrive late and then you have the back three that can kind of shut up the back three that can kind of shut up shop in transition. Isn't that the idea shop in transition. Isn't that the idea that you don't necessarily need that that you don't necessarily need that midfield player against certain midfield player against certain opponents? opponents? opponents? &gt;&gt; I mean certainly against certain &gt;&gt; I mean certainly against certain opponents. Both of those things are true opponents. Both of those things are true where Bruno Fernandez solves problems where Bruno Fernandez solves problems and creates problems because of the the and creates problems because of the the personnel around him. They were a bottom personnel around him. They were a bottom half team in expect allowed. So they half team in expect allowed. So they they need improvement on on both sides. they need improvement on on both sides. So yeah, whatever option you go with, So yeah, whatever option you go with, there will be challenges that you can't there will be challenges that you can't fix with that option. fix with that option. &gt;&gt; Bruno center back it is. &gt;&gt; Bruno center back it is. &gt;&gt; Solved it. &gt;&gt; Solved it. &gt;&gt; Just keep adding those pieces and not &gt;&gt; Just keep adding those pieces and not changing anything at the top of the changing anything at the top of the organization. Everything will be fine organization. Everything will be fine and dandy. Manchester United. Everybody, and dandy. Manchester United. Everybody, one last team to go through on this one last team to go through on this episode. We are running long, but Joe episode. We are running long, but Joe Lowry, I'd love for you to tell us all Lowry, I'd love for you to tell us all about Newcastle United. The team that no about Newcastle United. The team that no one seems to want to sign for. one seems to want to sign for. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's good that we're running long &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's good that we're running long because it's not like there's been because it's not like there's been anything interesting happening for anything interesting happening for Newcastle this summer. Um, they haven't Newcastle this summer. Um, they haven't been sort of involved in the story over been sort of involved in the story over the summer at all in any way. Uh, let's the summer at all in any way. Uh, let's look back before we look forward what look back before we look forward what what Newcastle did last season. They what Newcastle did last season. They finished fifth in the table, qualified finished fifth in the table, qualified for the Champions League. Expected goal for the Champions League. Expected goal differential was fifth. Um, they they differential was fifth. Um, they they were a very very good team. Not quite a were a very very good team. Not quite a great team. Experienced team. The fourth great team. Experienced team. The fourth oldest squad in the league at 27.4 years oldest squad in the league at 27.4 years based off of average age weighted by based off of average age weighted by minutes played. Standouts Alexander minutes played. Standouts Alexander Isach. I don't know if anybody's heard Isach. I don't know if anybody's heard of this guy. Um I don't know if he of this guy. Um I don't know if he certainly hasn't moved house recently or certainly hasn't moved house recently or anything along those lines. Um he 19 anything along those lines. Um he 19 non-penalty goals last year, leading non-penalty goals last year, leading scorer. Glad he's going to be around scorer. Glad he's going to be around next year. Anthony Gordon didn't have a next year. Anthony Gordon didn't have a good year, but Jacob Murphy added 20 good year, but Jacob Murphy added 20 non-penalty goal contributions. Harvey non-penalty goal contributions. Harvey Barnes added another 13 over from the Barnes added another 13 over from the wing. Bruno Gamarish was massive for wing. Bruno Gamarish was massive for them in central midfield. They were them in central midfield. They were rattled by injuries and and struggled a rattled by injuries and and struggled a little bit during the first third or so little bit during the first third or so of the season as you do when you're of the season as you do when you're injured. In the final 23 games of the injured. In the final 23 games of the season though, only Liverpool earned season though, only Liverpool earned more points than Newcastle. So, they more points than Newcastle. So, they they did finish very well and are a very they did finish very well and are a very very strong team. They also won their very strong team. They also won their first domestic trophy in 70 years last first domestic trophy in 70 years last year, winning the Carabal Cup. Yay, year, winning the Carabal Cup. Yay, against Liverpool. Take that, Liverpool. against Liverpool. Take that, Liverpool. Ha. Um the TLDDR on last season really Ha. Um the TLDDR on last season really was they did about what was expected at was they did about what was expected at the end of the day. Can they do more? the end of the day. Can they do more? And that is the question that was And that is the question that was supposed to be um the beginnings of that supposed to be um the beginnings of that answer to that question were supposed to answer to that question were supposed to pop up this summer and they they just pop up this summer and they they just really haven't or maybe they have in the really haven't or maybe they have in the way that Newcastle fans were hoping um way that Newcastle fans were hoping um it wouldn't be answered. What's been it wouldn't be answered. What's been going on this summer? Well, Newcastle going on this summer? Well, Newcastle have been in the news a ton and not for have been in the news a ton and not for all the reasons you'd want if you're a all the reasons you'd want if you're a Newcastle fan. There's a negative cloud Newcastle fan. There's a negative cloud at the moment hovering over them. Uh at the moment hovering over them. Uh let's start with some of the the things let's start with some of the the things that have happened. Outgoings Lloyd that have happened. Outgoings Lloyd Kelly to Juventus for 17 million euros. Kelly to Juventus for 17 million euros. Sean Longstaff to leads, mentioned that Sean Longstaff to leads, mentioned that earlier. Callum Wilson's off to West earlier. Callum Wilson's off to West Ham. Martin Dub Bravka, who started 10 Ham. Martin Dub Bravka, who started 10 10 games last year, is off to Burnley. 10 games last year, is off to Burnley. And then the elephant in the room is And then the elephant in the room is Alexander Isac, who we've talked about a Alexander Isac, who we've talked about a bunch, and frankly, I don't really feel bunch, and frankly, I don't really feel the need to do a whole bunch more out of the need to do a whole bunch more out of this, but the reports are that he's this, but the reports are that he's moved out of his home in Newcastle, moved out of his home in Newcastle, which is awesome. Um, just for the for which is awesome. Um, just for the for the drama, not for Newcastle. Liverpool the drama, not for Newcastle. Liverpool have bid 110 million pounds. Newcastle have bid 110 million pounds. Newcastle want 150. Seems likely they'll meet want 150. Seems likely they'll meet somewhere in the middle, but who knows? somewhere in the middle, but who knows? Maybe Alexander Isac plays another Maybe Alexander Isac plays another season for Newcastle and moves next season for Newcastle and moves next summer. Not that is not off the table. I summer. Not that is not off the table. I don't want to make it sound like it is, don't want to make it sound like it is, but it does not seem to me like that is but it does not seem to me like that is the most likely outcome here, and I the most likely outcome here, and I don't even work at KFC. So, in terms of don't even work at KFC. So, in terms of incomings, winger Anthony Elena is in incomings, winger Anthony Elena is in from Nottingham Forest for 61 million from Nottingham Forest for 61 million euros. That's a lot of dough. Aaron euros. That's a lot of dough. Aaron Ramdale is in on loan from Southampton Ramdale is in on loan from Southampton with a $5 million loan fee in goal. with a $5 million loan fee in goal. He'll compete for for the starting job He'll compete for for the starting job there. AC Milan center back Malik Dao is there. AC Milan center back Malik Dao is done. 35 million uh euro fee according done. 35 million uh euro fee according to reports. They're also reportedly to reports. They're also reportedly nearing a deal or at least getting nearing a deal or at least getting closer to signing Aspen Villa's Jacob closer to signing Aspen Villa's Jacob Ramsey to will be another option in Ramsey to will be another option in central midfield. can flex a little bit central midfield. can flex a little bit wider as well. I like Ramsey. I think wider as well. I like Ramsey. I think he'll be a really really good addition he'll be a really really good addition to this team. Um they're reportedly to this team. Um they're reportedly interested in Brentford Johan Vissa. Uh interested in Brentford Johan Vissa. Uh and then there's all this just attacking and then there's all this just attacking stuff that is a huge question mark. stuff that is a huge question mark. They've come up short and this is the They've come up short and this is the negative cloud except they really negative cloud except they really haven't done as much stuff as Newcastle haven't done as much stuff as Newcastle fans thought they would ahead of a fans thought they would ahead of a European season. Uh they've come up European season. Uh they've come up short in so many deals. They didn't get short in so many deals. They didn't get Chesko. They didn't get Ekit. They Chesko. They didn't get Ekit. They didn't get Dap. They didn't get didn't get Dap. They didn't get Pedro. There's been turnover in the Pedro. There's been turnover in the front office as Graham has talked about front office as Graham has talked about recently. And it's been messy. This recently. And it's been messy. This whole thing's been messy. There's no whole thing's been messy. There's no sporting director, so for this club. So sporting director, so for this club. So where they go is a question mark there. where they go is a question mark there. There reportedly some interest in Samu There reportedly some interest in Samu from Porto. Nicholas Jackson I from Porto. Nicholas Jackson I referenced earlier on this week could be referenced earlier on this week could be an option for them. But really, yes, an option for them. But really, yes, they've gotten another body in at center they've gotten another body in at center back. Yes, they've added Alanga. Yes, back. Yes, they've added Alanga. Yes, they've added Ramsdale in goal. Jacob they've added Ramsdale in goal. Jacob Ramsey. I mean, they've made some savvy Ramsey. I mean, they've made some savvy additions, but a lot of this has been additions, but a lot of this has been replacing bodies that have gone out as replacing bodies that have gone out as well, right? You're really net even at well, right? You're really net even at center back. you're not really gaining a center back. you're not really gaining a ton other than maybe Ramsay in midfield ton other than maybe Ramsay in midfield and and whatever additions are still to and and whatever additions are still to come. That they haven't amassed a ton of come. That they haven't amassed a ton of depth this summer and haven't landed any depth this summer and haven't landed any true stars or or really players that true stars or or really players that project to be that in this team with project to be that in this team with Champions League coming in the pipeline Champions League coming in the pipeline is a a big concern for Newcastle. Uh is a a big concern for Newcastle. Uh manager and style of play. Manager Eddie manager and style of play. Manager Eddie How, we know him well. 47-year-old How, we know him well. 47-year-old British coach. He's been at Newcastle British coach. He's been at Newcastle since 2021. I'm a big fan of Eddie since 2021. I'm a big fan of Eddie House. Quite adaptable. He's proven to House. Quite adaptable. He's proven to be over over his time at Newcastle. He be over over his time at Newcastle. He got big um big club results last year in got big um big club results last year in Newcastle when you think about them Newcastle when you think about them finishing fifth in the table. That's big finishing fifth in the table. That's big club territory. But didn't necessarily club territory. But didn't necessarily play like you think of many big clubs play like you think of many big clubs playing. They're not ball dominant in playing. They're not ball dominant in the same way. They were ninth in the the same way. They were ninth in the league in possession. 10 full percentage league in possession. 10 full percentage points behind first place Manchester points behind first place Manchester City. They were not a hyperontrolling City. They were not a hyperontrolling kind of team. But Newcastle are kind of team. But Newcastle are efficient with the ball. They trend efficient with the ball. They trend towards being direct. They're 34% towards being direct. They're 34% according to OPTO. Their passes went according to OPTO. Their passes went forward last year well above any of the forward last year well above any of the teams that finished above them. like any teams that finished above them. like any of the other big clubs that you're of the other big clubs that you're thinking about, they were more direct thinking about, they were more direct than those teams. I'm curious to see how than those teams. I'm curious to see how much Newcastle pressed this year. Eddie much Newcastle pressed this year. Eddie has gone from being hyperaggressive has gone from being hyperaggressive defensively where pressing really was a defensively where pressing really was a key part of their identity to being much key part of their identity to being much more measured in that phase because of more measured in that phase because of injuries and fixture congestion. That's injuries and fixture congestion. That's at least the second half of that pairing at least the second half of that pairing is back on the table this year. So, I is back on the table this year. So, I don't I don't know what we're going to don't I don't know what we're going to see from Newcastle intensity-wise. see from Newcastle intensity-wise. Formation wise, we've seen a 4-3-3 and Formation wise, we've seen a 4-3-3 and some 343 as well. I would imagine we'll some 343 as well. I would imagine we'll see quite a bit of 4-33, but some of see quite a bit of 4-33, but some of both this year. Key players, Isak, huge both this year. Key players, Isak, huge question mark. uh Bruno Gimmarish all question mark. uh Bruno Gimmarish all action ranging midfielder, really really action ranging midfielder, really really good player. Uh he is is like one of the good player. Uh he is is like one of the best in the world at at doing the break best in the world at at doing the break up play stuff, but also crashing the up play stuff, but also crashing the box. 11 non-penalty goal contributions box. 11 non-penalty goal contributions for him last season. Sandro Tanali for him last season. Sandro Tanali changes games on the ball. Jolington uh changes games on the ball. Jolington uh was excellent in that cup final win over was excellent in that cup final win over Liverpool back in March and is uh has Liverpool back in March and is uh has adapted into being a really valuable adapted into being a really valuable deeper midfielder for them over the deeper midfielder for them over the years compared to his career in the past years compared to his career in the past over in over in Germany. Lewis Hall, over in over in Germany. Lewis Hall, 20-year-old left back who can really 20-year-old left back who can really change games up and down. I'm looking change games up and down. I'm looking forward to watching him this season. My forward to watching him this season. My VSSP for Newcastle is that once again, VSSP for Newcastle is that once again, they'll finish above any of the other they'll finish above any of the other big teams. So, City, Arsenal, Liverpool, big teams. So, City, Arsenal, Liverpool, Chelsea, you can even toss Man United in Chelsea, you can even toss Man United in there if you want. Uh, in forward pass there if you want. Uh, in forward pass percentage, right, their total share of percentage, right, their total share of forward passes. So, if they had 100 forward passes. So, if they had 100 passes and 35 of them go long, that passes and 35 of them go long, that would be 35%. Right? I'm not sure where would be 35%. Right? I'm not sure where Spurs land on this under Thomas Frank, Spurs land on this under Thomas Frank, but of the big name Premier League clubs but of the big name Premier League clubs outside of Spurs, Newcastle are going to outside of Spurs, Newcastle are going to lead the charge in this way. They are lead the charge in this way. They are not the same as all of the other big not the same as all of the other big clubs, and I think that makes them a clubs, and I think that makes them a really interesting watch. They're trying really interesting watch. They're trying to do things differently, and they've to do things differently, and they've also in some ways had different results also in some ways had different results in the transfer market this summer. So, in the transfer market this summer. So, I'm still quite bullish on Newcastle. I I'm still quite bullish on Newcastle. I think they're their uh their starting think they're their uh their starting group and a little bit of their depth is group and a little bit of their depth is excellent. Like, I think they're excellent. Like, I think they're absolutely on quality, good enough right absolutely on quality, good enough right now just to back up in the fifth spot now just to back up in the fifth spot even with some extra games on their even with some extra games on their schedule. But that step forward feels schedule. But that step forward feels like it will elude Newcastle from where like it will elude Newcastle from where I sit right now, especially with I sit right now, especially with everything that's happening over ESAC everything that's happening over ESAC and and how many moves they've whiffed and and how many moves they've whiffed on so far this summer. And the questions on so far this summer. And the questions about who's leading them in the sporting about who's leading them in the sporting department. I have concerns. I think department. I have concerns. I think their floor is quite high. Like I think their floor is quite high. Like I think a a worst possible outcome for Newcastle a a worst possible outcome for Newcastle this year is like eighth or so in the this year is like eighth or so in the league, which would be a bad outcome. I league, which would be a bad outcome. I also happen to think their ceiling is also happen to think their ceiling is not where they'd want it to be. I don't not where they'd want it to be. I don't think they have a ceiling to win the think they have a ceiling to win the title. I think they could finish third title. I think they could finish third or fourth. I think that seems possible or fourth. I think that seems possible if they get the right deals over the if they get the right deals over the line, but especially if ESAC goes and line, but especially if ESAC goes and you add extra games to the calendar, you add extra games to the calendar, improvement on last year feels like it improvement on last year feels like it could be a lot to ask. could be a lot to ask. &gt;&gt; There we go. All right. Any comments or &gt;&gt; There we go. All right. Any comments or questions on Newcastle before we close questions on Newcastle before we close this one up? this one up? &gt;&gt; Just I I didn't really see this summer &gt;&gt; Just I I didn't really see this summer coming for Newcastle and then raises coming for Newcastle and then raises questions over well, why have they been questions over well, why have they been unable? I mean, the the front office unable? I mean, the the front office stuff and it's not just the front office stuff and it's not just the front office stuff. Darren Eels, the CEO, has stuff. Darren Eels, the CEO, has essentially been looking for his own essentially been looking for his own replacement for the last like 10 months replacement for the last like 10 months or or or whatever. So, um, this is a or or or whatever. So, um, this is a club that you're not entirely sure who club that you're not entirely sure who is at the wheel right now and that has is at the wheel right now and that has to be having a an impact on in the to be having a an impact on in the transfer market, but yeah, I felt quite transfer market, but yeah, I felt quite bullish. We had a listener question, I bullish. We had a listener question, I think, at the start of the year about think, at the start of the year about would Newcastle win a title um in the would Newcastle win a title um in the next 10 years. And I think I might have next 10 years. And I think I might have been the only one that that said yes. been the only one that that said yes. And towards the end of last season, I And towards the end of last season, I was feeling pretty good about that was feeling pretty good about that because I really did expect them to add because I really did expect them to add some, you know, match-winning quality, some, you know, match-winning quality, some difference makers in the wide areas some difference makers in the wide areas in particular, build around ESAT, you've in particular, build around ESAT, you've got Garez and that midfield unit in got Garez and that midfield unit in particular, I think is one of the the particular, I think is one of the the most formidable in the Premier League. most formidable in the Premier League. There were games last year against like There were games last year against like high high caliber opponents, high high high caliber opponents, high quality opponents. I think of that quality opponents. I think of that Carabell Cup final against Liverpool Carabell Cup final against Liverpool where Newcastle midfield just absolutely where Newcastle midfield just absolutely ragdagalled opponents with their ragdagalled opponents with their physicality with that three of Tanali, physicality with that three of Tanali, Joe Linton and and Grimarez. So there's Joe Linton and and Grimarez. So there's a lot to like about this Newcastle team, a lot to like about this Newcastle team, but I agree with Joe. It just feels like but I agree with Joe. It just feels like they've not really done anything that's they've not really done anything that's going to allow them to take that step going to allow them to take that step forward. And if they lose Isach who's forward. And if they lose Isach who's just so key to what they do, stating the just so key to what they do, stating the obvious, then it's more likely they're obvious, then it's more likely they're going to take a step backwards. like going to take a step backwards. like counterpoint and I'm deliberately making counterpoint and I'm deliberately making a counterpoint. I think I do wonder if a counterpoint. I think I do wonder if there's an element of like nobody there's an element of like nobody believes in us about li or about believes in us about li or about Newcastle and Newcastle I think already Newcastle and Newcastle I think already the city maybe has a vibe of like you the city maybe has a vibe of like you guys don't believe in us nobody wants us guys don't believe in us nobody wants us to succeed playing with a like we have a to succeed playing with a like we have a chip on our shoulder the team has a chip chip on our shoulder the team has a chip on it shoulder and the way like I have on it shoulder and the way like I have dismissed Newcastle uh in terms of like dismissed Newcastle uh in terms of like finishing in the top four top five finishing in the top four top five because of the summer they've had and because of the summer they've had and the perception of that summer and I the perception of that summer and I think there have been plenty of articles think there have been plenty of articles about like here are the here's the about like here are the here's the starting 11 of players that Newcastle starting 11 of players that Newcastle missed out on And then the comments to missed out on And then the comments to that those posts will usually be like, that those posts will usually be like, "We weren't actually in for this guy. "We weren't actually in for this guy. That was a rumor." Like, and it is true That was a rumor." Like, and it is true that I think there's been a lot of inks that I think there's been a lot of inks built on players they didn't get that built on players they didn't get that maybe they weren't truly in for, but maybe they weren't truly in for, but it's a better narrative and it's a kind it's a better narrative and it's a kind of better uh way to get clicks is to of better uh way to get clicks is to point out like how bad they've been and point out like how bad they've been and how many players they've missed out on. how many players they've missed out on. And in reality, in my mind at least, if And in reality, in my mind at least, if you go with like the story from you go with like the story from Alexander Isach's camp, he told them Alexander Isach's camp, he told them last year he didn't want to play past last year he didn't want to play past this season, that he wanted this last this season, that he wanted this last year to be his last season. And so if year to be his last season. And so if you're trying to build a team and you're trying to build a team and generate momentum and your like star generate momentum and your like star striker has already said, "I want to striker has already said, "I want to leave." Can you build that consistency? leave." Can you build that consistency? Can you build that chemistry? I don't Can you build that chemistry? I don't know. Maybe if you have a team that's know. Maybe if you have a team that's fully bought in, bought in, backs fully bought in, bought in, backs against the wall, a feeling of like against the wall, a feeling of like dismissal from the general public and dismissal from the general public and the media, maybe they hit the ground the media, maybe they hit the ground running and maybe there is a bit more running and maybe there is a bit more spirit to this Newcastle team than we're spirit to this Newcastle team than we're we're going to give them credit for. And we're going to give them credit for. And that's kind of been the case for Eddie that's kind of been the case for Eddie How the entire time he's been at How the entire time he's been at Newcastle. So maybe this is just more of Newcastle. So maybe this is just more of the same for him. Yeah, and if you look the same for him. Yeah, and if you look at the X's and O's of their their at the X's and O's of their their starting lineup, I think there's a starting lineup, I think there's a question over the goalkeeper. question over the goalkeeper. Admittedly, Nick P was injured for a lot Admittedly, Nick P was injured for a lot of last season. I'm not Aaron Ramdale's of last season. I'm not Aaron Ramdale's biggest fan, but if you look forward biggest fan, but if you look forward from there, you know, Lewis Hall took a from there, you know, Lewis Hall took a huge step forward last season. As Joe huge step forward last season. As Joe mentioned, Sven Botman fitness is his mentioned, Sven Botman fitness is his issue, but when he is fit, I do issue, but when he is fit, I do genuinely think he's one of the best genuinely think he's one of the best central defenders in in in the Premier central defenders in in in the Premier League. Dan League. Dan League. Dan &gt;&gt; Burn three so far have problems. That's &gt;&gt; Burn three so far have problems. That's not making me feel bad. not making me feel bad. &gt;&gt; Dan Burn Dan Burn, okay, more positive &gt;&gt; Dan Burn Dan Burn, okay, more positive now. Dan Burn is someone that I've now. Dan Burn is someone that I've doubted for basically the entirety of doubted for basically the entirety of his Newcastle career. I'm done doubting his Newcastle career. I'm done doubting Dan Burn like every time I watch him he Dan Burn like every time I watch him he is pretty much exceptional even for is pretty much exceptional even for England I thought he was exceptional England I thought he was exceptional they brought in Malik Chow from AC Milan they brought in Malik Chow from AC Milan who I think is a good addition Romeo who I think is a good addition Romeo took a big step forward last season as took a big step forward last season as well that midfield three I mentioned well that midfield three I mentioned Tanali Jentonarez one of the best Tanali Jentonarez one of the best midfields in in in the Premier League midfields in in in the Premier League Anthony Gordon quality Jacob Murphy took Anthony Gordon quality Jacob Murphy took a huge step forward last season not sure a huge step forward last season not sure if he can sustain it but if he can if he can sustain it but if he can absolute quality as well so if they were absolute quality as well so if they were to go out and use some of the sack money to go out and use some of the sack money for someone like Samu um Agaha or for someone like Samu um Agaha or Amorian. Amoran, I'm not entirely sure. Amorian. Amoran, I'm not entirely sure. We'll just call him Samu. He seems to go We'll just call him Samu. He seems to go by two different names. But you know who by two different names. But you know who I'm talking about, the young Porto I'm talking about, the young Porto striker. If they bring him in, then all striker. If they bring him in, then all of a sudden the pitcher is looking uh of a sudden the pitcher is looking uh still relatively bright for for this still relatively bright for for this team. They've still got a good amount of team. They've still got a good amount of talent in that team. talent in that team. &gt;&gt; Good stuff. All right, thank you very &gt;&gt; Good stuff. All right, thank you very much, Joe, for your Newcastle much, Joe, for your Newcastle assessments and thank you to everybody assessments and thank you to everybody for listening to part three of our for listening to part three of our Premier League previews. Part four Premier League previews. Part four coming to the feed on Thursday in which coming to the feed on Thursday in which we'll round things off with Nottingham we'll round things off with Nottingham Forest, Sunderland, Tottenham, West Ham, Forest, Sunderland, Tottenham, West Ham, and Wolves. But for now, Taylor and Wolves. But for now, Taylor Rockwell, thank you very much indeed for Rockwell, thank you very much indeed for your contributions. your contributions. your contributions. &gt;&gt; My pleasure, my friend. And you only &gt;&gt; My pleasure, my friend. And you only hurt my spirit somewhat with your hurt my spirit somewhat with your Manchester United preview. Thank you for Manchester United preview. Thank you for that. that. that. &gt;&gt; I think you you got me back karma-wise &gt;&gt; I think you you got me back karma-wise with the neglectful father comment, but with the neglectful father comment, but hey, uh it's all relative, I suppose. hey, uh it's all relative, I suppose. &gt;&gt; The shoe fits, Ryan. &gt;&gt; The shoe fits, Ryan. &gt;&gt; Joe Lowry, thank you very much, sir. &gt;&gt; Joe Lowry, thank you very much, sir. &gt;&gt; Thanks, Ryan. and Grain, a pleasure as &gt;&gt; Thanks, Ryan. and Grain, a pleasure as always. Thank you very much. always. Thank you very much. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Ryan. Billy &gt;&gt; Thank you, Ryan. Billy &gt;&gt; listener, thank you again for joining &gt;&gt; listener, thank you again for joining us. We'll be back on the feed with part us. We'll be back on the feed with part four very shortly, but for now, bye.