================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: crMrVozp_h8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=crMrVozp_h8
TITLE: The AI-native startup: 5 products, 7-figure revenue, 100% AI-written code. | Dan Shipper (Every)
CHANNEL: Lenny's Podcast
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-17
DURATION: 1h 34m 57s
VIEWS: 61,791
LIKES: 1,280
COMMENTS: 84

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Dan Shipper is the co-founder and CEO of Every. With just 15 people, Every publishes a daily AI newsletter, ships multiple AI products, and operates a million-dollar-a-year consulting arm—all while their engineers write virtually zero code. It’s the most radical example of AI-first operations, and Dan is a prolific writer who has become a leading voice on how AI is transforming the way we build and work.

*Learn:*
1. Why Dan thinks AI won’t steal jobs en masse—and may actually reshore many jobs to the U.S.
2. The most underrated AI tool for non-programmers
3. An inside look at Every’s AI-first workflow
4. Why every company needs an “AI operations lead”
5. How Dan’s team uses an arsenal of AI agents (Claude, Codex, “Friday,” “Charlie”) in parallel, treating each AI like a specialist with unique strengths
6. Why generalists will thrive in an AI-first world, as rigid job titles blur and everyone becomes a “manager” of AI tools
7. Dan’s playbook for making any company AI-first—from the CEO
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 40,122

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
The business you're building, the team The business you're building, the team you're building, the way you're you're building, the way you're operating is the very bleeding edge of operating is the very bleeding edge of how companies are trying to operate in how companies are trying to operate in this AI era. this AI era. &gt;&gt; We have a head of AI operations. She's &gt;&gt; We have a head of AI operations. She's just constantly like building prompts just constantly like building prompts and building workflows so that I and and building workflows so that I and everyone else on the team are just everyone else on the team are just automating as much as possible. automating as much as possible. &gt;&gt; What are some things that you believe &gt;&gt; What are some things that you believe about AI that most people don't? about AI that most people don't? &gt;&gt; I hate the headlines that are like &gt;&gt; I hate the headlines that are like entry-le jobs are taken away by AI. entry-le jobs are taken away by AI. Whenever I see a kid with ChetBT, I'm Whenever I see a kid with ChetBT, I'm like, "Holy they're going to go so like, "Holy they're going to go so much faster than any other person that much faster than any other person that I've worked with, we have this guy, he I've worked with, we have this guy, he made like a year's worth of progress in made like a year's worth of progress in like two months because every time I sat like two months because every time I sat down with him and told him, "Okay, down with him and told him, "Okay, here's how you tell a story. Here's how here's how you tell a story. Here's how you think about a headline." Like, he you think about a headline." Like, he recorded all of it, put it into a recorded all of it, put it into a prompt, and he never made the same prompt, and he never made the same mistake twice. mistake twice. mistake twice. &gt;&gt; There's this sense we're getting to a &gt;&gt; There's this sense we're getting to a place where you don't have to write any place where you don't have to write any code. Like, you have a product team not code. Like, you have a product team not writing code at all. writing code at all. &gt;&gt; No one is manually coding anymore. &gt;&gt; No one is manually coding anymore. organizations like ours, people who are organizations like ours, people who are playing at the edge. We're doing things playing at the edge. We're doing things that in like three years everybody else that in like three years everybody else is going to be doing today. My guest is is going to be doing today. My guest is Dan Shipper. Dan is the co-founder and Dan Shipper. Dan is the co-founder and CEO of Every which is a company that is CEO of Every which is a company that is at the very bleeding edge of what is at the very bleeding edge of what is possible with AI. Their team of just 15 possible with AI. Their team of just 15 employees has built and shipped four employees has built and shipped four different products. They publish a daily different products. They publish a daily newsletter and they have a consulting newsletter and they have a consulting arm that helps companies adopt the arm that helps companies adopt the latest AI best practices. On their latest AI best practices. On their product team, their engineers don't product team, their engineers don't handw write a single line of code and handw write a single line of code and instead use an arsenal of agents who instead use an arsenal of agents who help them craft requirements and build help them craft requirements and build their products. Their editorial arm uses their products. Their editorial arm uses AI to publish better work faster. And AI to publish better work faster. And they even have a person whose entire job they even have a person whose entire job is to help every employee at the company is to help every employee at the company become more efficient using the latest become more efficient using the latest AI workflows. In our conversation, Dan AI workflows. In our conversation, Dan shares a bunch of tactics that they use shares a bunch of tactics that they use internally to increase the leverage of internally to increase the leverage of their own employees, his personal AI their own employees, his personal AI tool stack, the one predictor that he's tool stack, the one predictor that he's found for whether a company will found for whether a company will successfully find huge productivity successfully find huge productivity gains through AI, how he's building his gains through AI, how he's building his company in a really unique way, a bunch company in a really unique way, a bunch of predictions for where AI is going, of predictions for where AI is going, and so much more. If you enjoy this and so much more. If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your favorite podcasting follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube. And also, if you become app or YouTube. And also, if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter, an annual subscriber of my newsletter, you get a bunch of amazing products for you get a bunch of amazing products for free for one year, including Superhuman, free for one year, including Superhuman, Linear, Notion, Perplexity, Bolt, Linear, Notion, Perplexity, Bolt, Granola, and more. Check it out at Granola, and more. Check it out at lenny'snewsletter.com and click bundle. lenny'snewsletter.com and click bundle. With that, I bring you Dan Shipper. This With that, I bring you Dan Shipper. This episode is brought to you by Code episode is brought to you by Code Rabbit, the AI code review platform, Rabbit, the AI code review platform, transforming how engineering teams ship transforming how engineering teams ship faster with AI without sacrificing code faster with AI without sacrificing code quality. Code reviews are critical but quality. Code reviews are critical but time consuming. Code Rabbit acts as your time consuming. Code Rabbit acts as your AI co-pilot, providing instant code AI co-pilot, providing instant code review comments and potential impacts of review comments and potential impacts of every pull request. Beyond just flagging every pull request. Beyond just flagging issues, Code Rabbit provides one-click issues, Code Rabbit provides one-click fix suggestions and lets you define fix suggestions and lets you define custom code quality rules using a GP custom code quality rules using a GP patterns, catching subtle issues that patterns, catching subtle issues that traditional static analysis tools might traditional static analysis tools might miss. Code Rabbit also provides free AI miss. Code Rabbit also provides free AI code reviews directly in the IDE. It's code reviews directly in the IDE. It's available in VS Code, Cursor, and available in VS Code, Cursor, and Windsurf. Code Rabbit has so far Windsurf. Code Rabbit has so far reviewed more than 10 million PRs, reviewed more than 10 million PRs, installed on 1 million repositories, and installed on 1 million repositories, and is used by over 70,000 open-source is used by over 70,000 open-source projects. Get Code Rabbit for free for projects. Get Code Rabbit for free for an entire year at.ai an entire year at.ai using code Lenny. That's using code Lenny. That's codeabrabbit.ai. codeabrabbit.ai. codeabrabbit.ai. Today's episode is brought to you by DX. Today's episode is brought to you by DX. If you're an engineering leader or on a If you're an engineering leader or on a platform team, at some point your CEO platform team, at some point your CEO will inevitably ask you for productivity will inevitably ask you for productivity metrics. But measuring engineering metrics. But measuring engineering organizations is hard. And we can all organizations is hard. And we can all agree that simple metrics like the agree that simple metrics like the number of PRs or commits doesn't tell number of PRs or commits doesn't tell the full story. That's where DX comes the full story. That's where DX comes in. DX is an engineering intelligence in. DX is an engineering intelligence solution designed by leading solution designed by leading researchers, including those behind the researchers, including those behind the Dora and space frameworks. It combines Dora and space frameworks. It combines quantitative data from developer tools quantitative data from developer tools with qualitative feedback from with qualitative feedback from developers to give you a complete view developers to give you a complete view of engineering productivity and the of engineering productivity and the factors affecting it. Learn why some of factors affecting it. Learn why some of the world's most iconic companies like the world's most iconic companies like Etsy, Dropbox, Twilio, Versel, and Web Etsy, Dropbox, Twilio, Versel, and Web Flow rely on DX. Visit DX's website at Flow rely on DX. Visit DX's website at getdx.com/lenny. Dan, thank you so much for being here Dan, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the podcast. Thank you and welcome to the podcast. Thank you for having me. I've obviously been a for having me. I've obviously been a huge fan for a long time and so it's an huge fan for a long time and so it's an honor to be here. honor to be here. &gt;&gt; It's my honor, Dan. I feel like this is &gt;&gt; It's my honor, Dan. I feel like this is a podcast that was meant to be. Uh I'm a podcast that was meant to be. Uh I'm so happy we're finally doing this. so happy we're finally doing this. There's so damn much that I want to talk There's so damn much that I want to talk about. There's so damn much we can talk about. There's so damn much we can talk about. I thought it'd be fun to start about. I thought it'd be fun to start with just some hot takes. And the reason with just some hot takes. And the reason I want to start here is I feel like you I want to start here is I feel like you spend more time thinking about AI, uh, spend more time thinking about AI, uh, building with AI, using AI, evaluating building with AI, using AI, evaluating AI than anyone else I know nearly. And AI than anyone else I know nearly. And so I really respect your insights and so I really respect your insights and your, uh, perspectives on where things your, uh, perspectives on where things are going. So, let me just ask you this are going. So, let me just ask you this kind of question and see where this kind of question and see where this goes. What are some things that you goes. What are some things that you believe about AI using AI AI tools that believe about AI using AI AI tools that most people don't believe? I'm going to most people don't believe? I'm going to go with my hottest take and this is the go with my hottest take and this is the take that I have the least evidence for. take that I have the least evidence for. So, let's just start with that. I have So, let's just start with that. I have other more well-reasoned takes to give other more well-reasoned takes to give you, but this is my hottest one, which you, but this is my hottest one, which is I think that AI may be a one of the is I think that AI may be a one of the biggest force for reshoring American biggest force for reshoring American jobs. And so, I think everyone is jobs. And so, I think everyone is worried about it unemploying people. And worried about it unemploying people. And for sure, it will change the skills for sure, it will change the skills needed to do the jobs that you're doing, needed to do the jobs that you're doing, but I think it may actually reshore a but I think it may actually reshore a lot of jobs. And it'll do that in two lot of jobs. And it'll do that in two ways. Um, one is there are a lot of ways. Um, one is there are a lot of expensive services that uh rich people expensive services that uh rich people and big companies uh are pay for right and big companies uh are pay for right now. So like a you know in-house counsel now. So like a you know in-house counsel or like you know uh call center or or like you know uh call center or whatever. Um and what cheap intelligence whatever. Um and what cheap intelligence does is it makes those kinds of things does is it makes those kinds of things affordable for small companies and affordable for small companies and individuals. So it stimulates demand. individuals. So it stimulates demand. The other thing that it does is it The other thing that it does is it allows people um who are in those jobs allows people um who are in those jobs to serve more people cheaply. So if to serve more people cheaply. So if you're uh so it may not get rid of you're uh so it may not get rid of customer service, for example, but it customer service, for example, but it may allow you know 10 people in the may allow you know 10 people in the Midwest who would normally be working at Midwest who would normally be working at a call center to serve hundreds of a call center to serve hundreds of thousands or millions of people. Maybe thousands or millions of people. Maybe maybe that's maybe that's too much, but maybe that's maybe that's too much, but like a lot more people than they would like a lot more people than they would ordinarily if they were the ones on the ordinarily if they were the ones on the on the phone all the time. And so it on the phone all the time. And so it becomes much more cost-effective for becomes much more cost-effective for American companies to hire people in the American companies to hire people in the US. And I think the people in the US are US. And I think the people in the US are going to be better in a in in a lot of going to be better in a in in a lot of cases at using these AI tools to um do cases at using these AI tools to um do work. I so I think it may actually make work. I so I think it may actually make it more effective to have job those jobs it more effective to have job those jobs in the US run by people sitting in the in the US run by people sitting in the US who are using it to get to get work US who are using it to get to get work done and also the model companies are done and also the model companies are here too. So there's there's a lot of here too. So there's there's a lot of American stuff happening and you can you American stuff happening and you can you can decide whether or not you think can decide whether or not you think that's a good thing but um I think it's that's a good thing but um I think it's quite it's quite lost in the quite it's quite lost in the conversation over whether AI will get conversation over whether AI will get rid of jobs. I like optimistic takes rid of jobs. I like optimistic takes about AI. So this is great. And like to about AI. So this is great. And like to your point one TBD if this was good for your point one TBD if this was good for other countries but good for the US. other countries but good for the US. What else? What else you got? What other What else? What else you got? What other hot takes? hot takes? hot takes? &gt;&gt; Another another big hot take and this is &gt;&gt; Another another big hot take and this is this is less like contrarian and more this is less like contrarian and more just like I think people are truly just like I think people are truly sleeping on it. I think people are truly sleeping on it. I think people are truly sleeping on how good cloud code is for sleeping on how good cloud code is for non-coders. non-coders. non-coders. And I'll extend this to not just cloud And I'll extend this to not just cloud code, but Google just came out with the code, but Google just came out with the Gemini CLI command line interface. Um, Gemini CLI command line interface. Um, so things like that. And I'll tell you so things like that. And I'll tell you about um for people who are listening about um for people who are listening that don't know what cloud code is. that don't know what cloud code is. Cloud code is just a command line Cloud code is just a command line interface. So it's, you know, those interface. So it's, you know, those black terminals that programmers use. black terminals that programmers use. Um, it's a command line interface that Um, it's a command line interface that you can boot up. Uh, it has access to you can boot up. Uh, it has access to your file system. It knows how to use your file system. It knows how to use any kind of terminal command and it any kind of terminal command and it knows how to like browse the web, all knows how to like browse the web, all that kind of stuff. you can give it that kind of stuff. you can give it something to do and it will go off and something to do and it will go off and it will run for like 20 or 30 minutes it will run for like 20 or 30 minutes and complete a task like autonomously and complete a task like autonomously agentically. It's a uh especially with agentically. It's a uh especially with Cloud Opus 4 that just came out. It's Cloud Opus 4 that just came out. It's like this gigantic leap forward in AI's like this gigantic leap forward in AI's ability to um work by itself and and ability to um work by itself and and Cloud Code can even spawn multiple sub Cloud Code can even spawn multiple sub aents that do a bunch of tasks in aents that do a bunch of tasks in parallel and it's incredibly useful for parallel and it's incredibly useful for programmers like everybody inside of programmers like everybody inside of every is using it all day every day. every is using it all day every day. like everyone's agent pill. They've got like everyone's agent pill. They've got like 15 agents doing all this kind of like 15 agents doing all this kind of stuff. It's crazy. But non-programmers stuff. It's crazy. But non-programmers don't use it because it's intimidating don't use it because it's intimidating to use the terminal. But you can like to use the terminal. But you can like download, for example, you can download download, for example, you can download all your meeting notes and put it in a all your meeting notes and put it in a folder and just be like, "Okay, I want folder and just be like, "Okay, I want you to read every single one of my you to read every single one of my meeting notes and tell me something that meeting notes and tell me something that I do for example is tell me all the time I do for example is tell me all the time that I subtly avoided conflict." And it that I subtly avoided conflict." And it will it writes a little to-do list for will it writes a little to-do list for itself. It can have like a little itself. It can have like a little notebook. it can like go and read each notebook. it can like go and read each little thing and then like write into little thing and then like write into his notebook, go down a to-do list and his notebook, go down a to-do list and give you a summarized answer over give you a summarized answer over multiple turns. So it's not just like multiple turns. So it's not just like stuffing everything into context, which stuffing everything into context, which is what you'd be doing with like a, you is what you'd be doing with like a, you know, chatbt chat or a regular quad know, chatbt chat or a regular quad chat. It's like actually processing chat. It's like actually processing every single file that you give it. And every single file that you give it. And so I think it's incredibly powerful for so I think it's incredibly powerful for um any kind of task that involves um any kind of task that involves processing a lot of text. So, as a processing a lot of text. So, as a simple way to think about this, you simple way to think about this, you basically have an agent on your local basically have an agent on your local computer that can read your local files computer that can read your local files and do your bidding. and do your bidding. &gt;&gt; Yes, exactly. And um it can do that for &gt;&gt; Yes, exactly. And um it can do that for long amounts of time without going off long amounts of time without going off the rails. the rails. the rails. &gt;&gt; Interesting. And so there's like a small &gt;&gt; Interesting. And so there's like a small hurdle that non-technical people have to hurdle that non-technical people have to overcome, which is using their terminal overcome, which is using their terminal and giving commands, but once they get and giving commands, but once they get it running, it's just you talk to it in it running, it's just you talk to it in English and ask it to do stuff. English and ask it to do stuff. &gt;&gt; Exactly. So the hot take here is just &gt;&gt; Exactly. So the hot take here is just claude code which most people think is claude code which most people think is for engineers is the most underrated uh for engineers is the most underrated uh tool for non-technical people. tool for non-technical people. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. &gt;&gt; What are some other ways you imagine &gt;&gt; What are some other ways you imagine people seeing this? This meeting note people seeing this? This meeting note example is really cool and I could see example is really cool and I could see people do using this. What else have you people do using this. What else have you seen or think? seen or think? &gt;&gt; Um something that I've done a lot. So &gt;&gt; Um something that I've done a lot. So I'm a writer for a lot of my job and um I'm a writer for a lot of my job and um for example I love um and I know you're for example I love um and I know you're going to ask me about books I love so going to ask me about books I love so I'm going to give you a sneak peek which I'm going to give you a sneak peek which is I love War and Peace. I just read it is I love War and Peace. I just read it for the third time. for the third time. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; that's a long book. &gt;&gt; that's a long book. &gt;&gt; It's so It's so long, but it's so good. &gt;&gt; It's so It's so long, but it's so good. I think Toltoy is a brilliant writer. I think Toltoy is a brilliant writer. And one thing that I wanted to do was I And one thing that I wanted to do was I was like, I want to inflect some of my was like, I want to inflect some of my writing with some of Toltoy's style. And writing with some of Toltoy's style. And the way I did that is um I think he's the way I did that is um I think he's incredible at these little subtle incredible at these little subtle sentences where he shows you what a sentences where he shows you what a character is thinking and feeling just character is thinking and feeling just by how they behave, like how they move by how they behave, like how they move their face or like the mismatch between their face or like the mismatch between the intonation in their voice and the the intonation in their voice and the expression in their eyes. Like all that expression in their eyes. Like all that kind of stuff. He's just like a an kind of stuff. He's just like a an incredible student of human behavior and incredible student of human behavior and psychology. And so I just downloaded War psychology. And so I just downloaded War in Peace to my computer, which you can in Peace to my computer, which you can do because it's public domain. And then do because it's public domain. And then I had Claude read like the first three I had Claude read like the first three chapters of War in Peace and pull out chapters of War in Peace and pull out all of those descriptions and make then all of those descriptions and make then make a guide for itself for like how to make a guide for itself for like how to do des like character descriptions like do des like character descriptions like Pulsetor. And you could totally do this Pulsetor. And you could totally do this with like a regular like opus command, with like a regular like opus command, but you couldn't put all of War in Peace but you couldn't put all of War in Peace into it. it would take a lot more into it. it would take a lot more handholding to get it to do this and it handholding to get it to do this and it just sort of did this by itself like just sort of did this by itself like without my like really intervening. It without my like really intervening. It also ended up like downloading I I had also ended up like downloading I I had it download a Russian version of War in it download a Russian version of War in Peace and the English version and then Peace and the English version and then start comparing different scenes that I start comparing different scenes that I love to like tell me about things that I love to like tell me about things that I might have missed in the translations. might have missed in the translations. So like you can get as deep and weird So like you can get as deep and weird and nerdy for whatever sub field you and nerdy for whatever sub field you care about as you want to. Same thing care about as you want to. Same thing for like if you've got tons of customer for like if you've got tons of customer interviews or or like tons of customer interviews or or like tons of customer data you want to go through. It's like data you want to go through. It's like incredibly powerful for for going and incredibly powerful for for going and figuring stuff out stuff out from big figuring stuff out stuff out from big data sets like that. data sets like that. &gt;&gt; You actually inspired me to use this is &gt;&gt; You actually inspired me to use this is not what you're describing, but it's not what you're describing, but it's also something that's very cool. This also something that's very cool. This going to sound so nerdy. I'm reading an going to sound so nerdy. I'm reading an Karen right now based on Karen right now based on &gt;&gt; also Toltoy. And this is uh recommended &gt;&gt; also Toltoy. And this is uh recommended by a previous podcast guest and so I was by a previous podcast guest and so I was like, "All right, I got to read this." like, "All right, I got to read this." Also very long. I'm on my Kindle. I'm Also very long. I'm on my Kindle. I'm just like, "All right, 13% in. I've been just like, "All right, 13% in. I've been reading for months." reading for months." &gt;&gt; Hot take. I think Warm Piece is better &gt;&gt; Hot take. I think Warm Piece is better than Anacronina, especially for like a than Anacronina, especially for like a tech person. But they're both good. tech person. But they're both good. &gt;&gt; Okay, there there we go. There's my &gt;&gt; Okay, there there we go. There's my year. Um, year. Um, year. Um, I saw you tweet this use case that I I saw you tweet this use case that I love that I've been using, which is just love that I've been using, which is just while I'm reading, having chatbt voice while I'm reading, having chatbt voice sitting around and then just asking it sitting around and then just asking it questions because you don't actually questions because you don't actually have to feed it the book. It knows the have to feed it the book. It knows the whole book. Uh, and Anthropic just whole book. Uh, and Anthropic just shared this. I don't know if they shared shared this. I don't know if they shared or someone found this in their legal or someone found this in their legal briefings that they actually bought tons briefings that they actually bought tons of books and scanned them themselves. of books and scanned them themselves. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Is how they did fair use. And so it has &gt;&gt; Is how they did fair use. And so it has all this context. So just sitting there all this context. So just sitting there asking it like what the heck is this asking it like what the heck is this thing in Russian society uh is super thing in Russian society uh is super fun. fun. fun. &gt;&gt; Okay. So this is awesome. So the tip &gt;&gt; Okay. So this is awesome. So the tip here is just coming back to your hotic here is just coming back to your hotic uh the tip is uh you basically can have uh the tip is uh you basically can have an agent using local files and doing all an agent using local files and doing all kinds of cool stuff on your computer kinds of cool stuff on your computer versus having to upload it into into versus having to upload it into into projects or into your prompts and things projects or into your prompts and things like that. like that. like that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; super cool. So the I guess the bet here &gt;&gt; super cool. So the I guess the bet here is that people are going to discover is that people are going to discover this and start using this just this and start using this just dayto-day. dayto-day. dayto-day. &gt;&gt; I think they absolutely will. And I also &gt;&gt; I think they absolutely will. And I also think probably the model companies are think probably the model companies are going to start going to start &gt;&gt; making this more accessible. Like I &gt;&gt; making this more accessible. Like I think one of the things that will just think one of the things that will just come from cloud code and other things come from cloud code and other things like it into the everything else you use like it into the everything else you use whether it's on the web or wherever is whether it's on the web or wherever is the original all the original AI apps the original all the original AI apps were pasting a chat box into an existing were pasting a chat box into an existing UI. So you know you've got co-pilot it's UI. So you know you've got co-pilot it's got a little it's got like the got a little it's got like the autocomplete in the in the IDE. You've autocomplete in the in the IDE. You've got cursor. It's got a little sidebar got cursor. It's got a little sidebar with a little chat. And the difference with a little chat. And the difference with cloud code is you never look at the with cloud code is you never look at the code. It's not meant for coding. It's code. It's not meant for coding. It's not meant for coding by hand. It's meant not meant for coding by hand. It's meant for you to say, "I want you to get for you to say, "I want you to get something done." And it goes and does something done." And it goes and does it. And I think we're just getting to a it. And I think we're just getting to a point where for pretty much all of point where for pretty much all of these, you know, all the usual these, you know, all the usual applications, AI is going to be good applications, AI is going to be good enough that we can get rid of the enough that we can get rid of the interfaces more or less where you're interfaces more or less where you're like digging into all the things that like digging into all the things that it's actually doing and and it's you're it's actually doing and and it's you're you're sort of interled with its um you're sort of interled with its um execution and you're more just like I'm execution and you're more just like I'm delegating. is gonna go do it. delegating. is gonna go do it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I had uh cursor CEO Michael &gt;&gt; Yeah. I had uh cursor CEO Michael Terrell on the podcast and this is his Terrell on the podcast and this is his big vision is what comes after code big vision is what comes after code &gt;&gt; and we don't be like exactly exactly and &gt;&gt; and we don't be like exactly exactly and I also just had the founder of base 44 I also just had the founder of base 44 on the podcast who sold you know built on the podcast who sold you know built this company sold 80 million bucks to this company sold 80 million bucks to Wix and he shared that for the so he's Wix and he shared that for the so he's been around for six months the company been around for six months the company for the last three months he hasn't for the last three months he hasn't touched a single line of front-end code touched a single line of front-end code all base 44 and or sorry all cursor and all base 44 and or sorry all cursor and other tools he's using. So this is other tools he's using. So this is happening. happening. happening. &gt;&gt; Same thing for people inside of every &gt;&gt; Same thing for people inside of every like no one is manually coding anymore. like no one is manually coding anymore. &gt;&gt; Okay. Definitely need to talk about that &gt;&gt; Okay. Definitely need to talk about that before we do. Uh any other hot takes before we do. Uh any other hot takes that you want to throw out there? that you want to throw out there? &gt;&gt; I have one other hot take um which is I &gt;&gt; I have one other hot take um which is I have a definition for AGI and so AGI is have a definition for AGI and so AGI is like famously hard to define like what like famously hard to define like what it what does it mean for it to be it what does it mean for it to be artificial artificial general artificial artificial general intelligence? The turning test was one intelligence? The turning test was one but like we pretty much blown past the but like we pretty much blown past the turning test in a lot of ways. So turning test in a lot of ways. So we have no good one. Um and so what I we have no good one. Um and so what I have noticed is that you can tell how have noticed is that you can tell how much better AI is getting by how long uh much better AI is getting by how long uh a leash you can give it to do work. So a leash you can give it to do work. So with copilot it was like a you can tab with copilot it was like a you can tab complete and that was like the complete and that was like the beginning. Um with chatbt you ask it a beginning. Um with chatbt you ask it a question and it it returns a response question and it it returns a response and that's like maybe slightly better and that's like maybe slightly better than a tab complete. And then now with than a tab complete. And then now with with cloud opus 4 and Gemini and all with cloud opus 4 and Gemini and all that kind of stuff like it can go off that kind of stuff like it can go off and and work for also with deep research and and work for also with deep research it can go off and work for like 20 or 30 it can go off and work for like 20 or 30 minutes. So that leash is getting longer minutes. So that leash is getting longer where um where you have to intervene and where um where you have to intervene and I was thinking about this and it I was thinking about this and it reminded me of Winnott who's a child reminded me of Winnott who's a child psychologist. He wrote this book called psychologist. He wrote this book called Playing in Reality. And his Playing in Reality. And his conceptualization for what it means to conceptualization for what it means to become an adult, uh what it means to go become an adult, uh what it means to go from being an infant to a child to an from being an infant to a child to an adult is when you're when you're first adult is when you're when you're first born, you're effectively fused with born, you're effectively fused with usually your mother, your caregiver. usually your mother, your caregiver. Like there's no difference between you Like there's no difference between you and her or you and whoever your and her or you and whoever your caregiver is. And growing up is this caregiver is. And growing up is this process of being gradually like let down process of being gradually like let down in certain moments where you can handle in certain moments where you can handle being let down. So you learn that being let down. So you learn that there's a separation between you and there's a separation between you and your caregiver. So for infants, it's your caregiver. So for infants, it's like instead of being like fused at the like instead of being like fused at the hip for like every hour of every day, hip for like every hour of every day, you get left alone. U maybe it's like you get left alone. U maybe it's like you get left left alone to cry it out. you get left left alone to cry it out. Like who knows if that's like the right Like who knows if that's like the right thing to do with infants. a lot of thing to do with infants. a lot of consternation there, but like that's consternation there, but like that's teaching you that there's a separation teaching you that there's a separation between you and your mom or you and your between you and your mom or you and your dad. Like there's there's not going to dad. Like there's there's not going to always be someone to pick you up. And always be someone to pick you up. And raising a child is about knowing when raising a child is about knowing when they're ready to be let down a little they're ready to be let down a little bit and have to stand up on their own. bit and have to stand up on their own. So I think there's that same leash with So I think there's that same leash with human development. It's like you get human development. It's like you get longer and longer periods of time where longer and longer periods of time where you can be on your own. So, we're still you can be on your own. So, we're still in the kind of like 20 to 30 minutes is in the kind of like 20 to 30 minutes is like maybe maybe I don't know. I guess like maybe maybe I don't know. I guess you probably can't leave a toddler alone you probably can't leave a toddler alone for 20 to 30 minutes, but like, you for 20 to 30 minutes, but like, you know, it's a little bit older than a know, it's a little bit older than a toddler. toddler. toddler. &gt;&gt; Maybe 20 30 seconds. &gt;&gt; Maybe 20 30 seconds. &gt;&gt; Um, you you can with a toddler it's like &gt;&gt; Um, you you can with a toddler it's like uh you can be in the same room but not uh you can be in the same room but not interacting with them total like every interacting with them total like every single second um for for 20 for 20 single second um for for 20 for 20 minutes sometimes. minutes sometimes. minutes sometimes. &gt;&gt; So, it's it's around there. And I think &gt;&gt; So, it's it's around there. And I think there's a similar I think that we have there's a similar I think that we have that a similar leash with AGI. And so I that a similar leash with AGI. And so I think a good definition of AGI is when think a good definition of AGI is when does it become economically profitable does it become economically profitable for people to run agents indefinitely? for people to run agents indefinitely? So it just never turns off. It's a cloud So it just never turns off. It's a cloud code that's always running. It's always code that's always running. It's always doing something. You just never turn it doing something. You just never turn it off and you don't need to because like off and you don't need to because like you know that it's worthwhile to keep it you know that it's worthwhile to keep it on. It's never waiting for to keep it on. It's never waiting for you to be like, "Okay, next thing." you to be like, "Okay, next thing." It'll always respond to you when you're It'll always respond to you when you're like, "Okay, next thing." but it's off like, "Okay, next thing." but it's off just essentially living its life like a just essentially living its life like a teenager. And that is profitable for teenager. And that is profitable for you. You'd rather have it do that than you. You'd rather have it do that than just wait for you to tell it what to do just wait for you to tell it what to do next. And I think that's a good next. And I think that's a good definition of AGI. definition of AGI. &gt;&gt; And the profitable piece is also just &gt;&gt; And the profitable piece is also just the cost of running that thing and the cost of running that thing and having it. having it. having it. &gt;&gt; It's it's partly the cost and partly the &gt;&gt; It's it's partly the cost and partly the value. Um, and obviously you can like value. Um, and obviously you can like game this a little bit and be like cool, game this a little bit and be like cool, I'm just going to like tell Cloud to I'm just going to like tell Cloud to like run in a loop forever. But like I'm like run in a loop forever. But like I'm talking about more than that. like a talking about more than that. like a more widespread more widespread adoption of agents that more widespread adoption of agents that that work all the time. And um and I that work all the time. And um and I like the profitable thing because if it like the profitable thing because if it costs a little bit of money and we're costs a little bit of money and we're the bar is profitability, then there's the bar is profitability, then there's like a it has to actually be doing like a it has to actually be doing something useful for you to keep it on. something useful for you to keep it on. It's interesting how that also is very It's interesting how that also is very the metaphor of a of a senior employee the metaphor of a of a senior employee and autonomy and essentially the more and autonomy and essentially the more autonomous they are, the less autonomous they are, the less instruction you have to give, the less instruction you have to give, the less reviews you have to do is also just reviews you have to do is also just directly correlated with how senior they directly correlated with how senior they are. are. are. &gt;&gt; Totally. &gt;&gt; Totally. &gt;&gt; Totally. &gt;&gt; Okay, great. Uh, anything else along &gt;&gt; Okay, great. Uh, anything else along these lines? these lines? these lines? &gt;&gt; I mean, I have plenty of them. I think &gt;&gt; I mean, I have plenty of them. I think I'm generally I'm generally I'm generally like I hate the headlines that are like like I hate the headlines that are like it's going to replace jobs um or like it's going to replace jobs um or like it's gonna unemploy twothirds of the it's gonna unemploy twothirds of the workforce. Like I don't think that's workforce. Like I don't think that's true. I hate headlines that are like you true. I hate headlines that are like you don't use your brain when you use chatbt don't use your brain when you use chatbt or like there another another good or like there another another good headline is like um uh doctors alone headline is like um uh doctors alone doctors plus AI or just AI like which doctors plus AI or just AI like which one is better? AI is better. Therefore one is better? AI is better. Therefore like doctors are um going to be outmoded like doctors are um going to be outmoded like all that stuff is I think pretty like all that stuff is I think pretty dumb. So for the doctors plus AI dumb. So for the doctors plus AI example, example, example, um I think it's important to recognize um I think it's important to recognize that using AI is a skill. And so if you that using AI is a skill. And so if you study doctors in a vacuum that like study doctors in a vacuum that like don't really have a lot of experience don't really have a lot of experience with AI, with AI, with AI, yeah, you could probably create a yeah, you could probably create a situation such that like it's better to situation such that like it's better to just to just use an AI and sometimes it just to just use an AI and sometimes it is going to be better, but there's a lot is going to be better, but there's a lot there's like so many contexts that there's like so many contexts that doctors need to make decisions and do doctors need to make decisions and do things that it's really hard to take one things that it's really hard to take one study and make any sort of conclusion study and make any sort of conclusion about that. And it's especially hard about that. And it's especially hard when you're dealing with a technology when you're dealing with a technology that's developing so rapidly that that's developing so rapidly that doctors can't really be like expected to doctors can't really be like expected to be experts at it yet. But I would guess be experts at it yet. But I would guess in five or 10 years that will be totally in five or 10 years that will be totally and completely different. For the and completely different. For the student example um or like the you know student example um or like the you know AI turns your brain off example. AI turns your brain off example. I think it's really important to I think it's really important to understand that in the history of understand that in the history of technology it has always been the case technology it has always been the case that you give up certain skills in order that you give up certain skills in order to get other ones. So, for example, to get other ones. So, for example, Plato was famously very skeptical of Plato was famously very skeptical of writing because he thought it would harm writing because he thought it would harm your memory, and it did. Uh, we don't your memory, and it did. Uh, we don't remember things quite as well as they remember things quite as well as they did back in the day because they had to did back in the day because they had to remember long epic poems to entertain remember long epic poems to entertain each other. But I think writing is a each other. But I think writing is a worthwhile trade for having a slightly worthwhile trade for having a slightly worse memory. And I think something worse memory. And I think something similar is going on with with with AI similar is going on with with with AI where yeah, you may you may be slightly where yeah, you may you may be slightly less engaged in certain tasks, but if less engaged in certain tasks, but if you use it right, you're going to be way you use it right, you're going to be way more engaged in other tasks where you more engaged in other tasks where you have much more power. And so you can have much more power. And so you can construct a study that says brain construct a study that says brain connectivity goes down when you use AI connectivity goes down when you use AI in the same way that you could construct in the same way that you could construct a study that says people's memory is a study that says people's memory is worse when they have writing skills. But worse when they have writing skills. But I don't think anyone would want to go I don't think anyone would want to go back to a world where no one was back to a world where no one was literate. That is super interesting. literate. That is super interesting. There's all these studies that are There's all these studies that are showing the benefits of AI to students showing the benefits of AI to students with these studies in Nigeria and just with these studies in Nigeria and just how fast people progress. So I I think how fast people progress. So I I think it's really important this context it's really important this context you're sharing of that you will lose you're sharing of that you will lose some things but the gain the hope is the some things but the gain the hope is the gain is much higher and so far it seems gain is much higher and so far it seems like it will be. like it will be. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think people always, &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I think people always, especially at the beginning of a tech especially at the beginning of a tech hype cycle or a revolution paradigm hype cycle or a revolution paradigm shift, it's always easy to underestimate shift, it's always easy to underestimate how quickly things are going to change. how quickly things are going to change. And the example I always use is I live And the example I always use is I live in Brooklyn and the tailor down the road in Brooklyn and the tailor down the road down the street from me like doesn't down the street from me like doesn't accept credit cards. accept credit cards. Like credit cards have been around for a Like credit cards have been around for a long time. So, uh it takes a long time long time. So, uh it takes a long time for technology like this to be adopted for technology like this to be adopted even in the best case. And I think it's even in the best case. And I think it's really easy to underestimate really easy to underestimate how how how complex specific contexts are that complex specific contexts are that humans know how to like deal with. And humans know how to like deal with. And just because you can get a really good just because you can get a really good score on a test, it it it's incredible. score on a test, it it it's incredible. I love AI. It's so incredible, but it I love AI. It's so incredible, but it doesn't it doesn't actually give you an doesn't it doesn't actually give you an intuition for um how difficult it is to intuition for um how difficult it is to actually be replacing specific parts of actually be replacing specific parts of work or activities that you would do. I work or activities that you would do. I think a really good thing to give you a think a really good thing to give you a um maybe like a little bit of an um maybe like a little bit of an intuition for it um is I built this intuition for it um is I built this thing over a weekend like a month ago thing over a weekend like a month ago that was that was that was um can 03 um can 03 can it predict what I'm going to say in can it predict what I'm going to say in a meeting? a meeting? a meeting? It's like we it's a benchmark. It's a It's like we it's a benchmark. It's a it's the CEO benchmark. And the reason I it's the CEO benchmark. And the reason I did that is because OpenAI's the gold did that is because OpenAI's the gold standard for OpenAI um for testing how standard for OpenAI um for testing how powerful a model is is they test they powerful a model is is they test they they test it on their internal codebase. they test it on their internal codebase. So they say how good is the new model at So they say how good is the new model at predicting what comes next in our predicting what comes next in our internal codebase because that's that's internal codebase because that's that's not anywhere out out on the internet. So not anywhere out out on the internet. So it's a really good um it's a really good it's a really good um it's a really good benchmark for that. And so I was like benchmark for that. And so I was like well my meeting transcripts aren't well my meeting transcripts aren't anywhere on the internet. a lot of what anywhere on the internet. a lot of what I say is on the internet and some of the I say is on the internet and some of the there's some overlap but be kind of there's some overlap but be kind of interesting and so I ran a bunch of the interesting and so I ran a bunch of the frontier models on this on just like my frontier models on this on just like my granola transcripts and they're pretty granola transcripts and they're pretty bad. They are pretty bad and it's not bad. They are pretty bad and it's not because they're not smart. Um there's a because they're not smart. Um there's a real there's this real push now. Um Toby real there's this real push now. Um Toby from Spotify uh coined this term called from Spotify uh coined this term called context engineering which is like context engineering which is like getting the context to the model uh the getting the context to the model uh the right context at the right time like is right context at the right time like is at least half the performance. And I at least half the performance. And I think that's 100% true. It's something think that's 100% true. It's something that I've been writing about for like 3 that I've been writing about for like 3 years. At the time I called it knowledge years. At the time I called it knowledge orchestration. Um, I think context orchestration. Um, I think context engineering is is a better probably a engineering is is a better probably a better term, but like uh it's totally better term, but like uh it's totally true and and and it's that's a very very true and and and it's that's a very very hard problem to solve. It's not just hard problem to solve. It's not just like a oneshot problem where it's like, like a oneshot problem where it's like, you know, gigantic context bundle and you know, gigantic context bundle and we're done. It's going it's I think it's we're done. It's going it's I think it's going to get better over time, but the going to get better over time, but the minute it gets good at predicting what's minute it gets good at predicting what's what's gonna what I'm going to say next what's gonna what I'm going to say next in a meeting, I'm just going to use it in a meeting, I'm just going to use it as a tool and that's going to change the as a tool and that's going to change the entire dynamic of what I say next in a entire dynamic of what I say next in a meeting. So, it's not as easy as it meeting. So, it's not as easy as it seems. seems. seems. &gt;&gt; Interesting. I imagine you can build a &gt;&gt; Interesting. I imagine you can build a GPT from that and then instead of having GPT from that and then instead of having a meeting with Dan now, just talk to a meeting with Dan now, just talk to this thing and he'll make decisions. this thing and he'll make decisions. &gt;&gt; Definitely. And I I I mean, we do this a &gt;&gt; Definitely. And I I I mean, we do this a little bit. It's not the same as it's little bit. It's not the same as it's not the same as having being able to not the same as having being able to predict exactly what I'm going to say in predict exactly what I'm going to say in a meeting, but I think if you're a CEO a meeting, but I think if you're a CEO or founder or manager, it's really or founder or manager, it's really stunning how much of your job is just stunning how much of your job is just repeating yourself. repeating yourself. repeating yourself. And that is one of the best things about And that is one of the best things about this AI particular AI revolution is that this AI particular AI revolution is that you don't have to repeat yourself. And you don't have to repeat yourself. And so we had it like last quarter. I I tend so we had it like last quarter. I I tend to set like one or two quarterly goals to set like one or two quarterly goals and like one of my big goals for us last and like one of my big goals for us last quarter was don't repeat yourself. So I quarter was don't repeat yourself. So I don't want to ever say the same thing in don't want to ever say the same thing in a meeting twice if I if I can help it. a meeting twice if I if I can help it. Um, so for us, um, at every like one of Um, so for us, um, at every like one of the big parts of every is we have a the big parts of every is we have a daily newsletter daily newsletter daily newsletter and I'm spending a lot of time like and I'm spending a lot of time like giving feedback on headlines or giving giving feedback on headlines or giving feedback on how do you write an intro or feedback on how do you write an intro or like how is what is this idea any good? like how is what is this idea any good? Like that kind of stuff. And we've Like that kind of stuff. And we've started to codify all that into prompts started to codify all that into prompts that basically it's not the same as that basically it's not the same as mimicking me. It can't exactly say mimicking me. It can't exactly say exactly what I'm going to say in a exactly what I'm going to say in a meeting, but it pushes my taste out to meeting, but it pushes my taste out to the edge so that the edge so that um writers who are not able to talk to um writers who are not able to talk to me, like by the time I see it, they've me, like by the time I see it, they've already talked to like some simulation already talked to like some simulation of a simulation of me. And that's of a simulation of me. And that's incredibly powerful. Let's follow this incredibly powerful. Let's follow this thread. This is exactly where I wanted thread. This is exactly where I wanted to go. I feel like the business you're to go. I feel like the business you're building, the team you're building, the building, the team you're building, the way you're operating is the very way you're operating is the very bleeding edge of how companies will bleeding edge of how companies will operate and are trying to operate in operate and are trying to operate in this AI era. You guys are trying to be this AI era. You guys are trying to be super AI first. Uh it's and it's super super AI first. Uh it's and it's super aligned with just so much of how of your aligned with just so much of how of your writing. There's just like so much writing. There's just like so much reason to study what you guys are doing. reason to study what you guys are doing. &gt;&gt; Yes. And this is benefiting all of us. &gt;&gt; Yes. And this is benefiting all of us. So, thank you. So, thank you. So, first of all, just tell people what So, first of all, just tell people what the heck every is and then share a few the heck every is and then share a few insights into just how you operate. Uh, insights into just how you operate. Uh, it's funny that you laugh, but whatever it's funny that you laugh, but whatever is. is. is. &gt;&gt; Everyone asked that cuz it's just it's &gt;&gt; Everyone asked that cuz it's just it's like a it's a very it's just it's a very like a it's a very it's just it's a very weird shape of a company that weird shape of a company that &gt;&gt; you can actually see other companies &gt;&gt; you can actually see other companies that have this shape from earlier eras, that have this shape from earlier eras, but they're but they're but they're &gt;&gt; it's a little bit it's less common. It's &gt;&gt; it's a little bit it's less common. It's it doesn't make as much sense and I it doesn't make as much sense and I think it's newly enabled by AI and and think it's newly enabled by AI and and we can talk about why. Um but the way we can talk about why. Um but the way the way that I typically talk about um the way that I typically talk about um every is um we do ideas and apps at the every is um we do ideas and apps at the edge of AI. So the core of the business edge of AI. So the core of the business is we have a daily newsletter. We've is we have a daily newsletter. We've been doing it for about 5 years. We have been doing it for about 5 years. We have about 100,000 subscribers. All the about 100,000 subscribers. All the people from the top AI labs read us. Um people from the top AI labs read us. Um anyone who's who's basically interested anyone who's who's basically interested in or working in AI at the frontier and in or working in AI at the frontier and wants to know what's going on uh reads wants to know what's going on uh reads us. We do a lot of like for example us. We do a lot of like for example whenever um whenever OpenAI or or whenever um whenever OpenAI or or Anthropic drop a new model like we get Anthropic drop a new model like we get our hands on it early and then we get to our hands on it early and then we get to play with it and write about it which is play with it and write about it which is it's like my ideal job. I love it. It's it's like my ideal job. I love it. It's the best. I don't know if I can curse on the best. I don't know if I can curse on this podcast but it's the this podcast but it's the &gt;&gt; perfect excellent use. Uh and you call &gt;&gt; perfect excellent use. Uh and you call those vibe checks. Is that the those vibe checks. Is that the &gt;&gt; Yeah, we call them vibe checks. Um &gt;&gt; Yeah, we call them vibe checks. Um &gt;&gt; which I think is really important &gt;&gt; which I think is really important because and this gets to the next part because and this gets to the next part the the apps part of of what we do. I the the apps part of of what we do. I think it's really important to do vibe think it's really important to do vibe checks and and to call them vibe checks checks and and to call them vibe checks because they're about how does it feel because they're about how does it feel to use this thing and how does it feel to use this thing and how does it feel to use it for work for things that you to use it for work for things that you would normally use it for um uh uh like would normally use it for um uh uh like in your job or in your life because I in your job or in your life because I think um that captures something that think um that captures something that standard benchmarks just don't capture standard benchmarks just don't capture and really can't. And the best people to and really can't. And the best people to tell to write a vibe check are people tell to write a vibe check are people that are actually at the edge using it that are actually at the edge using it for stuff. And so what we found over for stuff. And so what we found over time is we have we we love we think the time is we have we we love we think the best writing and content about best writing and content about technology is from people that are technology is from people that are actually using it and building with it. actually using it and building with it. And so we've always had this sort of And so we've always had this sort of function where we're always building function where we're always building little experiments um in addition to our little experiments um in addition to our writing. And that that helps us write writing. And that that helps us write great stuff. And that has turned into um great stuff. And that has turned into um a suite of apps that we run internally. a suite of apps that we run internally. And the people who uh are uh people who And the people who uh are uh people who are building those apps are also writers are building those apps are also writers and they're contributing to things like and they're contributing to things like vibe checks. So you get a really inside vibe checks. So you get a really inside look into how is this stuff being built look into how is this stuff being built from people who are actually using it from people who are actually using it every day and the suite of apps that we every day and the suite of apps that we have. Uh one's called Kora. We just have. Uh one's called Kora. We just launched Kora publicly on the day that launched Kora publicly on the day that we're recording this which is really we're recording this which is really awesome. Um awesome. Um awesome. Um &gt;&gt; congratulations. &gt;&gt; congratulations. &gt;&gt; congratulations. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Uh you can think of it like a &gt;&gt; Thank you. Uh you can think of it like a chief of staff, an AI chief of staff for chief of staff, an AI chief of staff for your email. It helps you manage your your email. It helps you manage your email with AI. It's very cool. We can go email with AI. It's very cool. We can go into more of it later. Uh we have into more of it later. Uh we have another one called Sparkle uh which is another one called Sparkle uh which is an AI file cleaner. We have another one an AI file cleaner. We have another one called Spiral that does content called Spiral that does content automation with AI. We originally automation with AI. We originally incubated um Lex which is an AI document incubated um Lex which is an AI document writer which we spun out into its own writer which we spun out into its own company and my every co-founder Nathan company and my every co-founder Nathan runs that um and uh basically we bundle runs that um and uh basically we bundle everything together. So you pay one everything together. So you pay one price and you get access to all of the price and you get access to all of the software that we make and we're software that we make and we're constantly putting new stuff in the constantly putting new stuff in the bundle and I can tell you more about bundle and I can tell you more about like what kinds of things we like to like what kinds of things we like to incubate and how do we like to incubate incubate and how do we like to incubate it because I think there's there's a lot it because I think there's there's a lot of there's some really interesting of there's some really interesting special things in there but I've been special things in there but I've been blabbing for a while so I'll stop there. blabbing for a while so I'll stop there. There's also consulting firm which I There's also consulting firm which I want to talk about, but let's hold off want to talk about, but let's hold off on that. on that. on that. &gt;&gt; We have consulting. We also do that. Um, &gt;&gt; We have consulting. We also do that. Um, and that that is another that's like the and that that is another that's like the third leg of the stool in the business. third leg of the stool in the business. It doesn't fit quite as nicely into my It doesn't fit quite as nicely into my ideas and app streaming, but we um we ideas and app streaming, but we um we spend a lot of time with big companies spend a lot of time with big companies where we teach them how to basically how where we teach them how to basically how to be AI first. We train all the people to be AI first. We train all the people on how to use AI and it's it's very on how to use AI and it's it's very cool. It's it's really um it's really cool. It's it's really um it's really fun and very a very important part of fun and very a very important part of what we do. what we do. &gt;&gt; That feels like a billion dollar &gt;&gt; That feels like a billion dollar business right there. I want to come business right there. I want to come back to it. I think so because everybody back to it. I think so because everybody wants to learn this. Um, okay. So, share wants to learn this. Um, okay. So, share a few ways that you guys operate. You a few ways that you guys operate. You mentioned that you your team doesn't mentioned that you your team doesn't write any code. Uh, what are just some write any code. Uh, what are just some ways that allow you to operate this ways that allow you to operate this efficiently? I know your team's really efficiently? I know your team's really small. You have daily newsletter. You small. You have daily newsletter. You have three four products. You have a have three four products. You have a consulting arm. How big is the team of consulting arm. How big is the team of everything? everything? everything? &gt;&gt; We have 15 people. &gt;&gt; We have 15 people. &gt;&gt; 15 people. Okay. So, just give us &gt;&gt; 15 people. Okay. So, just give us insight into some of the ways you insight into some of the ways you operate that are kind of at the bleeding operate that are kind of at the bleeding edge. edge. edge. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, a couple things. Um, one, and &gt;&gt; Okay. So, a couple things. Um, one, and I think everyone should do this, is we I think everyone should do this, is we have an AI, a head of AI operations. I have an AI, a head of AI operations. I sit with her once a week, and every time sit with her once a week, and every time I'm doing something repetitively, I'm I'm doing something repetitively, I'm like, we put it in a to-do list and like, we put it in a to-do list and she's just constantly like building she's just constantly like building prompts and building workflows and stuff prompts and building workflows and stuff like that so that I and everyone else on like that so that I and everyone else on the team is are just automating as much the team is are just automating as much as possible. Um, and I think that has as possible. Um, and I think that has been a big unlock because it's really been a big unlock because it's really hard to if you're working in a job all hard to if you're working in a job all day, you're fighting fires and like day, you're fighting fires and like you're you're like, "Okay, am I going to you're you're like, "Okay, am I going to do this in the way that I know how or am do this in the way that I know how or am I going to do it in the new way that I going to do it in the new way that might not work? Like, I'm going to spend might not work? Like, I'm going to spend a bunch of time in Zapier like building a bunch of time in Zapier like building some no code automation. I don't want to some no code automation. I don't want to do that." And having an AI operations do that." And having an AI operations lead lets you basically identify those lead lets you basically identify those things and have them solved without things and have them solved without people who are doing the work actually people who are doing the work actually getting in uh getting like having to getting in uh getting like having to take time to do it which I think makes take time to do it which I think makes it much more likely it happens. There's it much more likely it happens. There's always a trick with that where it's like always a trick with that where it's like you have to make sure it gets used. So you have to make sure it gets used. So it's basically you're developing little it's basically you're developing little applications internally. Um but if applications internally. Um but if you're good at making applications you're good at making applications people use it's great. Highly recommend people use it's great. Highly recommend having an AI AI operations lead. I having an AI AI operations lead. I imagine you saw the CF Kora tweeted imagine you saw the CF Kora tweeted about this wanting to hire exactly this about this wanting to hire exactly this sort of person. sort of person. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So clearly this is a trend. So the idea &gt;&gt; So clearly this is a trend. So the idea is this per like your point that this is this per like your point that this needs to be somebody who's who's outside needs to be somebody who's who's outside of the day-to-day work of the company of the day-to-day work of the company and is specifically focused on helping and is specifically focused on helping the team be more efficient with AI? the team be more efficient with AI? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And then is this person mostly just you &gt;&gt; And then is this person mostly just you automating you or can they help other automating you or can they help other people? people? people? &gt;&gt; No, she helps she helps everyone &gt;&gt; No, she helps she helps everyone basically. Okay, where we're starting basically. Okay, where we're starting right now is with the uh editorial right now is with the uh editorial operation. So, there's so much stuff in operation. So, there's so much stuff in the editorial operation where I or our the editorial operation where I or our our editor and chief Kate like Kate is our editor and chief Kate like Kate is constantly doing like little small copy constantly doing like little small copy edits to make sure everything is like in edits to make sure everything is like in every style and it takes like hours every style and it takes like hours hours a day. Um, and so now Opus is at a hours a day. Um, and so now Opus is at a point where you can give it a style point where you can give it a style guide and a prompt and it'll go through guide and a prompt and it'll go through uh go through anything you're writing uh go through anything you're writing and copy edit it, which is amazing. Um, and copy edit it, which is amazing. Um, the trick is it's not just building the trick is it's not just building that. You also have to get Kate to be that. You also have to get Kate to be like, "Did you put this through the like, "Did you put this through the prompt yet?" Um, anytime someone gives prompt yet?" Um, anytime someone gives her something. So, there's a little bit her something. So, there's a little bit of like behavioral update too that has of like behavioral update too that has to happen, which I think is a really to happen, which I think is a really interesting organizational challenge. interesting organizational challenge. And I think for us it's a little easier And I think for us it's a little easier because everybody inside the org is like because everybody inside the org is like very AI first and just like wants to go very AI first and just like wants to go do it. Um we don't have anyone really do it. Um we don't have anyone really who's like I don't know I don't really who's like I don't know I don't really want to do this and and that's that's a want to do this and and that's that's a whole different challenge whole that's a whole different challenge which I think a lot of organizations which I think a lot of organizations face but there's always a problem of face but there's always a problem of getting people to use it. getting people to use it. &gt;&gt; That is super cool. What is her &gt;&gt; That is super cool. What is her background this AI operations person? background this AI operations person? &gt;&gt; She her name is Katie Parrot. Um she &gt;&gt; She her name is Katie Parrot. Um she does a lot she actually does a lot of um does a lot she actually does a lot of um ghost writing for us. So she also when ghost writing for us. So she also when um when people inside of every who are um when people inside of every who are builders um often they just write builders um often they just write themselves but like sometimes they want themselves but like sometimes they want help and she'll help um help them write help and she'll help um help them write about like whatever whatever they're about like whatever whatever they're working on. So that's that's how she working on. So that's that's how she started with us. She still does that but started with us. She still does that but she also spends a lot of time doing the she also spends a lot of time doing the AI operations stuff. Um AI operations stuff. Um and then before that she was she worked and then before that she was she worked at Animals which is a content marketing at Animals which is a content marketing agency like one of the top content agency like one of the top content marketing agencies and they're very marketing agencies and they're very processoriented. And I think the reason processoriented. And I think the reason Katie is so good is because she's she's Katie is so good is because she's she's incredibly good at at that kind of incredibly good at at that kind of process stuff or like thinking about process stuff or like thinking about that. Um, but she's also a great writer that. Um, but she's also a great writer and she's also um just incredibly uh and she's also um just incredibly uh excited about AI. She just like wants to excited about AI. She just like wants to tinker and wants to use it and like that tinker and wants to use it and like that was a thing that got me to be like, was a thing that got me to be like, okay, you should just come and do that okay, you should just come and do that instead of just ghost writing. We should instead of just ghost writing. We should add this to your plate. And it's it's add this to your plate. And it's it's been really fantastic. So I think that's been really fantastic. So I think that's a at minimum you really just want a at minimum you really just want someone who's just like I want to someone who's just like I want to tinker. I want to build stuff. Um tinker. I want to build stuff. Um there's also people who have a little there's also people who have a little bit more of that process orientation. I bit more of that process orientation. I think that is important. Um and to the think that is important. Um and to the extent they understand the craft of the extent they understand the craft of the thing that they're trying to build for thing that they're trying to build for that also helps a lot. that also helps a lot. &gt;&gt; This is an amazing tip. I feel like &gt;&gt; This is an amazing tip. I feel like everyone's going to start hiring these everyone's going to start hiring these people. people. people. &gt;&gt; I I think so. There's there's a couple &gt;&gt; I I think so. There's there's a couple other people who talk about this. So I other people who talk about this. So I heard Rachel Woods who's another um sort heard Rachel Woods who's another um sort of she thinks a lot about AI stuff. she of she thinks a lot about AI stuff. she she's talking about I think it's she's talking about I think it's becoming like it's becoming a thing and becoming like it's becoming a thing and and I think it's I think it's really and I think it's really important and and it just like bleeds important and and it just like bleeds out into every other part of the org. So out into every other part of the org. So like we're doing this inside of the like we're doing this inside of the editorial or but there's a lot of copy editorial or but there's a lot of copy that goes out on Kora and by the way that goes out on Kora and by the way Kora is spelled C O R A so it's Kora is spelled C O R A so it's different from q o um slightly confusing different from q o um slightly confusing there's a lot of copy that goes out in there's a lot of copy that goes out in Kora or spiral or sparkle that we want Kora or spiral or sparkle that we want to have that same every quality bar for to have that same every quality bar for and so we have you know engineers and so we have you know engineers sending Kate like here's the Figma file sending Kate like here's the Figma file like can you go and like do copy edits like can you go and like do copy edits and that sucks for everybody and Kate is and that sucks for everybody and Kate is one person and it's just really hard to one person and it's just really hard to to do that. So one thing that we did um to do that. So one thing that we did um Nateesh who's one of the programmers uh Nateesh who's one of the programmers uh engine engineers on Kora built a cloud engine engineers on Kora built a cloud code command that just uses that prompt code command that just uses that prompt and checks through the entire codebase and checks through the entire codebase um for for all the copy edits and then um for for all the copy edits and then creates a pull request on GitHub and creates a pull request on GitHub and then sends the pull request to Kate. So then sends the pull request to Kate. So she's just like looking at the pull she's just like looking at the pull request and being like does this make request and being like does this make sense? And so you can translate that sense? And so you can translate that prompt into, for example, a format that prompt into, for example, a format that engineers can use and suddenly your engineers can use and suddenly your engineering team is writing marketing engineering team is writing marketing copy in the style you want. I think copy in the style you want. I think that's so cool. that's so cool. &gt;&gt; That is extremely cool. Uh I want to &gt;&gt; That is extremely cool. Uh I want to take I'm going to take us on a little take I'm going to take us on a little tangent. You keep mentioning Claude and tangent. You keep mentioning Claude and I'm I'm curious just what is kind of in I'm I'm curious just what is kind of in the stack of tools that you find the stack of tools that you find yourself using that your team ends up yourself using that your team ends up using. It seems like Claude is a core using. It seems like Claude is a core part of it. part of it. &gt;&gt; I do love Claude. I would say I'm &gt;&gt; I do love Claude. I would say I'm generally generally generally my first thing that I open is 03. I'm my first thing that I open is 03. I'm like a chatbt boy. Um and I think 03 is like a chatbt boy. Um and I think 03 is super high quality. I think um it's super high quality. I think um it's great for writing. It's great for great for writing. It's great for coding. It's great for all that stuff. coding. It's great for all that stuff. And what it has that really makes a And what it has that really makes a difference still from from Claude is it difference still from from Claude is it has memory and I just love that. Like has memory and I just love that. Like I've spent so much time yelling at I've spent so much time yelling at Chacht about like I need my writing to Chacht about like I need my writing to be punchy and concise, you know, and it be punchy and concise, you know, and it just knows that now. So I think when I just knows that now. So I think when I ask it to write something for me, it's ask it to write something for me, it's like actually better than yours or maybe like actually better than yours or maybe not yours but like you your average your not yours but like you your average your average CHBT user and I also find like I average CHBT user and I also find like I use it a lot for self-reflection and use it a lot for self-reflection and personal growth type stuff. So it knows personal growth type stuff. So it knows me so when I send it a meeting trans I'm me so when I send it a meeting trans I'm like how did I do? It's like well you like how did I do? It's like well you did that thing that you normally do but did that thing that you normally do but you're way better on this other thing you're way better on this other thing and I I like that. I think that's I and I I like that. I think that's really great. think that's really great. &gt;&gt; So dayto-day 03 that's my that's my &gt;&gt; So dayto-day 03 that's my that's my go-to. I think claude opus is first of go-to. I think claude opus is first of all cla code everyone inside every all cla code everyone inside every that's basically what we use um if that's basically what we use um if you're building something you're using you're building something you're using cloud code it it's crazy it's so good um cloud code it it's crazy it's so good um Gemini just came out with something so Gemini just came out with something so I'm very excited to try that um because I'm very excited to try that um because I think that that's the model that we I think that that's the model that we use most for the apps that we build like use most for the apps that we build like inside the apps u it's incredibly inside the apps u it's incredibly powerful and it's incredibly cheap which powerful and it's incredibly cheap which is great so I want to try the CLI tool is great so I want to try the CLI tool they came out with we also use codeex a they came out with we also use codeex a bit um which is OpenAI's coding tool. bit um which is OpenAI's coding tool. And that's for like I want a one-off And that's for like I want a one-off self-contained like I want to pick off self-contained like I want to pick off this little feature. What else do I use? this little feature. What else do I use? Uh going back to Claude, Claude Opus 4 Uh going back to Claude, Claude Opus 4 can do something that no other model can do something that no other model except one other model that I can't talk except one other model that I can't talk about. Um about. Um about. Um &gt;&gt; it can do something that no other model &gt;&gt; it can do something that no other model can do. can do. can do. &gt;&gt; We won't go there. We don't want to get &gt;&gt; We won't go there. We don't want to get you in trouble. Okay, go on. you in trouble. Okay, go on. But yeah, no other model can do this, But yeah, no other model can do this, which is which is which is earlier versions of Claude and I think earlier versions of Claude and I think generally versions of other models when generally versions of other models when you ask them, is this piece of writing you ask them, is this piece of writing any good? any good? any good? Claude, for example, would always give Claude, for example, would always give it a B+ and then if you change if if you it a B+ and then if you change if if you did another turn of the same did another turn of the same conversation, you're like, I updated conversation, you're like, I updated this, it would always go to A minus. And this, it would always go to A minus. And then if you give it another turn, it then if you give it another turn, it would go to like A, you know? So it like would go to like A, you know? So it like doesn't have the same kind of gut. It's doesn't have the same kind of gut. It's like it's sort of thinking about what like it's sort of thinking about what you probably want to hear too much. Um, you probably want to hear too much. Um, and there's various methods that you can and there's various methods that you can use to like prompt prompt engineer use to like prompt prompt engineer around this, like give it a template or around this, like give it a template or like whatever. And they sort of worked, like whatever. And they sort of worked, but it just still doesn't doesn't have but it just still doesn't doesn't have that thing where it's like can it tell that thing where it's like can it tell if writing is interesting or any good? if writing is interesting or any good? Does it have that gut sense? And Opus 4 Does it have that gut sense? And Opus 4 has it. Uh, it's really wild. And I has it. Uh, it's really wild. And I think that's super think that's I think that's super important because it opens up all these important because it opens up all these use cases where you might want to use a use cases where you might want to use a language model as a judge. So for us for language model as a judge. So for us for example um we're working on a new example um we're working on a new version of our product spiral which does version of our product spiral which does content automations. You've used that in content automations. You've used that in the past and we're doing a essentially the past and we're doing a essentially cloud code but for content um style cloud code but for content um style product where you know you say I want I product where you know you say I want I wanted to write a tweet. You give it all wanted to write a tweet. You give it all the documents. It has a bunch of the documents. It has a bunch of memories. It creates a to-do list for memories. It creates a to-do list for itself and then it goes and writes. And itself and then it goes and writes. And one of the things that is so interesting one of the things that is so interesting is now because it can um it can judge is now because it can um it can judge things. Part of its to-do list is okay, things. Part of its to-do list is okay, I wrote three tweets. I'm going to like I wrote three tweets. I'm going to like judge whether I think these are any judge whether I think these are any good. And then it can improve before it good. And then it can improve before it comes back to you. And that's just like comes back to you. And that's just like a huge huge unlock that we were a huge huge unlock that we were struggling for like three months to like struggling for like three months to like build this like crazy system to like try build this like crazy system to like try to get it to judge writing and then Opus to get it to judge writing and then Opus 4 just like one shot at it and we're 4 just like one shot at it and we're like great this product works. Let's like great this product works. Let's like let's start shipping it. Um so like let's start shipping it. Um so yeah, I love it for that. yeah, I love it for that. &gt;&gt; Are there any other AI tools that you &gt;&gt; Are there any other AI tools that you just use regularly? You mentioned just use regularly? You mentioned Granola even outside of the bottles. So Granola even outside of the bottles. So what are what are some that you think what are what are some that you think maybe people are sleeping on? maybe people are sleeping on? &gt;&gt; I use Granola. So I used to use uh Super &gt;&gt; I use Granola. So I used to use uh Super Whisper and Whisper Flow which I think Whisper and Whisper Flow which I think are fantastic. We have an internal are fantastic. We have an internal version of that uh called Monologue that version of that uh called Monologue that will be shipping in like a month or so will be shipping in like a month or so that I I use now but you can think of that I I use now but you can think of them as roughly equivalent and I think them as roughly equivalent and I think like generally speechtoext interfaces like generally speechtoext interfaces are the future and more people should be are the future and more people should be using them and more people should be using them and more people should be building them as affordances. Um I use I building them as affordances. Um I use I use we use notion all the time and I use we use notion all the time and I specifically use their meeting specifically use their meeting recording. I think that's most I think recording. I think that's most I think that's mostly the stack. that's mostly the stack. &gt;&gt; Okay, that was really helpful and super &gt;&gt; Okay, that was really helpful and super interesting. This episode is brought to interesting. This episode is brought to you by Postthog, the product platform you by Postthog, the product platform your engineers actually want to use. your engineers actually want to use. Post Hog has all the tools that Post Hog has all the tools that founders, developers, and product teams founders, developers, and product teams need like product analytics, web need like product analytics, web analytics, session replays, heat maps, analytics, session replays, heat maps, experimentation, surveys, LLM experimentation, surveys, LLM observability, air tracking, and more. observability, air tracking, and more. Everything Post Hawk offers comes with a Everything Post Hawk offers comes with a generous free tier that resets every generous free tier that resets every month. More than 90% of customers use month. More than 90% of customers use Post Hawk for free. You are going to Post Hawk for free. You are going to love working with a team this love working with a team this transparent and technical. You'll see transparent and technical. You'll see engineers landing pull requests for your engineers landing pull requests for your issues and their support team provides issues and their support team provides code level assistance when things get code level assistance when things get tricky. Posthog lets you have all your tricky. Posthog lets you have all your data in one place. Beyond analytics data in one place. Beyond analytics events, their data warehouse enables you events, their data warehouse enables you to sync data from your Postgress to sync data from your Postgress database, Stripe, HubSpot, S3, and many database, Stripe, HubSpot, S3, and many more sources. Finally, their new AI more sources. Finally, their new AI product analyst Max AI helps you get product analyst Max AI helps you get further faster. Get help building further faster. Get help building complex queries and setting up your complex queries and setting up your account with an expert who's always account with an expert who's always standing by. Sign up today for free at standing by. Sign up today for free at postthhog.com/lenny postthhog.com/lenny postthhog.com/lenny and make sure to tell them Lenny sent and make sure to tell them Lenny sent you. That's postthogg.com/lenny. Let's go back to ways that your team Let's go back to ways that your team operates. You mentioned having Kate, was operates. You mentioned having Kate, was that her name? that her name? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. Uh what else? What else do you do &gt;&gt; Okay. Uh what else? What else do you do that you think other companies should be that you think other companies should be doing or will eventually start doing? So doing or will eventually start doing? So the Kora team uh which is Kieran and the Kora team uh which is Kieran and Nateesh basically that's the team two Nateesh basically that's the team two people people people &gt;&gt; that's the team. Yeah. &gt;&gt; that's the team. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Well it's Kora it's it's Kieran Nateesh &gt;&gt; Well it's Kora it's it's Kieran Nateesh and 15 claude code instances. So it's and 15 claude code instances. So it's you know it's more powerful than you you know it's more powerful than you think. think. think. &gt;&gt; This is I love that this is just again a &gt;&gt; This is I love that this is just again a glimpse into the future. glimpse into the future. Um, one of the things that we do that I Um, one of the things that we do that I think is really cool and they basically think is really cool and they basically invented this like I had nothing to do invented this like I had nothing to do with this is um, they invented the idea with this is um, they invented the idea of compounding engineering. of compounding engineering. So So So basically for every unit of work you basically for every unit of work you should make the next unit of work easier should make the next unit of work easier to do. to do. to do. So an example is um So an example is um in a clawed code world where you're not in a clawed code world where you're not coding a lot, you end up spending a lot coding a lot, you end up spending a lot of time essentially typing PRDs. Like of time essentially typing PRDs. Like here's a document with exactly the stuff here's a document with exactly the stuff that I need to do, right? Um that I need to do, right? Um and so you could just be like, "Okay, and so you could just be like, "Okay, cool. That's my job now. I'm going to cool. That's my job now. I'm going to just like write PRDs." Um and so each just like write PRDs." Um and so each successive PRD, it's the same amount of successive PRD, it's the same amount of work. Or you could spend a little bit of work. Or you could spend a little bit of time being like, there's a sort of time being like, there's a sort of platonic ideal of a PRD, and what I'm platonic ideal of a PRD, and what I'm going to do is write a prompt that can going to do is write a prompt that can take my rambling thoughts and then turn take my rambling thoughts and then turn that into a PRD. And so you spend a that into a PRD. And so you spend a little bit of work to make all of the little bit of work to make all of the next like PRDs that you're doing easier next like PRDs that you're doing easier to easier to write because you're to easier to write because you're writing le less of them. And so finding writing le less of them. And so finding those little speedups where every time those little speedups where every time you're building something you're doing you're building something you're doing you're making it easier to do that that you're making it easier to do that that same thing next time I think gets you a same thing next time I think gets you a lot more leverage in your engineering lot more leverage in your engineering team. And so like yeah we have Kieran team. And so like yeah we have Kieran and Nesh and you know Kora has it just and Nesh and you know Kora has it just came out of it just became public. It came out of it just became public. It was in private beta has 2500 active was in private beta has 2500 active users and like there's like millions of users and like there's like millions of emails going through it and like that's emails going through it and like that's one of the products that we do as a 15 one of the products that we do as a 15 person company. It's It's kind of crazy. person company. It's It's kind of crazy. &gt;&gt; It It is crazy. How do you do this speed &gt;&gt; It It is crazy. How do you do this speed up thing? Is it um prompts that they up thing? Is it um prompts that they continue to refine? continue to refine? &gt;&gt; A lot of it is prompts and automations &gt;&gt; A lot of it is prompts and automations and stuff like that. Yeah. and stuff like that. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Got it. For automations, what's the &gt;&gt; Got it. For automations, what's the tool? What's the tool used for tool? What's the tool used for automating automations? automating automations? automating automations? &gt;&gt; What they're using a lot of is is Cloud &gt;&gt; What they're using a lot of is is Cloud Code. So, you can do slash commands in Code. So, you can do slash commands in Cloud Code, which are like repeated Cloud Code, which are like repeated prompts that you're that you're doing. prompts that you're that you're doing. &gt;&gt; Got it. Okay. So basically they're &gt;&gt; Got it. Okay. So basically they're building a library of prompts that make building a library of prompts that make the process of here's what I want to the process of here's what I want to build to a good solid PRD that you can build to a good solid PRD that you can feed into cloud code. Yeah. More correct feed into cloud code. Yeah. More correct and more efficient. and more efficient. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; Super interesting. And and they just &gt;&gt; Super interesting. And and they just keep like a file or they put this into a keep like a file or they put this into a project. Is that how they store? project. Is that how they store? &gt;&gt; It's a GitHub. It's like a GitHub. It's &gt;&gt; It's a GitHub. It's like in their GitHub where they they can like in their GitHub where they they can like share it with each other. Another like share it with each other. Another thing that they do which I think is very thing that they do which I think is very cool is they they use a bunch of clouds cool is they they use a bunch of clouds at once, but then they're also using at once, but then they're also using like three other agents. So they love like three other agents. So they love there's there's an agent called Friday there's there's an agent called Friday that they love. that they love. &gt;&gt; That's like a that's a that's an AI &gt;&gt; That's like a that's a that's an AI Asian product called Friday. Asian product called Friday. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Heard of that. Okay. &gt;&gt; Heard of that. Okay. &gt;&gt; Um there's another one called Charlie &gt;&gt; Um there's another one called Charlie that they really love. And in that they really love. And in particular, I think the thing they like particular, I think the thing they like about Charlie, we have a whole video about Charlie, we have a whole video about this which um I can send to you. about this which um I can send to you. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'll point to it. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'll point to it. &gt;&gt; They did like a you know S tier through &gt;&gt; They did like a you know S tier through Ftier of AI agents which I think is so Ftier of AI agents which I think is so funny. Um, and um, one of the things I funny. Um, and um, one of the things I really like about about Charlie is that really like about about Charlie is that it lives in GitHub. So you can when you it lives in GitHub. So you can when you get a pull request, you get a when you get a pull request, you can just be like at Charlie like can you can just be like at Charlie like can you can you check this out? Um, and that can you check this out? Um, and that seems to seems to work really well to seems to seems to work really well to have like different agents that have have like different agents that have like maybe slightly different like maybe slightly different perspectives. It's like different perspectives. It's like different people, you know, that have different people, you know, that have different perspectives and have different taste. perspectives and have different taste. Like you can I Kieran is he's like a one Like you can I Kieran is he's like a one of those like ra like serious Rails of those like ra like serious Rails files who are just they just love Rails files who are just they just love Rails and they love the way that Rails feels and they love the way that Rails feels and so I think he has a real sensitivity and so I think he has a real sensitivity to okay this agent you know Chukg for to okay this agent you know Chukg for example it's very it feels very tur and example it's very it feels very tur and minimal and and professional and so and minimal and and professional and so and it has a particular kind of style that it has a particular kind of style that maybe he likes versus I don't know quad maybe he likes versus I don't know quad is a slightly different style and I is a slightly different style and I think that's I think all of that is so think that's I think all of that is so interesting that that these things have interesting that that these things have personalities and that those that that personalities and that those that that changes what you might want to use it changes what you might want to use it for or why you might want to use three for or why you might want to use three of them at once. of them at once. &gt;&gt; That is so fascinating. Uh it makes me &gt;&gt; That is so fascinating. Uh it makes me think about Peter Deng's conversation think about Peter Deng's conversation again where he talks about his hiring again where he talks about his hiring strategy in one of his key lessons and strategy in one of his key lessons and he ended up hiring like the current head he ended up hiring like the current head of product for JT GPT the current head of product for JT GPT the current head of marketing at JGPT the current head of of marketing at JGPT the current head of engineering like because he hires the is engineering like because he hires the is incredible people and his philosophy is incredible people and his philosophy is to hire a team of Avengers where to hire a team of Avengers where everyone is strong at certain things and everyone is strong at certain things and together they are the perfect team together they are the perfect team versus everyone versus like the best at versus everyone versus like the best at everything and it's interesting that you everything and it's interesting that you can always do that with different can always do that with different product different agents from different product different agents from different companies. companies. companies. &gt;&gt; You definitely can. &gt;&gt; You definitely can. &gt;&gt; And it makes me feel like there's a &gt;&gt; And it makes me feel like there's a bigger market than people think bigger market than people think potentially where people will want potentially where people will want different companies agents, not just all different companies agents, not just all Devons or not all Codex. Devons or not all Codex. &gt;&gt; I think there really is. It's definitely &gt;&gt; I think there really is. It's definitely not like one one agent to rule them all. not like one one agent to rule them all. So So So &gt;&gt; interesting. &gt;&gt; interesting. &gt;&gt; interesting. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Oh my god. The two people on the Kora &gt;&gt; Oh my god. The two people on the Kora team are what's their background? Are team are what's their background? Are they both engineers or what are they? they both engineers or what are they? &gt;&gt; They're both engineers. Kieran's got &gt;&gt; They're both engineers. Kieran's got this like crazy background where this like crazy background where &gt;&gt; they both have really interesting &gt;&gt; they both have really interesting backgrounds. Karen's got this crazy backgrounds. Karen's got this crazy background where he was previously like background where he was previously like VP and ange at uh at a startup. So like VP and ange at uh at a startup. So like was effectively like the CTO of a of of was effectively like the CTO of a of of a startup or maybe two startups. Um and a startup or maybe two startups. Um and uh and was was one of the founders and uh and was was one of the founders and then but before that he was like a then but before that he was like a composer like a professional composer composer like a professional composer and before that he was a baker. So we and before that he was a baker. So we did like a team retreat in France last did like a team retreat in France last year and he like taught us all how to year and he like taught us all how to make croissants. My croissant was make croissants. My croissant was horrible. His was like beautiful. Um, horrible. His was like beautiful. Um, &gt;&gt; seems that &gt;&gt; seems that &gt;&gt; and generally I think like that kind of &gt;&gt; and generally I think like that kind of multi-dimensional type of talent is the multi-dimensional type of talent is the kind of person that I love having at kind of person that I love having at every like because we're all every like because we're all generalists. We all want to use AI for generalists. We all want to use AI for all these like weird awesome creative all these like weird awesome creative things and someone who has that things and someone who has that background is going to have a good taste background is going to have a good taste for not only agents but what should the for not only agents but what should the landing page look like or whatever which landing page look like or whatever which I think is increasingly important where I think is increasingly important where you're trying to scale a team of you're trying to scale a team of generalists of 15 people to like five generalists of 15 people to like five products. So that's Kieran's background. products. So that's Kieran's background. Natasha's background is I'm jealous Natasha's background is I'm jealous because he only started learning to code because he only started learning to code when Chachu came out. Um he had wanted when Chachu came out. Um he had wanted to learn to code forever and he's only to learn to code forever and he's only known how to code in an AI era. And I known how to code in an AI era. And I keep telling him, dude, like I I learned keep telling him, dude, like I I learned to program in middle school from books. to program in middle school from books. Like I had to go to Barnes &amp; Noble and Like I had to go to Barnes &amp; Noble and like buy a book. And there was nothing I like buy a book. And there was nothing I couldn't Google anything about like how couldn't Google anything about like how this how this why this function wasn't this how this why this function wasn't working. working. working. &gt;&gt; Tag overflow even back then. &gt;&gt; Tag overflow even back then. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. There wasn't tag overflow. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. There wasn't tag overflow. there's like weird BBNet forums and there's like weird BBNet forums and stuff that like I was like 12 and I stuff that like I was like 12 and I probably shouldn't have been on there or probably shouldn't have been on there or whatever. So uh it's he has gone so much whatever. So uh it's he has gone so much faster than any other engineer I think faster than any other engineer I think like in a preAI era and I see the same like in a preAI era and I see the same thing in the rest of the company like I thing in the rest of the company like I think there's this huge question about think there's this huge question about um what happens when kids uh like entry- um what happens when kids uh like entry- level jobs are taken away by AI and my level jobs are taken away by AI and my take is like that that's worth thinking take is like that that's worth thinking about and it's it's possible that that about and it's it's possible that that might be a problem at some point but my might be a problem at some point but my take is whenever I see a kid with CHBT, take is whenever I see a kid with CHBT, I'm like, "Holy they're going to I'm like, "Holy they're going to go so so much faster than any other go so so much faster than any other person that I've worked with, like we person that I've worked with, like we have this guy, Alex Duffy, who works have this guy, Alex Duffy, who works with us. Um, he writes for Context with us. Um, he writes for Context Window and he he just launched um we Window and he he just launched um we taught AIS how to how to play diplomacy taught AIS how to how to play diplomacy with each other. Um, which is really with each other. Um, which is really cool. And he did that whole thing and cool. And he did that whole thing and he's I think he's really really really he's I think he's really really really really talented. And when he came to us really talented. And when he came to us like I guess almost a year ago now it like I guess almost a year ago now it was one of those classic cases which was one of those classic cases which I've seen like over and over at every I've seen like over and over at every which is you have great ideas but you're which is you have great ideas but you're not a good writer yet and it's really not a good writer yet and it's really hard for me to do anything with you hard for me to do anything with you until you're good enough at it. So I until you're good enough at it. So I have to give you like small little have to give you like small little things until you get better and blah things until you get better and blah blah whatever. And what I noticed with blah whatever. And what I noticed with him is he was just making a year like he him is he was just making a year like he made like a year's worth of progress in made like a year's worth of progress in like two months because every time I sat like two months because every time I sat down with him and told him, "Okay, down with him and told him, "Okay, here's how you tell a story. Here's how here's how you tell a story. Here's how you think about a headline." Like he you think about a headline." Like he recorded all of it, put it into a recorded all of it, put it into a prompt, and like he never made the same prompt, and like he never made the same mistake twice. And I think he's so much mistake twice. And I think he's so much accelerated from where he would have accelerated from where he would have been because of this stuff. And I see been because of this stuff. And I see that in lots of other parts of the or that in lots of other parts of the or so. So Natasha is another good example. so. So Natasha is another good example. And so I think generally people are And so I think generally people are going to figure out that like some going to figure out that like some 20-year-old with CHBT subscription is 20-year-old with CHBT subscription is like super powerful if you just like like super powerful if you just like mentor them. And I think that's great. mentor them. And I think that's great. Man, there's so many threads I could Man, there's so many threads I could follow here. Like there's all this fear follow here. Like there's all this fear of entrylevel people will never like the of entrylevel people will never like the roles are disappearing for entry level roles are disappearing for entry level people and so how will we ever have people and so how will we ever have senior people if these people can't senior people if these people can't learn to do things as an entry- level learn to do things as an entry- level person? And what you're saying is chat person? And what you're saying is chat GPT and these tools help you accelerate GPT and these tools help you accelerate really quickly. So you don't really need really quickly. So you don't really need to be at the bottom rung for a long to be at the bottom rung for a long time. time. time. &gt;&gt; Yeah. You're effectively like learning &gt;&gt; Yeah. You're effectively like learning how to be one level above um the entry how to be one level above um the entry level from the beginning. And you have level from the beginning. And you have to and this is sort of my my whole to and this is sort of my my whole allocation economy thesis where when you allocation economy thesis where when you look at what skills are going to be look at what skills are going to be valuable in the AI era. Um one big group valuable in the AI era. Um one big group of skills are the skills of managers. of skills are the skills of managers. Today they're human managers. Tomorrow Today they're human managers. Tomorrow everyone's a model manager. right now um everyone's a model manager. right now um AI um is not like right now management AI um is not like right now management skills are not broadly distributed skills are not broadly distributed because it's very expensive another because it's very expensive another expensive thing that um so 8% of the expensive thing that um so 8% of the workforce is managers it's now going to workforce is managers it's now going to be much cheaper to manage um so more be much cheaper to manage um so more people are going to have to do it and so people are going to have to do it and so that's the thing that um that's the thing that um kids 20-year-olds whatever I see now are kids 20-year-olds whatever I see now are going to start to have to learn in going to start to have to learn in addition to you know they're it's not addition to you know they're it's not like you can just say like, "Okay, go do like you can just say like, "Okay, go do it." And then come back. Like, you have it." And then come back. Like, you have to be able to go into the work that's to be able to go into the work that's being done and help make it better. But being done and help make it better. But they're learning both at the same time. they're learning both at the same time. They're learning how to manage and how They're learning how to manage and how to do the actual work so that they're to do the actual work so that they're they're good at it. they're good at it. &gt;&gt; And the managing here is managing &gt;&gt; And the managing here is managing agents, right? agents, right? agents, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. You're managing AI. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. You're managing AI. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And so this is a good coming back to &gt;&gt; And so this is a good coming back to your point about how this this core team your point about how this this core team and I guess you said everyone every and I guess you said everyone every doesn't write code, zero code written. doesn't write code, zero code written. Now it's just managing agents that are Now it's just managing agents that are writing code for you. writing code for you. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay, I don't I've never heard of a Okay, I don't I've never heard of a company at this stage. So, this is company at this stage. So, this is extremely cool. extremely cool. extremely cool. So, the workflow is they give it here's So, the workflow is they give it here's what I want. I refine it using this cool what I want. I refine it using this cool prompts library that they've that they prompts library that they've that they build on and agents build code, write build on and agents build code, write the code, then basically the time is the code, then basically the time is spent reviewing code and then reviewing spent reviewing code and then reviewing the output. What does it look like? What the output. What does it look like? What does it feel like? And then continuing does it feel like? And then continuing to refine. to refine. to refine. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Wow. So, you guys are at where Michael &gt;&gt; Wow. So, you guys are at where Michael from Cursor said we will be. So we I from Cursor said we will be. So we I chatted with him a few months ago. He chatted with him a few months ago. He said in a year this is where he thinks said in a year this is where he thinks thing will be. We're we're not looking thing will be. We're we're not looking at code anymore. You guys are already at code anymore. You guys are already there. Although you're looking at code. there. Although you're looking at code. Okay. You're still looking at code. Okay. You're still looking at code. &gt;&gt; They they definitely are looking at &gt;&gt; They they definitely are looking at code. Um so you know you're doing a code code. Um so you know you're doing a code review before you anything. Um and I do review before you anything. Um and I do think like Danny who runs spiral which think like Danny who runs spiral which is the uh cloud code for content tool I is the uh cloud code for content tool I was talking about that we're building. was talking about that we're building. &gt;&gt; You know he spent a couple of days like &gt;&gt; You know he spent a couple of days like digging into the internals of some third digging into the internals of some third party library that we were interested party library that we were interested in. um just because it's like it's in. um just because it's like it's helpful to know. It's helpful to like helpful to know. It's helpful to like understand those things, but then he's understand those things, but then he's not actually like writing any code once not actually like writing any code once he understands it. He's just like off he understands it. He's just like off telling Cloud Code what to do. And I telling Cloud Code what to do. And I think that's um I think that's that's think that's um I think that's that's really that's really important. This is really that's really important. This is an insane milestone we're hitting here. an insane milestone we're hitting here. Like there's this, you know, sense we're Like there's this, you know, sense we're getting to a place where you don't need getting to a place where you don't need to really understand code. You don't to really understand code. You don't have to write any code. Like we'll get have to write any code. Like we'll get there and like you guys are there. I there and like you guys are there. I think this is like so easy to overlook think this is like so easy to overlook how wild this is. You have a product how wild this is. You have a product team not writing code at all. team not writing code at all. &gt;&gt; It is really wild. I think it's really &gt;&gt; It is really wild. I think it's really wild in particular just like having a wild in particular just like having a small group of people that have small group of people that have everyone's multi-dimensional, everyone everyone's multi-dimensional, everyone like has all these different skills. like has all these different skills. Everyone's a generalist. Um everyone's Everyone's a generalist. Um everyone's AI forward. So what you can do in an AI forward. So what you can do in an environment like that with a just still environment like that with a just still a small team is crazy. And you're kind a small team is crazy. And you're kind of inventing all these new principles of inventing all these new principles for like how do we work together, how do for like how do we work together, how do we do engineering, all that kind of we do engineering, all that kind of stuff. Um, and I think that's what makes stuff. Um, and I think that's what makes the writing like that that's why I like the writing like that that's why I like doing that is because the writing that doing that is because the writing that we do from that I think is really good we do from that I think is really good because we can talk about it from a from because we can talk about it from a from a sort of position of experience. Um, a sort of position of experience. Um, and but I do want to say something else and but I do want to say something else which is we're not at a point yet where which is we're not at a point yet where the people that work at every could do the people that work at every could do what they do if they didn't know how to what they do if they didn't know how to code. code. code. &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is what I was going to ask. &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is what I was going to ask. which is a a different bar and I think which is a a different bar and I think for a long time it's going to be for a long time it's going to be valuable to know how to code for a long valuable to know how to code for a long time. Um but this has been this is this time. Um but this has been this is this is like a a progression that is not a is like a a progression that is not a new progression. So for example new progression. So for example when I was in middle school learning to when I was in middle school learning to code the the new hot thing was scripting code the the new hot thing was scripting languages which is like Python and languages which is like Python and JavaScript. And if you were but if you JavaScript. And if you were but if you were a real programmer, you would were a real programmer, you would understand the language underlying understand the language underlying Python and JavaScript which was which is Python and JavaScript which was which is that's written in C. Um and scripting that's written in C. Um and scripting languages like weren't like weren't languages like weren't like weren't totally real. And in order to like totally real. And in order to like really do anything interesting, you had really do anything interesting, you had to be be able to learn both parts of the to be be able to learn both parts of the stack. Same thing for C programmers. Um stack. Same thing for C programmers. Um when I guess in the 70s C was invented, when I guess in the 70s C was invented, it was like you got to learn you got to it was like you got to learn you got to be able to write assembly. be able to write assembly. Um and English is just like a layer on Um and English is just like a layer on top of scripting languages. So, I think top of scripting languages. So, I think all those all of those things were right all those all of those things were right in the sense that there's um especially in the sense that there's um especially during transitions, there's a lot of during transitions, there's a lot of reasons why it's important to be able to reasons why it's important to be able to go down a layer in the stack. And it go down a layer in the stack. And it gets less and less frequent over time, gets less and less frequent over time, but that still takes a long time. And but that still takes a long time. And there's sometimes when even if you're a there's sometimes when even if you're a JavaScript or Python programmer, it's JavaScript or Python programmer, it's useful to know like how how all that how useful to know like how how all that how that stuff works, how it's written, and that stuff works, how it's written, and see how it's how it's implemented. It's see how it's how it's implemented. It's today it's much less important than it today it's much less important than it used to be, but that took like 10 or 20 used to be, but that took like 10 or 20 years. And I think that's the same thing years. And I think that's the same thing is going to be true for programming. is going to be true for programming. Like having that skill is super Like having that skill is super important and will accelerate you important and will accelerate you significantly. It will sort of start to significantly. It will sort of start to get less important over time, but we're get less important over time, but we're not close to that yet. not close to that yet. &gt;&gt; Okay, that's a really important point. &gt;&gt; Okay, that's a really important point. I'm glad you went there. So, do you have I'm glad you went there. So, do you have a sense of how far we might be from you a sense of how far we might be from you hiring someone to build another product hiring someone to build another product that isn't an engineer, that isn't an engineer, &gt;&gt; like a real SAS product? Because &gt;&gt; like a real SAS product? Because &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, like, hey, we have this idea. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, like, hey, we have this idea. We want to bring someone on to actually We want to bring someone on to actually lead it lead it lead it &gt;&gt; very far. like not even not within &gt;&gt; very far. like not even not within sight. But there's a lot of things that sight. But there's a lot of things that could be products that are a layer a could be products that are a layer a level down from that that I think that level down from that that I think that you could do almost now. So like an you could do almost now. So like an example um we were talking about DIA um example um we were talking about DIA um the browser uh from the the new AI the browser uh from the the new AI browser from the browser company. Dia browser from the browser company. Dia has these things called skills um which has these things called skills um which are effectively like little you know AI are effectively like little you know AI apps that you can run in the browser. apps that you can run in the browser. You can prompt them and and they run on You can prompt them and and they run on the web page and do work for you. a the web page and do work for you. a nontechnical person could build that. nontechnical person could build that. Same thing for like um custom GBTs from Same thing for like um custom GBTs from chat GBT. Um the non techchnical person chat GBT. Um the non techchnical person can definitely build that. So I think can definitely build that. So I think while I will I will definitely maintain while I will I will definitely maintain that we're not anywhere close to anybody that we're not anywhere close to anybody being able to like build a conventional being able to like build a conventional SAS app with zero programming knowledge SAS app with zero programming knowledge aside from just like a demo. There are aside from just like a demo. There are going to be other forms of software. Um going to be other forms of software. Um one of my things is like software is one of my things is like software is becoming content. There's going to be becoming content. There's going to be other forms of software that don't look other forms of software that don't look like the software of today, but you can like the software of today, but you can run start and run as a business as a run start and run as a business as a nontechnical person even if you don't nontechnical person even if you don't know how to code and that'll happen very know how to code and that'll happen very soon if I mean it's already kind of soon if I mean it's already kind of happening. It's just it doesn't look happening. It's just it doesn't look like the thing that you're asking about. like the thing that you're asking about. It's like it's sort of like the It's like it's sort of like the difference between a Hollywood movie and difference between a Hollywood movie and like a YouTube video. like a YouTube video. &gt;&gt; Okay. I think that's really reassuring &gt;&gt; Okay. I think that's really reassuring to a lot of people. Basically, what to a lot of people. Basically, what you're seeing is AI just supercharges you're seeing is AI just supercharges people who have a skill and allows them people who have a skill and allows them to do a lot more. to do a lot more. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. Is there any other way that you &gt;&gt; Okay. Is there any other way that you guys operate that is really interesting guys operate that is really interesting that might be worth sharing that helps that might be worth sharing that helps you operate really quickly, helps you do you operate really quickly, helps you do more with less? more with less? &gt;&gt; I I mean I I would love to talk about &gt;&gt; I I mean I I would love to talk about our like how we think about building our like how we think about building products. Um like what products to build products. Um like what products to build like what do we end up building because like what do we end up building because I think that there's something I think that there's something &gt;&gt; sort of special about it that &gt;&gt; sort of special about it that &gt;&gt; probably there's a playbook that is &gt;&gt; probably there's a playbook that is useful for people. useful for people. &gt;&gt; So when I think about this is this has &gt;&gt; So when I think about this is this has only sort of snapped into focus only sort of snapped into focus recently. So a lot of this was just like recently. So a lot of this was just like doing it intuitively without really a doing it intuitively without really a thought for it. But when I think about thought for it. But when I think about the kind of things that we have ended up the kind of things that we have ended up incubating, it's basically it goes back incubating, it's basically it goes back to something I said at the beginning to something I said at the beginning which is there are these things that which is there are these things that were historically really expensive um were historically really expensive um that only rich people or big companies that only rich people or big companies could buy. So a chief of staff for your could buy. So a chief of staff for your email. Um I a chief of staff for your email. Um I think a therapist or like a lawyer is think a therapist or like a lawyer is another interesting example. um uh another interesting example. um uh someone to like organize your closet or someone to like organize your closet or organize your organize your computer is organize your organize your computer is another example, someone to ghostrite another example, someone to ghostrite for you. Um that are uh becoming orders for you. Um that are uh becoming orders of magnitude cheaper so that everyone of magnitude cheaper so that everyone can use them even if you're at a small can use them even if you're at a small startup. Um and so basically like when startup. Um and so basically like when you're running like we are sort of this you're running like we are sort of this AI first company, AI first company, you're running into these all these you're running into these all these little things where you're like I wish I little things where you're like I wish I had a ghostriter right now. But ghost had a ghostriter right now. But ghost writers are really expensive. Or I wish writers are really expensive. Or I wish I had a lawyer, but it wouldn't cost me I had a lawyer, but it wouldn't cost me like $25,000. Lawyers are really like $25,000. Lawyers are really expensive and and there's a lot more expensive and and there's a lot more demand for those services than can be demand for those services than can be fulfilled because they're so expensive. fulfilled because they're so expensive. And what AI does is it allows you to be And what AI does is it allows you to be like, "Oh, I could just use cloud for like, "Oh, I could just use cloud for that. I can use CHBT for that." Um, and that. I can use CHBT for that." Um, and so you're so you're so you're uh you're able to you're able to use the uh you're able to use the the demand that you have that like we the demand that you have that like we can we can afford a lawyer. we have can we can afford a lawyer. we have ghost writers, but like there's a lot ghost writers, but like there's a lot more that we can't do because we can't more that we can't do because we can't afford it. So, we still have our lawyer afford it. So, we still have our lawyer and we still have our ghost writers, but and we still have our ghost writers, but we just do a lot more of that stuff. Um, we just do a lot more of that stuff. Um, and um, so we notice that we start to and um, so we notice that we start to then use like CHBT and Claude first, then use like CHBT and Claude first, these general purpose tools to try it these general purpose tools to try it and see is this useful? Does this and see is this useful? Does this actually work? All that kind of stuff. actually work? All that kind of stuff. And then if it does, we will like And then if it does, we will like unbundle it into its own separate thing unbundle it into its own separate thing that um becomes an app. And and I think that um becomes an app. And and I think what's really special about this time is what's really special about this time is the entire game board has been like the entire game board has been like totally reset in terms of things you can totally reset in terms of things you can build where you know 5 years ago it was build where you know 5 years ago it was like you're going to build another notes like you're going to build another notes app like we've been building notes app app like we've been building notes app for forever like another B2B SAS app for forever like another B2B SAS app like it's all the same stuff like like it's all the same stuff like slightly different packaging and now slightly different packaging and now it's like totally new territory no one it's like totally new territory no one knows what's going on no like everyone's knows what's going on no like everyone's inventing it as as as it happens right inventing it as as as it happens right all these new workflows are being all these new workflows are being created in a very similar similar way to created in a very similar similar way to I don't know for example when I don't know for example when spreadsheets were first a thing on spreadsheets were first a thing on computers like we were figuring out all computers like we were figuring out all these new workflows on spreadsheets they these new workflows on spreadsheets they got unbundled into B2B SAS same thing got unbundled into B2B SAS same thing for CHT and cloud for CHT and cloud um and what's really cool is you can be um and what's really cool is you can be like cool I'm using I'm using CHG for like cool I'm using I'm using CHG for this it's really useful for me and you this it's really useful for me and you might be like one of the first people to might be like one of the first people to like really notice that um and then like really notice that um and then because everybody that works at every is because everybody that works at every is AI first and came to us because they AI first and came to us because they reads every they read every so they all reads every they read every so they all have the we all have the same vibe and have the we all have the same vibe and we're all kind of doing similar stuff. we're all kind of doing similar stuff. They become our first our first users. They become our first our first users. So, we measure the success of the So, we measure the success of the product by like is it a banger inside of product by like is it a banger inside of every um like monologue the the the app every um like monologue the the the app that I was talking to you about like that I was talking to you about like everyone just started using it and we're everyone just started using it and we're like okay we've got something here. Um like okay we've got something here. Um and what's what's really interesting and what's what's really interesting then is if everyone inside of every uses then is if everyone inside of every uses it and people read every they have a it and people read every they have a similar vibe to us too. So they become similar vibe to us too. So they become the next set of users. And that's a the next set of users. And that's a really I think interesting like pipeline really I think interesting like pipeline for building applications or building for building applications or building apps. It's a totally new like green apps. It's a totally new like green field so that all the stuff you're field so that all the stuff you're thinking about like it's probably new thinking about like it's probably new which is really cool. And over time what which is really cool. And over time what I think is organizations like ours I think is organizations like ours people who are playing at the edge we're people who are playing at the edge we're doing things that in like 3 years doing things that in like 3 years everybody else is going to be doing. So everybody else is going to be doing. So it may be kind of niche for now but it it may be kind of niche for now but it will be a big deal in 3 years when will be a big deal in 3 years when everyone else has the same needs that we everyone else has the same needs that we do. That is really cool. Uh what I'm do. That is really cool. Uh what I'm hearing is GPT rappers are a good idea hearing is GPT rappers are a good idea and are worth building. and are worth building. &gt;&gt; I I 100% think GPT rappers are amazing &gt;&gt; I I 100% think GPT rappers are amazing and they've been much maligned for and they've been much maligned for absolutely no reason and um people don't absolutely no reason and um people don't understand how absolutely valuable they understand how absolutely valuable they are. are. are. &gt;&gt; I think there's also just uh you guys &gt;&gt; I think there's also just uh you guys are you raised the sip seed round. Uh I are you raised the sip seed round. Uh I want to so this is a good time to maybe want to so this is a good time to maybe talk about that just like these products talk about that just like these products don't have to become some mega billion don't have to become some mega billion dollar hit. Yeah, dollar hit. Yeah, &gt;&gt; you kind of have this portfolio of &gt;&gt; you kind of have this portfolio of companies, you have the content companies, you have the content business. So, I think there's a really business. So, I think there's a really interesting approach to the how big interesting approach to the how big these need to get to be successful. these need to get to be successful. Maybe just talk about that. Maybe just talk about that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I really want every to be an &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I really want every to be an institution um that teaches people um institution um that teaches people um how to live a better, more human life how to live a better, more human life with technology, particularly with AI, with technology, particularly with AI, and both like teaches them how to do it and both like teaches them how to do it with writing um and the content we make with writing um and the content we make and then builds tools for them to do and then builds tools for them to do that. And um but I think fundamental to that. And um but I think fundamental to building an institution is at least for building an institution is at least for me the way I would like to do it is um I me the way I would like to do it is um I want internally it to feel like this want internally it to feel like this creative playground where we have the creative playground where we have the opportunity to like take risk and do opportunity to like take risk and do stuff and do weird stuff that like just stuff and do weird stuff that like just doesn't make any sense. We can't justify doesn't make any sense. We can't justify anyone but we just feel like it would be anyone but we just feel like it would be fun. Um and so I think I'm always fun. Um and so I think I'm always playing with that dynamic tension playing with that dynamic tension between institution serious. We want between institution serious. We want this to be like lasting and important this to be like lasting and important and it should just be fun. Like let's and it should just be fun. Like let's play around. And I think having that play around. And I think having that tension is like really valuable. And so tension is like really valuable. And so I've always been like sort of hesitant I've always been like sort of hesitant to raise a lot of money because I think to raise a lot of money because I think it locks like locks you into like having it locks like locks you into like having to be that serious thing that's like to be that serious thing that's like totally going for it. And there's lots totally going for it. And there's lots of companies that figure out that of companies that figure out that balance, but just for me like personally balance, but just for me like personally as a founder, I'm like I want to keep as a founder, I'm like I want to keep the optionality alive and I want to keep the optionality alive and I want to keep the kind of playful feeling alive. And I the kind of playful feeling alive. And I think part of that comes from I know think part of that comes from I know like I have the control to do what I like I have the control to do what I want more or less. Um there's probably want more or less. Um there's probably also some like deeper psychological also some like deeper psychological things going on there which I'm happy to things going on there which I'm happy to talk about if you want to get into it. talk about if you want to get into it. Um but you know I think there's also Um but you know I think there's also just that that's that's kind of what I just that that's that's kind of what I want. And so when we started every we want. And so when we started every we raised like a very small 700k preede raised like a very small 700k preede round and this was at the the height of round and this was at the the height of the creator economy. So we both we both the creator economy. So we both we both started our newsletters. You and I started our newsletters. You and I started our newsletters around the same started our newsletters around the same time. It was like the hypiest, craziest time. It was like the hypiest, craziest thing. People were throwing money thing. People were throwing money around. It was like wild. Um, so but we around. It was like wild. Um, so but we raised 700k because it was like, I want raised 700k because it was like, I want to raise enough for us to be able to to raise enough for us to be able to experiment, have a little cash cushion, experiment, have a little cash cushion, but not so much that it locks us into but not so much that it locks us into anything. And we like sent an email to anything. And we like sent an email to all of our investors being like, and all of our investors being like, and you're one of our investors, so you've you're one of our investors, so you've probably got this email. probably got this email. &gt;&gt; Tiniest tiny investor, but I'm I'm in &gt;&gt; Tiniest tiny investor, but I'm I'm in there. there. I'm in there. &gt;&gt; Uh, we sent an email to everyone being &gt;&gt; Uh, we sent an email to everyone being like, "This is probably not a venture like, "This is probably not a venture business, so you should not expect us to business, so you should not expect us to raise again." And we even raised on this raise again." And we even raised on this slightly modified safe that gave slightly modified safe that gave everyone the option to convert to equity everyone the option to convert to equity in three years even if we didn't raise in three years even if we didn't raise more money. Um so we we did it in a way more money. Um so we we did it in a way that allowed us the option to get really that allowed us the option to get really big and do the traditional thing and big and do the traditional thing and also the option to do the do it the way also the option to do the do it the way we want to do it. Um maybe it's not a we want to do it. Um maybe it's not a huge business but we love it. That's huge business but we love it. That's great. Um, and we did the same thing for great. Um, and we did the same thing for this recent round where we raised up to this recent round where we raised up to 2 million from Reed Hoffman and um, 2 million from Reed Hoffman and um, Starting Line VC. And we did it as what Starting Line VC. And we did it as what I've been calling a SIP seed round, I've been calling a SIP seed round, which is basically they've committed $2 which is basically they've committed $2 million, but we can pull it down million, but we can pull it down whenever we want. And it's we just do it whenever we want. And it's we just do it on a safe at a set cap. Um, and for me on a safe at a set cap. Um, and for me that was that's really helpful because that was that's really helpful because it allows me psychologically to take a it allows me psychologically to take a lot more risk. like I don't if we go to lot more risk. like I don't if we go to zero on the bank account I can get more zero on the bank account I can get more money great I don't have to think about money great I don't have to think about it but what's also really helpful is I'm it but what's also really helpful is I'm not and the rest of the team is not not and the rest of the team is not staring at a gigantic number in the bank staring at a gigantic number in the bank account being like cool like we can burn account being like cool like we can burn this let's burn it um and also for our this let's burn it um and also for our investors like investors like investors like I I think Reed very much wants us to I I think Reed very much wants us to succeed but like I don't think he he succeed but like I don't think he he cares like what what size of business cares like what what size of business this is like I think he's more this is like I think he's more philosophically aligned with the thing philosophically aligned with the thing that we're trying to do and if it that we're trying to do and if it becomes a huge business, he's psyched becomes a huge business, he's psyched for it. Um, and I think that kind of for it. Um, and I think that kind of alignment is what I was looking for alignment is what I was looking for because I think there's this core because I think there's this core creative spirit to the thing that I want creative spirit to the thing that I want to maintain and I really care about to maintain and I really care about having um a big impact, but I think having um a big impact, but I think there's a lot of ways to have an impact there's a lot of ways to have an impact and one of them is building a $10 and one of them is building a $10 billion business. I think um another way billion business. I think um another way is like really changing how people see is like really changing how people see the world, see themselves in the world. the world, see themselves in the world. And I think that's what stories do. And And I think that's what stories do. And um you you don't necessarily sometimes um you you don't necessarily sometimes you do that by building a gigant you do that by building a gigant gigantic company, but you don't gigantic company, but you don't necessarily always have to do that. Like necessarily always have to do that. Like a lot of the stories that we care about a lot of the stories that we care about most are from people who maybe they most are from people who maybe they maybe they weren't rich at all. Um and maybe they weren't rich at all. Um and so I really like creating this place so I really like creating this place where we can make a really good business where we can make a really good business and I care a lot about that, but also and I care a lot about that, but also the the core of the soul of it is um the the core of the soul of it is um changing about changing how people see changing about changing how people see themselves in the world. I love that themselves in the world. I love that you've kind of uh innovated a new like a you've kind of uh innovated a new like a middle ground way of fundraising, not middle ground way of fundraising, not bootstrap and not just regular VC. It's bootstrap and not just regular VC. It's a six seed. a six seed. &gt;&gt; And I love that this two mill like you &gt;&gt; And I love that this two mill like you know if I raise 50 million it'd be like know if I raise 50 million it'd be like okay I get it. Let's not put 50 million okay I get it. Let's not put 50 million in our bank account. But you do that in our bank account. But you do that with 2 million. with 2 million. &gt;&gt; It's too much for us. We can't we don't &gt;&gt; It's too much for us. We can't we don't want to see that in our account. want to see that in our account. &gt;&gt; That's another thing and you know we'll &gt;&gt; That's another thing and you know we'll see how this ages. Like I might be back see how this ages. Like I might be back here in two years crying the blues here in two years crying the blues because like we didn't raise enough because like we didn't raise enough money or whatever. Who knows? Um but money or whatever. Who knows? Um but that's the other thing is I do think we that's the other thing is I do think we can get so much further with with very can get so much further with with very small amounts of money like Kora I think small amounts of money like Kora I think all in to build Kora we've spent maybe all in to build Kora we've spent maybe 300k maybe that's crazy because 300k maybe that's crazy because &gt;&gt; includes salaries. Yeah. &gt;&gt; includes salaries. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; This product &gt;&gt; This product &gt;&gt; um was not even technically possible &gt;&gt; um was not even technically possible even if you had billions of dollars like even if you had billions of dollars like three years ago. not possible because three years ago. not possible because you can't do email summarizing and like you can't do email summarizing and like automatic responses and all that kind of automatic responses and all that kind of stuff without GBT. So, not only was it stuff without GBT. So, not only was it totally impossible, but now we can get totally impossible, but now we can get with two engineers like we can get, you with two engineers like we can get, you know, the the amount done that would know, the the amount done that would would have taken a team of like 20 would have taken a team of like 20 people. people. people. And I think that's, you know, that means And I think that's, you know, that means that we need less money. And I don't that we need less money. And I don't think that VC has really caught up to think that VC has really caught up to that. that. that. yet. Um, and I think there are other yet. Um, and I think there are other companies that are doing there's like a companies that are doing there's like a term called like seedstropping. So, term called like seedstropping. So, there are other companies that are like there are other companies that are like kind of starting to wake up to this too. kind of starting to wake up to this too. And I'm curious about how it changes the And I'm curious about how it changes the VC model for sure. For us, like we have VC model for sure. For us, like we have a specific like incubation model, which a specific like incubation model, which is a bit different from from a VC model. is a bit different from from a VC model. And I think um there's some And I think um there's some differentiation in the stuff that that differentiation in the stuff that that we can do with founders, which is kind we can do with founders, which is kind of cool. But um yeah, we're we're I'm of cool. But um yeah, we're we're I'm just trying to figure out like just trying to figure out like a shape that works for me and that's a shape that works for me and that's different from other people and we'll different from other people and we'll see how this goes. see how this goes. &gt;&gt; We'll revisit in a couple years. &gt;&gt; We'll revisit in a couple years. &gt;&gt; Yeah, seems like it's going great from &gt;&gt; Yeah, seems like it's going great from the outside. I want to ask about a the outside. I want to ask about a couple other things before we wrap up. couple other things before we wrap up. One is around this consulting arm that One is around this consulting arm that you have. I think it's really you have. I think it's really interesting because like I said, I feel interesting because like I said, I feel like this could be a billion dollar like this could be a billion dollar business. I feel like every company business. I feel like every company right now is trying to figure out what right now is trying to figure out what the hell what the hell's everyone else the hell what the hell's everyone else figured out that we're not doing. Uh figured out that we're not doing. Uh I've had so many emails from chief I've had so many emails from chief product officers at companies being like product officers at companies being like can you introduce me to some chief can you introduce me to some chief product officers that have done cool product officers that have done cool things with AI that we should learn from things with AI that we should learn from like so many people all and I just like so many people all and I just introduce them to each other and it's introduce them to each other and it's cool because you guys are basically cool because you guys are basically solving that problem for a lot of solving that problem for a lot of companies. So uh one is just maybe share companies. So uh one is just maybe share a bit about what that side of the a bit about what that side of the business for folks and then two I feel business for folks and then two I feel like you I imagine you've seen companies like you I imagine you've seen companies that have done this really well have that have done this really well have adopted AI things have worked really adopted AI things have worked really well they found really good productivity well they found really good productivity gains and then you found companies that gains and then you found companies that don't what do you find is the difference don't what do you find is the difference between those two I love this question between those two I love this question um and I have a very specific opinion um and I have a very specific opinion about this um so one yeah the consulting about this um so one yeah the consulting arm basically like we spend all of our arm basically like we spend all of our time playing around with new models time playing around with new models writing about them and building stuff writing about them and building stuff with them and we have a big audience So with them and we have a big audience So naturally like we've gotten companies naturally like we've gotten companies over time being like can you just come over time being like can you just come and teach us how to do this and so we and teach us how to do this and so we started to do that. This is you know started to do that. This is you know pretty nent. It's probably been over the pretty nent. It's probably been over the last like 6 to9 months but like it's a last like 6 to9 months but like it's a pretty big business now. Um like it's pretty big business now. Um like it's our it's it'll probably double this our it's it'll probably double this year. Like last year we did about a year. Like last year we did about a million. Um maybe it'll be maybe it'll million. Um maybe it'll be more this year. We'll see. It depends be more this year. We'll see. It depends on a couple we have a couple big on a couple we have a couple big contracts out so it might be way more contracts out so it might be way more than that. Um than that. Um &gt;&gt; billion. I I predict a billion dollars &gt;&gt; billion. I I predict a billion dollars in a few years. But yeah, basically in a few years. But yeah, basically people are like, can you come help us people are like, can you come help us learn how to do this? So what we do is learn how to do this? So what we do is um we spend some time going and um we spend some time going and researching your organization. So we go researching your organization. So we go in and try to understand like what is in and try to understand like what is what are all the different teams doing? what are all the different teams doing? What are the repetitive tasks? Some of What are the repetitive tasks? Some of like some of the stuff we were talking like some of the stuff we were talking about earlier. Um and then what we will about earlier. Um and then what we will do is uh first we present a little do is uh first we present a little report tells you like here's everything report tells you like here's everything that we found. Here's um not only that, that we found. Here's um not only that, but you have a chatbot where you can but you have a chatbot where you can chat with all the interviews that we did chat with all the interviews that we did and you can pull out your own insights. and you can pull out your own insights. We have a whole dashboard where it shows We have a whole dashboard where it shows you like here's here are the teams that you like here's here are the teams that are really into this. Here are the teams are really into this. Here are the teams that are not. Here's like how much um uh that are not. Here's like how much um uh how much leverage you might be able to how much leverage you might be able to get on different teams based on the get on different teams based on the interviews and based on the AI analysis. interviews and based on the AI analysis. It's pretty cool. Um and this is like It's pretty cool. Um and this is like that's an app that I like vibe coded that's an app that I like vibe coded like over a weekend with Devon like a like over a weekend with Devon like a year ago and then um Alex runs the part year ago and then um Alex runs the part of the consulting like has helped of the consulting like has helped upgrade it. Um uh then what we do is we upgrade it. Um uh then what we do is we have a training curriculum. So we go in have a training curriculum. So we go in and train each team that and we and train each team that and we customize it based on um the interviews customize it based on um the interviews that we do because one of the that we do because one of the interesting things about AI is it's such interesting things about AI is it's such a general purpose technology and I think a general purpose technology and I think people who work inside companies 10% of people who work inside companies 10% of them are like I'm super curious about them are like I'm super curious about this. 10% are like I will never touch this. 10% are like I will never touch this and 80% are like if you tell me how this and 80% are like if you tell me how to do it for my job I'll do it. And so to do it for my job I'll do it. And so we customize the training to be like we customize the training to be like here are the exact prompts you're going here are the exact prompts you're going to use um and here's the exact to use um and here's the exact situations you're going to use them. And situations you're going to use them. And that really I think helps drive the that really I think helps drive the adoption. We spend four weeks with each adoption. We spend four weeks with each team, an hour a week, that kind of team, an hour a week, that kind of thing. Um it seems to be really cool and thing. Um it seems to be really cool and then we'll often also after this go and then we'll often also after this go and build automations and do some of the AI build automations and do some of the AI operations stuff we were talking about operations stuff we were talking about earlier. Companies really like it. Um I earlier. Companies really like it. Um I think the we work with a lot of like big think the we work with a lot of like big hedge funds and PE firms and um big hedge funds and PE firms and um big companies all that kind of stuff. Um to companies all that kind of stuff. Um to your other to your your second question your other to your your second question which is like what separates the good which is like what separates the good companies from the bad or the companies companies from the bad or the companies that end up adop adopting this. I think that end up adop adopting this. I think the the number one predictor is does the the the number one predictor is does the CEO use CHBT CEO use CHBT or insert your own chatbot. If the CEO or insert your own chatbot. If the CEO is in it all the time being like this is is in it all the time being like this is the coolest thing everybody else is the coolest thing everybody else is going to start doing it. If the CEO is going to start doing it. If the CEO is like, I don't know, this is for someone like, I don't know, this is for someone else. Like, no one else is going to be else. Like, no one else is going to be able to lead that charge. Um, and able to lead that charge. Um, and they're either going to have uh either they're either going to have uh either they're going to be negative on it and they're going to be negative on it and so definitely no one's going to do it or so definitely no one's going to do it or they're going to have way unrealistic they're going to have way unrealistic expectations expectations expectations because they have no intuition for because they have no intuition for what's possible and they're just going what's possible and they're just going to get really disappointed. But the CEOs to get really disappointed. But the CEOs that are using it all the time are able that are using it all the time are able to like both drive the excitement and to like both drive the excitement and set reasonable expectations for what can set reasonable expectations for what can be achieved. And so those things end up be achieved. And so those things end up working really well. And the people that working really well. And the people that do this really well. So for example, we do this really well. So for example, we um we work with a hedge fund called um we work with a hedge fund called Walleye, which I had the founder on my Walleye, which I had the founder on my podcast AI and I um a few weeks ago. podcast AI and I um a few weeks ago. They're gigantic $10 billion hedge fund. They're gigantic $10 billion hedge fund. Like one of the things that they do, Like one of the things that they do, which I think is I think they're which I think is I think they're basically the model for like how to do basically the model for like how to do this. this. this. First thing he did, which a lot of CEOs First thing he did, which a lot of CEOs are doing, is send the we're an AI first are doing, is send the we're an AI first company email. Everyone's got the memo. company email. Everyone's got the memo. You just got to really do it. And one of You just got to really do it. And one of the things he said in his memo, which I the things he said in his memo, which I love, is I wrote this I wrote this email love, is I wrote this email with ChetT and you should too. So like with ChetT and you should too. So like you got to like you got to like &gt;&gt; in the memo &gt;&gt; in the memo &gt;&gt; you got to like lead from the front in &gt;&gt; you got to like lead from the front in that way. And then what he does and I that way. And then what he does and I think what a lot of other like really think what a lot of other like really cool companies do is they're doing like cool companies do is they're doing like weekly uh meetings where people share weekly uh meetings where people share prompts and share use cases. They're prompts and share use cases. They're doing um they do like a weekly email to doing um they do like a weekly email to their entire company being like, "Okay, their entire company being like, "Okay, here's our here's our usage. Here are here's our here's our usage. Here are our usage stats for CatchBT. Here are our usage stats for CatchBT. Here are the here are the people that like um the here are the people that like um uh here are the people that came up with uh here are the people that came up with a new prompt and contributed to it." a new prompt and contributed to it." Like create this this sort of like Like create this this sort of like awareness and momentum because what's awareness and momentum because what's going back to the point I made earlier going back to the point I made earlier about you know 10% of people are early about you know 10% of people are early adopters. Those are the people inside of adopters. Those are the people inside of a company that you need to find and a company that you need to find and highlight because they're going to just highlight because they're going to just go spend all this time like figuring out go spend all this time like figuring out what works and then all you have to do what works and then all you have to do is like translate what they learn into is like translate what they learn into the rest of the organization. And so if the rest of the organization. And so if you create forums for them to be you create forums for them to be rewarded, you're going to automatically rewarded, you're going to automatically transfer a lot of their learnings to transfer a lot of their learnings to everybody else and encourage more of it. everybody else and encourage more of it. And I think that's kind of this the And I think that's kind of this the secret. secret. secret. &gt;&gt; That is awesome. I love this advice. So, &gt;&gt; That is awesome. I love this advice. So, just to reflect back what you just just to reflect back what you just shared, a few kind of uh tactics you shared, a few kind of uh tactics you find that you encourage within find that you encourage within companies. One is just send send this companies. One is just send send this memo, the Toby memo. I don't know if memo, the Toby memo. I don't know if that's the right way to describe it, who that's the right way to describe it, who I think was first along these lines. I think was first along these lines. Just we're AI first. It's going to be Just we're AI first. It's going to be part of your performance review. It's part of your performance review. It's going to be asking can you do it in AI going to be asking can you do it in AI before you could you talk to anyone before you could you talk to anyone else? All these things and then just else? All these things and then just note I help I wrote this using chat note I help I wrote this using chat JBTs. It's a great idea. Uh this idea of JBTs. It's a great idea. Uh this idea of a weekly meeting. So, it's like a live a weekly meeting. So, it's like a live or Zoom meeting where people share, or Zoom meeting where people share, here's the thing I've learned about here's the thing I've learned about using AI. Uh, and then this weekly stats using AI. Uh, and then this weekly stats email of here's how much we're using email of here's how much we're using Chatbt across the or here's some people Chatbt across the or here's some people that did some awesome work. that did some awesome work. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; amazing. And I especially love this very &gt;&gt; amazing. And I especially love this very simple heristic of if your CEO uses simple heristic of if your CEO uses chatbt or cloud or whatever daily that chatbt or cloud or whatever daily that you it's going to work out. you it's going to work out. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; that is super cool. Uh, I know it's &gt;&gt; that is super cool. Uh, I know it's early, but what kind of impact have you early, but what kind of impact have you seen from a company kind of leaning into seen from a company kind of leaning into this and adopting AI widely? Any this and adopting AI widely? Any anything you've seen either anecdotally anything you've seen either anecdotally or numbers wise? or numbers wise? &gt;&gt; It's early. It's really hard to say &gt;&gt; It's early. It's really hard to say other than um I think generally other than um I think generally people who do this well now feel like people who do this well now feel like they can do way more work than they used they can do way more work than they used to without having to hire more people. to without having to hire more people. Um, and so they're they're just they're Um, and so they're they're just they're just going further faster um at the same just going further faster um at the same budget. I actually don't see, you know, budget. I actually don't see, you know, I don't see a lot of people being like, I don't see a lot of people being like, "Cool, we're going to like fire a bunch "Cool, we're going to like fire a bunch of people." Like, also, I don't really of people." Like, also, I don't really want to do consulting like that. Like, want to do consulting like that. Like, that sucks. Um, but we've never had to that sucks. Um, but we've never had to say no. Um, mostly people are like, say no. Um, mostly people are like, "Cool, I'm just going to go further with "Cool, I'm just going to go further with the with the people that I um that I the with the people that I um that I have." I think also back to kind of the have." I think also back to kind of the first point I made about reassuring first point I made about reassuring American jobs. Um, I have seen some American jobs. Um, I have seen some companies, not the ones that we worked companies, not the ones that we worked with, but I have seen some companies of with, but I have seen some companies of people that I'm friends with where people that I'm friends with where they're like, "We have a call center they're like, "We have a call center somewhere." Um, but I think I can get somewhere." Um, but I think I can get the same amount done with like two the same amount done with like two employees in the US that have that use employees in the US that have that use like one of these, you know, customer like one of these, you know, customer service platforms. Like they're still service platforms. Like they're still not totally automatic. Like I think that not totally automatic. Like I think that Clara CEO thing that was Um Clara CEO thing that was Um uh but yeah, you can have a couple uh but yeah, you can have a couple people in the US that maybe uh maybe you people in the US that maybe uh maybe you pay a little bit less to than you would pay a little bit less to than you would for like 100 people somewhere else. And for like 100 people somewhere else. And obviously, you know, those are that's a obviously, you know, those are that's a calculus that everyone has to make for calculus that everyone has to make for themselves. But I've definitely seen themselves. But I've definitely seen that happen. And um that happen. And um yeah, I think I think that's that's the yeah, I think I think that's that's the you get more done with the same amount you get more done with the same amount of people. Maybe to close out our of people. Maybe to close out our conversation, I want to come back to conversation, I want to come back to this idea that you referenced, but I this idea that you referenced, but I want to spend a little more time on want to spend a little more time on this, which is this idea of the this, which is this idea of the allocation economy. Uh, if I understand allocation economy. Uh, if I understand it correctly, we've been in this it correctly, we've been in this knowledge economy where people get paid knowledge economy where people get paid to do a thing. And your thesis is that to do a thing. And your thesis is that we're moving to this allocation economy we're moving to this allocation economy where skills become the manager skills where skills become the manager skills become more important and we're going to become more important and we're going to be spending more of our time managing. be spending more of our time managing. And I think what's amazing about this is And I think what's amazing about this is it also tells you which skills will it also tells you which skills will matter more in the future, which is matter more in the future, which is something I think a lot of people are something I think a lot of people are thinking about. So, so maybe just answer thinking about. So, so maybe just answer that question and share whatever you that question and share whatever you think is important to share to give think is important to share to give people sense of what you're thinking. people sense of what you're thinking. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, this is uh based on an article &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, this is uh based on an article I wrote like two two and a half years I wrote like two two and a half years ago. So, this is back before like ago. So, this is back before like agents were even like thought of as agents were even like thought of as viable. viable. viable. Um, and I was like really trying to Um, and I was like really trying to think about think about think about how do I express how do I express um what in my experience using this um what in my experience using this every day like what what skills are every day like what what skills are useful for me. Um because I think useful for me. Um because I think that'll be the case for for a lot of that'll be the case for for a lot of other people and I think that's that's other people and I think that's that's the kind of the best method I think to the kind of the best method I think to do these sorts of predictions is you do these sorts of predictions is you have to be doing it all the time have to be doing it all the time yourself and then that informs your yourself and then that informs your opinion about this stuff. So, um, what I opinion about this stuff. So, um, what I noticed using at the time like GBD3 or noticed using at the time like GBD3 or maybe GBD4, maybe GBD4, maybe GBD4, um, um, um, was that I was spending a lot of time, was that I was spending a lot of time, uh, for example, thinking about how do I uh, for example, thinking about how do I communicate the problem? How do I gather communicate the problem? How do I gather the right information for the problem? the right information for the problem? How do I put it in the right way so that How do I put it in the right way so that the model that I'm working with gets it? the model that I'm working with gets it? How do I pick which model to give it to? How do I pick which model to give it to? And how do I maybe divide up the task to And how do I maybe divide up the task to be like, "Okay, this model does this, be like, "Okay, this model does this, this model does this." Um, based on what this model does this." Um, based on what I know to be like what's good and what's I know to be like what's good and what's bad? How do I give them feedback? Um, bad? How do I give them feedback? Um, how do I have like a um a vision for how do I have like a um a vision for what I want and a set of criteria for what I want and a set of criteria for whether it's good? All that stuff is whether it's good? All that stuff is exactly how I found myself using these exactly how I found myself using these tools. And I was like, "Oh, that's just tools. And I was like, "Oh, that's just managing." managing." managing." And and once that like once that clicks And and once that like once that clicks for you, I think you'll start to see a for you, I think you'll start to see a lot of other things. So, a really good lot of other things. So, a really good example is there's a big complaint that example is there's a big complaint that it's like, "Well, it's like, "Well, how can I have AI do this? Like, I can't how can I have AI do this? Like, I can't trust that they're going to do it well, trust that they're going to do it well, so I just I should just do it myself." so I just I should just do it myself." And I'm just like, "Yeah, that's exactly And I'm just like, "Yeah, that's exactly what every first time manager says." You what every first time manager says." You always have this problem where you're always have this problem where you're like, "Okay, if I delegate it, it's not like, "Okay, if I delegate it, it's not done in the way that I want it to be done in the way that I want it to be done. If I do it myself, I get no done. If I do it myself, I get no leverage." And so that's how a manager leverage." And so that's how a manager has to learn how to be a manager is like has to learn how to be a manager is like when do I lean in and and maybe when do I lean in and and maybe micromanage a little bit and when when micromanage a little bit and when when can I delegate and how can I trust it can I delegate and how can I trust it and how do I divide up the task and all and how do I divide up the task and all that kind of stuff and so I think that kind of stuff and so I think there's a lot of overlap in those skills there's a lot of overlap in those skills and um it just those skills are not and um it just those skills are not broadly distributed right now um but broadly distributed right now um but they will be in the future because it they will be in the future because it will be so much cheaper to be a manager will be so much cheaper to be a manager &gt;&gt; and specifically I was looking at the &gt;&gt; and specifically I was looking at the article you wrote the skills that you article you wrote the skills that you highlight will be more valuable table is highlight will be more valuable table is evaluating talent, vision, taste, and to evaluating talent, vision, taste, and to your point, when to get into the your point, when to get into the details, when it makes sense to dive in. details, when it makes sense to dive in. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Awesome. And then there's also kind of a &gt;&gt; Awesome. And then there's also kind of a connected point you made that you connected point you made that you referenced, which is that generalists referenced, which is that generalists will become more and more valuable in will become more and more valuable in the future. You mentioned that everyone the future. You mentioned that everyone at every is a generalist. at every is a generalist. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh share a little bit about that. &gt;&gt; Uh share a little bit about that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I find I mean, maybe it's because &gt;&gt; Yeah. I find I mean, maybe it's because I'm a generalist, so you should take I'm a generalist, so you should take this with a grain of salt. this with a grain of salt. &gt;&gt; Same. But I think that's one of the &gt;&gt; Same. But I think that's one of the things that has made AI so awesome for things that has made AI so awesome for me is like I love to dabble in different me is like I love to dabble in different things. So it's like in one day I can be things. So it's like in one day I can be like coding an app and like making a like coding an app and like making a video and like making images and writing video and like making images and writing and like all that kind of stuff and Chad and like all that kind of stuff and Chad is right there with me. Um, and is right there with me. Um, and I think what we've basically what has I think what we've basically what has happened as civilization has progressed happened as civilization has progressed from like ancient Greece to now is uh from like ancient Greece to now is uh what we've discovered is the more that what we've discovered is the more that we specialize the the better we can we specialize the the better we can coordinate across many different people. coordinate across many different people. And so it's sort of it's like the Adam And so it's sort of it's like the Adam Smith, you know, like there's a pin Smith, you know, like there's a pin factory and someone's making a pin or factory and someone's making a pin or whatever his thing is is um whatever his thing is is um specialization engment trade. And uh specialization engment trade. And uh there have been a lot of really good there have been a lot of really good impacts of that. And I think you can impacts of that. And I think you can like one of my favorite examples of this like one of my favorite examples of this is is back to like ancient Greece, is is back to like ancient Greece, ancient Athens. Um Athens is was a ancient Athens. Um Athens is was a civilization of generalists at least for civilization of generalists at least for citizens. It was there's like they have citizens. It was there's like they have some, you know, a bad history with women some, you know, a bad history with women and people who are slaves. But like and people who are slaves. But like let's just put that to the side for a let's just put that to the side for a second. If you were a citizen second. If you were a citizen generalist, you could you could be generalist, you could you could be expected to be um a uh a fighter, uh a expected to be um a uh a fighter, uh a judge, a juror, um uh maybe a general. judge, a juror, um uh maybe a general. Like there's you could expect it to have Like there's you could expect it to have um many different roles inside of your um many different roles inside of your society um in your lifetime. society um in your lifetime. That changed though because Athens That changed though because Athens became an empire and as it became an became an empire and as it became an empire if you're going to send like a empire if you're going to send like a general off to like go and invade Sicily general off to like go and invade Sicily or whatever um you you want that person or whatever um you you want that person to be like pretty skilled and so it to be like pretty skilled and so it started to break the general kind of started to break the general kind of thing into people start to have specific thing into people start to have specific roles and they coordinate with each roles and they coordinate with each other and all that kind of stuff. And I other and all that kind of stuff. And I think that that pattern has actually think that that pattern has actually been really good for developing been really good for developing civilization, but it's also in a lot of civilization, but it's also in a lot of ways like it's not as fun. Um, it's ways like it's not as fun. Um, it's actually really cool to be a actually really cool to be a well-rounded person. And I think the well-rounded person. And I think the interesting thing about AI is that it's interesting thing about AI is that it's a little bit like you can think of it a little bit like you can think of it like having 10,000 PhDs in your pocket. like having 10,000 PhDs in your pocket. It's like it knows so much about every It's like it knows so much about every little branch of human knowledge and little branch of human knowledge and every art form and every, you know, way every art form and every, you know, way of making things or building things and of making things or building things and you just have access to that. So, it's you just have access to that. So, it's doing a lot of the it's good for doing a doing a lot of the it's good for doing a lot of the specialized tasks that you lot of the specialized tasks that you might have had to spend like 10 years might have had to spend like 10 years getting good at, you know, learning getting good at, you know, learning about this particular species of cicada, about this particular species of cicada, so you know exactly how they like, you so you know exactly how they like, you know, reproduce. Um, but now you've got know, reproduce. Um, but now you've got this thing in your pocket that can tell this thing in your pocket that can tell you all about that in any given context you all about that in any given context at any given time. And so, um, you're at any given time. And so, um, you're empowered to jump a lot more between all empowered to jump a lot more between all those different domains of skill. And uh those different domains of skill. And uh and you can get more done as for example and you can get more done as for example like a founder where um I think we can like a founder where um I think we can stay at 15 people much longer um than we stay at 15 people much longer um than we would be able to. So the people inside would be able to. So the people inside of every can stay generalists for much of every can stay generalists for much longer. And I think that that may like longer. And I think that that may like sort of ripple out into the rest of the sort of ripple out into the rest of the economy where instead of like gigantic economy where instead of like gigantic massive corporations where like each massive corporations where like each person is doing like one little like person is doing like one little like button turning, you have many more button turning, you have many more smaller organizations with more smaller organizations with more generalists. And I think that would generalists. And I think that would actually be a really good thing. This uh actually be a really good thing. This uh reminds me I was uh talking to my reminds me I was uh talking to my personal trainer that I'm trying out for personal trainer that I'm trying out for a little bit and she said that she's a a little bit and she said that she's a very big vision kind of high level very big vision kind of high level person and not good at executing person and not good at executing executing getting like we're staying executing getting like we're staying organized and GPT is such a godsend for organized and GPT is such a godsend for her because she's just like here's what her because she's just like here's what I want to do roughly just help me get it I want to do roughly just help me get it done. done. done. &gt;&gt; That's great &gt;&gt; That's great &gt;&gt; and so yeah and it really made me think &gt;&gt; and so yeah and it really made me think about just how much value all this stuff about just how much value all this stuff is going to unlock. is going to unlock. &gt;&gt; This was amazing. It was everything I &gt;&gt; This was amazing. It was everything I wanted it to be. But with that we wanted it to be. But with that we reached our very exciting lightning reached our very exciting lightning round. Dan, are you ready? round. Dan, are you ready? &gt;&gt; I'm ready. &gt;&gt; I'm ready. &gt;&gt; Here we go. What are two or three books &gt;&gt; Here we go. What are two or three books that you find yourself recommending most that you find yourself recommending most to other people? to other people? &gt;&gt; Well, I already recommended one, which &gt;&gt; Well, I already recommended one, which is War in Peace. is War in Peace. Um, definitely got to read that. Uh, if Um, definitely got to read that. Uh, if you want like a Tulsoy primer, I would you want like a Tulsoy primer, I would read The Death The Death of Ivan Ilitch. read The Death The Death of Ivan Ilitch. Um, another good one is A Swim in a Pond Um, another good one is A Swim in a Pond in the Rain, which is by George in the Rain, which is by George Saunders. And that's a collection of Saunders. And that's a collection of Russian short stories that is also about Russian short stories that is also about writing. Um, and I I in particular I writing. Um, and I I in particular I really like the Russians because they're really like the Russians because they're a lot of the Russian novelists are a lot of the Russian novelists are dealing with the effects of technology dealing with the effects of technology on traditional Russian way of life. And on traditional Russian way of life. And they're very kind of in this really they're very kind of in this really interesting um middle ground between a interesting um middle ground between a sort of romantic outlook on the world sort of romantic outlook on the world and a more rationalist like we're we're and a more rationalist like we're we're progress we're making progress. And progress we're making progress. And that's one of the things you'll find in that's one of the things you'll find in Anacrenina when um God what's the guys Anacrenina when um God what's the guys what Levvin is out in the fields with what Levvin is out in the fields with the peasants like doing the scythe thing the peasants like doing the scythe thing like that's that's Toltoy like kind of like that's that's Toltoy like kind of like thinking about oh what would it be like thinking about oh what would it be like instead of being a nobleman who's like instead of being a nobleman who's like trying to make make farms way more like trying to make make farms way more efficient I was just like with my scythe efficient I was just like with my scythe that was like really happy anyway. So that was like really happy anyway. So they're dealing with a lot of similar they're dealing with a lot of similar stuff to I think AI. Um stuff to I think AI. Um uh the master and his emissary is uh the master and his emissary is another really good one and that's about another really good one and that's about um basically how the different um basically how the different hemispheres of the brain uh view hemispheres of the brain uh view reality. It's really really good and I reality. It's really really good and I think it um I think it relates to a lot think it um I think it relates to a lot of AI stuff too. I think yeah I think I of AI stuff too. I think yeah I think I think those are my those are my three or think those are my three or four. Yeah. four. Yeah. four. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Excellent list. I think nobody's &gt;&gt; Excellent list. I think nobody's mentioned most uh either any of these so mentioned most uh either any of these so this is that's always a good sign. Uh, this is that's always a good sign. Uh, do you have a favorite recent movie or do you have a favorite recent movie or TV show you really enjoyed? TV show you really enjoyed? &gt;&gt; Yes. Um, I really love Deadwood. &gt;&gt; Yes. Um, I really love Deadwood. Um, have you seen it? Um, have you seen it? &gt;&gt; I absolutely love it. Uh, I remember &gt;&gt; I absolutely love it. Uh, I remember when they stopped it for some reason. I when they stopped it for some reason. I think he had to go do something else at think he had to go do something else at HBO. It was so sad. It was It's amazing. HBO. It was so sad. It was It's amazing. Uh, Uh, Uh, &gt;&gt; yeah. David Milch is incredible. &gt;&gt; yeah. David Milch is incredible. National treasure, incredible writer. National treasure, incredible writer. But what I what I really think what I But what I what I really think what I really love about it and I only recently really love about it and I only recently watched it is um watched it is um &gt;&gt; he talks about Deadwood being about how &gt;&gt; he talks about Deadwood being about how order forms out of chaos. Um so it's order forms out of chaos. Um so it's this like frontier town. People are this like frontier town. People are going to it and like there's no law, going to it and like there's no law, there's no rules and by like season 3 there's no rules and by like season 3 there's like a mayor and like you know there's like a mayor and like you know there all the industry has come in and there all the industry has come in and it's like a real proper town and I just it's like a real proper town and I just love that. And I think there's a lot of love that. And I think there's a lot of um there's a lot of parallels from the um there's a lot of parallels from the like the western frontier to technology like the western frontier to technology frontiers. And so I think that show is frontiers. And so I think that show is like a really interesting study in that like a really interesting study in that kind of dynamic. kind of dynamic. &gt;&gt; I love how everything connects to how &gt;&gt; I love how everything connects to how tech works and how AI came to be. I I tech works and how AI came to be. I I love this. love this. love this. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Uh do you have a favorite product you've &gt;&gt; Uh do you have a favorite product you've recently discovered that you really recently discovered that you really love? love? love? &gt;&gt; I don't have a good answer for that &gt;&gt; I don't have a good answer for that because I just spent a lot of time using because I just spent a lot of time using our internal products. Um, but I like my our internal products. Um, but I like my my stock answer is granola. Um, so I do my stock answer is granola. Um, so I do I do really love granola. I my one gripe I do really love granola. I my one gripe with them and I hope they listen to this with them and I hope they listen to this podcast is I really want to export all podcast is I really want to export all my notes. I want API. my notes. I want API. &gt;&gt; Um, but other than that I think it's a &gt;&gt; Um, but other than that I think it's a fantastic product. fantastic product. fantastic product. &gt;&gt; That is definitely the most mentioned &gt;&gt; That is definitely the most mentioned product in this segment for the past product in this segment for the past couple months. So yeah, Ketchup Granola. couple months. So yeah, Ketchup Granola. I can't help but mention you get a year I can't help but mention you get a year free of granola if you become an annual free of granola if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter. What a subscriber of my newsletter. What a freaking deal. And not just you, but freaking deal. And not just you, but your whole company gets free granola for your whole company gets free granola for a year. What the what a deal. a year. What the what a deal. &gt;&gt; This is not a paid promotion uh by me. I &gt;&gt; This is not a paid promotion uh by me. I just, you know, that's just what how I just, you know, that's just what how I feel. So, I'm glad uh I'm glad it's part feel. So, I'm glad uh I'm glad it's part of the bundle. of the bundle. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Incredible. Okay. Do you have a &gt;&gt; Yeah. Incredible. Okay. Do you have a favorite life motto that you often come favorite life motto that you often come back to find useful in work or in life? back to find useful in work or in life? &gt;&gt; So, basically, like I used to be all and &gt;&gt; So, basically, like I used to be all and has memory. So, I was like, you know, has memory. So, I was like, you know, I'm going on Lenny's podcast. What would I'm going on Lenny's podcast. What would my life motto be? And it said, your life my life motto be? And it said, your life motto is a witness deeply, build motto is a witness deeply, build bravely. um you you prize slow attentive bravely. um you you prize slow attentive seeing whether it's reading Toltoy seeing whether it's reading Toltoy tracking meditation themes or X-raying a tracking meditation themes or X-raying a David Milch paragraph so like we're David Milch paragraph so like we're we're it's hitting all the stuff I just we're it's hitting all the stuff I just mentioned which is really funny um mentioned which is really funny um &gt;&gt; and then build bravely you turn those &gt;&gt; and then build bravely you turn those insights into concrete things like every insights into concrete things like every and Kora and long form essays and and and Kora and long form essays and and all that kind of stuff so I think all that kind of stuff so I think there's something about there's I think there's something about that actually this reminds me this that actually this reminds me this actually reminds me of the actual motto actually reminds me of the actual motto which is and I didn't come up with this which is and I didn't come up with this I think it's like ply the younger um uh I think it's like ply the younger um uh said um do things worth writing about said um do things worth writing about and write things worth reading. Seems and write things worth reading. Seems like a pretty good summation. like a pretty good summation. &gt;&gt; Do things worth writing about and read &gt;&gt; Do things worth writing about and read things worth reading. things worth reading. &gt;&gt; Write things worth reading. &gt;&gt; Write things worth reading. That's &gt;&gt; Write things worth reading. That's that's should be the motto of both of that's should be the motto of both of our newsletters. our newsletters. our newsletters. &gt;&gt; That is really good. Okay. And by the &gt;&gt; That is really good. Okay. And by the way, I love that you asked Chad PT. way, I love that you asked Chad PT. What's my life motto? What's my life motto? &gt;&gt; And wait, this is interesting. So, it &gt;&gt; And wait, this is interesting. So, it didn't give me the answer, but inspired didn't give me the answer, but inspired the answer. Yeah. the answer. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And I think that's actually like exactly &gt;&gt; And I think that's actually like exactly how I use it. how I use it. &gt;&gt; Wow. It's an extension of our brains &gt;&gt; Wow. It's an extension of our brains already. already. already. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh last question. I was uh reading &gt;&gt; Uh last question. I was uh reading somewhere where you wrote that you somewhere where you wrote that you stopped writing at one point. You were stopped writing at one point. You were just like I need to do other things. I just like I need to do other things. I need to build this company. And then you need to build this company. And then you realized I need to get back to writing realized I need to get back to writing because things started going sideways. because things started going sideways. And I feel like this this such an And I feel like this this such an interesting corlary to a lot of the interesting corlary to a lot of the stuff you talked about of do things that stuff you talked about of do things that make you happy, stay close to joy. uh make you happy, stay close to joy. uh just share what happened there because just share what happened there because because I didn't know that because I didn't know that &gt;&gt; this is definitely not a lightning round &gt;&gt; this is definitely not a lightning round thing. So I'm h I'm h I'll expound but thing. So I'm h I'm h I'll expound but I'll try to do it as quickly as I'll try to do it as quickly as possible. possible. possible. &gt;&gt; Perfect. &gt;&gt; Perfect. &gt;&gt; Perfect. &gt;&gt; Um I think generally when you're &gt;&gt; Um I think generally when you're building a company even if you do it the building a company even if you do it the way that I do it or did it which is you way that I do it or did it which is you know you don't raise a lot of money and know you don't raise a lot of money and you try to you try to stay in control you try to stay in control there's a big temptation to try to run there's a big temptation to try to run the company in the way you think you the company in the way you think you should. And I have this weird thing should. And I have this weird thing where I'm like, I really love writing, where I'm like, I really love writing, but I also really love business. And but I also really love business. And there just was there were not a lot of there just was there were not a lot of models for me models for me um of people who had successful um of people who had successful businesses that that were also writers. businesses that that were also writers. Turns out there are um but I didn't know Turns out there are um but I didn't know about that for a while. And so, you about that for a while. And so, you know, early on at every like we were it know, early on at every like we were it was growing really well because I was was growing really well because I was writing a lot, Nathan was writing a lot. writing a lot, Nathan was writing a lot. Um, and when I stopped writing, uh, the Um, and when I stopped writing, uh, the business didn't work as well because business didn't work as well because media businesses don't follow the same media businesses don't follow the same pattern as tech startups because if pattern as tech startups because if you're a media business and you are a you're a media business and you are a founder who then hires people to make founder who then hires people to make the product, which is right, if you have the product, which is right, if you have product market fit before, you lose it. product market fit before, you lose it. Um, and maybe you hire people that are Um, and maybe you hire people that are good writers, but that's hard. Um, it's good writers, but that's hard. Um, it's total opposite pattern for startups. You total opposite pattern for startups. You build the first version of the product build the first version of the product and then you hire people to build the and then you hire people to build the rest of it. and you know so that's what rest of it. and you know so that's what I did. Um and I also really struggled I did. Um and I also really struggled with okay what are the implications for with okay what are the implications for that and for my career and that and for my career and um and I think it was hard for me to um and I think it was hard for me to admit like I actually want to write admit like I actually want to write because I just didn't have any examples because I just didn't have any examples of someone being the kind of writer that of someone being the kind of writer that I wanted to be. And what's really I wanted to be. And what's really interesting is like three years into the interesting is like three years into the business like the business has been business like the business has been pretty flat. I was like pretty miserable pretty flat. I was like pretty miserable because I was like not doing the thing because I was like not doing the thing that I really wanted to do. And I asked that I really wanted to do. And I asked Chet, I was like, "Is there are there Chet, I was like, "Is there are there any examples of writers that have built any examples of writers that have built businesses?" And it was like, "Yeah, uh businesses?" And it was like, "Yeah, uh Joel Spolski, who built Trello and Stack Joel Spolski, who built Trello and Stack Overflow. Um there's uh Jason Frerieded Overflow. Um there's uh Jason Frerieded uh who I've known for a long time and I' uh who I've known for a long time and I' have always always looked up to but I have always always looked up to but I forgot about in this context. There is forgot about in this context. There is um Sam Harris who's got a great podcast um Sam Harris who's got a great podcast and he's got a gigantic meditation app." and he's got a gigantic meditation app." Um there is um Bill Simmons who's like Um there is um Bill Simmons who's like incredible podcaster and also built the incredible podcaster and also built the ringer, sold Spotify for a couple ringer, sold Spotify for a couple hundred million bucks. Like there's a hundred million bucks. Like there's a lot of these people and there are lot of these people and there are patterns that they use to build patterns that they use to build companies that are pretty well companies that are pretty well understood. They're just not typical understood. They're just not typical Silicon Valley patterns. And so I was Silicon Valley patterns. And so I was like cool like I just want to be a like cool like I just want to be a writer. I think it would be really fun. writer. I think it would be really fun. And so I sort of flipped I still have And so I sort of flipped I still have the builder, entrepreneur, founder part the builder, entrepreneur, founder part of my identity, but I sort of flipped it of my identity, but I sort of flipped it to be like writing is at the center and to be like writing is at the center and I'm like unapologetic about it. Um, and I'm like unapologetic about it. Um, and that's actually good for the business. that's actually good for the business. It's good for me and it's good for the It's good for me and it's good for the business. And the more I've leaned into business. And the more I've leaned into that, doing the thing that like if you that, doing the thing that like if you told anyone that you were starting a told anyone that you were starting a business where it's like, well, we're business where it's like, well, we're going to be a newsletter and we're going going to be a newsletter and we're going to incubate all these apps and we're to incubate all these apps and we're going to do consulting and whatever, going to do consulting and whatever, they would be like, you're nuts. Like they would be like, you're nuts. Like everyone wants to do that. Of course, everyone wants to do that. Of course, every founder wants to do that, but like every founder wants to do that, but like you you have to focus. You have to like you you have to focus. You have to like you can't write like whatever. But every you can't write like whatever. But every time I've kind of just leaned into um time I've kind of just leaned into um something that feels like the most the something that feels like the most the ultimate luxury of like my my hidden ultimate luxury of like my my hidden secret desire, it's actually worked a secret desire, it's actually worked a lot better. And um I think you end up lot better. And um I think you end up what what it really is is there's a huge what what it really is is there's a huge tax to doing something every day that tax to doing something every day that you're not quite you don't quite like you're not quite you don't quite like that much or you're not quite a fit for. that much or you're not quite a fit for. And by sort of giving into that those And by sort of giving into that those secret desires, you end up finding a secret desires, you end up finding a shape for the work that you do and the shape for the work that you do and the business that you build that is good for business that you build that is good for you. And that's always going to be a you. And that's always going to be a somewhat unique shape from other somewhat unique shape from other businesses that have been built. There's businesses that have been built. There's it's always going to rhyme with other it's always going to rhyme with other things, but I think finding that unique things, but I think finding that unique shape instead of just kind of cargo shape instead of just kind of cargo culting like what you think a company culting like what you think a company should look like is definitely a much should look like is definitely a much better way to be successful and it's better way to be successful and it's also a much better way to live. I think also a much better way to live. I think this is going to hit hard with a lot of this is going to hit hard with a lot of people who are listening who are maybe people who are listening who are maybe founders or want to be founders and this founders or want to be founders and this resonates with a lot of people that have resonates with a lot of people that have been on this podcast sharing similar been on this podcast sharing similar lessons. Dan, this was incredible. Two lessons. Dan, this was incredible. Two final questions. Where can folks check final questions. Where can folks check out Every find you online and how can out Every find you online and how can listeners be useful to you? So, you can listeners be useful to you? So, you can find us at every.to. Uh I'm also on find us at every.to. Uh I'm also on Twitter at DanShipper. Um, you can uh go Twitter at DanShipper. Um, you can uh go there to check out our uh our uh our our there to check out our uh our uh our our products, our newsletter if you want to products, our newsletter if you want to stay on top of AI, all that kind of stay on top of AI, all that kind of stuff. I also have a podcast. It's stuff. I also have a podcast. It's called AI and Die. You can find it on called AI and Die. You can find it on YouTube and on Spotify. Um, and how can YouTube and on Spotify. Um, and how can people be useful? Honestly, I think the people be useful? Honestly, I think the the most useful thing um for someone the most useful thing um for someone like me based on what I want to do is like me based on what I want to do is like I want people to find interesting like I want people to find interesting cool ways to use AI that like actually cool ways to use AI that like actually helps their make their lives better. So helps their make their lives better. So like just go do that and tell me about like just go do that and tell me about it. Um, and I think that'll be great. it. Um, and I think that'll be great. Um, Um, Um, &gt;&gt; what's the best way to tell you? Is it, &gt;&gt; what's the best way to tell you? Is it, uh, comments on your YouTube show? Is it uh, comments on your YouTube show? Is it emailing you, DM you? emailing you, DM you? &gt;&gt; Uh, I would say, uh, tweet me. Um, uh, &gt;&gt; Uh, I would say, uh, tweet me. Um, uh, you, if you subscribe to every, you can you, if you subscribe to every, you can also reply to those emails and they they also reply to those emails and they they eventually get forwarded to me. Um, eventually get forwarded to me. Um, &gt;&gt; so tweet me, reply reply to every. Um, &gt;&gt; so tweet me, reply reply to every. Um, and if you want to comment on YouTube, and if you want to comment on YouTube, great. Um, I'm not in the YouTube great. Um, I'm not in the YouTube comment comments as much as I should be. comment comments as much as I should be. &gt;&gt; Don't do that. Maybe don't do that. Um, &gt;&gt; Don't do that. Maybe don't do that. Um, okay. Well, Dan, this was incredible. okay. Well, Dan, this was incredible. Thank you so much for sharing. Thanks Thank you so much for sharing. Thanks for being here. for being here. &gt;&gt; Thanks for having me. &gt;&gt; Thanks for having me. &gt;&gt; Bye everyone. &gt;&gt; Bye everyone. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much for listening. If you &gt;&gt; Thank you so much for listening. If you found this valuable, you can subscribe found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Also, or your favorite podcast app. Also, please consider giving us a rating or please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review as that really helps leaving a review as that really helps other listeners find the podcast. You other listeners find the podcast. You can find all past episodes or learn more can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennispodcast.com. about the show at lennispodcast.com. See you in the next episode.