================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: R-Ne7fQ3O5M
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-Ne7fQ3O5M
TITLE: The Premier League's Triangle Of Sadness | Libero 056
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-26
DURATION: 1h 5m 38s
VIEWS: 2,844
LIKES: 139
COMMENTS: 30
TAGS: football, podcast, soccer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
What does Aston Villa’s sudden fall from grace say about the wisdom of basing a football club around one man in Unai Emery? Rory Smith, James Horncastle and John Brewin consider a club dogged by PSR and VAR and the implications of transfer guru Monchi stepping away. Villa aren’t alone in their start to the season being poor. West Ham and Wolves are also in the crisis club category, with open rebellion against their ownerships. Where did it all go wrong?

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky.social
Follow us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/liberopod
Follow us on TikTok https://www.tiktok.com/@liberopod
Follow us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/liberopod

Chapters
00:00 The departure of Monchi from Aston Villa
02:55 Monchi's challenges
05:50 The impact of VAR on Villa
11:42 Villa's transfer strategy
17:32 Unai Emery's influence
20:
... [truncated]

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,934

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hello and welcome to Libro. Libro 56. I'm informed by James Horncastle. The podcast about the most important of the least important things as the pornographer Paul Raymond once said. I'm Rory Smith of the of the Observer and Men in Blazers. And today I'm joined by the primarily guardian facing John Breuan and the aforementioned James Horncastle who works for the Athletic, but you recognize him from TNT Sports. Uh we're talking about existential futility today, and if that doesn't keep you listening, I don't know what will. Uh, but we're gonna start with you, James. Our newsy hook, which is kind of our equivalent of of a cold open. Um, Munchie has left Aston Villa. Munchie. Um, the what's the best way of characterizing his his kind of 18 months at Villa? Limited success. Uh, similar little bit longer than his his spell at Roma. Similar kind of outcome. Uh, which and this is a subject I know you have strong thoughts on. Is Munchie like a civil specific thing? Does Monte only work if he's like near the Plaza Italia? I think he is. You know, I mean, we've spoken about him before. Um if people go through our archive and find the sporting director episode, I think we said that you know there are clubs which are identified with a manager or a player and he seems to be the only one who has a club which is like ah munchi sevilla and whenever he's stepped outside of plaza Italia um he's really struggled like you say limited success with villa I would say associated uh with success which is una success Because if you look at the players that Munchie has brought in over the last couple of years, how many of of them have genuinely made an impact? Because the 11 most used players last year by Emory, I think maybe only two were signed by Munchie. Um the rest came before, which was Johan Langer, who's now at Spurs, whose time sort of briefly over overlapped with Mshi. Uh Rob McKenzie. Um, and then you know I think Pow Torres for example, Unai Emory was always going to sign Pal Torres because he had him with Villa Royale and you then look at the loans that they brought in. And I think people think of loans as just like free hits. They're not free hits like they come with a fee which you never get back. There's no resale value on a loan. And so yeah, Nicolo Xanolo, Longlay, Rashford, now Sancho, Harvey Elliot, Marcus Asencio, um, who chose not to be part of PSG's Champions League winning squad so he could be with Villa last year. Um, which fair enough, it was it was it was a decent year, but that's money you're not going to get back. Wages you've subsidized. Um, and yeah, I mean, at Roma it was worse. So, and what went worse? A little bit like with what what we've seen at Villa, okay? You know, he he presides over a big sale, which is John Giran. Okay. Jirean wasn't his signing and so I don't think he can claim credit for getting the money from Saudi Arabia um for for John Garan. Roma comes in. Okay. dealt a little bit of a a knuckle ball which is you have to kind of do the press conference in which you say Franchesco Totti is leaving um but sells MoSalah uh in his first year and Tony Rudiger and looks to have got good money for them at the time like when the deal was done and then within a few weeks people are like oh my god I mean 42 million for for Muhammad Salah that's that's like you know that's pathetic that's half of what he's worth. Um and then the the following year, okay, having reached the Champions League semi-final, um yeah, they they then sold Allison, they sold uh Rajin Engelan, they had quite a lot of money to play with and I would just say he he did stuff with that money which sporting directors with his brand and the association that he has with wow, he's the best in the business at this because he buys low, sells high, finds talent where no one else is looking. Javier Pastori at 28 gives him a 5-year deal. Um, and you know, he's he's injuryprone. Um, Steven Enzoni buys him from his old club, Sevilla, which sporting directors tend they attempt not to do that. They don't want to go back to their club and basically buy a player. But yeah, Enzonzi again getting towards 30, long-term deal, expensive fee, expensive wages, and Roma are kind of just locked into those deals uh and can't get out of them. And so you are yeah the Roma have not been in the Champions League since and I think some people would say that while it's not all on Munchi. Um yeah they were put in a financially difficult position that has made it harder and harder to get back to to where they were. Um and look I mean he is the guy who made Sevilla the Real Madrid of the Europa League. I think it's 20 years this season. That's their official sloder. Yes, they should be hala severe. Um, but I I I it's 20 years since they beat Burough uh in Dinhovven and you know I don't want to diminish anything that Miy did there because I think most of us when we thought of Sevilla before that um we thought oh it's the town where Bettis are from bettis have a really cool kit and they signed Denilson for a world record once we didn't really I I didn't think of Sevilla until Miy basically came along and made them what they were. But even like in his second spell, you know, he goes back there after Roma. They win the Europa League by beating Roma in the Puscas Arena in 2023. But it's a really old team. It's a team that season won the Europa League. People would say, "Oh yeah, it's an Emory title that." No, it's they went through three managers that season and left a really old squad which has flirted with relegation ever since he left. So, in terms of like Victor Ort, this is what I'm leaving you. Um, yeah, it's Jesus Navas who's in nearly 40. It's Fernando, his nearly 40. It's Lamela, Eric Lamela, who I'm I'm amazed is now part of Sevilla's coaching staff. And, yeah, they've got 41 points in each of the last two seasons. I I just think you know clearly Munchie has done some incredible work but I think that does need people need to look at the other side as well for a balanced take and you know maybe my takes appears imbalanced at the moment but I I do think you know he has not had this blemishfree incredible ride as the ultimate sporting director of all sporting directors. John John do you think that Horncastle's blistering diet tribe is is partly like I think the thing one of the things that gets lost with about Munchie is because football always lives in the present he he's been around for ages like his first big deal was Luis Fabiano the one that kind of made that made him a kind of a thing I mean Luis Philip Fabiano is probably like a granddad now do you know what I mean like there will be people listening I mean I know our our our audience probably stews like towards the 40-year-old graphic designer, but there will be pe people in theory listening to this podcast who have never heard of Lewis Fabiano. Whereas to us, he's like, "Oh, yeah, Monty signed Louis Fabiano." But that's not a thing any that's not a meaningful thing anymore. Like he's been around for so long, maybe as he's got older, he's just kind of got worse at his job, which is something that happens to all of us. Well, the type of person that looks back on Ever Benega as some vintage star. Yeah. Because I mean that's another classic sevilla player isn't it? I think it's one of these things isn't it sporting directors we hear a lot from a lot of them though in England we don't hear from them you know in Italy of course uh you know Galani or whoever Milan would would be talking all the time you know by the look I could always he always appeared to be talking whenever I I I you know look towards Milan. Um, so there there's a mystery, isn't there? My the notification on my phone just went off and it's about Galani. Really? Monza has been sold to an American farm. Galani, I will not be president. He's speaking as we're speaking about him. Well, I told you this guy is is ever present, isn't he? And and you know, someone that pushes, okay, he's called president, whatever, but Monty, a slightly different role, but um so there is that that edge of mystery, isn't there? this this guy behind the scenes and uh you know I suppose I first became aware of him properly would be around that time of the sequence of uh Europa League wins. I think when they won uh I went to I was with Jonathan Wilson actually when they won in Warsaw against Denipro sounds very Wilson that might have been the peak of Wilson's career. We had a great time. That's literally the only time there's been a European final where only he can pronounce the name of one of the team. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. I we we didn't bother with the the actual place where they were from, but the Denipra will do. And uh so yeah, we we we dined uh in a couple of Warsaw salons and all that type of stuff. You know what it's like with Wilson. Um and um I remember in in the postmatch of that uh Yamurie obviously speaking, but then a lot of the credit in the mix zone and all that is oh Monty is the guy that established this. Now, one of the things about the sporting director, these mysterious figures that we talk about quite a lot on this podcast is that often they're not that transferable. It's not like United Emory can go from two or three different clubs, you know, Valencia, Villa Royale, Severe, he's less successful at other clubs, we know that, and be good at at those clubs. sport directors I'm not sure if they move to another club they're always going to be it it it's good because it's managing a football team is not simple but you know a guy knows how to set up a team but living in Birmingham is different to living in Seville and the the way that the you know uh business is done it's different isn't it and I think that's possibly and also Monty as you said is been around a long time and and the game has moved on and PSR and stuff like that has come in and if you're a guy that deals in essentially veteran players, which are the type Emory likes, you're going to come up against financial problems because one thing that Chelsea have actually got right with the PSR dealings is you buy young players and then you can fogg them on because you you're retaining the amortization value and stuff like that. This is why we've all become accountants and someone like Monty with Villa. I mean, uh, you know, you mentioned those loan players in January, Asencio and Rashford. I was hearing 500,000 a week Villa are paying out for them. It doesn't work, does it, for the long term. It is interesting though what because I think you're you're absolutely right that if you go through all of those I I remember writing about this for ESPN, which dates it considerably. Dates us all. Yes. Yeah. Um, and it was about like Steve Walsh who was given the credit for for Leicester getting Kante and Mahrez. And I think I brought in Graeme Carr, Alan Carr's dad. Yes. Um, who um who actually my wife and I went through a spell of watching Alan and Amanda Holden doing up houses in Spain and Alan Carr's dad, Graeme features in that show. He's he's very sweet. Well, can I tell you my Alan Carr story is you know there's this TV program about him about his younger life. Uh my good friend's son plays Alan the young Alan Carr is Ollie. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Alan Carr is a slightly odd national treasure because I don't think in any way he's funny and yet he appears to be like everyone just really liked him. That program was he's a nice guy. Yeah. He just seems like a lovely man. Um and there's something to be said for that John. But Graham Carr, the less famous car, became famous for kind of his his wonderful eye for talent. This is one of the Yoan Kabay. Yeah. Yeah. Yoan Kabay, who became this great kind of symbol of Graeme Char, this brilliant talent spotter. He was the captain of the French champions. I mean, what a shock. What a shock that he turned out to be a good player. And I remember I think I wrote at the time like there was an argument that Graeme Tar is not like an amazing this is massively blown my own trumpet. the um like maybe Ramar's not this amazing talent spot. Maybe he's just got Eurosport because like if you watched any French football you've been like that guy who's leading Le to the French title is quite a good footballer. I wonder if we can sign him. But it is do you not find it weird that they can't transfer it because I think if anything that should be the more transferable skill it should be the thing that does that is easier. That's the question isn't it? Why can't they is more than they don't. We don't they don't why not. Yeah. Yeah, it's like with you know Michael Edwards who's now back at Liverpool. There was always this idea that someone would snap him up because of the job that he' done and then eventually went back to Liverpool you know he wanted to find the right job. It turned out that was back at Liverpool once Yan Kloppin moved on for and we can speculate over the reason for that and then yeah it's like Michael Edwards but if Michael Edwards went into Manchester United he could turn them no I'm not sure he could you know it's it's maybe every club's different and I'm not sure it's the sort of thing that that and you know a self self- knowingly intellectual podcast should probably explore but it's not going to be this one because we're going to talk about something else. Uh Munchie going kind of compounds what's been a pretty abysmal start to the season for Villa. They haven't won a game yet. They only scored one goal in the Premier League so far this season through Matty Cash against Sunderland. So there's an argument it doesn't really count. Um that game I think led to Unai Emory calling his players lazy which is generally not a great thing for a manager to accuse his players of. Everyone seems really unhappy. Uh, and I'm reminded constantly of um enemy of the podcast, Mark Ogden. Uh, still a ESPN. Um, not the sort of man who would confess in public to listening to this podcast. Uh, he's he's got this weird like prediliction for a slide doors moment. He loves a sliding doors moment or he does look a little bit like that game at Old Trafford on the last day of last season when had Villa won, they would have qualified for the Champions League because of what was happening to Newcastle at the same time. It does look increasingly like that is the point on like that's the inflection point on which Villa's like modern history that this project or at least like the current incarnation of this project turns because it does feel as though that has left them all in a kind of pit of despair to be honest is that is that too simplistic I was going to say uh feels like Villa's downfall became via V and PSR doesn't it because obviously there was that dec there was a decision in that game that Villa fans are still talking about uh and um do you know what that this reminds me of? Let's go even further back into the past. Remember when Leeds didn't make it back into the Champions League back in 2001 after getting to the semifinals? Now, okay, we've been over the arguments for PSR in those days. What did leads do then? They gambled again, didn't they? And it didn't work. They started buying Robbie Fowler and all this Rocky Jr. Rock a Yeah. Well, Seth Johnson. Well, The the list is almost endless actually. Yeah. Uh and the Peter Riddale P Rif figure. Who who is that? Uh There's a whole whole generation who don't know who Peter Rey is. He's a bad boy for life. Yeah. But you know, Peter Riddale is seen as a very able uh runner of a club until we suddenly realize, hang on, where is all that money coming from? And they borrowed it from uh various funds. And that's when leads stop being leads and then become back as very different leads now. And it took them a long time. PSR you would suggest probably protects Villa from that happening unless they keep playing like they do this season and get relegated and then all bets are off and it does feel like there's a crisis you listen to Villa fans and uh in those sort of lubrious brometer tones doom is set in uh which I think is maybe let's regional stereotype this uh I went to Birmingham We may should maybe mention you know this other club that's really ambitious. You know the second city is very ambitious in terms of uh you know where they're going and booming in the championship at the moment. And I went to the uh what's it called now? It's whatever the LDV is called the uh John's. It's not Pepper John's. It's I don't know. Anyway, the the freight rover whatever. Yeah. Uh the freight the freight rover trophy. and he played Peterbr who they' just beaten quite handsomely in the league on the Tuesday before that and there is something about the Birmingham Birmingham fans are used to their team being a bit rubbish right and as soon as Peter scored an early goal suddenly it just turned to this dire tribe among their fans because the misery of so many years just came back and was there at Wembley and there was a bloke stood about 10 yards for me who said it's [ __ ] every 30 seconds and it feels like Villa are going through that own cross town thing where it's like crowds teams do feed off the crowd the whole thing appears like depressed and maybe it is from Auggie's moment now but I yeah so my my view on it and I've I've had a little bit of kind of feedback on social media for expressing this in slightly overly blunt terms on the radio the other It it feels to me like they've talked themselves into it. Yes. Yes. Like they so they they miss out on the Champions League. It's unlucky. There's there, as you said, there's the V decision. Even even then, like the combination of results. It is unfortunate that Villa didn't qualify for the Champions League again. They did really well. They kind of illuminated the competition last season, get to the quarterfinals, run PSG really close. I think that's been kind of overlooked a little bit in the in the rush to give Usman Dembele the balon door that basically Villa could have put them out in the quarterfinals um and took the lead in Paris in fact and then they've had this be in their bonnet about PSR for a little while Villa I think which I is is basically an argument I don't buy I don't necessarily know if we need to kind of go into that particularly but I it's just an argument I don't think is true I think it's based on like a false a false premise Um, and then this summer they don't really sign anybody, but that's just cuz they don't really sell anybody and and it's all kind of like, oh, we don't we can't. What's the point in trying anymore? Reminds me a bit of like a toddler, like, oh, there's no point. It's difficult. Um, and then they start the season with a squad that's still got loads of really good players in it. And it feels as though everyone has bought into this argument that, well, we there's no point us doing anything because PSL stops our ambitions. And that that might I think that probably does have a degree of truth in it. Um in terms of like pushing on to win the title like Villa are stopped from winning the title by PSR. They cannot go and spend a billion pounds on the squad and get all the best players in the world. They can't do that. That is true. But they didn't I mean PSR is not stopping them scoring goals. It doesn't mean they have to play badly. They've still got a squad packed with internationals. I think Elliot's a really smart sign in. Sancho I'm a little bit less sure of. Okay. they they they lose Rashford and Asencio, but they did spend 25 million quid on Donaniel Maron at the same time in January and then seem to forget about him. They've got a really good defense. They've got Yeah. They've got Ezri Tron who's an England player now. You know, they've got all this talent. They are still underperforming whether PSR exists or not. Yeah. And what I would say is if you are finding yourself in these PSR limitations or you're struggling with financial fair play compliance and that sort of thing, you can't spend players. Then what you really need is a manager like Una. Yeah. Like my criticism of Mshi is that all of the signings Mchi made, it seems that beyond providing some depth, Una's starting 11 was more or less the starting 11 he got before Monty arrived and you know he turned that that team from being 16th to being in a Champions League quarterfinal and you know perhaps some of his methods you know video analysis is session, which you know is like, yeah, I I guess it's like being told you're going to watch all of Stanley Kubrick's films in one day. Um, that's just how Unai works. He's that meticulous. Um, and people are just sort of worn out, jaded by it. But he's exactly the kind of manager you sort of need in this situation, I would say. And you know, I PSI is one thing. You know, we've just had a Premier League shareholders meeting where they've been talking about the squad cost rule as well. SR, we need another acronym. Um, preferably all acronyms have to end with R in uh in football by the looks of it. Like we'll get we're going to get on to West Ham later in this kind of Clar and Blue episode, but like one of the things that these two clubs have in common, I suppose, is that they have both sold a100 million pound player in recent history. Jack Greish went to Man City and Declan Rice uh went to Arsenal. And this is this is one of the things that we always like to talk about. How well did they spend that money? How did they react in that moment? And you know, certainly in terms of squad costs, Villa's wage bill by all accounts in terms of their revenue to turnover ratio is eyewatering. And you know, they reacted, they didn't react like Barcelona when PSG went and his said here's a check for 220 million for Neymar, but they did also sign Coutinho. Mhm. Um, and Coutinho cost 20 million, but imagine his salary was pretty big and like people just don't look at that. Coutinho went on a free transfer to Vasco Dama this summer. People forgot he even was a Villa player. Um, yeah, from what I can tell, Dendonka was on a lot of money. He He's gone for free as well. Robin Olsen who I think he was signed before Munchy but Munchy had signed him to replace Allison and that was a disaster at Roma not to go back over that Olsen gone on a free transfer again. I mean it's it's this is I think fans don't pay attention to this like as I've said with the loans they don't pay attention to the the cost added onto a wage bill of those players. these players that have been forgotten down the back of the sofa, they all get paid by Viller and get paid a lot of money and they haven't been able to sell those players and they've had to just give them away for free or let their contracts run out so they can just get them off the wage bill. So, you know, I I I take your point. It's a it's it's miserable that you're you're you know, you you're going to wait and not buying you a Kinder egg, but like you know, which I think is actually something Slav and Billet said. It's it's about like yeah I mean it's it is that and but at the same time the tension that there is there is they've got the manager who should be able to do really well in this situation. It's just that that manager perhaps in what his third season maybe some players are like h you know we we we we coming into work it's a slog it's a slog. Well, that's that that thing about the sales about the transfer dealings. That's that's my that's the central I say central bit of my argument. It's the extent of my argument about Villa to be honest which is that the the the kind of PSR is holding us back is true in the sense that there are now limitations on what on what Wes Edens and now can put into the club like they can't just be like here's another 500 million quid off you go. That is true but at the same time I people always assume this is because I'm a Liverpool fan but it's not. is it's because I'm someone who kind of whose basic principle in football is I kind of want the Premier League teams not to win everything in Europe. That's my my most sort of ardently held view about football is I I like it when Premier League teams don't win in Europe. That's my whether it's Liverpool or not. You know, obviously if they win the Champions League, perfectly happy, but if it's not them, I want it to be a European team and I want there to be lots of different teams from lots of different countries in Europe who are competing. Villa have got way more money than basically everybody in world football. They are able to spend far more money than everyone in in world football. I did the math a few weeks ago. Got a lot of [ __ ] for it. They've spent something like 500 or 600 million quid in five years. That strikes me as probably being enough. Like you can't really complain. You are shopping at Waitros. Do you know what I mean? You're not being asked to cooker like a gastronomic feast that would satisfy Wilson by going to going to like little. You are one of the richest clubs in the world. That's false premise number one. False premise number two is this idea that they're being held back. How have they been held back? They went from the championship to the quarterfinals of the Champions League in five years. What more do people want? Do you know what I mean? Like that that is enough. That is incredible. That is an incredible story told by DM Baladay in his book Rise of the Villains which is out this week which is not great timing for DM admittedly, but it's a legitimate thing to celebrate because Villa have come so far so fast and they have done that because they spent a lot of money. I think for a while they didn't sell very well. I think they missed like a lot of clubs the fact that PSR is a cash flow game. We've we've talked about this before. This is Chelsea's great insight that you can spend as much as you like as you as long as you keep the money flowing out as well. Um Liverpool I think have worked that out as well and then they've now kind of switched their transfer strategy to match. Um Villa don't do that. They sold Greish and they sold John Giran and that basically was it until relatively recently. But more importantly as as James kind of highlights they've been really bad at buying in the last two years. like they have they've spent a lot of money and not permanently improved their team. Asencio I thought was a great loan signing last last January. Did you need to do him and Rashford? Did you need to do him and Rashford and Danielle Maron? Was that necessary or is that overkill? Is that just spending money for the sake of it? And I think that's what that more than anything is what has held Villa back. The fact that it's like a traditional sporting flaw. Like if you if you don't spend money well, you don't succeed. That's not because of there are rules in place. It just the fact that there are rules in place just means you don't get to do it again and again and again. It it's a mentality though of perhaps owners and fans and you have the null Gallagher quote on this where he says uh you know I've got 80 million in the bank. I've sold 20 million albums. I've been asked to join the board of Manchester City but I still want more. And that's and that's and and that's sort of you know that's that's football you know success becomes something else doesn't it? We've talked about this before about success actually becomes like a and if you're having less success that feels painful when before the that level of success would have been success. It's like a a sliding scale of Rory Liverpool are in this cycle now of you know winning titles perhaps winning Champions leagues. If they drop below that, it's oh the utter misery of oh this is awful actually. Yeah. Do you know what I was I was at Anfield the other day and I was talking to a mutual friend of ours who works for Liverpool um who who was saying that he remembered when someone told him about how winning maybe it was winning the title this year or the Champions League in 2019 or whatever that this makes up for the dark days and he just said what dark days Liverpool haven't finished lower than eight since 1962. What more again like what more do you want? Yeah, there are for Villa this is this is sort of dressed up I think for Villa who are a huge club and I I I've got to say I love Villa as a club. I love the Hull End. I love the 1995 Mark Bosnik dolling shirt. Like I have a lot of affection for Villa for a team I don't support. I have a lot of affection for Villa. Muller Rice is a sponsor that was Muller Rice is exactly probably the best rice based yogurt. Yeah. And the of the imagine Yeah. Don't see many Müller rices these days, do you? Um they've been they've been priced out of the game. the but the it does feel a little bit like the the trajectory has slowed as it does when you get closer to the top. That's natural. It should be harder to make the step from fifth to fourth than it is to make the step from eighth to fifth. That that is how sport works. And what's odd is that it has seeped into the kind of the thinking of the club. And I think James is right to kind of maybe shine the spotlight away from the regulations and from transfer spending on to Emory. I want to um as I mentioned I've been reading Rise of the Villains an advanced copy uh and I want to read you a passage from DM's book which is full of got to say DM's book is full of really really great detail about about Emory's role at at sort of turning Villa into what they are now. It I think if you're a Villa fan you'll really love it. You'll be unsurprised to learn that Unai Emory is the hero. Um but but it is full of it's got some fascinating insights in it. And this is a scene in George Mendes's house in Madrid, uh, where Nassf Siris, the the co-owner of Aston Villa, has flown out to meet with Emory on neutral territory ahead of appointing him from, um, from Villa Royale. Uh, George Menddees offered his home in Madrid for the encounter, and some members of his team were present. Nassv with an unsettled stomach, like like I say, it's full of great detail, flew flew in from London. Oh, okay. I don't know why it that I when I read that line I thought this must be relevant. There must be like a scene in a toilet for the I also like how George George Mendes is an Airbnb host you know so please please rate me 4.9 on 4.9 but you have to do the recycling. The um Unai and Damia which is Damia Vidani the um head of football operations explained the difference between success and failure often comes down to time. With the right ingredients, success can be immediate. But if it takes longer, you need time to make it happen. How do you secure that time? Then there's some other stuff. Uh NASF wasn't there to offer a job or a project. He was in the bathroom. NASF had had another project to think about. Um he wanted Unai to design one. Handing him a blank piece of paper, he said, "Draw the club you need to succeed. Not just a team, but everything. what do you need to make Aston Villa winners? Not so much a proposal to sit on my bench, but rather NASF was saying here's the key to the house. And that I think is a really it's a great anecdote. Yeah. Yeah. But it's it's also really indicative of kind of what what the villa model is. And the villa model is Unai Emory. Yes. I don't think there's any doubt about that when you hear from Villa fans. There's obviously this idea that if you could go because you know results go against him eventually he gets mutually consented out of there then the Villa fans idea is like but if he goes it's all ended and that's sort of true isn't it because the structure is built around him I mean and it's not like a club like Manchester City that you would imagine or we know have got a succession plan in place so to succeed Pep. However successful it is, we don't know. But, you know, you've got Hugo Vanna coming in and you've they're obviously looking for the next guy along. It it appears that it's a one-shot deal. It's you or bust. Yeah. And again, this is what is best practice in football. I think the hardest decision to get right at a football club is the manager. Okay. And then stuff sort of coaleses around the manager. But that last line about here are the keys, you know, you have to think about the club first, not the coach. You know, you have to have recruitment that's independent of the club. I mean, it's just a independent of the coach. I mean, if you give him the keys of the house and he decagon comes in and Alan Carr and Amanda Holden are walking around this villa and they're like, "Wow, it's very Basque in its decor, isn't it? Uh, Unai, um, are we going to be able to sell this to, you know, the Italian manager who Villa need to bring in next or the the German manager?" No, because it's it's just it's just such an unai it it's it's so bespoke to unai that it becomes very difficult to then move away from that. And yeah, they offered him a fiveyear he signed a 5year extension on his contract, a new 5year contract. So, you know, him walking or getting, you know, sort of sack being sacked again, not to bring up the squad cost rule, that's going to be expensive. Um and then you have a situation which is sort of similar to what Man United keep finding themselves in on a different level which is ah Eric Tenhag um you want us to recreate the Ajax team that you took to a Champions League semi-final. Um yes we will buy uh yeah Leandro Martinez, Matias De Mazawi uh everybody to allow that to happen with with Uni. Unai gets hired and as I said Yan Langanger was I think the sporting director, technical director. They work together, I think, on a summer and then Unai is like, "Yeah, I'd like to bring in my own guy, you know, this Munchy dude. I worked with him. That would be good." Um, you know, and you look at the signings that they've made. They are I wouldn't even call them munchy signings. They're just Unai saying, "I want that fullback from Bettis, Alex Moreno. Go and sign him. Um, I want Pow Torres. Um, go get him." And you know that you end up being so beholden to the coach um in in in that situation that it's it's it's becomes really difficult to distinguish between the club and the coach. Um it's also really it makes you really vulnerable right that that you are suddenly susceptible to a bad run of form because Emory is the central figure at Villa. I think it's not too much of a stress to say of a of a what's the word exaggeration to say that that Emory is like Villa's story. He is the he is the the leading character in Aston Villa's rise. Everything is about Emory. But then he he has a dodgy start to the season five games in and you know there have been reports I think DeMartio reported the other day that he he considered quitting over the course of the summer. It it's not impossible that if this bad run of form continues. I don't think it will. I think they're far too good for it to continue. But if it does continue then maybe maybe you know there's a point at which Emry gets sacked. As James says he does have this quite kind of intellectually intense style that involves a lot of meetings. Unai Emory likes a meeting and he likes a long meeting and that's fine but a lot of footballers don't like long meetings and crucially a lot of footballers will do stuff when it's working and they're winning games and as soon as they stop winning games they will be like well I don't want to be in this long meeting. That's stupid. That's how footballers operate. So there's a possibility that it all kind of goes wrong and you've, as James says, you've built this club around the manager. I mean, there's another great bit in in Rise of the Villains. I don't want to do DMs plugging for him too much, but the size of Emory's staff is astonishing. So he apparently goes in with 10 10 people like assistants and transfer people and Dami Vidani and all these kind of people, this his trusted crew. And then over the over over the last two years I guess it it doubles in size. So that and this is according to GM often those meetings which last like 90 minutes are 25 players and 26 staff members. That's too many. That's just far too many staff. What you holding your meetings in like an auditori? Yeah. Right, lads. Pre-match analysis. Get down to the NEC. But it's all really really vulnerable to to events because if you start losing games then maybe you the manager resigns or the manager gets sacked or the players lose faith in the manager and he can't get it back. And if that's your central story then you have a real issue. Yeah. It reminds me of Sam Alladise we always had to have loads of staff didn't he? Because he'd have all these analysts and stuff at the time he he got into football like became a manager. a manager just arrived on his own maybe with an assistant you know to to go for a pint with or whatever and then eventually he brings in all these people are we saying you is the is the uh Basque uh Sam Alladash maybe I am I'm not sure but I mean Villa St James is as as Sam's Villa is known we are we are slowly as a podcast going through all these bast managers and insulting them because I think what Horncastle called Arteta the gimmicky bast Brendan a few weeks ago that's good and now you've on Emory as the Bastal Alladise. This is not We are not going to be welcome in San Sebastian. Shame. That is a shame. Your words have consequences. The thing is that it there is an issue though about Emry's style of football, apart from the fact I think they've got the oldest squad in the Premier League as well, is that it isn't, we've discussed this a lot, the modern style is a bit more muscular, a bit more direct. Okay, you've got John McInn's glutes, but you know the rest of them and aren't particularly a big team. And h has that style of football suddenly become outdated because or has Emmery become outdated or is it that Emmery arrives at a club changes it to his specifications and then when you require a plan B isn't able to go to the next step which is quite common with managers. This is what we forget with managers that there's a there's a couple of managers that lasted a long time that that everyone is held up against them. But it doesn't work that way. You can be a manager and be a successful manager who's only at a club of three years. And so should Emry walk away, Villa fans would have to say those were great times under Emory. But it doesn't work like that, does it? It's like it sort of has to come to an end at some point. And if you were going to replace him, if you built the club around him, where's the succession planning? We don't know that, do we? But presumably the owners of the club and the people close to them are thinking about this now are probably panicking. You would have thought now a bit, John. I mean, their reaction to Monty leaving is to um hire a B sporting director. I didn't. And again, this this is remarkable. you know, the guy Roberto Alab has done a great job with that rail sausad team even though Arsenal have basically a Basque has has basically come and and relocated the Basque country in in in Hybrid in Islington. Um but again that that seems to be a move that's indulgent to me indulgent to Naamory. we are bringing in um another another person you feel you can work with rather than bring in someone who they think they think can work independently of um Unai Emory um in the interests uh of the club in the mid to long term um because of course they should work hand in hand in the here and now but Olabbe has to come into this job with the thinking Yeah, I do have to look at a succession plan. If not for this season or this month or next week, then you know for whenever Unai leaves and I have to look at the player profiles of this squad and think how do we rejuvenate it within the limitations that we're working in. And yeah, I think I I think that is a very curious choice from them which which again is is indicative that they are beholden to Runa. They are doing everything possible to make him happy. Um and you know I'm I'm not sure what Olabi can do in the short term to you know help Unai turn results around you know outside the transfer window. Um and and that sort of thing. So I don't think it's a case of his ideas going stale. It's it's as we've talked about it's maybe maybe players are a little bit jaded um by those ideas cuz Unai over the last 15 20 years has gone from one club to the other and has generally had success um at most of those clubs be it you know at PSG he did win the league. I know people will say that's a given, but you know, three three French clubs have won the league in the Qatar era at PSG that are not called PSG. So, you know, you can lose it. Kelotti famously lost uh the league in his first half season. Um, you know, he So, I I I think they've still got the right manager. It's just about can he find a way of compromising maybe on his ideas, refreshing a little bit, making it easier on the on the players. Um but you know the the the club you know has is is has tied itself to his mast really and and like you say James the the story of Aston Villa now is is basically the story of Una there is that seems to be kind of set in stone and I think that's quite important. I think that it sounds it's like a wanky thing that journalists think, but I do think that clubs now need to to have a kind of animating force rather than just being just it's not enough just to exist. You need to sell something to your fans to make them pay them, you know, colossal ticket prices to pay for their TV subscriptions. You need to sell something to the public in general. You need to sell something to your players. And what Villa are selling is we've got this amazing manager. I think that's quite a short termist story to tell, but it could be worse because there are um other clubs who don't even have that to sell to their fans. And we're going to talk about those two uh after a break. And a brief reminder, which I am doing at this point so that you don't skip forward to like, rate, review, Spotify, YouTube, Apple, Acast, whatever it might be, I don't know. Um, everything that you do helps us get the word out through the tyranny of the algorithm. Uh, we will be back in a couple of minutes. Would anyone like to talk more about how depressing Wolves are or how depressing West Ham are? Well, I've been to Wolves already this season and it was quite depressing. Go on. In what way was it depressing? traffic. Well, I mean I I actually quite like Wolves as a place, believe it or not. Uh but you can believe it. I do like it. I think you should believe it. It's I should believe it, you know. And I have I enjoyed Molyneu. It's got that sort of standing, hasn't it? As a old style ground and the atmosphere there is up, it's fantastic. It wasn't up when I saw them against Everton the other week and there's a certain Yeah. uh quite quite similar to that sort of uh Brummy uh Enw is just up the road. Uh are you kind of saying that everyone in the West Midlands is is prone to fatalism? Is that where is that where we're landing? Well, maybe it's just like the the sort of vow sounds that that make make you think that. But uh it's it I don't know. It it just felt like that's another club, isn't it? It was a big project where you had a very ambitious owner uh and then you know that was based around one manager in Nuno and his connection to uh another operative in George Mendes and that came to its end and then they've been trying to relight that fire ever since with various managers Vito Pereira who may or may not be uh close to George Mendes but you know I've got a good idea that he might be. Um, and it's but the but the but they're in they had that great point, didn't they, where they, you know, people were saying they could get into the Champions League or whatever and then it that success is over and now it's a struggle and they've sold off the family silver that the the best you know Vitinia a player they had is PSG's star midfielder and it's it's they're looking elsewhere to think oh and Pedro Netto you such a brilliant player for them is sold off to Chelsea. The family silver has been sold off. Maybe George Menddees isn't such a good seam to mine anymore. Uh and they spent, you know, the uh Strand Lson wanted to leave the club and just this total sense of we're going to struggle this season. They began the season thinking there'd be a relegation battle for probably the third season in a row. Now, that's a club that it's lost direction and the fans are saying, you know, back it's back. I think the chant was back the team or sell the club to uh it's Jeff Xi who is the frontman for the Chinese owners. And of course, we don't really know that much about how the club is run apart from that Jeff Xi is the front man and it's it's gone stale to the point where it could go very bad. I saw it described as an experiment. It was on Twitter. Experiment to see what happens if you year on year sell all of your best players and replace them with worst ones. Yes. And that's bas that is basically what this is when when most there's this idea that journalist I mean Horncastle is a bit of an exception to this really but there's this idea that like journalists should have heard of every player and I always think it's a bit mad because there's loads of players like how are you how on earth you meant not only are there loads of players but as Wolves amply demonstrate most of them are called Gomez. So, like, how are you meant to have heard of them? They're just they're just these names and we we've all got like stuff to write and podcast to record. Like, you can't hear of every player, but mostly when a Premier League team signs somebody, you you've kind of you're vaguely aware of them. You've maybe seen them once or twice, whether it's in Europe or you've, you know, you've watched some highlights or something or you're aware of that they've been a player of interest. You've seen a story with their name in it. Most of the names are familiar. Wolves signed a load of players this summer that I've that I had no idea existed. And that might be my failure. That might be my failing. But I think it may be indicative that they are they've done very niche in their transfers, which does suggest that like the Mendes, they are not. I think the issue James, you'll know more about this than I do, but the issue seems to be that there was a period when George Mendes was quite interested in them and now he's not. Yeah. And I I think also the the ownership situation there, the ownership mix in the Premier League is fascinating, you know, I mean, because I think now a lot of people think, okay, City, Abu Dhabi, Newcastle, Saudi, and then the rest are American. And we've spent um the first half of this podcast talking about um a club owned by Egypt's richest man um in conjunction with uh an American and we're now talking about a club that is owned by China um or Chinese companies and Trump impression then China or China. Yeah. And you know I mean the the Yeah. China is a cautionary tale. I mean, I've I've experienced this myself covering the Milan clubs over the last decade where, you know, Sylvia Belliskone sold to this complete unknown um Chinese businessman um called Lee Yong Hong um who, you know, sort of people in Shanghai had never heard of and people in Beijing had never heard of. And yeah, that ended up uh with a repossession uh from an American hedge fund. And then with Inter, you know, Inter were were bought by one of the biggest businesses um in China and they spent not like a a state-owned club, but they invested the amount of money you would have expected a Chinese uh big Chinese firm to, you know, from one of the biggest economies, if not the biggest economy in the world to spend in football. And then political winds changed. They couldn't spend uh anymore. and into were repossessed um by by a creditor who helped them out in in COVID. And uh I'm not saying that's going to happen with with wolves. Um but China, you know, Xi Jinping once upon a time said, "Oh, it'd be great to have the World Cup here. We should, you know, sort of invest in our league. Um and um you know, you guys go out and buy clubs in Europe." and gradually. Yeah, Wolves are kind of almost the last club standing um in this in terms of having a a Chinese owner. Um and I think they are in England, aren't they? Are they not the last one left in in England? Yeah. Well, West Brom sold. Yeah, West Brom is owned by an American. Yeah, I think. Yeah. Okay. So, last club standing uh in in in that regard and I do think it's it's you know, while they're not stateowned, Yeah. I do think it is it is a cautionary tale with um countries that all of a sudden think yeah we're going to get into football and then yeah a few years later decide nah not not for us. Is it also a cautionary tale, John, do you think about the the kind of the allure the elusive allure of the of the of the ideal owner? is that I think probably the most depressing club in the Premier League more so than Villa who've talked themselves into depression and Wolves who have been sort of drifting into it are West Ham who and I say this with respect just seem pointless now because this is just as Jack Pitbrook our colleague deserves quite a lot of credit for the idea around kind of Villa Villa building themselves around Emory exclusively that is their identity West Ham I think have no identity. Does it was Upton Park? This is me just parishing what Jack said to me the other day. The bowling ground as well. The bowling ground as they insist on calling it like people who call it the Arsenal. Come on, grow up. The um the it was Upton Park and it was local. It was it was noobs and it was sort of East End and all that stuff. Daddy Dier. Exactly. And it was fan violence and limited midfield players and but what is it now? Like they're a club who don't have a distinct style of football. It's not the West Ham way anymore. That's all long gone. They all hate the stadium. The stadium is It's like uh some sort of sci-fi thing where it's post-apocalyptic and this is the final wasteland left on Earth. And to get there feels like you're strolling across some, you know, postnuclear through nuclear fallout to get to this stadium where you can't actually see I mean all the all the gags are there about the running track or whatever. I mean I was at Spurs last night and we were on the front row and you as close to the action as you can be there and it's you are close West Ham that view is not available and um the thing is that the thing was built for the 2012 Olympics which is a while ago but it's not that it's quite new but it feels tired. the place feels tired and it's not really being given the respect that maybe an Olympic stadium deserves or a football club stadium should have because sort of no one really owns it. I mean it's sort of owned by the local authority and West Ham pay a rental and yeah and it's and you know over the summer that you know I made and played there which I actually had to miss because it was Wilson's wedding but I'm still not over that. That's a that's a poor choice. That is a poor choice. Yeah. Um but anyway it's but like West Ham is just this frustration of this club. The club is still there. The heart of the club is still there among the fans definitely and you know an old style West Ham fan knows what West Ham is is that it's a club that is struggling towards the bottom of the first division or the the Premier League and will have its big days of beating Spurs or Man United or whatever. Uh but they won a trophy not long ago, the Conference League, and yet we talk about this elsewhere that they still didn't like the manager. You know, David Moyes delivered this. Not all of the fans, they were divided on the manager and it feels like being a West Ham manager is difficult and it's also difficult because you have to deal with the ownership of that club as well because they did get in that you know the fame sporting director and then they got rid of him and the the owner essentially or co-owner essentially because there is a a minor shareholder these days of considerable wealth. He acts like he's the own sporting director himself because it's like what he you know he's that that's his what he does and he you know he he briefs journalists all the time and everyone you know it and it just gives off this chaotic chaotic side and I remember David Sullivan's his name talking to local hacks up in Birmingham that would say we haven't got a story for the Birmingham male or whatever and just phone up David Sullivan and say right how about this and just tell them stuff and I think that's sort of how operates a little bit now and it's it's like old style but the club has tried to modernize it made itself into West Ham London. Remember when they went into and they tried to make themselves blue chip but they're still West Ham. They're still a chaos club. I wonder whether the London element is is partly damaging them. the the general assumption and it's right is that being in London is a massive advantage for for teams and that's definitely true for like Fulham and Brenford and right up to Tottenham and Arsenal. Um but I think with West Ham because they've got that stadium and they were given it for free basically by the taxpayer. Um and because they are they are therefore like they have the capacity to to attract a lot of tourists. I think they've pivoted really, really far into kind of being the place where you go and watch your Premier League match. And I think that's compounded the atmosphere issue. Um, not because tourists are bad. They're not, but just because that balance is really important. And I also wonder whether in the move that something was lost where the club doesn't really know what it is anymore. It kind of wants to be this, like you say, this big blue chip London brand, but it's not. It's West Ham. It's Eels and Mash. Do you know what I mean? It is Green Street. It's the Essex Hinterlands. It's all that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. It's not West Ham aren't designed to be like this sophisticated modern club. And they do seem if if Villa have kind of invested all of their identity into Emory and if Wolves have misplaced their identity because it was bound up with George Mendes's business interests. West Ham just seem to have just completely lost theirs. And it I always thought I think the Conference League is the best example of that because it was obviously a wonderful moment. They got their bus parade. They got their European trophy. It was it was something they will remember for all their lives. Football is about moments, but it wasn't enough because supporting a club is is a journey and you need to follow to want to follow it. And it it won't end in a trophy every season. A trophy doesn't it gives you a moment, but it doesn't make you think, well, all right, we'll have loads more of those. They don't know whether they want a little bit like Everton, they they kind of want the stool of science and the dogs of war. Uh I like to think of of them as a school of dogs club. there's there's this sort of confused identity, but they don't. I think the fans are are just desperate for something to cling on to and the club offer them nothing. That's the problem. I think there's the tension between the fans and what I mean by that is, you know, because Italian football is back and you you you all know this. In 2023, I did three finals in 10 days. um Roma against Sevilla where Monty got the better of Roma uh and in Estumble against City and then the other one was uh West Ham against Furantina and Prague and by far the best uh final or one of the best days I've ever had covering this job was being pitched for West Ham um winning the Conference League against Florentina um and going you know we we went down from our position up in the stands to pitch side in like the 85th minute and it meant that as we came through the tunnel near the corner flag all of a sudden you just basically see Jared Bowen one v one uh scoring the goal in the last minute which Furantina can't come back from and they win and you know we had to put up umbrellas because they were just showers of beer and then you're with the kind of the the Cole twins as TNT call them Carlton and Joe Cole who are just such great people to be around And I I came away from I that night and the airport the following day. I came away thinking that West Ham had it felt like all of West Ham and all of Essex was uh there in Prague. In a way I think you just don't feel that in Stratford. Um, you know, I I I came away thinking, "Wow, this is a club that is still extremely rooted um in its people, in its in its fan base, and has a much stronger identity, and a lot of football clubs um in this country. I actually got in with Ray Winston's accreditation um because I hadn't picked mine up and Ry was supposed to come from where he lives now, which I think is in Sicily, where he has a St. George's flag um that's raised all the time. Um and just just the club has such a distinct character and yet since the move to to the they call it the London Stadium, it's a sort of thing that is called it's the sort of name of a stadium you'd have in Pro Evo. It's a it's a knockoff stadium. Yeah, it's it's a knockoff stadium and you feel like it's a bit of a knockoff going to watch a club like West Ham there. And so, you know, they had with Moyes, as as John was saying, you know, okay, fans not sold on the style of play, but I think a lot of fans traveling with the team on those European nights had a the best times of their lives following West Ham. And again, now that you know, when they've tried to move away from Moyes, got a Basque manager, Latei, um, and it didn't work, all of the old grievances just come back. um that they're they're owned by owners who've owned a previous another football club in the past, Birmingham City. Ollets. Yeah. Yeah. And so so it makes they feel to me they're quite recognizable as like almost Italian owners in the way that Zampirini would own Venetia and then Palmo or um Chelino would have Calerie and then Brussia um and almost be more famous for owning a football club than their own previous business, you know, which some cases pornography, other is lingerie, um other being a Czech billionaire. Um, and uh, and I think if you are going to become more famous for owning a football club than your own business is, then you have to be seen to be good at the football. Do you know what I mean? And I I I think that's that's an underlying tension. I also think West Ham's purpose is just to supply pundits these days, you know, because you know, remember when Jose Mourinho said um there are too many Liverpool uh you know uh ex players in like the Sky Studio. Um West Ham into their their place in the football culture feels like they're punching way above their weight because they got you had Rio before Rio left TNT. Joe Cole, Carlton Cole, Don Hutcherson, the rednaps, you know, I I always think just think, you know, regardless of Jaime's playing career, you just think Harry um on Talk Sport. Um you know, Lampard when he's not coaching does stuff and you just think Frank Lampard senior played with Rednap West Ham. Yeah, even in our game, you know, one of the most eminent columnists is a West Ham fan. Jacob Steinberg. Jacob, you know, and Martin Samuel. Um, and yeah, they they have an in they have a a a huge place in the in in the football culture really. It's funny cuz I I always think we we've done massively over time now, Tom. I'm be getting annoyed, but I always think that the um the big shift in in like in the media is is illustrated by the fact that the default London club that most journalists support has switched from West Ham to Palace. that that shows how how the media has just got a little bit posher. The um it's not Fulham, but it's but it's Palace. It's very Palace. Um but I wanted to just round off because I think you've both touched on this and I think it's a really interesting idea and not one I've considered before of like hereditary grumbling that John, you mentioned Birmingham fans were really quick to turn at the Virtue Motors final. That that is Thank you, Tom. Yeah. Yeah. Informs me what what the Papa John's is now called. um that they were quick to turn as though they they they were so conditioned to they were reliving their something wrong like you can you can have this incredible journey under under Tom Brady's stewardship and literally as soon as you you concede a goal you're like a well this is [ __ ] isn't it terrible as [ __ ] absolutely terrible and it's the same with West Ham that they win a European trophy and you know within 10 minutes like get rid of the ball they're not doing it right [ __ ] off it of our club Sullivan and it But it is true that like that one goal, one game, one season doesn't football fans have quite long memories and there is like an institutional memory of of a club and I do wonder whether to an extent at places like West Ham maybe that they have had so many years of kind of mismanagement that it's kind of the default setting. Yeah. Is that fair? And next week we'll do Everton, but yeah, it's like this is the thing with football clubs, isn't it? And and I've always said this like the the Manchester City idea of like we suffered for years when we weren't very good. No, you just supported a football team. That's what they're like mostly. That's true. And on that on that bombshell that that bleed window into reality from John Brewin. We will leave you to your weekend. Enjoy it. If you're at a game, if you're watching a game, feel free to, you know, tweet us or Instagram DM us or, you know, communicate with us in some way. If you've got a question, we do have an email address. I can't remember what it is. Uh it's written on the bottom of the page. It's it's all in the show notes, etc. Um, thank you for joining us. Thank you to James and to John and producer Tom. Thank you for listening. See you soon. Powered by Riverside FM.