================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: fvUUfVUsvVE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fvUUfVUsvVE
TITLE: EPL 25/26 preview: Arsenal, Aston Villa, Bournemouth, Brentford & Brighton!
CHANNEL: Total Soccer Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-11
DURATION: 1h 7m 41s
VIEWS: 574
LIKES: 19
COMMENTS: 1

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The TSS Gang kicks off its annual week of Premier League previews with a look at an Arsenal team looking to go a step further, Unai Emery's high-flying Aston Villa and a pack of teams looking to maintain and improve upon their overachieving recent history: Bournemouth, Brentford and Brighton.

Thumbnail photo by Justin Setterfield/Getty Images.

EPL 25/25 PREVIEW CHAPTERS

0:00 - Intro
03:58 - Arsenal
17:36 - Aston Villa
28:36 - Bournemouth
39:41 - Brentford
51:52 - Brighton

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 29,815

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and part one of four of our 2526 Premier part one of four of our 2526 Premier League previews. Here we go. On this League previews. Here we go. On this episode, we're going to tell you episode, we're going to tell you everything you need to know about everything you need to know about Arsenal, Aston Villa, Bournemouth, Arsenal, Aston Villa, Bournemouth, Brenford, and Brighton heading into the Brenford, and Brighton heading into the new campaign. We'll be looking at where new campaign. We'll be looking at where each team left off last season, their each team left off last season, their summer business, their manager and style summer business, their manager and style of play, key players, and our patented of play, key players, and our patented Total Soccer Show. Very specific Total Soccer Show. Very specific predictions. My name's Ryan Bailey. predictions. My name's Ryan Bailey. Joining me today, your friend and my Joining me today, your friend and my friend, back in his native Virginia, the friend, back in his native Virginia, the Commonwealth thereof, Taylor. Hello. How Commonwealth thereof, Taylor. Hello. How are you? are you? are you? &gt;&gt; Hello, my friend. Uh, I only saw &gt;&gt; Hello, my friend. Uh, I only saw marginally more Confederate flags in marginally more Confederate flags in Pennsylvania than Virginia this time Pennsylvania than Virginia this time round. It was significantly more last round. It was significantly more last time. So, progress, I guess. But very time. So, progress, I guess. But very excited uh to be back talking with you excited uh to be back talking with you all and very proud of us that we've all and very proud of us that we've decided as a unit that Arsenal come decided as a unit that Arsenal come first alphabetically. Enough of this AFC first alphabetically. Enough of this AFC Bournemouth nonsense. Uh, it's Arsenal Bournemouth nonsense. Uh, it's Arsenal first. And that's not just cuz I then first. And that's not just cuz I then get to preview them. That's right, get to preview them. That's right, Taylor. To be clear, um Bournemouth do Taylor. To be clear, um Bournemouth do not come top of the Premier League not come top of the Premier League rankings alphabetically, but AFC rankings alphabetically, but AFC Wimbledon very much do. We don't want to Wimbledon very much do. We don't want to be bottom. be bottom. be bottom. &gt;&gt; Is that to game the system? Is that to &gt;&gt; Is that to game the system? Is that to get to the top of the get to the top of the previews every year? Next year, we're previews every year? Next year, we're going to have ABC Wolves as a member of going to have ABC Wolves as a member of the Premier League. the Premier League. &gt;&gt; AAA Wolves. Yes, sir. &gt;&gt; AAA Wolves. Yes, sir. &gt;&gt; AAA Wolves. There we go. I I always like &gt;&gt; AAA Wolves. There we go. I I always like as we um at the start of the season when as we um at the start of the season when you've got the Premier League table or you've got the Premier League table or the whatever table, but everyone's got the whatever table, but everyone's got zero points. I always used to like it zero points. I always used to like it when ASA women would appear at the top when ASA women would appear at the top of their respective league and because of their respective league and because we we always used to be at the bottom we we always used to be at the bottom for alphabet reasons. Cool conversation, for alphabet reasons. Cool conversation, Joe Larry, how are you? Joe Larry, how are you? &gt;&gt; Hey, I'm I'm glad you took it there, &gt;&gt; Hey, I'm I'm glad you took it there, Ryan, cuz I was about to roast you for Ryan, cuz I was about to roast you for that exact thing. That's why you like it that exact thing. That's why you like it so much is because that's the only time so much is because that's the only time you'll ever see it. But then you went you'll ever see it. But then you went and did it anyway. Darn it. I'm just and did it anyway. Darn it. I'm just going to be quiet now. What's up? going to be quiet now. What's up? &gt;&gt; Hey, all good here, Joe. Very good to &gt;&gt; Hey, all good here, Joe. Very good to have you on board for our Premier League have you on board for our Premier League previews as it is good to have on board previews as it is good to have on board Mr. Graeme Rus. Hello, Graeme. Mr. Graeme Rus. Hello, Graeme. &gt;&gt; Hello, Ryan Bailey. How are you? Are you &gt;&gt; Hello, Ryan Bailey. How are you? Are you nice and rested after our summer of not nice and rested after our summer of not watching any soccer? Of course. Are we watching any soccer? Of course. Are we feeling rested, guys? Like the Premier feeling rested, guys? Like the Premier League starts this weekend. We feel League starts this weekend. We feel prepared. Summer of soccer didn't push prepared. Summer of soccer didn't push us to the brink over the course of a us to the brink over the course of a couple months. None of that happened. couple months. None of that happened. No, No, No, &gt;&gt; that's right. No, no, I haven't watched &gt;&gt; that's right. No, no, I haven't watched any soccer the last few matches. Just any soccer the last few matches. Just been been been &gt;&gt; pickle ball. &gt;&gt; pickle ball. &gt;&gt; I don't know. &gt;&gt; I don't know. &gt;&gt; Pickle ball. I don't even know what that &gt;&gt; Pickle ball. I don't even know what that is. is. is. &gt;&gt; Sounds fun. &gt;&gt; Sounds fun. &gt;&gt; Graham, &gt;&gt; Graham, &gt;&gt; Graham, &gt;&gt; it's disappointingly it doesn't involve &gt;&gt; it's disappointingly it doesn't involve pickles. That's all I'll say. That was a pickles. That's all I'll say. That was a huge chance, Ryan, for us to absolutely huge chance, Ryan, for us to absolutely gaslight Graham into something gaslight Graham into something completely different. Missed completely different. Missed opportunity. opportunity. opportunity. &gt;&gt; Never mind. Never mind. &gt;&gt; Never mind. Never mind. &gt;&gt; Am I the only one that thinks that &gt;&gt; Am I the only one that thinks that Graham is lying? I feel like Graham has Graham is lying? I feel like Graham has to know what pickle ball is. to know what pickle ball is. &gt;&gt; Is it paddle? Is it just as the &gt;&gt; Is it paddle? Is it just as the Europeans call it paddle? Same thing, Europeans call it paddle? Same thing, right? Yeah, right? Yeah, right? Yeah, &gt;&gt; it's paddle but easier. Let's Let's call &gt;&gt; it's paddle but easier. Let's Let's call it that. Okay. Um, but yes, I'm very it that. Okay. Um, but yes, I'm very much back in the Premier League mood. I much back in the Premier League mood. I think, Graeme, I always get into that think, Graeme, I always get into that mood when I see the Community Shields on mood when I see the Community Shields on and I don't watch the Community Shield. and I don't watch the Community Shield. That's when I feel like I'm really back That's when I feel like I'm really back into it. you Ryan so on brand. into it. you Ryan so on brand. &gt;&gt; I watched No, I watched the second half &gt;&gt; I watched No, I watched the second half of the community show. Does that count of the community show. Does that count with the penalties? with the penalties? &gt;&gt; It's quite a fun game actually. &gt;&gt; It's quite a fun game actually. &gt;&gt; It was good. It was a good result. &gt;&gt; It was good. It was a good result. &gt;&gt; Good vibes. Um I think Liverpool are &gt;&gt; Good vibes. Um I think Liverpool are going to be fun this season. More on going to be fun this season. More on that later in the that later in the &gt;&gt; in the week. I am uh I am previewing &gt;&gt; in the week. I am uh I am previewing them. Well, maybe not as fun as in terms them. Well, maybe not as fun as in terms of like just running away with a title of like just running away with a title as they did last season. I think they as they did last season. I think they have some defensive issues maybe to to have some defensive issues maybe to to iron out. But um yeah, good game. iron out. But um yeah, good game. &gt;&gt; I'm glad you agreed as well. Right. Yes, &gt;&gt; I'm glad you agreed as well. Right. Yes, &gt;&gt; having watched all 90 minutes. &gt;&gt; having watched all 90 minutes. &gt;&gt; Indeed, my expert analysis. I'm glad &gt;&gt; Indeed, my expert analysis. I'm glad it's valued. Community shield. Come on. it's valued. Community shield. Come on. Come on. It's a friendly. Anyway, let's Come on. It's a friendly. Anyway, let's get into our Premier League previews. get into our Premier League previews. But before we do so, patreon.com/total But before we do so, patreon.com/total Soccer shows where you'll find our bonus Soccer shows where you'll find our bonus content, including bonus Premier League content, including bonus Premier League content coming to the feed this week. content coming to the feed this week. We're going to give our golden boot We're going to give our golden boot predictions. Graham's going to be predictions. Graham's going to be talking about kits. Oh, I can see him talking about kits. Oh, I can see him shaking with excitement from here. There shaking with excitement from here. There we go. patreon.com/totals Soccer Show. we go. patreon.com/totals Soccer Show. We also get access to our Discord, We also get access to our Discord, please. Anna, thank you. All right, please. Anna, thank you. All right, Taylor, without further ado, I'm going Taylor, without further ado, I'm going to hand metaphorically the reigns to to hand metaphorically the reigns to you, sir, because I would like you to you, sir, because I would like you to talk for a little bit about Arsenal. Is talk for a little bit about Arsenal. Is the second place trophy on the on the the second place trophy on the on the cards again? Can be the difference cards again? Can be the difference maker? Let's hear about the Gunners, maker? Let's hear about the Gunners, please. Taylor, please. Taylor, please. Taylor, &gt;&gt; you've seen my preview ahead of time. &gt;&gt; you've seen my preview ahead of time. Uh, I am setting a timer to keep myself Uh, I am setting a timer to keep myself within limits, and I will just tell you within limits, and I will just tell you all that I set it for eight and it all that I set it for eight and it glitched to 30. So, not sure what to glitched to 30. So, not sure what to make of that one, but we're going to go make of that one, but we're going to go with the eight and see how we do. As with the eight and see how we do. As Ryan said, last season, second in the Ryan said, last season, second in the Premier League for the third straight Premier League for the third straight season, 10 points behind champions season, 10 points behind champions Liverpool. They had the best defensive Liverpool. They had the best defensive record in terms of goals allowed, third record in terms of goals allowed, third best in terms of goals scored, but still best in terms of goals scored, but still 17 behind Liverpool, uh 14 draws to 17 behind Liverpool, uh 14 draws to Liverpool's nine. And that seems to be Liverpool's nine. And that seems to be the the major issue when you uh talk to the the major issue when you uh talk to Arsenal supporters, read what Arsenal Arsenal supporters, read what Arsenal supporters have to say, is that idea supporters have to say, is that idea that those draws could have been wins. that those draws could have been wins. Some of them were draws when they were Some of them were draws when they were leading. uh there's much fingerpointing leading. uh there's much fingerpointing done towards the officials and done towards the officials and officiating decisions, but overall there officiating decisions, but overall there was a feeling that maybe just not enough was a feeling that maybe just not enough to get it across the line to really to get it across the line to really close that gap. And injuries obviously a close that gap. And injuries obviously a very big part of that. You had uh Saka very big part of that. You had uh Saka missing three months, 19 games with a missing three months, 19 games with a hamstring injury. Kai Hberts uh with a hamstring injury. Kai Hberts uh with a hamstring injury, missing 18 games. hamstring injury, missing 18 games. Gabriel Jesus uh with a hamstring in Gabriel Jesus uh with a hamstring in early April missed 12. Excuse me, that's early April missed 12. Excuse me, that's just Gabrielle. The Gabrielle Gabriel just Gabrielle. The Gabrielle Gabriel Jesus thing is a little confusing. Jesus thing is a little confusing. Gabrielle missing with a hamstring Gabrielle missing with a hamstring injury. Gab Jesus missing with an ACL injury. Gab Jesus missing with an ACL tear. He'll be back in November. So, you tear. He'll be back in November. So, you lose a lot of your attacking quality lose a lot of your attacking quality there. And there wasn't a ton of depth there. And there wasn't a ton of depth to make up that difference. Uh, and so to make up that difference. Uh, and so what they have done this summer is sign what they have done this summer is sign a lot of very good attacking talent a lot of very good attacking talent without losing very much. Uh, not meant without losing very much. Uh, not meant to be shots fired at Kieran Tierney to be shots fired at Kieran Tierney Graham, but I guess shots fired at Graham, but I guess shots fired at Kieran Tierney. They also lose Thomas Kieran Tierney. They also lose Thomas Parte on a free. Are you sad that Parte on a free. Are you sad that Tyranny is no longer with Arsenal? Tyranny is no longer with Arsenal? &gt;&gt; I mean, he barely plays soccer. He's in &gt;&gt; I mean, he barely plays soccer. He's in the geo arena camp of just consistently the geo arena camp of just consistently injured. He made his debut for Celtic injured. He made his debut for Celtic came off at halftime with an injury. So came off at halftime with an injury. So that's pretty much how his career goes. that's pretty much how his career goes. But yeah, still sad in spirit. Still But yeah, still sad in spirit. Still sad. sad. sad. &gt;&gt; But but I really think that aside, &gt;&gt; But but I really think that aside, Graham's sadness aside, I think it's Graham's sadness aside, I think it's been a really strong summer. And I think been a really strong summer. And I think I am the most bullish out of the four of I am the most bullish out of the four of us when it comes to Arsenal. Uh because us when it comes to Arsenal. Uh because they made some smart signings. They also they made some smart signings. They also made some smart resignings. They inked made some smart resignings. They inked Miles Lewis Kelly, the pirate are uh and Miles Lewis Kelly, the pirate are uh and Ethani to long-term contracts. Uh they Ethani to long-term contracts. Uh they bring in Martin Zubamedi who has been bring in Martin Zubamedi who has been critical so far in their preseason, critical so far in their preseason, Victor Yokesh, Noni Maduk, uh Christian Victor Yokesh, Noni Maduk, uh Christian Moscera, Christian Norgard, Kea Aritzaga Moscera, Christian Norgard, Kea Aritzaga to name just a few. With all that to name just a few. With all that spending, they have still been spending, they have still been comfortably outspent by Liverpool. And comfortably outspent by Liverpool. And so there remains a concern. They've so there remains a concern. They've shored up a lot of the issues. They've shored up a lot of the issues. They've strengthened a lot of areas. There is strengthened a lot of areas. There is still the question of have they done still the question of have they done enough to overtake Liverpool. Uh what enough to overtake Liverpool. Uh what they have been doing in this preseason they have been doing in this preseason from what I have seen is changing up from what I have seen is changing up their approach a little bit. MueL their approach a little bit. MueL Artetta, the manager, uh, has kind of Artetta, the manager, uh, has kind of not quite fully adjusted his tactics, not quite fully adjusted his tactics, but I think added new wrinkles, and I but I think added new wrinkles, and I think that's been necessary. Uh, he will think that's been necessary. Uh, he will have been at the club for six years now have been at the club for six years now when, uh, we get to December, but when, uh, we get to December, but obviously not a ton of silverware, uh, obviously not a ton of silverware, uh, really covering himself in glory, and he really covering himself in glory, and he has basically said that this needs to be has basically said that this needs to be a season in which they win things. He a season in which they win things. He said that in the past, but it feels more said that in the past, but it feels more relevant this year. Uh looking at the relevant this year. Uh looking at the way Arsenal played last season, uh way Arsenal played last season, uh Arsenal along with City averaged uh I I Arsenal along with City averaged uh I I stole this directly from The Athletic, stole this directly from The Athletic, but I thought it was really interesting. but I thought it was really interesting. Averaged the fewest number of Averaged the fewest number of possessions uh per game last season. Uh possessions uh per game last season. Uh and had the highest number of and had the highest number of possessions ending with a touch in the possessions ending with a touch in the opposition box. So what you can opposition box. So what you can extrapolate from that is they kept the extrapolate from that is they kept the ball for a very long time, meaning that ball for a very long time, meaning that they didn't turn it over, regain it, so they didn't turn it over, regain it, so there weren't a huge number of there weren't a huge number of possessions. But when they did have it, possessions. But when they did have it, they kept it. They moved it slowly. they kept it. They moved it slowly. Eventually, they would find attacking Eventually, they would find attacking opportunities, but that didn't always opportunities, but that didn't always lead to uh the necessary goals scored lead to uh the necessary goals scored and it didn't allow them to kill off and it didn't allow them to kill off games, hence the number of draws. This games, hence the number of draws. This preseason, they have been trying to preseason, they have been trying to address that and there have been many address that and there have been many more direct attacks than we have seen more direct attacks than we have seen from them previously. That can be long from them previously. That can be long balls like through balls into feet for balls like through balls into feet for Yokesh or for other attackers dropping Yokesh or for other attackers dropping in. that can be long balls in behind, in. that can be long balls in behind, but they have tried to vary things up a but they have tried to vary things up a little bit uh with uh Declin Rice to little bit uh with uh Declin Rice to Saka, a kind of consistent theme of Saka, a kind of consistent theme of that. More on that uh tendency later on. that. More on that uh tendency later on. There's also been an effort to shore up There's also been an effort to shore up things on the set piece side because we things on the set piece side because we talk about Arsenal being exceptionally talk about Arsenal being exceptionally good when it comes to attacking set good when it comes to attacking set pieces. Uh I did not realize they had pieces. Uh I did not realize they had the worst defensive record uh last the worst defensive record uh last season in terms of goals from corners. season in terms of goals from corners. It was 6.8 eight goals per 100 It was 6.8 eight goals per 100 opposition corners, which is not, you opposition corners, which is not, you know, a massive number, but still know, a massive number, but still telling that they're good at attacking, telling that they're good at attacking, less so at defending them. Uh, and this less so at defending them. Uh, and this season, I think they will be very good season, I think they will be very good at attacking. Uh, not least because they at attacking. Uh, not least because they bring in uh Victor Yokesh, we've talked bring in uh Victor Yokesh, we've talked about him, uh, plenty, um, from Sporting about him, uh, plenty, um, from Sporting Club to Portugal. Uh, no Arsenal player Club to Portugal. Uh, no Arsenal player scored 10 goals or more last season. scored 10 goals or more last season. Yokesh managed 97 in 102 games for Yokesh managed 97 in 102 games for Sporting, so we would assume, uh, he'll Sporting, so we would assume, uh, he'll be scoring plenty of goals. I somehow be scoring plenty of goals. I somehow missed that he has had like a somewhat missed that he has had like a somewhat lengthy career in England. Was everyone lengthy career in England. Was everyone aware of that except for me? aware of that except for me? &gt;&gt; He was at Coventry. Yeah. A few a couple &gt;&gt; He was at Coventry. Yeah. A few a couple seasons ago. seasons ago. seasons ago. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And Brighton on their books too, &gt;&gt; Yeah. And Brighton on their books too, but didn't really break through, which but didn't really break through, which is where Rio Ferdinand came in and said is where Rio Ferdinand came in and said not good enough for Brighton last season not good enough for Brighton last season or when he broke through. Therefore, not or when he broke through. Therefore, not good enough for Arsenal this season. I'm good enough for Arsenal this season. I'm not sure I am going with that. I think not sure I am going with that. I think &gt;&gt; those are the only two extremes. He &gt;&gt; those are the only two extremes. He either says that or Balandor. Balandor. either says that or Balandor. Balandor. Bondor. There's nothing in the middle. Bondor. There's nothing in the middle. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Graham gets it. Graham gets it. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Graham gets it. Um, one of my specific predictions or my Um, one of my specific predictions or my specific prediction was going to be specific prediction was going to be until I added another one. And I know until I added another one. And I know Ryan doesn't like multiple ones. So, Ryan doesn't like multiple ones. So, this will just be a thing I am saying this will just be a thing I am saying instead of a specific prediction. I instead of a specific prediction. I think he is going to have more goals think he is going to have more goals than Kai Havvers and Gabro Jesus had than Kai Havvers and Gabro Jesus had last season combined. Havitz had nine. last season combined. Havitz had nine. Jesus had three. That would be 12 goals. Jesus had three. That would be 12 goals. I think given that nobody scored more I think given that nobody scored more than uh or 10 or more last season for than uh or 10 or more last season for Arsenal, I think Yokesh will do that. Arsenal, I think Yokesh will do that. And I think it will be somewhat And I think it will be somewhat comfortable. I I think he has already comfortable. I I think he has already proven that he can be the kind of fox in proven that he can be the kind of fox in the box that they occasionally need, but the box that they occasionally need, but also can do the more arsenal technical, also can do the more arsenal technical, tactical, uh, possessionoriented thing tactical, uh, possessionoriented thing when need be. And so he kind of gives when need be. And so he kind of gives them different looks, but also in having them different looks, but also in having him in there, he gives them different him in there, he gives them different personnel looks where if he then sits, personnel looks where if he then sits, they can bring in a false nine and that they can bring in a false nine and that can be a little bit more unexpected. It can be a little bit more unexpected. It can just give them variety that I think can just give them variety that I think they didn't have, but also a necessary they didn't have, but also a necessary bluntness that they didn't have last bluntness that they didn't have last season. And I think that will make season. And I think that will make players like Martin Odigard have better players like Martin Odigard have better years. Uh he had a bit of a downturn years. Uh he had a bit of a downturn statistically and just in terms of the statistically and just in terms of the eye test as well last year. But I think eye test as well last year. But I think the midfield addition of Zubamedi, some the midfield addition of Zubamedi, some of the attacking uh strength that they of the attacking uh strength that they brought in and then some of the existing brought in and then some of the existing attacking strength Baka back in there. I attacking strength Baka back in there. I think it's going to be a strong season think it's going to be a strong season for Odigard again uh paired up with for Odigard again uh paired up with Declan Rice as the kind of more attack Declan Rice as the kind of more attack oriented central midfielders with Zuba oriented central midfielders with Zuba Mendy behind. Uh, I think that that Mendy behind. Uh, I think that that gives Arsenal so many different options gives Arsenal so many different options and so much quality in possession. And I and so much quality in possession. And I think Declan Rice especially has already think Declan Rice especially has already been sort of adjusting his game from an been sort of adjusting his game from an Arsenal perspective, less so from his Arsenal perspective, less so from his career perspective, which gets to my career perspective, which gets to my specific prediction. We have seen him in specific prediction. We have seen him in the preseason going more direct and the preseason going more direct and being kind of critical in playing more being kind of critical in playing more direct. Uh, and so I think as a specific direct. Uh, and so I think as a specific prediction, Rice will attempt and prediction, Rice will attempt and complete more long balls than in any of complete more long balls than in any of his prior Arsenal seasons. Uh he was 117 his prior Arsenal seasons. Uh he was 117 for 240 last year, 137 for 210 the year for 240 last year, 137 for 210 the year before that. But if you go back to his before that. But if you go back to his West Ham days, he's attempting like 300 West Ham days, he's attempting like 300 long balls pretty regularly, which is long balls pretty regularly, which is not surprising given West Ham style of not surprising given West Ham style of play. play. play. &gt;&gt; But I think that that doesn't mean &gt;&gt; But I think that that doesn't mean they're just going to be long ball they're just going to be long ball merchants, but I think he is the one who merchants, but I think he is the one who will kind of be the trigger for turning will kind of be the trigger for turning and trying to find space in behind, and trying to find space in behind, trying to kind of launch some of those trying to kind of launch some of those attacks. And I think he is more than attacks. And I think he is more than capable of doing it. So I think it's capable of doing it. So I think it's going to be a strong season for Arsenal. going to be a strong season for Arsenal. I genuinely don't know if they have I genuinely don't know if they have enough to overtake Liverpool, who I enough to overtake Liverpool, who I think most people would say is the uh think most people would say is the uh the favorite to retain the Premier the favorite to retain the Premier League title, but I think Arsenal are in League title, but I think Arsenal are in an even better position than they've an even better position than they've been in seasons past when there was a been in seasons past when there was a lot of enthusiasm around them. And one lot of enthusiasm around them. And one little bonus thing, I think heading into little bonus thing, I think heading into the first game of the season, which is the first game of the season, which is against Manchester United, I think that against Manchester United, I think that game is going to be really chaotic and I game is going to be really chaotic and I think there are going to be goals. I I think there are going to be goals. I I hope I haven't just doomed us to a nil hope I haven't just doomed us to a nil nil, but but I think it's a sign that nil, but but I think it's a sign that Arsenal are evolving, will try to kind Arsenal are evolving, will try to kind of spring some attacks, will turn the of spring some attacks, will turn the ball over maybe more often than they did ball over maybe more often than they did last season. I think that kind of suits last season. I think that kind of suits Manchester United under Emm and so I Manchester United under Emm and so I think it will be like maybe a 3-2, maybe think it will be like maybe a 3-2, maybe just two to one, but I think there's just two to one, but I think there's going to be goals in this game and I going to be goals in this game and I think it would be easy for Arsenal think it would be easy for Arsenal supporters to come away thinking this supporters to come away thinking this doesn't look better. This doesn't look doesn't look better. This doesn't look like the consistency and stability we like the consistency and stability we wanted. But I think if you see it as wanted. But I think if you see it as there's the timer as them evolving their there's the timer as them evolving their approach and trying to do new things, I approach and trying to do new things, I think it will be uh for the better if think it will be uh for the better if this game is chaotic. So that is Arsenal this game is chaotic. So that is Arsenal in a nutshell uh with Declan Rice in a nutshell uh with Declan Rice spraying some long balls. spraying some long balls. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it feels like their plan for the &gt;&gt; Yeah, it feels like their plan for the summer has been to add more variety to summer has been to add more variety to their game, right? Because last season their game, right? Because last season it wasn't the matches against the teams it wasn't the matches against the teams in the top four, the other teams in the in the top four, the other teams in the top four that essentially lost them the top four that essentially lost them the title. In fact, their their record, I title. In fact, their their record, I was just looking through it, Taylor, to was just looking through it, Taylor, to jog my memory while you while you were jog my memory while you while you were talking there. They didn't lose to talking there. They didn't lose to another team in the top four last another team in the top four last season. They had that game against Man season. They had that game against Man City where they absolutely smashed them City where they absolutely smashed them 5-1. They draw away at the the Yeti had. 5-1. They draw away at the the Yeti had. They draw both games home and away They draw both games home and away against Liverpool. They drew away against Liverpool. They drew away against Chelsea and they beat them at against Chelsea and they beat them at home. Those weren't the games that lost home. Those weren't the games that lost them the title. It was the home matches them the title. It was the home matches against they lost at home in February to against they lost at home in February to West Ham 1 nil. They lost at home to West Ham 1 nil. They lost at home to Bournemouth in May 2-1 when admittedly Bournemouth in May 2-1 when admittedly the title race was essentially over at the title race was essentially over at that point. but they also drew away to that point. but they also drew away to Nottingham and Forest and these are Nottingham and Forest and these are teams who are going to sit deep and ask teams who are going to sit deep and ask Arsenal to to to pull them apart and Arsenal to to to pull them apart and break through them and they didn't have break through them and they didn't have the solutions to do that last season. So the solutions to do that last season. So instead of going out and splashing the instead of going out and splashing the cash on a on a nach who looks like he's cash on a on a nach who looks like he's going to be available this summer as going to be available this summer as much as Newcastle are digging their much as Newcastle are digging their heels in, it feels like Arsenal's plan heels in, it feels like Arsenal's plan has instead to be give themselves has instead to be give themselves different looks with players like Nory different looks with players like Nory Madaweke who can be a depth option Madaweke who can be a depth option behind Mai Saka to prevent them from behind Mai Saka to prevent them from running him into the ground every single running him into the ground every single season as they have done to the last few season as they have done to the last few years. It's to have someone like Joarez years. It's to have someone like Joarez to be that penalty box physical threat. to be that penalty box physical threat. I still expect Kai Havvers is going to I still expect Kai Havvers is going to start a lot of games and get a lot of start a lot of games and get a lot of minutes in that position for Arsenal minutes in that position for Arsenal this season. So that is the that is the this season. So that is the bet that Michael Artetta and Arsenal bet that Michael Artetta and Arsenal with their their Bertra as well their with their their Bertra as well their new sporting director who's come in for new sporting director who's come in for this summer. That's the bet that they've this summer. That's the bet that they've made. It's just whether they can make up made. It's just whether they can make up what was it what was it you said Taylor what was it you said Taylor 17 points or or whatever it was. 17 points or or whatever it was. &gt;&gt; 10 points but a significant number of &gt;&gt; 10 points but a significant number of goals that goals that goals that &gt;&gt; 10 points not quite as large as I &gt;&gt; 10 points not quite as large as I thought but that's still a big jump for thought but that's still a big jump for them to to make as a team. them to to make as a team. &gt;&gt; I will say I I think this Arsenal team &gt;&gt; I will say I I think this Arsenal team is excellent. I mean, I think they're is excellent. I mean, I think they're absolutely going to be in the title absolutely going to be in the title race. They are flawed still like some race. They are flawed still like some other teams at the top of the table are other teams at the top of the table are flawed, but that's what's going to make flawed, but that's what's going to make this season so fun. And I think that's this season so fun. And I think that's what makes this season sort of difficult what makes this season sort of difficult to predict who that winner is going to to predict who that winner is going to be. On the Jokerish front, Graeme, you be. On the Jokerish front, Graeme, you detailed that point really well, right? detailed that point really well, right? Arsenal last year were were better in Arsenal last year were were better in games. Think about their Champions games. Think about their Champions League run, right? who were better in League run, right? who were better in games against teams that were willing to games against teams that were willing to open up a little bit and have a little open up a little bit and have a little bit of the ball and leave some space to bit of the ball and leave some space to transition into compared to teams that transition into compared to teams that sat deeper and made Arsenal's life sat deeper and made Arsenal's life really slow and boring and miserable, really slow and boring and miserable, right? Uh I don't know until you talked right? Uh I don't know until you talked about this a bit. I don't know that about this a bit. I don't know that Victor Joker is the is the striker to Victor Joker is the is the striker to help them in those kinds of games. In help them in those kinds of games. In fact, I I think he's probably not the fact, I I think he's probably not the striker to help them in those kinds of striker to help them in those kinds of games. He's a bulldozer. He is a menace games. He's a bulldozer. He is a menace in transition. He is strong, although in transition. He is strong, although not as as dominant in the air as maybe not as as dominant in the air as maybe it sounds like he should be based off of it sounds like he should be based off of that profile. Like you said, Graham, I that profile. Like you said, Graham, I think Kai Haberts is going to get a lot think Kai Haberts is going to get a lot of minutes, but then it does still make of minutes, but then it does still make me think what's going to happen on that me think what's going to happen on that left side, right? They've still been left side, right? They've still been connected to various wingers. I I think connected to various wingers. I I think I said last week that maybe we're moving I said last week that maybe we're moving from hot striker summer to hot winger from hot striker summer to hot winger summer. So maybe there's still a domino summer. So maybe there's still a domino left to fall. It feels like there is for left to fall. It feels like there is for Arsenal, but it seems like there is Arsenal, but it seems like there is still a hole in this team in that you go still a hole in this team in that you go out and sign Medue to be a backup on out and sign Medue to be a backup on that right side. And Yokaresh's profile that right side. And Yokaresh's profile is not is not perfect. And can you count is not is not perfect. And can you count on a full season of healthy Kai Havvers? on a full season of healthy Kai Havvers? I don't know that you can. I don't know I don't know that you can. I don't know that Arsenal want to be in a position that Arsenal want to be in a position where they have to rely on his presence where they have to rely on his presence in that front band of three to go and be in that front band of three to go and be the differencemaker against those lower the differencemaker against those lower blocks week in and week out. I'm a big blocks week in and week out. I'm a big Kyvers fan. I mean, outside of MLS Kyvers fan. I mean, outside of MLS Allstar skills challenge situations. Allstar skills challenge situations. Other than that, I'm all about it. But Other than that, I'm all about it. But there's still that nagging question in there's still that nagging question in me that I'm I'm wondering, does Zubie me that I'm I'm wondering, does Zubie Mendy's lift in midfield combined with Mendy's lift in midfield combined with the pieces you've added give you enough the pieces you've added give you enough to be better in those kinds of games? to be better in those kinds of games? Yeah, it helps you be better. Does it Yeah, it helps you be better. Does it help you be awesome at that stuff? I'm help you be awesome at that stuff? I'm still not 100% sure about that. I still not 100% sure about that. I &gt;&gt; I take that point, Joe, and I I I I &gt;&gt; I take that point, Joe, and I I I I agree. I don't think Joker is a player agree. I don't think Joker is a player for those games. I kind of wonder if for those games. I kind of wonder if those are the games where Havs will play those are the games where Havs will play as sort of mobile number nine and then as sort of mobile number nine and then you by bringing in Zubime Mendy as your you by bringing in Zubime Mendy as your your new midfield anchor that then takes your new midfield anchor that then takes some of the responsibility off Martin some of the responsibility off Martin Odigard who you can play as more of like Odigard who you can play as more of like an outright creator around the the box an outright creator around the the box and not having him be part of the kind and not having him be part of the kind of double pivot next to to Declan Rice. of double pivot next to to Declan Rice. So that that's where I think the the So that that's where I think the the broad approach to this transfer market broad approach to this transfer market and not just focusing on like one and not just focusing on like one player. As much as fans are focusing on player. As much as fans are focusing on the new number nine, I understand why the new number nine, I understand why they do that. Shiny new number nine is they do that. Shiny new number nine is always attractive. I think the other always attractive. I think the other players that they brought and even players that they brought and even someone like Christian Norgard, someone like Christian Norgard, Christian Norard is a setpiece machine. Christian Norard is a setpiece machine. He was at least last season for for He was at least last season for for Brenford. So obviously that's going to Brenford. So obviously that's going to lean into what Arsenal do as a team and lean into what Arsenal do as a team and potentially make them even better in potentially make them even better in that sense. So I just think this Arsenal that sense. So I just think this Arsenal team is going to have more looks which team is going to have more looks which you would you would hope are going to you would you would hope are going to give them a better chance over the give them a better chance over the course of the season. One last thing course of the season. One last thing with everything that's been said, uh with everything that's been said, uh should have noted Arteta came out I should have noted Arteta came out I think this weekend and noted that he think this weekend and noted that he doesn't plan for them to be done in the doesn't plan for them to be done in the transfer window. So there may be one or transfer window. So there may be one or two more signings, but has said that two more signings, but has said that it's kind of dependent on sales and they it's kind of dependent on sales and they have not sold very much uh so far in the have not sold very much uh so far in the window. So I don't really know who that window. So I don't really know who that would be that they could move out the would be that they could move out the door to make way for a big move like say door to make way for a big move like say uh an essay from Crystal Palace. But uh an essay from Crystal Palace. But given Crystal Palace's limitations and given Crystal Palace's limitations and the fact that they've now said publicly the fact that they've now said publicly they're going to sell Marquee, I think they're going to sell Marquee, I think they're going to want to hold on to they're going to want to hold on to Esde. So I feel like that will be a Esde. So I feel like that will be a premium. So I'm not sure how much more premium. So I'm not sure how much more strengthening Arsenal will do, but that strengthening Arsenal will do, but that is something they've said they're is something they've said they're willing to do with the right sales. willing to do with the right sales. &gt;&gt; Excellent stuff. Thank you very much &gt;&gt; Excellent stuff. Thank you very much Taylor and Gang for our preview of Taylor and Gang for our preview of Arsenal Football Club. We're going to Arsenal Football Club. We're going to take a quick break. When we come back, take a quick break. When we come back, we'll talk about Aston Villa. Join us we'll talk about Aston Villa. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Premier League previews. I'm going our Premier League previews. I'm going to grab the mic for a little bit to tell to grab the mic for a little bit to tell you about Aston Villa. Graham, you might you about Aston Villa. Graham, you might be aware as a UK resident that be aware as a UK resident that Birmingham has a trash strike at the Birmingham has a trash strike at the moment. It's had a trash strike since moment. It's had a trash strike since March for 6 months. Just piling up on March for 6 months. Just piling up on the streets. It looks like New York City the streets. It looks like New York City in Birmingham right now. Unbelievable. in Birmingham right now. Unbelievable. They need Home San documentary. They need Home San documentary. &gt;&gt; They do need Homer Simpson sanitary. &gt;&gt; They do need Homer Simpson sanitary. Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, &gt;&gt; someone else do it. &gt;&gt; someone else do it. &gt;&gt; Garbage man can. &gt;&gt; Garbage man can. &gt;&gt; But will Villa be trashed like the &gt;&gt; But will Villa be trashed like the streets of their city? Probably not. I streets of their city? Probably not. I say this season. say this season. &gt;&gt; What a link. What a link indeed. I was &gt;&gt; What a link. What a link indeed. I was just fascinated that six just I was just fascinated that six months of trash strikes as are a thing months of trash strikes as are a thing that aren't a bigger story. I suppose that aren't a bigger story. I suppose they are a big story in the Midlands they are a big story in the Midlands though. Aston Villa begin their campaign though. Aston Villa begin their campaign this Saturday at 7:30 Eastern against this Saturday at 7:30 Eastern against Newcastle. And I think they've got a Newcastle. And I think they've got a pretty good potential start, a good ramp pretty good potential start, a good ramp into the Premier League this season of into the Premier League this season of uh last season's top 10 sides. Before uh last season's top 10 sides. Before October, they only faced two top 10 October, they only faced two top 10 sides, Newcastle and Brenford, which I sides, Newcastle and Brenford, which I believe are their first two games. So, believe are their first two games. So, they've got the potential to get some they've got the potential to get some points on the board if all goes well at points on the board if all goes well at the start of this season. How did they the start of this season. How did they do last season? I think Villa fans would do last season? I think Villa fans would call it an all-time call it an all-time side sixth place finish last season. His side sixth place finish last season. His fourth season in charge. He's finished fourth season in charge. He's finished in the top seven seven in all of his in the top seven seven in all of his seasons with Villa. And last seasons, seasons with Villa. And last seasons, they were in the Champions League for they were in the Champions League for the first time since 1983. And as Joe the first time since 1983. And as Joe doesn't stop going on about, they won doesn't stop going on about, they won the European Cup in 1982. Joe talks the European Cup in 1982. Joe talks about Peter with and his goals about Peter with and his goals constantly on this show. constantly on this show. &gt;&gt; I love the '90s. What can I say? I love &gt;&gt; I love the '90s. What can I say? I love the 90s as it were. Yeah. Anyway, the 90s as it were. Yeah. Anyway, &gt;&gt; it's all one big long decade to Joe. It &gt;&gt; it's all one big long decade to Joe. It doesn't matter. doesn't matter. doesn't matter. &gt;&gt; It's just prejo. It's just the prejo &gt;&gt; It's just prejo. It's just the prejo era. Uh Villa with a great season. era. Uh Villa with a great season. Obviously, probably their most famous Obviously, probably their most famous victory of the modern era, beating victory of the modern era, beating Bayern Munich. Um the opponents they Bayern Munich. Um the opponents they beat in that final that Joe doesn't stop beat in that final that Joe doesn't stop talking about from 1982. Uh they talking about from 1982. Uh they qualified from the phasing of the qualified from the phasing of the Champions League to vetoed by eventual Champions League to vetoed by eventual champions PSG. Arguably they gave PSG champions PSG. Arguably they gave PSG the best run for their money in the home the best run for their money in the home leg that they won against them. Also leg that they won against them. Also went to the FA Cup final four ended at went to the FA Cup final four ended at Wembley their their FA Cup campaign by Wembley their their FA Cup campaign by Crystal Palace and they fell on the last Crystal Palace and they fell on the last day of the season at Old Trafford to day of the season at Old Trafford to miss out on the Champions League. Um so miss out on the Champions League. Um so you could say this team fell at some you could say this team fell at some pretty important hurdles last season um pretty important hurdles last season um particularly that that Champions League particularly that that Champions League one an elite team but do they have elite one an elite team but do they have elite mentality I suppose is the question you mentality I suppose is the question you might ask. Also you might question their might ask. Also you might question their away record. They lost nine times on the away record. They lost nine times on the road last season. Uh they were in the road last season. Uh they were in the bottom half for uh away uh points last bottom half for uh away uh points last season. So what have they done over the season. So what have they done over the summer? Uh I'd say the most culturally summer? Uh I'd say the most culturally relevant thing that Aston Villa have relevant thing that Aston Villa have done over the summer was the Black done over the summer was the Black Sabbath farewell concert in July. Of Sabbath farewell concert in July. Of course, with Oussie Osborne very sadly course, with Oussie Osborne very sadly passing away a matter of days passing away a matter of days afterwards. A serious point to be made afterwards. A serious point to be made from that though is that Villa Park, from that though is that Villa Park, they're monetizing it a lot more this they're monetizing it a lot more this season. It's going to have rugby games season. It's going to have rugby games at the there this season as well and a at the there this season as well and a lot more concerts. So whether that lot more concerts. So whether that affects the playing surface or it, you affects the playing surface or it, you know, disrupts things a little bit, we know, disrupts things a little bit, we will see. Not a lot of signings as we will see. Not a lot of signings as we speak for Aston Villa. Marco Bizo has speak for Aston Villa. Marco Bizo has come in from Breast as a number two come in from Breast as a number two goalkeeper. Maybe not a number two goalkeeper. Maybe not a number two goalkeeper because Emmy Martinez's goalkeeper because Emmy Martinez's future as we record is a little unclear. future as we record is a little unclear. And if I'm not mistaken, he got sent off And if I'm not mistaken, he got sent off on the last day of the season. So he'll on the last day of the season. So he'll uh he'll at least be sitting out a game uh he'll at least be sitting out a game or two as the season starts. Uh they've or two as the season starts. Uh they've signed center back Yasin Oan from Camp signed center back Yasin Oan from Camp Kazimpasa. Kazimpasa Taylor Kazimpasa. Kazimpasa Taylor &gt;&gt; Kazimp Pasha &gt;&gt; Kazimp Pasha &gt;&gt; Camps Pasha. Thank you very much. &gt;&gt; Camps Pasha. Thank you very much. &gt;&gt; He's one for the future. He's gone &gt;&gt; He's one for the future. He's gone straight on loan to Anderlecht. Uh a few straight on loan to Anderlecht. Uh a few other sort of minor players. Oh, free other sort of minor players. Oh, free agent signing Zepino Redmond, 19year-old agent signing Zepino Redmond, 19year-old forward who started for for fire against forward who started for for fire against Milan last season. Probably a depth Milan last season. Probably a depth option there as well. The biggest option there as well. The biggest signing Evan Gason from uh from Nice. A signing Evan Gason from uh from Nice. A 26 million signing for the Ivorian 26 million signing for the Ivorian there. I think what Villa fans might be there. I think what Villa fans might be most happy is with is the fact they've most happy is with is the fact they've secured some top talent with new secured some top talent with new contracts this summer as well. Tyron contracts this summer as well. Tyron Ming is on a two-year contract now. Ming is on a two-year contract now. Lucas Dier has got three years. Boom Lucas Dier has got three years. Boom Kakamara has got a fiveyear deal from Kakamara has got a fiveyear deal from this summer. Probably the biggest uh this summer. Probably the biggest uh significant chess piece move they've significant chess piece move they've made this summer. Um he missed last the made this summer. Um he missed last the start of last season with an ACL injury. start of last season with an ACL injury. So he'd be looking to come out swinging So he'd be looking to come out swinging with that good runin that Aston Villa with that good runin that Aston Villa have. have. have. &gt;&gt; Actually swinging. Did you see Tyrone &gt;&gt; Actually swinging. Did you see Tyrone Ming's Ming's Ming's &gt;&gt; like basically taking Mason Greenwood by &gt;&gt; like basically taking Mason Greenwood by the collar? the collar? the collar? &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. I thought you were going to go &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. I thought you were going to go under the direction where we had to get under the direction where we had to get the lawyers involved there, Taylor. But the lawyers involved there, Taylor. But that's good. That's That's better. Okay. that's good. That's That's better. Okay. &gt;&gt; Uh yeah. Yeah. No, I enjoyed that in the &gt;&gt; Uh yeah. Yeah. No, I enjoyed that in the preseason when Mason Greenwood like had preseason when Mason Greenwood like had a kick out and then was not prepared for a kick out and then was not prepared for the full Tyrone Ming of Tyrone Ming. the full Tyrone Ming of Tyrone Ming. &gt;&gt; Listen, if you haven't seen this or &gt;&gt; Listen, if you haven't seen this or viewer, if you haven't seen this, it's viewer, if you haven't seen this, it's further than you think. like he he pulls further than you think. like he he pulls Mason Greenwood around for longer and Mason Greenwood around for longer and for a larger distance than you're for a larger distance than you're imagining in your head imagining in your head &gt;&gt; in a way that no one really seemed &gt;&gt; in a way that no one really seemed inclined to stop him from throwing Mason inclined to stop him from throwing Mason Greenwood around and I think a lot of Greenwood around and I think a lot of people out there were okay with it. people out there were okay with it. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you wouldn't stop that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you wouldn't stop that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Thomas Party playing in that game &gt;&gt; Yeah. Thomas Party playing in that game as well, I believe. Taylor, the second as well, I believe. Taylor, the second mention of Yesesh, that guy for the show mention of Yesesh, that guy for the show already. Uh I I would say the biggest already. Uh I I would say the biggest move that Aston Villa have made this move that Aston Villa have made this summer though, they did a Chelsea. they summer though, they did a Chelsea. they gone and sold their women's team to gone and sold their women's team to themselves to help comply with uh PSL uh themselves to help comply with uh PSL uh Villa they they are confident of Villa they they are confident of avoiding a PSLR breach it says here avoiding a PSLR breach it says here allowing them to keep their top players allowing them to keep their top players so that's one of the considerations as so that's one of the considerations as we head into the new season and the we head into the new season and the window still open Emmy Martinez maybe window still open Emmy Martinez maybe who knows moving on because of the uh who knows moving on because of the uh fear of PSR but hey they're selling fear of PSR but hey they're selling stuff to themselves uh that we've sold stuff to themselves uh that we've sold it to V Sports which is the parent it to V Sports which is the parent company uh of Aston Villa with their company uh of Aston Villa with their billionaire owners and whatnot Aston billionaire owners and whatnot Aston Villa style of play. Uno Emory. We of Villa style of play. Uno Emory. We of course know all about him and the king course know all about him and the king of the Europa League as he is. He's won of the Europa League as he is. He's won it four times. They're back in it this it four times. They're back in it this year of course. So potential for a fifth year of course. So potential for a fifth for Unai Emory. Here's to you Una Emory. for Unai Emory. Here's to you Una Emory. Villa loves you more than you will know Villa loves you more than you will know is the song they sing on the terraces at is the song they sing on the terraces at the uh Aussie Osborne concert venue. Uh the uh Aussie Osborne concert venue. Uh Emory by the way interestingly he's a Emory by the way interestingly he's a majority shareholder I found out this majority shareholder I found out this week of fourth tier Real Un week of fourth tier Real Un for whom his father played and his for whom his father played and his grandfather played as well. Villa's grandfather played as well. Villa's owners are also a 25% stakeholder in owners are also a 25% stakeholder in that club. Fun. Interesting. Maybe, that club. Fun. Interesting. Maybe, maybe not. Uno. Unory style. Obviously maybe not. Uno. Unory style. Obviously likes a 42-31, sometimes a 442. Very likes a 42-31, sometimes a 442. Very possession based, patient in possession possession based, patient in possession with quick transitions. They like to with quick transitions. They like to draw their opponents out. Very draw their opponents out. Very detailoriented Unai Emory. I think detailoriented Unai Emory. I think everyone knows exactly which footstep everyone knows exactly which footstep they're supposed to take on the field they're supposed to take on the field when Emory is in charge. Meticulous when Emory is in charge. Meticulous planner, setpiece coaching. Everyone planner, setpiece coaching. Everyone knows their roles. They can press high knows their roles. They can press high depending on opposition and the game depending on opposition and the game state. of course. Uh the key players state. of course. Uh the key players going into this season, uh I would say going into this season, uh I would say probably one of the Premier League's two probably one of the Premier League's two most pirate like players, Morgan Rogers, most pirate like players, Morgan Rogers, left sideed forward, big part of this left sideed forward, big part of this team. Um Yori Tielemans with him in the team. Um Yori Tielemans with him in the middle. Very, very important. 15 goal middle. Very, very important. 15 goal involvements last season. Ollie Watkins, involvements last season. Ollie Watkins, probably one of the league's best probably one of the league's best strikers, I would say. Harry Kane is the strikers, I would say. Harry Kane is the only Englishman to register more goals only Englishman to register more goals and assist in Europe's top five leagues and assist in Europe's top five leagues across the past five seasons than Ollie across the past five seasons than Ollie Watkins. He's not the best striker in Watkins. He's not the best striker in Birmingham, though. That goes to their Birmingham, though. That goes to their refuge collectors. Thank you. Pause for refuge collectors. Thank you. Pause for applause. Pause for applause. Pause for applause. Pause for applause. applause. applause. &gt;&gt; I think what's what's good about Aston &gt;&gt; I think what's what's good about Aston Villa is there's no real weakness in Villa is there's no real weakness in this team at this point that I can this team at this point that I can detect. Anyway, maybe Villa fans will detect. Anyway, maybe Villa fans will disagree with that, but it looks like disagree with that, but it looks like they're on for a solid kind of finishing they're on for a solid kind of finishing sixth last season. A lot of people sixth last season. A lot of people thinking they're going to finish around thinking they're going to finish around that area, which leads me to my very that area, which leads me to my very specific prediction. I believe Aston specific prediction. I believe Aston Villa will finish higher in the Europa Villa will finish higher in the Europa League than in the Premier League. That League than in the Premier League. That said, I think they're going to get to said, I think they're going to get to the final four of the Europa League the final four of the Europa League minimum and they will not get to the minimum and they will not get to the final four or the top four of the final four or the top four of the Premier League. Uh, as I said, sixth Premier League. Uh, as I said, sixth last season. I don't think they can last season. I don't think they can better that. They're not going to better that. They're not going to obviously finish above Liverpool, obviously finish above Liverpool, Arsenal, Chelsea, Man City, and maybe Arsenal, Chelsea, Man City, and maybe sort of some some teams like Spurs and sort of some some teams like Spurs and United and who knows, Newcastle getting United and who knows, Newcastle getting back in the mix there. I feel like the back in the mix there. I feel like the the sixth to seventh kind of bracket the sixth to seventh kind of bracket feels about right for Aston Villa this feels about right for Aston Villa this season. Um, so we shall see. There you season. Um, so we shall see. There you go. go. go. &gt;&gt; So, Just to just to be clear on that. So &gt;&gt; So, Just to just to be clear on that. So you're saying they'll make the you're saying they'll make the semi-final and thus be one of the the semi-final and thus be one of the the top four in the Europa League or like in top four in the Europa League or like in the phasing they will finish in the top the phasing they will finish in the top four? four? four? &gt;&gt; No. Finish final final four of the &gt;&gt; No. Finish final final four of the competition which I would equate to the competition which I would equate to the top four of the Premier League in my top four of the Premier League in my weird uh mind. weird uh mind. &gt;&gt; Who who took them in the draft? &gt;&gt; Who who took them in the draft? &gt;&gt; Uh uh me I think. Was it me to win the &gt;&gt; Uh uh me I think. Was it me to win the Europa League? I think Europa League? I think &gt;&gt; that's a very solid one. Uh I wanted to &gt;&gt; that's a very solid one. Uh I wanted to give Ryan credit again for his give Ryan credit again for his Florentina one. Ryan, that that is that Florentina one. Ryan, that that is that was a solid pick, man. I keep going back was a solid pick, man. I keep going back to that one. Graham with Aston Villa. I to that one. Graham with Aston Villa. I feel like you you might have two winners feel like you you might have two winners right there. One between you right there. One between you &gt;&gt; or one each rather. &gt;&gt; or one each rather. &gt;&gt; Yeah. In in which case it would be &gt;&gt; Yeah. In in which case it would be similar to last season where a lot of similar to last season where a lot of the memorable moments and the success the memorable moments and the success came in came in Europe because it feels came in came in Europe because it feels like with everything you've outlined like with everything you've outlined there Ryan PSR is really biting that. there Ryan PSR is really biting that. Keep in mind they had a couple of big Keep in mind they had a couple of big deals lined up from January. The Marcus deals lined up from January. The Marcus Rashford one the Marco Asencio one which Rashford one the Marco Asencio one which I think combined they would have had to I think combined they would have had to pay like 70 million euros to sign the pay like 70 million euros to sign the two of them. and whether they wanted to two of them. and whether they wanted to or not and Marcus Rashford um started or not and Marcus Rashford um started off well and then faded in of course off well and then faded in of course picked up an injury towards the end of picked up an injury towards the end of the season. they just they just couldn't the season. they just they just couldn't do those deals and that's a big factor do those deals and that's a big factor in why they have been unable to in why they have been unable to significantly strengthen their squad at significantly strengthen their squad at least in terms of starting players and least in terms of starting players and actually this summer has been more about actually this summer has been more about keeping keeping hold of players because keeping keeping hold of players because before Manchester United signed Benjamin before Manchester United signed Benjamin Cesco there were talks um for Ollie Cesco there were talks um for Ollie Watkins and Morgan Rogers has been Watkins and Morgan Rogers has been linked with Chelsea and and Tottenham so linked with Chelsea and and Tottenham so that has been more of the focus for that has been more of the focus for Aston Villa and then it becomes Aston Villa and then it becomes difficult when everyone around them when difficult when everyone around them when Chelsea are spending a fortune Arsenal Chelsea are spending a fortune Arsenal Man City Liverpool Even Manchester Man City Liverpool Even Manchester United, Tottenham doing business, it United, Tottenham doing business, it becomes difficult to then propel them becomes difficult to then propel them higher up the the table. So, this could higher up the the table. So, this could be a a challenging one for Villa. be a a challenging one for Villa. &gt;&gt; One more like weird theoretical &gt;&gt; One more like weird theoretical question. Like if you're a Villa question. Like if you're a Villa supporter, how excited do you think you supporter, how excited do you think you are for the Europa League? Because it are for the Europa League? Because it does feel like like in a in a standard does feel like like in a in a standard season, you'd be excited to be in season, you'd be excited to be in Europe. There's a feeling that with Una Europe. There's a feeling that with Una Emory there, you've got the talent, you Emory there, you've got the talent, you could make a run, you could make the could make a run, you could make the final, you could win the whole thing. final, you could win the whole thing. And I don't think that was ever really a And I don't think that was ever really a feeling with them in the Champions feeling with them in the Champions League, but as Ryan has already League, but as Ryan has already outlined, they made the run. They did. outlined, they made the run. They did. They had so many high moments. It wasn't They had so many high moments. It wasn't like they were just knocked out in the like they were just knocked out in the phasing and were sort of out of their phasing and were sort of out of their depth. So, it's a weird one where I feel depth. So, it's a weird one where I feel like they should be really excited to be like they should be really excited to be sort of the big fish or one of the big sort of the big fish or one of the big fish, but at the same time, given the fish, but at the same time, given the way the Champions League went last way the Champions League went last season, I wonder if there will be a season, I wonder if there will be a little bit of a like less enthusiasm little bit of a like less enthusiasm than there would have been otherwise. than there would have been otherwise. Yeah, I think they'll be in a Thursday Yeah, I think they'll be in a Thursday night huff for a few months of the night huff for a few months of the season and then by the time they make season and then by the time they make the latter rounds and it becomes they the latter rounds and it becomes they can plot their way through the can plot their way through the competition to potentially winning. I competition to potentially winning. I think there will be some momentous think there will be some momentous nights that are a part of this season. nights that are a part of this season. &gt;&gt; Thursday Night Half is a good band name. &gt;&gt; Thursday Night Half is a good band name. I'll say that. But also I think having I'll say that. But also I think having sort of I think that that Bayern Munich sort of I think that that Bayern Munich game was like that's the one they'll game was like that's the one they'll tell their kids about I think frankly. tell their kids about I think frankly. So to cut to come from that to this So to cut to come from that to this season Taylor I think you might be right season Taylor I think you might be right there might be a a drop off because how there might be a a drop off because how do you get better than that? do you get better than that? &gt;&gt; I don't know. Th that thought was born &gt;&gt; I don't know. Th that thought was born of my like probably freezing cold take of my like probably freezing cold take of is there a chance that Villa are of is there a chance that Villa are happier to be in the Europa League than happier to be in the Europa League than they were in the Champions League. And I they were in the Champions League. And I think the answer is no, but still should think the answer is no, but still should be excited because I think they they be excited because I think they they should be expecting a run as Ryan has should be expecting a run as Ryan has already outlined. Otherwise, Ryan already outlined. Otherwise, Ryan doesn't get any prediction points. doesn't get any prediction points. &gt;&gt; Okay, we'll see. All right, very good. &gt;&gt; Okay, we'll see. All right, very good. Uh Joe, would you like to tell us all Uh Joe, would you like to tell us all about Bournemouth in their fourth about Bournemouth in their fourth consecutive top flight season? I'm consecutive top flight season? I'm presuming they're kind of aiming for top presuming they're kind of aiming for top half top half consistency this year. half top half consistency this year. What do we think? What do we think? &gt;&gt; I think that would be a great outcome &gt;&gt; I think that would be a great outcome for Bournemouth. Bournemouth, I I love for Bournemouth. Bournemouth, I I love that I got them in the in the luck of that I got them in the in the luck of the draw here because they were one of the draw here because they were one of the stories of last season. They were the stories of last season. They were one of my favorite stories certainly of one of my favorite stories certainly of uh the Premier League season last year. uh the Premier League season last year. They finished ninth in the table last They finished ninth in the table last season, equaling their best ever finish season, equaling their best ever finish in the top flight, 56 points, which was in the top flight, 56 points, which was their record tally in the top flight. their record tally in the top flight. Such an impressive season in their Such an impressive season in their second season under Andonni Areola. They second season under Andonni Areola. They were 17th in estimated wages based off were 17th in estimated wages based off of FBR's data, which grain of salt, but of FBR's data, which grain of salt, but Bournemouth are not a big club, Ryan. Bournemouth are not a big club, Ryan. The stat you just cited of their fourth The stat you just cited of their fourth season of of top flight soccer in a row, season of of top flight soccer in a row, that implies that they were not always that implies that they were not always in the Premier League, and they are not in the Premier League, and they are not always in the Premier League. They are always in the Premier League. They are not a big club and yet they outperformed not a big club and yet they outperformed uh pretty reliably throughout all of uh pretty reliably throughout all of last season some really, really awesome last season some really, really awesome stuff. They finished sixth, sixth in the stuff. They finished sixth, sixth in the Premier League in expected goal Premier League in expected goal differential, fourth in expected goals, differential, fourth in expected goals, eighth in expected goals against while eighth in expected goals against while having that squad that wasn't making a having that squad that wasn't making a lot of money. And we do know that wages lot of money. And we do know that wages are tightly correlated with success at are tightly correlated with success at the highest levels of this game. They the highest levels of this game. They did it with with a low paid squad and did it with with a low paid squad and the fourth youngest squad in the league the fourth youngest squad in the league based off of uh average age weighted by based off of uh average age weighted by minutes played according to FBRF, 25.1 minutes played according to FBRF, 25.1 years. So, the fourth youngest squad. years. So, the fourth youngest squad. They had this 11 game unbeaten stretch They had this 11 game unbeaten stretch in the league from November 30th to in the league from November 30th to January 25th. So much fun. They fell off January 25th. So much fun. They fell off in the last three months of the season. in the last three months of the season. They won just four of their last 15 in They won just four of their last 15 in the league. But still, so much credit to the league. But still, so much credit to Bournemouth for what they did last Bournemouth for what they did last season. Standouts last year. Three season. Standouts last year. Three double-digit scorers and Justin Clver, double-digit scorers and Justin Clver, Anton Semeno, and Evan Olsen. They were Anton Semeno, and Evan Olsen. They were anchored by two really impressive young anchored by two really impressive young center backs in Dean Hson and Ukrainian center backs in Dean Hson and Ukrainian Ilia Zabney. They cannot also forget Ilia Zabney. They cannot also forget Tyler Adams in here because Taylor's Tyler Adams in here because Taylor's here with us. He played 2,000 minutes here with us. He played 2,000 minutes for them last year despite injury for them last year despite injury struggles. The TLDDR in last season, it struggles. The TLDDR in last season, it was an incredible success for a very was an incredible success for a very young Bournemouth team who blossomed young Bournemouth team who blossomed beyond expectations. beyond expectations. beyond expectations. &gt;&gt; Now, what have they done over the &gt;&gt; Now, what have they done over the summer? They have lost a lot a lot of summer? They have lost a lot a lot of key pieces and that is the plight of key pieces and that is the plight of being a very good young team on a being a very good young team on a budget. They've lost in housing or budget. They've lost in housing or rather they helped him move to Real rather they helped him move to Real Madrid for 62 million. Couple that now Madrid for 62 million. Couple that now with Ilia Zabani who's headed to PSG with Ilia Zabani who's headed to PSG that seems almost all but done. He is that seems almost all but done. He is set to have his medical in Paris this set to have his medical in Paris this week before a 63 million euro move to week before a 63 million euro move to PSG. Then you have Milos Kirk who's off PSG. Then you have Milos Kirk who's off to Liverpool for 47 million euros and to Liverpool for 47 million euros and Kea as well who was their starting Kea as well who was their starting goalkeeper last year. His loan has goalkeeper last year. His loan has ended. That makes four for those ended. That makes four for those counting along at home of their starting counting along at home of their starting back five if you count the back four and back five if you count the back four and the goalkeeper who are gone from a team the goalkeeper who are gone from a team that was excellent last season for most that was excellent last season for most of the year. A lot of holes and they're of the year. A lot of holes and they're starting to replace some of those starting to replace some of those players. Georgie Petravvic is in from players. Georgie Petravvic is in from Chelsea. 29 million euros. That's former Chelsea. 29 million euros. That's former New England Revolution star Georgie New England Revolution star Georgie Petravvic. He fills that starting Petravvic. He fills that starting goalkeeper spot at least in goalkeeper spot at least in Bournemouth's eyes. They've added Adrien Bournemouth's eyes. They've added Adrien Trufair from Ren for 13 million euros. Trufair from Ren for 13 million euros. He will be the left back replacement for He will be the left back replacement for Kirz. Eriola has spoken publicly about Kirz. Eriola has spoken publicly about how they want to add at center back how they want to add at center back which is like the most no-brainer thing which is like the most no-brainer thing ever. They've reportedly though reached ever. They've reportedly though reached an agreement to sign Leil center back an agreement to sign Leil center back Dakit 24y old 35 million euro fee. That Dakit 24y old 35 million euro fee. That is the second biggest fee in Bournemouth is the second biggest fee in Bournemouth history behind Evan. There could be some history behind Evan. There could be some more movement at center back and also in more movement at center back and also in the wide areas. is reportedly interested the wide areas. is reportedly interested in Leverkusen's Amin Adley while in Leverkusen's Amin Adley while Brenford are interested in Bournemouth's Brenford are interested in Bournemouth's Dango Watara. So that's something to Dango Watara. So that's something to watch on that front. Maybe an in, maybe watch on that front. Maybe an in, maybe an out coming in in the wide areas. an out coming in in the wide areas. Manager, uh, Antoni Areola widely Manager, uh, Antoni Areola widely regarded as one of the top up and regarded as one of the top up and cominging coaches in the game. cominging coaches in the game. 43-year-old Basque manager. I don't know 43-year-old Basque manager. I don't know if he's got any stock in some fourth if he's got any stock in some fourth division team. I think he needs to get division team. I think he needs to get on on Unrey's level, frankly. But he on on Unrey's level, frankly. But he played for Athletic Club, had a cup of played for Athletic Club, had a cup of coffee at NYCFC before transitioning coffee at NYCFC before transitioning into coaching. has got a really into coaching. has got a really interesting coaching career. Started off interesting coaching career. Started off some in Cyprus, then in Spain, then some in Cyprus, then in Spain, then makes his way to Rio Veakano in Spain, makes his way to Rio Veakano in Spain, then is hired by Bourne at the head of then is hired by Bourne at the head of the 23-24 Premier League season. He's the 23-24 Premier League season. He's been there for two seasons, now finished been there for two seasons, now finished 12th in the first year, ninth last year. 12th in the first year, ninth last year. Upward trajectory, we will see some Upward trajectory, we will see some other fun or maybe not. As Ryan said, uh other fun or maybe not. As Ryan said, uh and Doni Areola, he loves the book and Doni Areola, he loves the book Dracula. And he also dropped this banger Dracula. And he also dropped this banger of a line on the influence of managers of a line on the influence of managers last season. Quote, "The game is for the last season. Quote, "The game is for the players. Coaches are just the players. Coaches are just the assistants. Coaches cannot pretend to assistants. Coaches cannot pretend to control the game. Luckily for the game, control the game. Luckily for the game, I love this man with my whole heart. I love this man with my whole heart. Silent. Silent. Silent. &gt;&gt; You're never going to leave that cool &gt;&gt; You're never going to leave that cool out of your out of your &gt;&gt; Absolutely not. 0% chance. Um &gt;&gt; Absolutely not. 0% chance. Um Bournemouth don't dominate the ball, Bournemouth don't dominate the ball, which should track based on all the which should track based on all the things I said about them. They don't things I said about them. They don't spend a lot of money on salaries and spend a lot of money on salaries and they don't have top end talent. Also, they don't have top end talent. Also, they're not a big club. They attack very they're not a big club. They attack very quickly. Um they they were second last quickly. Um they they were second last year in the Premier League in long pass year in the Premier League in long pass attempts, second in the league in attempts, second in the league in crosses. They defend very aggressively, crosses. They defend very aggressively, and that's where they made a lot of and that's where they made a lot of their money last year. Seventh most their money last year. Seventh most tackles in the final third. um tackles in the final third. um surrounded by really in that top seven surrounded by really in that top seven all of the big clubs along with Brenford all of the big clubs along with Brenford and Brighton right around them in the and Brighton right around them in the top half of that ranking. There was a top half of that ranking. There was a point last year guys where no team in point last year guys where no team in the Premier League, the Bundesliga, the Premier League, the Bundesliga, Syria or La Liga had won the ball more Syria or La Liga had won the ball more often than Bournemouth in the final often than Bournemouth in the final third. That is wild. This team is so third. That is wild. This team is so aggressive in how they play. They've aggressive in how they play. They've also created the most shots from those also created the most shots from those regains in the in the final third, regains in the in the final third, excuse me. Their games are chaotic excuse me. Their games are chaotic rather than controlled, although I do rather than controlled, although I do think Areola bristles a little bit at think Areola bristles a little bit at that description. key players for that description. key players for Bournemouth to watch this season. Uh, Bournemouth to watch this season. Uh, whoever they end up getting over the whoever they end up getting over the line at center back is a darn good place line at center back is a darn good place to start because there are gaping holes to start because there are gaping holes in the middle of that back line. Also, in the middle of that back line. Also, looking ahead of line at Tyler Adams and looking ahead of line at Tyler Adams and Ryan Christie in midfield. I think those Ryan Christie in midfield. I think those two players, they're already having two players, they're already having massive starting level roles in this massive starting level roles in this team, but with all of the chaos and team, but with all of the chaos and transition behind them, both like transition behind them, both like tactical transitions and also the the tactical transitions and also the the literal there are new bodies behind us literal there are new bodies behind us in our back four kind of transition. in our back four kind of transition. Those two players are going to be Those two players are going to be critical to how Bournemouth play this critical to how Bournemouth play this season. They have to have good seasons. season. They have to have good seasons. I think if Bournemouth want to stay I think if Bournemouth want to stay roughly in the range that they were last roughly in the range that they were last year and then the attack as well. Clver year and then the attack as well. Clver Semeno, Evan Nilson all back in this Semeno, Evan Nilson all back in this team. That's huge. And if those players team. That's huge. And if those players can maintain their level, that is going can maintain their level, that is going to go a long way to buoying Bournemouth to go a long way to buoying Bournemouth roughly to where they were even as the roughly to where they were even as the defense kind of Flintstone styles like defense kind of Flintstone styles like tries to to run and scramble to catch up tries to to run and scramble to catch up to where they were last season. My VSSP to where they were last season. My VSSP for Bournemouth is that they will end for Bournemouth is that they will end the season in the bottom half of the the season in the bottom half of the Premier League and expected goals Premier League and expected goals allowed. I mentioned it already. They allowed. I mentioned it already. They were eighth last year. They will be in were eighth last year. They will be in that bottom half. So 11th or or lower is that bottom half. So 11th or or lower is what I'm thinking. Maybe maybe a lot what I'm thinking. Maybe maybe a lot lower. Um I'm worried about their lower. Um I'm worried about their defensive ability with those two star defensive ability with those two star center backs leaving. That feels like a center backs leaving. That feels like a reasonable concern. It feels like an ice reasonable concern. It feels like an ice cold take. I think there's a world in cold take. I think there's a world in which Bournemouth, as they've proven to which Bournemouth, as they've proven to be pretty savvy with the recruitment, be pretty savvy with the recruitment, they've been really solid team in the they've been really solid team in the Premier League over the last couple of Premier League over the last couple of seasons. there's a world in which they seasons. there's a world in which they nail their recruiting and they nail nail their recruiting and they nail those incoming signings and they don't those incoming signings and they don't have quite the same drop off that feels have quite the same drop off that feels very possible but man that drop off sure very possible but man that drop off sure feels possible. So I I am worried about feels possible. So I I am worried about Bournemouth not as a relegation threat Bournemouth not as a relegation threat by any means but I think there are a lot by any means but I think there are a lot of worlds where they are not finishing of worlds where they are not finishing in the top half this season and a lot of in the top half this season and a lot of that may stem from the fact that they've that may stem from the fact that they've just been pillaged defensively. So Joe, just been pillaged defensively. So Joe, maybe less of a Dracula performance in maybe less of a Dracula performance in which they're sort of like haunting which they're sort of like haunting England and and like stealing power from England and and like stealing power from uh teams in London and more so a uh teams in London and more so a Frankenstein situation in which they're Frankenstein situation in which they're trying to piece together parts to make trying to piece together parts to make something happen. something happen. something happen. &gt;&gt; I think that's about right. Areola also &gt;&gt; I think that's about right. Areola also has has talked publicly about how he has has talked publicly about how he doesn't like Frankenstein nearly as much doesn't like Frankenstein nearly as much as he likes. as he likes. &gt;&gt; I'm reading that article now. &gt;&gt; I'm reading that article now. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we we've read the same piece of &gt;&gt; Yeah, we we've read the same piece of The Athletic, which is a great piece. The Athletic, which is a great piece. People should go and read it if you People should go and read it if you want. want. want. &gt;&gt; Starker than a Shelly guy. All right. &gt;&gt; Starker than a Shelly guy. All right. Well, he went to Shel's grave. That's Well, he went to Shel's grave. That's where a lot of this came from. who is where a lot of this came from. who is &gt;&gt; buried in Bournemouth. Didn't know that. &gt;&gt; buried in Bournemouth. Didn't know that. &gt;&gt; Very he's a man of culture, Areola. I &gt;&gt; Very he's a man of culture, Areola. I mean, he is he is such a likable guy. mean, he is he is such a likable guy. And another factor in all of this for And another factor in all of this for Bournemouth, not maybe not so much for Bournemouth, not maybe not so much for this season, but for something to watch this season, but for something to watch in the future is what happens with in the future is what happens with Areola and how much of their success is Areola and how much of their success is dependent on him. Uh, and how much of it dependent on him. Uh, and how much of it is dependent on the players and their is dependent on the players and their recruitment. Areola would certainly say recruitment. Areola would certainly say that a lot of it is is based on their that a lot of it is is based on their recruitment. I don't know that that is a recruitment. I don't know that that is a concern, like I said, for this season, concern, like I said, for this season, but Bournemouth have other concerns to but Bournemouth have other concerns to contend with at the moment. contend with at the moment. Joe, you you categorize Bournemouth as Joe, you you categorize Bournemouth as not a concern for relegation, but I do not a concern for relegation, but I do see a timeline where a big manager goes see a timeline where a big manager goes at a big club, a Real Madrid level club. at a big club, a Real Madrid level club. Areola gets picked up, they have some Areola gets picked up, they have some holes in their squad still, and they get holes in their squad still, and they get into big trs. Is that fair? into big trs. Is that fair? &gt;&gt; I mean, there is a world in which that &gt;&gt; I mean, there is a world in which that happens. Probably not at Real Madrid happens. Probably not at Real Madrid given that they've just signed Chevy given that they've just signed Chevy Alonzo, but I mean, yes, point taken on Alonzo, but I mean, yes, point taken on that. It is not an impossibility. that. It is not an impossibility. Although we did talk last year about how Although we did talk last year about how Areola scales to a bigger team, right, Areola scales to a bigger team, right, with his style, not at all what big with his style, not at all what big clubs are doing. Like there is not a big clubs are doing. Like there is not a big club really that plays like Bournemouth club really that plays like Bournemouth play, right? And that's savvy managerial play, right? And that's savvy managerial work on Areola's part to take advantage work on Areola's part to take advantage of what he has. But I do think if you of what he has. But I do think if you were Real Madrid trying to decide who to were Real Madrid trying to decide who to go to on your next manager, I think that go to on your next manager, I think that was maybe the listener question that was maybe the listener question that that prompted us to dive into Areola a that prompted us to dive into Areola a bit more last season. If you're Real bit more last season. If you're Real Madrid, you have real pause and going Madrid, you have real pause and going out there and hiring a manager who's out there and hiring a manager who's just doing nothing like like there's no just doing nothing like like there's no way Barcelona or Real Madrid or City or way Barcelona or Real Madrid or City or whoever. None of those teams are going whoever. None of those teams are going to play like this. And that makes trying to play like this. And that makes trying to figure out how Areola will lead your to figure out how Areola will lead your team to success a little bit murkier team to success a little bit murkier than it would with someone like Alonzo than it would with someone like Alonzo who was doing a big club stuff, doing who was doing a big club stuff, doing big club style stuff at least last year. big club style stuff at least last year. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I totally agree, Joe, that his &gt;&gt; Yeah, I totally agree, Joe, that his style maybe doesn't translate into these style maybe doesn't translate into these teams. that doesn't necessarily mean teams. that doesn't necessarily mean that one of those teams is not going to that one of those teams is not going to go and go go and get them. We've seen go and go go and get them. We've seen that that sort of thing before and I that that sort of thing before and I think this season is going to be a think this season is going to be a little bit of a um I think they're going little bit of a um I think they're going to fall back somewhat Bournemouth but to fall back somewhat Bournemouth but the kind of moves that they have the kind of moves that they have sanction sanctioned the sales that they sanction sanctioned the sales that they have sanctioned this is what they want have sanctioned this is what they want as a club they're part of this multi as a club they're part of this multi club ownership group they're owned by club ownership group they're owned by Bill Foley they're part of the the Black Bill Foley they're part of the the Black Knight group and within that Knight group and within that &gt;&gt; best named MCO on the on the market by &gt;&gt; best named MCO on the on the market by the way I mean black knight just top the way I mean black knight just top tier stuff keep going tier stuff keep going &gt;&gt; yeah there's not much competition out &gt;&gt; yeah there's not much competition out there really football group it kind of there really football group it kind of pales in comparison yeah that's a bit pales in comparison yeah that's a bit boring black knights Sounds sounds good. boring black knights Sounds sounds good. And um they have frequently regularly And um they have frequently regularly speak about how Bournemouth want to be speak about how Bournemouth want to be this platform. And you look at the this platform. And you look at the players they've sold number one for the players they've sold number one for the money they've sold. Like they have their money they've sold. Like they have their wallet is busting this this summer. wallet is busting this this summer. They're surely going to spend some of They're surely going to spend some of it. Number two where they have sent it. Number two where they have sent those players to. Kea has gone I know he those players to. Kea has gone I know he was alone but he he's went to Arsenal. was alone but he he's went to Arsenal. Milis Kas that's a better example. He's Milis Kas that's a better example. He's gone to Liverpool. Dean Hoyen he's gone gone to Liverpool. Dean Hoyen he's gone to Real Madrid. Zabon he's gone to PSG. to Real Madrid. Zabon he's gone to PSG. Yeah, that's I was I was getting there, Yeah, that's I was I was getting there, Taylor. I was getting there. Taylor. I was getting there. &gt;&gt; Um, but this is this is what Bournemouth &gt;&gt; Um, but this is this is what Bournemouth want to do. Even their sporting want to do. Even their sporting director, Richard Hughes, has gone to director, Richard Hughes, has gone to Liverpool. So, they are sending people Liverpool. So, they are sending people to the best clubs around the world. to the best clubs around the world. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; it's now the difficult part where they &gt;&gt; it's now the difficult part where they need to renew and they need to make the need to renew and they need to make the cycle go round again. And that's going cycle go round again. And that's going to be tough. It's a strange situation, to be tough. It's a strange situation, one we've talked about many, many times one we've talked about many, many times that like any one of the like three that like any one of the like three dominant clubs in Portugal would dominant clubs in Portugal would probably like really do well to have probably like really do well to have Areola as a manager and enjoy that sort Areola as a manager and enjoy that sort of like developing talent, helping kind of like developing talent, helping kind of send through talent, selling them on, of send through talent, selling them on, but then still being very competitive, but then still being very competitive, but probably can't afford to pay him. but probably can't afford to pay him. Would Bournemouth pay him even with Would Bournemouth pay him even with Bournemouth like financial restrictions? Bournemouth like financial restrictions? So like if I'm Bournemouth or a So like if I'm Bournemouth or a Bournemouth supporter, I'm more Bournemouth supporter, I'm more concerned about like Nottingham Forest concerned about like Nottingham Forest having a slow start than I am Sporting having a slow start than I am Sporting Club of Portugal coming in for him, as Club of Portugal coming in for him, as strange as that might be. strange as that might be. &gt;&gt; All right, very good. Thank you very &gt;&gt; All right, very good. Thank you very much, Joe Lowry, for your Bournemouth much, Joe Lowry, for your Bournemouth summary. One more quick break. When we summary. One more quick break. When we come back, it's Brenford and Brenton's come back, it's Brenford and Brenton's turn. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. turn. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Premier League Welcome back to our Premier League preview, part one of four. We've reached preview, part one of four. We've reached Brenford and Graeme Raven's going to Brenford and Graeme Raven's going to tell us all about them. Graham Brenford tell us all about them. Graham Brenford finished 10th last season, but with no finished 10th last season, but with no more in Bumo, will they be Bueno? And more in Bumo, will they be Bueno? And without Frank, will they have an without Frank, will they have an unfortunate stank? unfortunate stank? unfortunate stank? &gt;&gt; Oh man, I did not care much for those &gt;&gt; Oh man, I did not care much for those puns. puns. puns. &gt;&gt; I just remember I've got a thing that I &gt;&gt; I just remember I've got a thing that I have to go do that's specifically not have to go do that's specifically not where Ryan is. So, I'm going to go do where Ryan is. So, I'm going to go do that now. that now. that now. &gt;&gt; Actually, you've just dropped my memory, &gt;&gt; Actually, you've just dropped my memory, Joe. I do as well. Sorry. Uh, Joe. I do as well. Sorry. Uh, &gt;&gt; no. I'm still carry on. &gt;&gt; no. I'm still carry on. &gt;&gt; The thing that I hate is he might he &gt;&gt; The thing that I hate is he might he might be right. They might well, what might be right. They might well, what was it he said? have a stank this was it he said? have a stank this season. season. season. &gt;&gt; You know what? I'm gone. &gt;&gt; You know what? I'm gone. &gt;&gt; This wasn't &gt;&gt; This wasn't &gt;&gt; Who side are you on, bro? I mean, I &gt;&gt; Who side are you on, bro? I mean, I thought we just I thought we were in it. thought we just I thought we were in it. Anyway, whatever. Anyway, whatever. Anyway, whatever. &gt;&gt; Spiritually on the collective side of &gt;&gt; Spiritually on the collective side of all of us against Ryan as as always, of all of us against Ryan as as always, of course. But h yeah, this was a team that course. But h yeah, this was a team that made a habit of starting quickly last made a habit of starting quickly last season. I am not convinced they'll be season. I am not convinced they'll be starting quickly this season, but more starting quickly this season, but more on that later. for a quick recap of what on that later. for a quick recap of what they did last season. As you referenced, they did last season. As you referenced, Ryan, last season was a strong one for Ryan, last season was a strong one for Brenford who finished smack bang in mid Brenford who finished smack bang in mid table, 10th place. That was a big table, 10th place. That was a big improvement on the previous season when improvement on the previous season when Brenford got pulled into that relegation Brenford got pulled into that relegation battle. Uh much better last season. I battle. Uh much better last season. I think the only disappointment from last think the only disappointment from last season was there was an outside chance season was there was an outside chance of them qualifying for Europe. That was of them qualifying for Europe. That was on the cards for a while, but they on the cards for a while, but they simply dropped too many points over the simply dropped too many points over the winter period. That was a real weak um winter period. That was a real weak um period in the season for them. But period in the season for them. But nonetheless, Brenford had the second nonetheless, Brenford had the second lowest uh estimated wage bill in the lowest uh estimated wage bill in the Premier League Premier League last Premier League Premier League last season. So to finish 10th was a huge season. So to finish 10th was a huge overachievement. And that's what overachievement. And that's what Brenford have been for the last four Brenford have been for the last four seasons. They are overachievers. They seasons. They are overachievers. They are a club that puts right down to their are a club that puts right down to their their owner. They are a club that puts a their owner. They are a club that puts a lot of faith in in in data and should lot of faith in in in data and should recruitment because they have to. They recruitment because they have to. They are not a large club. They don't have are not a large club. They don't have the budget of some of the clubs around the budget of some of the clubs around them. This season though that model is them. This season though that model is really going to be tested more than ever really going to be tested more than ever before because it has been a summer of before because it has been a summer of change for Brenford. So let's start with change for Brenford. So let's start with the manager Thomas Frank. He's gone h the manager Thomas Frank. He's gone h he's taken over at Spurs and he has been he's taken over at Spurs and he has been replaced with Keith Andrews who is a replaced with Keith Andrews who is a very handsome man. He's got great hair very handsome man. He's got great hair but he is a complete rookie and he was but he is a complete rookie and he was Thomas Frank's setpiece coach. Um, some Thomas Frank's setpiece coach. Um, some listeners may remember Joe I'm trying to listeners may remember Joe I'm trying to think this maybe a little bit before think this maybe a little bit before your time but Keith Andrews is former your time but Keith Andrews is former like not quite in the 90s but like the like not quite in the 90s but like the 2000s I think he played for Birmingham 2000s I think he played for Birmingham um and um and a few other teams um and um and a few other teams Blackburn maybe but he was like a Blackburn maybe but he was like a defensive midfielder. defensive midfielder. defensive midfielder. &gt;&gt; Has he got the most generic name in &gt;&gt; Has he got the most generic name in soccer? Uh, if you were trying to think soccer? Uh, if you were trying to think of a generic name, with all due respect of a generic name, with all due respect to the Keith and the Andrews out there, to the Keith and the Andrews out there, &gt;&gt; Andrew just feels like &gt;&gt; Andrew just feels like &gt;&gt; if you were going to Jen a defensive &gt;&gt; if you were going to Jen a defensive midfielder from the 90s, you you'd uh midfielder from the 90s, you you'd uh &gt;&gt; in Joe's defense, he does sound like a &gt;&gt; in Joe's defense, he does sound like a 90s hardman Premier League footballer 90s hardman Premier League footballer despite the fact he was a little bit a despite the fact he was a little bit later. But yeah, he doesn't little bit later. But yeah, he doesn't have any managerial experience. As I have any managerial experience. As I said, he was the the setpiece coach last said, he was the the setpiece coach last season. And it's not just Thomas Frank season. And it's not just Thomas Frank who has left who who who's gone from who has left who who who's gone from Brenford this summer. is all his Brenford this summer. is all his coaching staff as well. Justin Cochran, coaching staff as well. Justin Cochran, Joe News Joe News Joe News is still there. The set piece coach of is still there. The set piece coach of course the one who had the most course the one who had the most influence on the tactics and general influence on the tactics and general overview of that team. He stayed and overview of that team. He stayed and he's now been made the manager. So all he's now been made the manager. So all of those coaches that I just rang off of those coaches that I just rang off there, they have all gone to um Spurs. there, they have all gone to um Spurs. &gt;&gt; So Andrews who has no management &gt;&gt; So Andrews who has no management experience, he stepped up. Bren Brenford experience, he stepped up. Bren Brenford apparently also spoke to Kieran McKenna. apparently also spoke to Kieran McKenna. There was that rumor which uh was There was that rumor which uh was quickly shot down but there was a rumor quickly shot down but there was a rumor about Pochettino for a couple days. about Pochettino for a couple days. Andrews was promoted from within in the Andrews was promoted from within in the end and that feels very much on brand end and that feels very much on brand for Brenford to do that sort of thing. for Brenford to do that sort of thing. The squad has completely changed as The squad has completely changed as well. So Brian Bumo he is gone. He was well. So Brian Bumo he is gone. He was Brenford's top scorer last season. Their Brenford's top scorer last season. Their second top scorer Yuan Wissa is also second top scorer Yuan Wissa is also expected to leave before the end of of expected to leave before the end of of of the window. Their captain Christian of the window. Their captain Christian Norgard has gone to Arsenal. their Norgard has gone to Arsenal. their starting goalkeeper Mark Flechen has starting goalkeeper Mark Flechen has gone to Leverkusen and Ben me uh a gone to Leverkusen and Ben me uh a starting center back has has has also starting center back has has has also left as well and as all as if all that left as well and as all as if all that wasn't enough Matthew Benham who is the wasn't enough Matthew Benham who is the the owner of Brenford has also sold 25% the owner of Brenford has also sold 25% of his ownership stake to new investors of his ownership stake to new investors who are now sitting on the board and who are now sitting on the board and having a say on how this club is is run. having a say on how this club is is run. So it is a very different team and a So it is a very different team and a very different club this season. There very different club this season. There has been some incoming signings. H 34 has been some incoming signings. H 34 year old Jordan Henderson, fresh from year old Jordan Henderson, fresh from not being very good from Ajax and being not being very good from Ajax and being past it for England, has arrived to past it for England, has arrived to replace Norard in central midfield. replace Norard in central midfield. Keven Kellaher has come in from Keven Kellaher has come in from Liverpool to be the the new number one Liverpool to be the the new number one goalkeeper, which I feel a lot better goalkeeper, which I feel a lot better about that signing than I do about the about that signing than I do about the the Henderson one. I think he is a very the Henderson one. I think he is a very good replacement for Flecken if you if good replacement for Flecken if you if you ask me. They have spent 20 million you ask me. They have spent 20 million euros to sign Anthony Malambo from euros to sign Anthony Malambo from Fenord. He is an attacking midfielder, Fenord. He is an attacking midfielder, has good versatility, can play in a has good versatility, can play in a number of different positions, and has a number of different positions, and has a a decent goal threat. a decent goal threat. &gt;&gt; Will he wear number five? &gt;&gt; Will he wear number five? &gt;&gt; Uh, will he? No. Who &gt;&gt; Uh, will he? No. Who &gt;&gt; number five? &gt;&gt; number five? &gt;&gt; Oh god, this &gt;&gt; Oh god, this &gt;&gt; I'm definitely gone this time. &gt;&gt; I'm definitely gone this time. &gt;&gt; Sorry. &gt;&gt; Sorry. &gt;&gt; Sorry. &gt;&gt; I mean, that's for as quick as that was, &gt;&gt; I mean, that's for as quick as that was, that's pretty impressive. I got to give that's pretty impressive. I got to give it up. That's nice. it up. That's nice. &gt;&gt; Do you blame me for not getting it first &gt;&gt; Do you blame me for not getting it first time, though? No time, though? No &gt;&gt; man. Okay. So, yeah, it's not it's not a &gt;&gt; man. Okay. So, yeah, it's not it's not a beside the fact that you can make Lubega beside the fact that you can make Lubega jokes on the signings that they've jokes on the signings that they've they've made. It's not a summer window they've made. It's not a summer window that fills me with a huge amount of that fills me with a huge amount of confidence. It has been low-key in terms confidence. It has been low-key in terms of players coming in. H manager already of players coming in. H manager already have a little bit of confidence in your have a little bit of confidence in your life. life. life. &gt;&gt; These are now lyrics that are flying &gt;&gt; These are now lyrics that are flying over my head. over my head. &gt;&gt; Welcome, Grim. It's coming. &gt;&gt; Welcome, Grim. It's coming. &gt;&gt; At least the Mambo the Mambo number five &gt;&gt; At least the Mambo the Mambo number five one. I I could at least recall that one, one. I I could at least recall that one, but the others not so sure. And moving but the others not so sure. And moving on, Keith Andrews, he is the manager. As on, Keith Andrews, he is the manager. As I mentioned, he's a rookie. Difficult to I mentioned, he's a rookie. Difficult to know what style of play he will favor. know what style of play he will favor. So, of course, under Frank, Brenford So, of course, under Frank, Brenford were known for their aggressive out of were known for their aggressive out of possession approach and they coupled possession approach and they coupled that with having one of the quickest and that with having one of the quickest and most dangerous counterattacks in in the most dangerous counterattacks in in the league. I would expect there to be a lot league. I would expect there to be a lot of overlap in Andrew's approach because of overlap in Andrew's approach because otherwise, I just don't think Brenford otherwise, I just don't think Brenford would have would have hired him. I don't would have would have hired him. I don't think they will want him to reinvent the think they will want him to reinvent the wheel. So, um it will be a a 441. That's wheel. So, um it will be a a 441. That's how Andrews has set them up in how Andrews has set them up in preseason. That can transition into a preseason. That can transition into a 42-31. They'll go to a three at the back 42-31. They'll go to a three at the back with the was it the 325. Damsgard likes with the was it the 325. Damsgard likes to play as the number 10 and behind Igor to play as the number 10 and behind Igor Thiago as the center forward. They get Thiago as the center forward. They get the wide midfielders inside. They push the wide midfielders inside. They push the fullbacks high and and wide to the fullbacks high and and wide to support the attack at pace. And they support the attack at pace. And they will, the way that Brenford play is will, the way that Brenford play is sometimes they will have like a deep sometimes they will have like a deep line of confrontation, but there are a line of confrontation, but there are a lot of pressures in midfield to then win lot of pressures in midfield to then win the ball back and move quickly into into the ball back and move quickly into into um into the attack into open space. I um into the attack into open space. I think Michael Coyote is going to be key think Michael Coyote is going to be key for Brenford this season. He joined on for Brenford this season. He joined on loan in January um and I kind of loan in January um and I kind of highlighted him as someone that I liked. highlighted him as someone that I liked. He was at Fjentina. He's now joined He was at Fjentina. He's now joined permanently and I think he's had a few permanently and I think he's had a few months to acclimatize to the Premier months to acclimatize to the Premier League and I think he is now going to be League and I think he is now going to be more important for this Brenford team. more important for this Brenford team. He's an interesting player in that He's an interesting player in that sometimes it doesn't look like he is in sometimes it doesn't look like he is in full control of his legs but he is very full control of his legs but he is very very mobile. He likes to get up and very mobile. He likes to get up and down. I liken him liken him to someone down. I liken him liken him to someone like Jeremy Frimong. He is a real like Jeremy Frimong. He is a real attacking threat who wants to get into attacking threat who wants to get into into the final third. He sounds wy. into the final third. He sounds wy. &gt;&gt; Wy &gt;&gt; Wy &gt;&gt; Wy is another blue. is another blue. &gt;&gt; That was that was coyote ugly. I'm &gt;&gt; That was that was coyote ugly. I'm sorry. sorry. sorry. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Graham just sorry Graham. sorry Graham. sorry Graham. &gt;&gt; I'm not even sure what the references &gt;&gt; I'm not even sure what the references are at this point. are at this point. &gt;&gt; Wy Coyote. &gt;&gt; Wy Coyote. &gt;&gt; All right, there we go. Coyote. Hey. Um, &gt;&gt; All right, there we go. Coyote. Hey. Um, so yeah, he's a real attacking threat. so yeah, he's a real attacking threat. Uh and then in midfield it's also going Uh and then in midfield it's also going to be a big season for Hendo who still to be a big season for Hendo who still has to show he has the legs first of all has to show he has the legs first of all to play in the Premier League. Second of to play in the Premier League. Second of all to play the aggressive style that all to play the aggressive style that Brenford demand of their midfielders. Brenford demand of their midfielders. Damscard he was really important last Damscard he was really important last season. He is the main cre creator. He's season. He is the main cre creator. He's going to be really important this season going to be really important this season again. And then Keane Lewis Potter which again. And then Keane Lewis Potter which is a great name by the way. He had a is a great name by the way. He had a good season last season usually playing good season last season usually playing off the left. He is another creator. Um off the left. He is another creator. Um although he's an excellent round all although he's an excellent round all rounder as well in terms of his off ball rounder as well in terms of his off ball work and his general play. The big work and his general play. The big question of this team is the attack question of this team is the attack because they have to find a way to because they have to find a way to replace the goals of Emuo and probably replace the goals of Emuo and probably Whisa as well. You're talking like 40 Whisa as well. You're talking like 40 goals in the league. Eager Thiago will goals in the league. Eager Thiago will feel like a new signing and he suffered feel like a new signing and he suffered a bad injury on his Brenford debut last a bad injury on his Brenford debut last season. He only played eight games last season. He only played eight games last season but he was a club record signing season but he was a club record signing for30 million pounds. So, you know how for30 million pounds. So, you know how people say like a new signing? I feel people say like a new signing? I feel like this one is actually pretty like this one is actually pretty justified in that he basically didn't justified in that he basically didn't play last season. He came with a big play last season. He came with a big pedigree. They saw nothing of him. He is pedigree. They saw nothing of him. He is a real physical threat. He's an a real physical threat. He's an archetypal number one. Andrews has been archetypal number one. Andrews has been using him in in preseason as his using him in in preseason as his starting number nine. And then another starting number nine. And then another player who was badly disrupted by injury player who was badly disrupted by injury last season was Fabio Carvalio who will last season was Fabio Carvalio who will likely play on the right side where Emu likely play on the right side where Emu was so good last season. He is a was so good last season. He is a obviously a former Liverpool player. obviously a former Liverpool player. He's a dribbly winger. He likes to shoot He's a dribbly winger. He likes to shoot from outside the box and Brenford are from outside the box and Brenford are going to need other players to step up going to need other players to step up in terms of goal threat. So, he's one to in terms of goal threat. So, he's one to keep an eye on as well. And that brings keep an eye on as well. And that brings me to my very specific prediction which me to my very specific prediction which is that Brenford are getting relegated. is that Brenford are getting relegated. Just kidding. Although maybe not. That Just kidding. Although maybe not. That that's not specific enough. Um my VSSP that's not specific enough. Um my VSSP is so basically I expect Brenford's is so basically I expect Brenford's attacking numbers are going to shift attacking numbers are going to shift this season. They scored 12 this season. They scored 12 counterattack goals last season. I bet counterattack goals last season. I bet that number is going to be less this that number is going to be less this season. I also expect their average season. I also expect their average possession share is going to be less. It possession share is going to be less. It was the already the fifth lowest in the was the already the fifth lowest in the league last season. I think that's going league last season. I think that's going to be bottom three with Christian Norard to be bottom three with Christian Norard leaving. I just do not have faith in leaving. I just do not have faith in Hendo stepping up in that regard. Hendo stepping up in that regard. However, one metric I don't expect to However, one metric I don't expect to change much is their effectiveness from change much is their effectiveness from set pieces. So my VSSP is that Brenford set pieces. So my VSSP is that Brenford are going to match or exceed last are going to match or exceed last season's tally of 13 setpiece goals, season's tally of 13 setpiece goals, which was the fifth highest in the which was the fifth highest in the league. Andrews, who as I mentioned was league. Andrews, who as I mentioned was the set piece coach, is now the manager. the set piece coach, is now the manager. He is surely going to continue with that He is surely going to continue with that emphasis on set pieces. Thiago, I think, emphasis on set pieces. Thiago, I think, is more capable in the air, more is more capable in the air, more physical in the air than either Whistler physical in the air than either Whistler and Bumo was. Damsgard and Lewis Potter and Bumo was. Damsgard and Lewis Potter take their set pieces and they're still take their set pieces and they're still around. They're two of the players that around. They're two of the players that are still in this squad. And so I are still in this squad. And so I predict that they will score 13 or more predict that they will score 13 or more set piece goals this season. Graham, if set piece goals this season. Graham, if it's any other team but Brenford and it's any other team but Brenford and they appoint the setpiece coach as their they appoint the setpiece coach as their manager, that feels like it's going to manager, that feels like it's going to be a disaster, right? But with Brenford, be a disaster, right? But with Brenford, it's like they've got something up their it's like they've got something up their sleeve. They're geniuses and they're sleeve. They're geniuses and they're eventually going to have him poached by eventually going to have him poached by Real Madrid in a season or two. But like Real Madrid in a season or two. But like outside of it just being Brenford who outside of it just being Brenford who tend to find ways to be competitive that tend to find ways to be competitive that we didn't see coming, that that does not we didn't see coming, that that does not seem like the most inspiring appointment seem like the most inspiring appointment to me. Yeah, I mean Keith Andrews before to me. Yeah, I mean Keith Andrews before he was set piece coach, he was a pundit he was set piece coach, he was a pundit on Sky Sports. He was the NFL pundit for on Sky Sports. He was the NFL pundit for for Sky here in in in the UK. He he for Sky here in in in the UK. He he seems like a smart guy. Like he's seems like a smart guy. Like he's articulate. I just don't have much faith articulate. I just don't have much faith in him immediately getting the squads up in him immediately getting the squads up and running and hitting the ground and running and hitting the ground running. It feels like they've got a lot running. It feels like they've got a lot of work to do before the end of the of work to do before the end of the window. And Joe mentioned in his window. And Joe mentioned in his Bournemouth preview they were being Bournemouth preview they were being linked with Utara. I think he would make linked with Utara. I think he would make a a difference for this team. But the a a difference for this team. But the the the thing that makes me fearful for the the thing that makes me fearful for Brenford is just how much strain is Brenford is just how much strain is being put on their model right now. The being put on their model right now. The the the success of their model is the the success of their model is proven. But when you lose as many goals, proven. But when you lose as many goals, you lose your manager, you lose your you lose your manager, you lose your captain, you lose your starting captain, you lose your starting goalkeeper, you lose your defense, your goalkeeper, you lose your defense, your your dominant defender all in one summer your dominant defender all in one summer and you don't have much of a budget to and you don't have much of a budget to replace them, the the model strain is replace them, the the model strain is going to be insane this season. and going to be insane this season. and things like bringing in Jordan things like bringing in Jordan Henderson. I mean, it's possible they've Henderson. I mean, it's possible they've spotted something in Henderson's game in spotted something in Henderson's game in for Ajax or for England in those for Ajax or for England in those substandard performances has produced substandard performances has produced for both teams over the last 12 months. for both teams over the last 12 months. It's possible that they have spotted It's possible that they have spotted something that I and others haven't and something that I and others haven't and it's going to work and it makes sense. it's going to work and it makes sense. And keep in mind the last time they lost And keep in mind the last time they lost a key player was when they sold out even a key player was when they sold out even Tony to or Ivan Tony to um to to Saudi Tony to or Ivan Tony to um to to Saudi Arabia and all of a sudden and whist Arabia and all of a sudden and whist stepped up and they were even better stepped up and they were even better without him. So it's I guess it's without him. So it's I guess it's possible the same thing will happen but possible the same thing will happen but at some point I expect Brenford's model at some point I expect Brenford's model to falter and I kind of fear for them to falter and I kind of fear for them that this season might be when that that this season might be when that happens. happens. happens. &gt;&gt; Okay. All right. Well, I did feel bad &gt;&gt; Okay. All right. Well, I did feel bad about my criticism of Keith Andrews about my criticism of Keith Andrews generic name, but I've just looked up he generic name, but I've just looked up he played for MK Dons twice, so he he is played for MK Dons twice, so he he is one of the world's worst people. Um, one of the world's worst people. Um, we've got one more team to um to cover we've got one more team to um to cover on this episode. We've done Bournemouth on this episode. We've done Bournemouth and Brenford sort of both overachievers. and Brenford sort of both overachievers. Taylor, I think for the final team we're Taylor, I think for the final team we're going to talk about, probably in that going to talk about, probably in that bracket and definitely in the bracket bracket and definitely in the bracket like Brenford are of uh sports betting like Brenford are of uh sports betting data um powering things as well. Taylor, data um powering things as well. Taylor, tell us about Tiny Baby Boy Fabian tell us about Tiny Baby Boy Fabian Herzler's sophomore season on the South Herzler's sophomore season on the South Coast. I shall because we're talking Coast. I shall because we're talking Brighton, who were eighth uh last Brighton, who were eighth uh last season. 66 goals for 59 against, uh not season. 66 goals for 59 against, uh not the greatest goal difference, but when the greatest goal difference, but when you have uh some very impactful injuries you have uh some very impactful injuries combined with a number of new signings combined with a number of new signings betting in uh that your team ends up betting in uh that your team ends up only one point short of their points only one point short of their points record from 2023 is no small feat, record from 2023 is no small feat, especially under baby boy manager especially under baby boy manager Herzel. Uh and they have spent plenty of Herzel. Uh and they have spent plenty of money. They have been spending plenty of money. They have been spending plenty of money Brighton because obviously they money Brighton because obviously they tend to sell some players as well. Xiao tend to sell some players as well. Xiao Pedro uh chief among them this summer Pedro uh chief among them this summer moving to Chelsea for over 60 million. moving to Chelsea for over 60 million. Simon Adingra moving to Sunderland for Simon Adingra moving to Sunderland for over like around 2 million. Pervesa over like around 2 million. Pervesa Stupin uh moving to AC Milan to name Stupin uh moving to AC Milan to name just a few of the many sales that they just a few of the many sales that they have made means that Brighton have been have made means that Brighton have been able to spend uh quite a bit to to able to spend uh quite a bit to to further strengthen and I think it's further strengthen and I think it's interesting to look at how they have interesting to look at how they have gone about spending uh because gone about spending uh because historically there has been a strong historically there has been a strong connection to South America. The connection to South America. The Athletic outlined this well by listing Athletic outlined this well by listing basically every single player that they basically every single player that they signed from South America who is no signed from South America who is no longer with the team. that's that's been longer with the team. that's that's been a kind of staple of the club that is a kind of staple of the club that is starting to to fade or kind of move away starting to to fade or kind of move away from that model largely because they now from that model largely because they now have that reputation of they're going to have that reputation of they're going to sign our player uh South American player sign our player uh South American player for 4 million euros or whatever and then for 4 million euros or whatever and then they're going to sell them for 40 so they're going to sell them for 40 so we're going to charge a little bit more we're going to charge a little bit more and basically their model has been found and basically their model has been found out by a few different uh clubs a few out by a few different uh clubs a few different countries and so if you are a different countries and so if you are a team in Paraguay and Brighton come in team in Paraguay and Brighton come in for one of your players you're going to for one of your players you're going to ask for a bit more so I think they're ask for a bit more so I think they're seeing seeing seeing less value or less potential value. And less value or less potential value. And so they have broadened their horizons. so they have broadened their horizons. Uh they've brought in two Greek players Uh they've brought in two Greek players this summer, one of whom they brought in this summer, one of whom they brought in in January, but then immediately loan in January, but then immediately loan back out. Uh but now they've got the two back out. Uh but now they've got the two in uh for the duration of the season. in uh for the duration of the season. They've expanded into South Korea after They've expanded into South Korea after their expansion into Japan went well their expansion into Japan went well with Mima coming in looking quite good, with Mima coming in looking quite good, being a key attacker for them this being a key attacker for them this season. Um, and I think where they have season. Um, and I think where they have spent that money is somewhat fascinating spent that money is somewhat fascinating because if you look at their attacking because if you look at their attacking strength for a moment, uh, Charampos strength for a moment, uh, Charampos Kustulus, 18-year-old center forward, Kustulus, 18-year-old center forward, he's one of the Greeks. Uh, I mentioned he's one of the Greeks. Uh, I mentioned coming in, he's going to be the coming in, he's going to be the understudy to Danny Wellbeck, who is understudy to Danny Wellbeck, who is still there, still scoring goals. Um, still there, still scoring goals. Um, uh, Costulus already has a season under uh, Costulus already has a season under his belt in the top flight in Greece and his belt in the top flight in Greece and has been a professional for at least has been a professional for at least three years playing with their B team three years playing with their B team over there. Uh, and so I think the over there. Uh, and so I think the expectation is he is representative of a expectation is he is representative of a teenager who's going to come in, be an teenager who's going to come in, be an understudy, maybe get some minutes, understudy, maybe get some minutes, maybe break through, but if he doesn't, maybe break through, but if he doesn't, next season is when they expect him to next season is when they expect him to kind of become more of a starter. And kind of become more of a starter. And that's the same thing for somebody like that's the same thing for somebody like Tom Watson, 19-year-old right-footed Tom Watson, 19-year-old right-footed English left winger, who they brought in English left winger, who they brought in from Sunderland. Uh, same for Stephanon from Sunderland. Uh, same for Stephanon Seimas, 19-year-old Greek striker, maybe Seimas, 19-year-old Greek striker, maybe winger. I've seen him listed in both winger. I've seen him listed in both spots, though he tends to be identified spots, though he tends to be identified as a striker. uh he's the one that they as a striker. uh he's the one that they bought from Nerburgg and then loaned bought from Nerburgg and then loaned back out for last season. Uh so they back out for last season. Uh so they have I wouldn't quite say like more have I wouldn't quite say like more depth in attack given some of the depth in attack given some of the departures I mentioned, but they have departures I mentioned, but they have potential depth in attack and I think potential depth in attack and I think that's what they are about so far. In that's what they are about so far. In terms of their defensive stability, that terms of their defensive stability, that is where I think they brought in more is where I think they brought in more kind of impactful players. Maxim Diper kind of impactful players. Maxim Diper is their 24year-old left back that they is their 24year-old left back that they brought in. He is the uh Estonan brought in. He is the uh Estonan replacement and has already looked good. replacement and has already looked good. He scored a goal in preseason. He's very He scored a goal in preseason. He's very attacking, very technically sound, very attacking, very technically sound, very good in his positioning both defensively good in his positioning both defensively and in attack and I think will be a key and in attack and I think will be a key player for them. They bring in Diego player for them. They bring in Diego Capola who's a 21-year-old Italian Capola who's a 21-year-old Italian center back capped by the national team. center back capped by the national team. He's like 6'6, I think 6'5. He's he he's He's like 6'6, I think 6'5. He's he he's a big fella. Uh and so the expectation a big fella. Uh and so the expectation is that he also will help add some some is that he also will help add some some depth to a backline that is pretty solid depth to a backline that is pretty solid and pretty consistent, but also could and pretty consistent, but also could use some sort of competition for places. use some sort of competition for places. Uh and so I think that they have Uh and so I think that they have strengthened but maybe not to the level strengthened but maybe not to the level where we would expect them to like fully where we would expect them to like fully kick on to fully be competing for kick on to fully be competing for Champions League certainly even Europa Champions League certainly even Europa League. I feel like if they finish League. I feel like if they finish eighth again there will be some eighth again there will be some satisfaction uh for Brighton supporters satisfaction uh for Brighton supporters because that is stability and because that is stability and consistency and that is also Fabian consistency and that is also Fabian Hartzeller continuing to have an impact. Hartzeller continuing to have an impact. The baby boy himself now 32 years old in The baby boy himself now 32 years old in his second season in charge uh in a his second season in charge uh in a largely successful first season. should largely successful first season. should be noted he has very high demands for be noted he has very high demands for physicality, for training intensity, for physicality, for training intensity, for distance covered, for pressing and there distance covered, for pressing and there is an idea that some of the injuries I is an idea that some of the injuries I mentioned from last season that limited mentioned from last season that limited Brighton's ability to kind of kick onto Brighton's ability to kind of kick onto that next level are related to that that next level are related to that intensity. If you look at their new intensity. If you look at their new signings from last window, uh you have signings from last window, uh you have Georgino Rutter coming in, he misses Georgino Rutter coming in, he misses nine games with a foot injury. Yakuba nine games with a foot injury. Yakuba Minta comes in, he misses a month with a Minta comes in, he misses a month with a muscle injury. Matt Vifer misses 22 muscle injury. Matt Vifer misses 22 games. This is Brian Gruda misses a games. This is Brian Gruda misses a month with various injuries. Freddy month with various injuries. Freddy Caliolu is out for basically the entire Caliolu is out for basically the entire season. Matt O'Reilly misses 15 games season. Matt O'Reilly misses 15 games due to ankle and knee injuries. Some of due to ankle and knee injuries. Some of those are just sort of getting kicked those are just sort of getting kicked getting stepped on the the kind of getting stepped on the the kind of physicality of the Premier League. But physicality of the Premier League. But there is an idea that some of that is there is an idea that some of that is the number of games played uh the the number of games played uh the expansion of the uh international expansion of the uh international calendar uh the expansion of calendars calendar uh the expansion of calendars in in general. uh we haven't gone past in in general. uh we haven't gone past 365 but in terms of the number of games 365 but in terms of the number of games played uh just more minutes more wear played uh just more minutes more wear but with an really intense manager there but with an really intense manager there is that concern of like is he wearing is that concern of like is he wearing down some of these players and that's down some of these players and that's not just newbies uh Yan Paul Van Heeka not just newbies uh Yan Paul Van Heeka missed six games Jack Hinchwood missed missed six games Jack Hinchwood missed 20 games due to a broken foot again how 20 games due to a broken foot again how much of that is on training how much of much of that is on training how much of that is just wear and tear who knows uh that is just wear and tear who knows uh but it's an interesting one to look at but it's an interesting one to look at when when you're looking at uh Herzeler when when you're looking at uh Herzeler who I think also is just a really who I think also is just a really interesting manager himself. Uh similar interesting manager himself. Uh similar to some of what Graham was talking about to some of what Graham was talking about with Brenford last season, there is a with Brenford last season, there is a willingness to think outside of the box willingness to think outside of the box and try different things exemplified by and try different things exemplified by uh Brighton being the team that led led uh Brighton being the team that led led the league last year in outfield players the league last year in outfield players taking goal kicks. a stat that we all taking goal kicks. a stat that we all know is incredibly relevant to to play, know is incredibly relevant to to play, but is really interesting in terms of but is really interesting in terms of what they do with that and why they do what they do with that and why they do it, which is basically to pull it, which is basically to pull opposition defenses forward when they're opposition defenses forward when they're trying to press and to make it harder trying to press and to make it harder for them to know whom to press and when. for them to know whom to press and when. Largely to open up space through the Largely to open up space through the middle when they overcommit numbers to middle when they overcommit numbers to then kind of ping long balls into feet then kind of ping long balls into feet and hopefully spring attacks. And they and hopefully spring attacks. And they did that quite effectively. So, a small did that quite effectively. So, a small representation of the way Herzeler tries representation of the way Herzeler tries to do things differently and tries to to do things differently and tries to kind of catch teams uh unaware uh kind of catch teams uh unaware uh sometimes caught unaware is Brighton's sometimes caught unaware is Brighton's goalkeeper Bart Verugan. He's 22 years goalkeeper Bart Verugan. He's 22 years old. Uh he was identified by CIES old. Uh he was identified by CIES Graham. You know them, right? You're Graham. You know them, right? You're familiar. Big fan. familiar. Big fan. &gt;&gt; My favorite, right? &gt;&gt; My favorite, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh I' I've seen this statistic during &gt;&gt; Uh I' I've seen this statistic during the rounds in like every single preview, the rounds in like every single preview, but I have to mention it uh for my own. but I have to mention it uh for my own. Um they have him identified as Um they have him identified as potentially the most expensive potentially the most expensive goalkeeper in the world with an goalkeeper in the world with an approximate price tag of 54 million approximate price tag of 54 million pounds which is not a small figure for a pounds which is not a small figure for a player who tends to make costly mistakes player who tends to make costly mistakes or not tends to but occasionally is good or not tends to but occasionally is good for a howler is maybe sometimes for a howler is maybe sometimes questionable in his positioning and questionable in his positioning and basically needs to improve his basically needs to improve his consistency to help Brighton be more consistency to help Brighton be more competitive this season or stay competitive this season or stay competitive this season but also just to competitive this season but also just to kind of increase that valuation and kind kind of increase that valuation and kind of continue with the hype that has of continue with the hype that has already uh been brought in by that already uh been brought in by that valuation. Uh Brighton bringing in valuation. Uh Brighton bringing in goalkeeper coach Yel Ten Ruer who goalkeeper coach Yel Ten Ruer who apparently worked with Manchester United apparently worked with Manchester United last year. Don't remember that. Uh but last year. Don't remember that. Uh but he has previously worked with Vergen at he has previously worked with Vergen at Nak Brada and Anderlech or NAC Brada and Nak Brada and Anderlech or NAC Brada and Anderlecht. So there's basically an idea Anderlecht. So there's basically an idea we're bringing in a coach who you have we're bringing in a coach who you have familiarity with to improve your familiarity with to improve your consistency and reliability. Uh speaking consistency and reliability. Uh speaking of consistency and reliability, Lewis of consistency and reliability, Lewis Dunc the greatest chess passer the world Dunc the greatest chess passer the world has ever known. 33 years old captain, has ever known. 33 years old captain, 430 appearances for Brighton. Uh he is 430 appearances for Brighton. Uh he is in the final year of his deal. in the final year of his deal. Expectation is that he will resign with Expectation is that he will resign with the club and eventually move into some the club and eventually move into some sort of coaching staffing role. Uh but sort of coaching staffing role. Uh but long may he play for Brighton. Long may long may he play for Brighton. Long may he continue to chess pass back to his he continue to chess pass back to his goalkeeper. For people who haven't heard goalkeeper. For people who haven't heard me praise him before or haven't seen me praise him before or haven't seen those montages, you can find them uh those montages, you can find them uh online. He does it a lot. He's really online. He does it a lot. He's really good at it. Speaking of really good, good at it. Speaking of really good, Carlos Baleba, who at time of recording Carlos Baleba, who at time of recording is still playing for Brighton, uh, has is still playing for Brighton, uh, has not yet moved anywhere and I honestly not yet moved anywhere and I honestly don't think will move anywhere this don't think will move anywhere this window. Famous last words. Uh, but he's window. Famous last words. Uh, but he's a 21-year-old Cameroonian international, a 21-year-old Cameroonian international, center midfielder, 31 starts last center midfielder, 31 starts last season, played 34 games, strong numbers season, played 34 games, strong numbers more or less across the board. Solid and more or less across the board. Solid and progressive carries in takeowns, in progressive carries in takeowns, in passes completed, in tackles, passes completed, in tackles, interceptions, blocks, aerial duels. He interceptions, blocks, aerial duels. He is very good at pretty much everything, is very good at pretty much everything, which is why Manchester United uh are which is why Manchester United uh are very much in for him. Other clubs have very much in for him. Other clubs have also inquired about his availability. also inquired about his availability. Brighton have zero pressure to sell. Brighton have zero pressure to sell. Plenty plenty of time left on his deal. Plenty plenty of time left on his deal. There is less than a month left in the There is less than a month left in the window. There's a feeling that they window. There's a feeling that they won't have time to find a an obvious won't have time to find a an obvious replacement. So essentially, he is replacement. So essentially, he is available, but it will take something in available, but it will take something in the neighborhood of what Chelsea paid the neighborhood of what Chelsea paid for Moyes Kisedo, which was around 115 for Moyes Kisedo, which was around 115 million pounds to get that deal across million pounds to get that deal across the line. I don't think Manchester the line. I don't think Manchester United can make that happen unless they United can make that happen unless they sell more of the bomb squad and who sell more of the bomb squad and who knows if that's going to happen. So I knows if that's going to happen. So I think Baleba sticks around that I think think Baleba sticks around that I think if he does go that is a huge blow to if he does go that is a huge blow to Brighton because they have potentially Brighton because they have potentially capable replacements in say Yasin Ayari capable replacements in say Yasin Ayari who's a 21-year-old uh central who's a 21-year-old uh central midfielder in uh Joe do you know do you midfielder in uh Joe do you know who I'm a little bit hyped about? know who I'm a little bit hyped about? Oh, go on Oh, go on &gt;&gt; into Miami's Diego Gomez. Uh, &gt;&gt; into Miami's Diego Gomez. Uh, 22-year-old Paraguayan defensive 22-year-old Paraguayan defensive midfielder u who is not quite a key midfielder u who is not quite a key player yet, but I think if Bleba goes or player yet, but I think if Bleba goes or if there are injuries, I think we might if there are injuries, I think we might see him get more minutes and has been a see him get more minutes and has been a reliable performer under uh Fabin reliable performer under uh Fabin Herzeler, I think will continue to be. Herzeler, I think will continue to be. Uh, final thing for me which gets to my Uh, final thing for me which gets to my specific prediction is just the attack specific prediction is just the attack itself. Uh last season they had joint itself. Uh last season they had joint top joint joint joint top scorers, three top joint joint joint top scorers, three players on 10 goals uh for Brighton last players on 10 goals uh for Brighton last season. One of whom is Ja Pedro who is season. One of whom is Ja Pedro who is no longer playing for the club. Uh the no longer playing for the club. Uh the others would be the aforementioned Kairo others would be the aforementioned Kairo Mitoma as the left winger and Danny Mitoma as the left winger and Danny Welbeck who is between 33 and 45. I Welbeck who is between 33 and 45. I forget how old he is at this point. Uh forget how old he is at this point. Uh but we don't know how if Danny Wbeck but we don't know how if Danny Wbeck will be able to last the entirety of the will be able to last the entirety of the season. Uh, and we don't know if any of season. Uh, and we don't know if any of the kind of teenagers I mentioned will the kind of teenagers I mentioned will break through. So, there's a question break through. So, there's a question about where the goals will come from and about where the goals will come from and who will be doing the the majority of who will be doing the the majority of the goal scoring. And I think it's going the goal scoring. And I think it's going to be spread out, which is where my very to be spread out, which is where my very specific prediction comes in. I think specific prediction comes in. I think Brighton will have at least five players Brighton will have at least five players scoring seven goals or more, which is an scoring seven goals or more, which is an odd one. Uh, but I will break it down. odd one. Uh, but I will break it down. As I said, three players had 10. Uh, As I said, three players had 10. Uh, then one had six and two had five last then one had six and two had five last season. and then it falls off season. and then it falls off significantly from there into like two significantly from there into like two goals and three goals here and there. goals and three goals here and there. It's a it's a smattering. But I think It's a it's a smattering. But I think that variety and the depth that they now that variety and the depth that they now have in terms of proven goal scorers, have in terms of proven goal scorers, proven uh minutes getters, but then also proven uh minutes getters, but then also youngsters coming through could mean youngsters coming through could mean that say Welbeck who I think will score that say Welbeck who I think will score seven or more for sure. Let's say he seven or more for sure. Let's say he gets hurt. That could be uh Timas gets hurt. That could be uh Timas getting a start even though he is very getting a start even though he is very young. But if he kind of produces then young. But if he kind of produces then he'll continue to play. But if it's not he'll continue to play. But if it's not him, we've seen Yan Kuba Minta in him, we've seen Yan Kuba Minta in preseason playing up top. We've seen preseason playing up top. We've seen Georgina Rutter playing up top. Uh, and Georgina Rutter playing up top. Uh, and I think that if one goes up top, one I think that if one goes up top, one goes out wide, someone else moves into goes out wide, someone else moves into the number 10 spot, and they just have the number 10 spot, and they just have so much variety in the different so much variety in the different attacking positions combined with attacking positions combined with players who are now fully fit after players who are now fully fit after having missed large chunks of last having missed large chunks of last season due to injury. I just think season due to injury. I just think there's so much variety in the way there's so much variety in the way Brighton will attack and the number of Brighton will attack and the number of players they have at their disposal that players they have at their disposal that I think it won't be any one player who I I think it won't be any one player who I think is going to be the differencemaker think is going to be the differencemaker for them this season. I think it's going for them this season. I think it's going to be contributions from a lot of to be contributions from a lot of different players. And it should be different players. And it should be noted Brighton scored, I think, the noted Brighton scored, I think, the fourth most goals in the Premier League fourth most goals in the Premier League last season. So, plenty of goals scored last season. So, plenty of goals scored already from the season before. I think already from the season before. I think more this time round. I think they're more this time round. I think they're going to be targeting seventh to eighth going to be targeting seventh to eighth to 9th, maybe in that range. Uh, and to 9th, maybe in that range. Uh, and then kind of putting together more then kind of putting together more consistency to have an even stronger consistency to have an even stronger squad that they then sell on for 100 squad that they then sell on for 100 million uh per player next window. But million uh per player next window. But overall, there is optimism if not some overall, there is optimism if not some trepidation from Brighton supporters uh trepidation from Brighton supporters uh for the coming campaign. for the coming campaign. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that's um all very wise &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that's um all very wise and a good shout good shout. Taylor, I'm and a good shout good shout. Taylor, I'm looking at someone like Matt O'Reilly looking at someone like Matt O'Reilly who last season just I think he got who last season just I think he got injured on his debut for and just didn't injured on his debut for and just didn't feature really for Brighton. He's he's a feature really for Brighton. He's he's a Kraken player and so he's one of the Kraken player and so he's one of the players. What was your what were your players. What was your what were your parameters? Seven goals from five parameters? Seven goals from five different players. different players. different players. &gt;&gt; Yeah. If Matt O'Reilly gets the minutes &gt;&gt; Yeah. If Matt O'Reilly gets the minutes in, he'll score seven goals, seven in, he'll score seven goals, seven Premier League goals, Premier League goals, &gt;&gt; and has been starting in like the number &gt;&gt; and has been starting in like the number 10 spot when they go with a 42-31 or 10 spot when they go with a 42-31 or 4-33. Yeah. 4-33. Yeah. 4-33. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I think there they are going &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I think there they are going to spread things around. It's a little to spread things around. It's a little bit confusing that they've let um Evan bit confusing that they've let um Evan Ferguson go when there is now an Ferguson go when there is now an opportunity for him or you would have opportunity for him or you would have thought there was an opportunity for him thought there was an opportunity for him to be like a an orthodox number nine to be like a an orthodox number nine within this team, but he's on loan at at within this team, but he's on loan at at Roma. I am slightly concerned that Roma. I am slightly concerned that Brighton have lost two players that I Brighton have lost two players that I think were so integral to yeah not just think were so integral to yeah not just like they were good players but they like they were good players but they were important players in terms of their were important players in terms of their approach. One is Xiao Pedro the other approach. One is Xiao Pedro the other one is Estapunan who's gone to to to AC one is Estapunan who's gone to to to AC Milan and I think replacing those two I Milan and I think replacing those two I mean Pedro is an obvious one with what mean Pedro is an obvious one with what he offers but Estunan down the left side he offers but Estunan down the left side with his mobility and and the outlet with his mobility and and the outlet that he provides. I think replacing him that he provides. I think replacing him is going to be difficult. I I would say is going to be difficult. I I would say like a sneaky shout. Maxim Diper is like a sneaky shout. Maxim Diper is probably going to be of lower value if probably going to be of lower value if you are playing fantasy this season, but you are playing fantasy this season, but I think is going to be very attacking. I think is going to be very attacking. As I said, I think got a goal in As I said, I think got a goal in preseason. Uh I would I would be preseason. Uh I would I would be surprised if he doesn't get a good surprised if he doesn't get a good number of assists as well. So, he is the number of assists as well. So, he is the one that I think they're looking to one that I think they're looking to replace a Stupinan. We'll see if he does replace a Stupinan. We'll see if he does well. On the right side, uh they also well. On the right side, uh they also have a lot of different potentialities. have a lot of different potentialities. Uh but we're not quite sure who exactly Uh but we're not quite sure who exactly will be the starter for Brighton. Uh will be the starter for Brighton. Uh they've got proven experience. They've they've got proven experience. They've got young upandcomers and then they have got young upandcomers and then they have Kadolu. Ferdic Caliolu. I mentioned him Kadolu. Ferdic Caliolu. I mentioned him missing basically the entirety of the missing basically the entirety of the campaign. Is a left back but is also campaign. Is a left back but is also like very uh right footed as well. like very uh right footed as well. Basically ambooted. Uh and so could be a Basically ambooted. Uh and so could be a right back option as well if Diper does right back option as well if Diper does kind of lock down the left back spot. So kind of lock down the left back spot. So they have again depth. It's just kind of they have again depth. It's just kind of a little bit of uncertainty as to who a little bit of uncertainty as to who the actual definite like nailedin the actual definite like nailedin starter is going to be, but that might starter is going to be, but that might also be the case for most of the team also be the case for most of the team this season. That might be just the way this season. That might be just the way they go. Brighton under Herzel. they go. Brighton under Herzel. &gt;&gt; All right. Thank you very much, Taylor. &gt;&gt; All right. Thank you very much, Taylor. I have a a fantasy Premier League draft I have a a fantasy Premier League draft happening tomorrow and that uh that has happening tomorrow and that uh that has very much helped my drafting I think very much helped my drafting I think there with the spread of goals as you there with the spread of goals as you expect. Thank you very much indeed. expect. Thank you very much indeed. There we go. That is part one of four of There we go. That is part one of four of our Premier League previews this week. our Premier League previews this week. On the next episode, we'll be talking On the next episode, we'll be talking about Burnley, Chelsea, Crystal Palace, about Burnley, Chelsea, Crystal Palace, Everton, and Fulham. But for now, on Everton, and Fulham. But for now, on this episode, Taylor Rockoff, thank you this episode, Taylor Rockoff, thank you again very much, sir. Is that a wolf? A again very much, sir. Is that a wolf? A wolf for me? I think might be a wolf. Th wolf for me? I think might be a wolf. Th those teams that you just listed. those teams that you just listed. &gt;&gt; Woof. &gt;&gt; Woof. &gt;&gt; Woof. &gt;&gt; It's there's woof. Yeah, there's woof &gt;&gt; It's there's woof. Yeah, there's woof &gt;&gt; potential potential. &gt;&gt; potential potential. &gt;&gt; Woof adjacent at the very least, I'd &gt;&gt; Woof adjacent at the very least, I'd say. Yeah. Very good. There we go. Joe say. Yeah. Very good. There we go. Joe Larry, thank you very much, sir. Larry, thank you very much, sir. &gt;&gt; Thanks, Ryan. &gt;&gt; Thanks, Ryan. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much, Graeme Rland. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much, Graeme Rland. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Ryan Bailey. And thank you &gt;&gt; Thank you, Ryan Bailey. And thank you listener for joining us on this here listener for joining us on this here episode. We'll be back on the feed very episode. We'll be back on the feed very shortly. But for now, bye.