================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 6WBeh6CcPqw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WBeh6CcPqw
TITLE: Eze set for Arsenal & will Isak end up at Liverpool?
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-21
DURATION: 45m 43s
VIEWS: 13,056
LIKES: 241
COMMENTS: 45
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo's got Natalie Gedra, Jay Harris and Dom Fifield along for the ride as we look ahead to Matchday 2 in the Premier League - and discuss some rather hefty transfer news that might have caught your eye...

That's right - it looks like Tottenham have been gazumped to the signing of Eberechi Eze by their old friends Arsenal... yikes! So does this mean that the Gunners really do have all the tools to win the Premier League? And where do Thomas Frank's Spurs turn now with a squad that looks ill-equipped to deal with the pressures of a busy schedule?

There's tasty ties everywhere you look this Bank Holiday weekend - no more so than Monday night at St James' Park as Newcastle host Liverpool. What's the latest with Alexander Isak after Tuesday night's statement tête-à-tête?

Elsewhere - there's more beef to be had between Crystal Palace and Nottingham Forest at Selhurst. Is Graham Potter already in big trouble against former side Chelsea on Friday night? And what sort of Tottenham will tur
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 8,936

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally football show today. Match day two awaits. There's beef on the menu. Sunday lunchtime as Palace whose forest and a notice amicable affair in store at Anfield with Liverpool Newcastle. You've sat through the transfer saga. Now see them play. Also is lovers with the resolution to the is he isn't he transfer tug of love and more in this totally football show. It's Thursday the 21st of August and it's a big hello to Jay Harris. Good morning. Dom Firefield's here as well. All right Dom. Good morning. How you welcome back. Very good. Thank you. Also on the big screen, Natalie Jedra of Sky Sports. Hello. It's my debut on the big screen. I don't know how I feel about that yet. Natalie's a Manchester for an interview uh for Sky Sports. Kuna, happy to be here to interview Matthew Kuya, but I wish I was in the studio as well with you guys because I prefer hanging out with your lovely companies. Thank you so much. Kuna will be great company as well. He certainly was exciting last weekend in United's inaugural defeat of the season. Last weekend. Distant memory. Eh, it's been a game since then. Leads beating Everton 1 nil thanks to Was that an egregious decision, do you think? Yeah, I don't I don't like that handle. No. No. James Tarovski clearly trying to move his arm behind his back, but penalized all the same. Probably the most unfair decision of the past Fortnite. Can you think of anything else, Dom, that I can think of something that happened at Stanford Bridge on Sunday, but we won't talk about that. I was thinking in a broader sense of I don't think broader. I just think specific. Okay. Because Palace have started off with one or two knocks, the decision from Cass about your European parkour this this this season and and and now the news that Eza is leaving. Yeah. Anticipated news. not not necessarily the the club that people anticipate he would be joining, but uh does it matter to you which club he joins? Um Dom's a Palace fan, by the way. Part of me thinks that he might provide Arsenal with with what they need to push that little bit further. But bearing in mind that that I've sort of been here before, I I was a actually I was the same age as my my kids now. um when Ian Wright left Palace for Arsenal and um did wonderfully well for them at about the similar age I think really as as Eza. Um so I can sort of see that he he would go there and potentially kick them on. I'm not saying that he's Michael Elise. I think his ceiling is probably not quite as high as Elise is and and therefore last summer when when Palace lost Elisa that that was a arguably a a bigger moment in some ways. the emotional attachment to Eza given what he did for Palace particularly last season but also sort of keeping us entertained during lockdown if you go back a bit further um is it's it's a big moment for for Palace to lose him and I I mean I'm intrigued to see whether he plays against Frederick Statut on Thursday night in your Europa Conference League uh qualifier playoff. You must be pumped about that game. Um well look I've never seen Palace play in Europe other than the game against Saman Spur in the Intert cup in 1998. So uh for for me this is and Palace fans it's a it's a it is a big moment. I know people can take the mickey but we haven't been there before. So so we all thought that Ezo had qualified Palace for Europe by scoring the winner in the FA Cup final. Well, actually, if he does well against Frederick tonight and sets up or scores or contributes goals and they get a comfortable first leg lead, then this is the night when he would qualify Palace for year at proper. Okay. Has the as a situation overshadowed tonight's game. So, it's not spoil it for you in any way. No, no, no. In fact, in some ways, actually, it'll be it'll be brilliant to actually be able to say goodbye at Cell if you play. Okay. Okay. Good. That's nice. In a way, that say Spurs weren't able to with young men. Yeah. Broadly speaking though, I know the Arsenal thing have been rumbling on. There has been some reaction of oh how Spursy and Daniel Levy got played, but Arsenal were always the club that we're talking about as Inino. Did Spurs possibly need him more than the Gunners? What do you think Jay? Arsenal showed a little bit of interest in Eslier in the summer and at that point Spurs' focus was was Morgan Gibbs White. And obviously a key element here is that EZ I grew up as an Arsenal supporter and was in their academy for 5 years. I think he got released at 13. So there's definitely an emotional element of him favoring Arsenal over Spurs. I do think Spurs needed him more than Arsenal do. I completely agree with Dom that from an Arsenal perspective that might be the missing piece that takes them to the Premier League or the Champions League. But if you just look at Spurs' squad right now, they're crying for a playmaker. Um Madison and Gulleski are both out with long-term knee injuries. As I said earlier, Spurs missed out on Gibbs White. So getting EZ sort of felt like okay this is going to be a nice statement signing for Thomas Frank to go with Muhammad Kudus he can link their attack and you know a front three front four of Salanki Kudus Ez and Brennan Johnson or Wilson Otto Matis Tel looks quite exciting now there's less than two weeks of the window to go and Spurs just have no creativity in the final third and Thomas Frank's a great head coach and he'll find a way to adapt he'll come up with some sort of temporary solution but you know at the beginning of the Daniel Levy and Spurs's new CEO Vidai Venotes um both said that the aim is to win the Premier League and the Champions League in the near future and I think what's happened in this window is not making Spurs fans confident that that's going to happen. I see. Will they come in for somebody else? You think is there a plan B? I think they have to try something. I don't know what that is. And um during the preseason tour in Hong Kong and Korea, I got the opportunity to sit down with Thomas Frank with a couple of other journalists. He said something quite interesting. He said basically we need quality and he wouldn't want to sign someone just for the sake of signing someone. So Gibbs and Ez clearly the two premier number 10s on the market who are available this summer at a reasonable price and they're both experienced players. Asper is going to get anybody else of a similar quality in the 60 million 65 million pound uh price bracket. I don't think so. So, they're either going to have to pay even more money, which I can't see them doing, or they're going to have to sign someone who's less proven. And Spurs squad is already littered with project players who are 19, 20, 21 years old, full of potential, but they're not the finished article yet. And I think they need experience. That's why they went for Gibbs White and EZ. So, even if they do pivot to a different target, it's clearly going to be someone who's not as good. One way or another, an interesting challenge for Thomas Frank. Natalie Jay's now got Arsenal in as title favorites as we just heard. Would you agree? Does this put them at the top of the pile? Yes. Well, I think they were already amongst the favorites, but this I'm very interested to see how he's going to fit in in in in their system because is not a direct replacement for Kai Hbert. You know, we've been talking about uh this injury with Kai. They're very different players, but he can bring some variet some variety into Arsenal's final third because, okay, he plays as a 10 mostly and he can produce, you know, good links uh good linkups with the left hand side, but I don't know, could Arteta maybe change the system a little bit and play maybe when you have the ball, you play kind of a 442 and then having him at times playing more wide as kind of a winger on the left because that'd be interesting if you have a midfield with Zubie Menji. Declan Rice and Old Guard. I'm not sure if he would drop one of the three. Of course, you can have injuries and it is a good option. Is a really good option in terms of rotation. It's an outstanding option. And and of course, there's Moneri's case to be made, you know, because he's mostly a 10. Arteta said last season that he can develop into a nine because he can he's always, you know, pushing to the goal and of course he played as a winger. So, it's uh Ez coming in just brings a lot of options and variety for Arsenal and that's what I'm very interested to see. I appreciate this isn't what Arsenal fans necessarily want to hear at the moment, but it's a bit of a plea really. Uh he's going to need time. I know there's a massive amount of expectation. There's even graffiti on on walls and on there. There's already a mural outside the mural there. It's EBS when he gets amongst better players and and a better team, I'm sure his levels will will rise up and he will he will be up there and his consistency will improve. But he has not been consistent all the time at his time at Palace and including in recent seasons. We all we're all hugely enthusiastic about him at the moment because his run into the last season was sensational. absolutely sensational really from the moment he scored his first goal for England. um I think it was in March time and then he came back and the first game he played for Palace was the quarterfinal the FA Cup where he absolutely dominated and and and pul and ripped Fulham to pieces but but he goes through lulls in seasons and I I'm just not sure that given the the frenzy that the fan base have been whipped up into about his signing whether he's going to be given that time just to have those inconsistent periods and to get up to speed and to work out where he fits into the setup as as Natalie says he's got they've got to work how to get the best out of him and he's he's not played wide left at Palace. He's played as a narrow number 10 on the left. So he he needs to adapt as well. So just a little plea, give him time cuz he's not only is he a brilliant player, but he's a brilliant human being. Absolutely brilliant human being. He he was he's a pleasure to have. His smile is lit up palace performances, but it's lit up off the field as well. I mean the stuff that he does back in Greenwich where I think he's from. Um you know delivering you know food to elderly people and the charity stuff that he does absolutely wonderful human being this and he just needs to be treated with the right amount of the proper amount of expectation but the but the proper respect he deserves. Match day one saw 10 players score their first ever Premier League goal on the opening weekend. It's first time that's ever happened in the league apart from on the opening weekend of the league 92. Also, two of the promoted sides won their opening game with a clean sheet. That's the first time that's ever happened. Ever. What's happening this time? Well, Friday, it's West Ham Chelsea. Big game for Ge Potter. Saturday lunchtime, Manchester City against Spurs. Woof. Then at 3:00 on Saturday, Bournemouth Wolves, Burnley, Sunderland, and Brenford, Aston Villa, tea time, Arsenal get that visit from Leeds. Sunday, Palace versus Forest, the Lord Graceto Classico as we call it. at Everton Brighton which is the first league game at the Hill Dickinson. Woo 4:30 on Sunday Fulham face Man United and then on Monday Newcastle Liverpool bit of transfer talk surrounding that one as well. So let's begin with Monday night's game and a quick update hey Jay on where we're at with that whole Alexander Isac business. Well, we finally heard from Isach after I guess weeks and and months of hearing whispers about how he was feeling and he basically said on I think it was Tuesday evening when the PFA awards were going on and he was part of the the team of the year but didn't attend the event and he said when promises are broken and trust is lost the relationship can't continue. So true. Um yeah uh and then Newcastle respond with their own statement. So it's an all we already knew it was a horrible situation for Newcastle to be in. But for them to start, you know, sending out briefing statements against each other. Well, although theirs was quite nice. Alex remains part of our family. He'll be welcome back when he's ready to rejoin his teammates when he can come down from his room when he's ready to behave nicely to borrow the analogy we had last week. Yeah, basically. But to even be in that situation where at the moment it almost feels like Newcastle are I understand it they are just trying to keep the door open for reset returning to the squad as as much as possible but what sort of message does it send to the rest of the team when you've got someone who's acting so um selfishly really um would if you were a Newcastle player in that squad at the moment would you would you trust Isat to come back and do a good job? Would you want him to come back and and be part of the team? I know he's a fantastic player. or would you feel like actually he's he's sort of burning his bridges. Um we'd rather get somebody else. It's a really really messy situation. Um I do feel a little bit for Eddie how again I was over um in Korea on Tottenham's preseason tour but I sat in on an Eddie how um press conference because Newcastle played Spurs over there and every single question um apart from one about Park Sang Su who's from Korea was about ESAC and that was I think the first week of August and now we're in the second to last or last week of August and this situation is just still going on. It must be absolutely draining for for Eddie how and everyone at Newcastle and it doesn't look like Liverpool are going to come up with 150 million that they they say they want or or can you see that happening Natalie at the same time? I don't want to go too long on this but do we should we do a little bit more? Yeah, Natalie, can you see Liverpool coming up with 150 million that apparently Newcastle want or is he just going to end up back there at St. James's? Honestly, James, it's just everything looks like a mess really. you have this statement that that looked a little bit like a desperate measure because in in fact in reality Newcastle they hold the cards running out of time. Liverpool is interested in him and I feel for the players because um I I've done a lot of things with Newcastle last season and and when you go there when you go to the training ground when you speak to the players you notice uh even compared to other clubs they are a tight group. They they are really uh a really tight group and and Anthony Gordon talking about how tough it it's been for for the players. I I I can only imagine. And of course the fan base cuz yesterday War flags they they made a post in their social media that said no promises broken by the fans that made this club. We deserve better than the destructive path you've chosen. So yeah, doesn't doesn't sound good for anyone. It really doesn't sound good for anyone. If if Liverpool can get this this deal uh over the line, of course, it's going to be good business for them. But the way that it's been it's just making everyone uncomfortable, you know, one of those situations. It's all a bit Pierre Van Hoy donkey, isn't it? Right. All a bit uh I didn't get what I wanted in the summer of 98. Um I think he went on strike until November time and then came back and Forest were relegated. Not that that's going to happen to Newcastle, but um he did play he played 19 games, Premier League games that season having come back, but um yeah, very very messy and uh all a bit toys thrown out the pram, but um hard to see how it ends happily. Liverpool just hoping that the situation's so untenable that Newcastle might cave at the at the end of the transfer window. Yeah, but I'm sure that is what they're they're thinking and and it's very hard to see anything happening before they play each other on Monday. But but what do Newcastle even 150 million pounds comes in next week. Are they actually going to be able to go out and buy the strikers that they need? They want two strikers to to fill that void. And they lost Callum Wilson as well. They want uh Vissa obviously down at at Brenford, but I mean even that's not going particularly smoothly as a as a move. Um it's very difficult this late in the window to perform that amount of surgery. Right. This in related Instagram news has deleted all of his Brenford content from his profile. Like you still got a lot of love for Brenford. I think the way this has conducted himself um has been poor. Um he is I was talking to someone about this earlier. He is Brenford's leading Premier League goalcorer and as and when he leaves people aren't going to talk about him because just the way he's conducted himself in this window nine times out of 10 Brenford allow players to leave in the last couple of seasons they've sold Ivan Tony they've sold David Ryer they sold Brian and Bumo the amount of change that's happened at the club this summer as an individual as a player you have to take a step back and think it's going to be difficult for me to go they've lost Thomas Frank they've lost Christian Norard you know Brenford didn't look particularly good on the opening opening day of the season against Nottingham Forest. They need to have some sort of firepower up there and and proven um Premier League performer and Vissa is that. So for him to sort of be effectively throwing his toys out of the pram and saying I want to leave and acting very desperately is is not a good look at all. And I guess Brenford have a tricky decision to make. And they're in a very similar situation to Newcastle. Do we keep hold of someone who's clearly so unhappy and so distressed or do we sort of cash in on him? I think if Brenford think there's any way that he gets reintegrated into the squad, then they need to keep him because I just think far too much change has happened at that club this summer with Frank leaving Keith Andrews coming in, they need some sort of stability. And even if it takes until October for him to to come back, if he has half the impact he did last season where he scored, I think 19 Premier League goals and none of them were penalties, then they they need to keep hold of him because otherwise I'm a little bit worried about what will happen to them this season. Not a good start. As you mentioned, last weekend they've got Aston Villa coming up this time around. Newcastle similarly without Isac goalless against Aston Villa last weekend. They haven't scored in any of their last four Premier League matches without Alexander Isac. They accumulating 47 shots and an extra 5.57 but no goals against Villa. Similar story 16 shots without scoring. Yeah, they're at home to Liverpool Monday night who did have goals last weekend. Rather too many in fact uh 4-2 that game concluded. Liverpool continuing this run of conceding two goals a game basically including in the Super Cup community shield. Bulma were brilliant at Anfield. I thought they did a really really good job considering the amount of change that they've had this summer. Um okay the back is going to take a bit of work the back line completely understandably when you lose I think four members of their back five but going forward they're such a threat. What about Liverpool? Liverpool throughout preseason they've had these is issues counterattacking crosses in the box cut backs etc and and they need to work on it and it's almost as if they need a center half and oh there is one available for around4 million pounds and let's see whether they push the boat out on that one as well well they just bought one yeah Leone it's it's but I might be one of Jay's project players though yeah exactly one for the future very much can we trademark that Jay's project player project player all right But Liverpool strong favorites for this game given the current situation. Now about the defensive uh side of Liverpool, Gravenber will be back and and we will we'll be able to to see if he's going to help to sort this lack of control that's that's been seen uh since preseason as as Don mentioned. But if you look at the midfield as well, another question mark, could you take off? Because you have so you have Mallister and Vitz uh starting uh against Bournemouth. Ar had to manage Mallister since after the Premier League title because he was having a few negos issues. He's had you know he didn't start community shoot because of that. He didn't play for Argentina in June because of that as well. So maybe for now that's the obvious choice. you know, you take off Mallister, you put on Gravenber, you have a little bit of solidity in in midfield to help out more solidity to help out the the back line. But, you know, it's a question mark how this rotation in the Liverpool midfield will look like for for the rest of the season because I think it's pretty clear that Grainburg makes makes a lot of difference for for them when they're defending. If Mark Gay does go from Palace, is do you think that's likely now or not? To be honest, I don't I'm not I don't think it is. I mean, not I think if they put in a bid of £40 million in Crystal Palace would have to look at it and and probably accept it. Um but I just wonder whether Mark Gay might say, "Well, hold on a second. If I just see out my last my contract, I can get considerably larger salary somewhere else." And there will be clubs on the continent that are free to talk to him from January onwards. So I I it wouldn't surprise me if he sees out that last year and stays at Cers. Saturday lunchtime, Man City take on Tottenham. Jay, you've been at Thomas Frank's first two games in charge of Spurs, the PSG match in Udin. Did you enjoy that? I loved it. Yeah. Well, not the result, the the town of Ud. Yeah. Did you? I did. Yeah. Interesting place. Burnley this weekend. Similarly so. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't like the place as much. Did you not? Well, there's, you know, there's just less um fancy pastries and espressos and the like, but what it loses in fancy pastries and espressos, etc. and so on. Uh, City taking on Spurs. Don't have a good record, do they, against Tottenham? No, Spurs have um had a pretty good record against Man City over the last few years. Unfortunately, I'm not at this game. Um, I will be watching it. It's going to be interesting to see what approach Thomas Frank takes. Um, he's used two different systems in those two competitive games against PSG. It was a 352 with wing backs against um Bernie. It was more of a 42-31. I think Frank will probably use a 352. It's something he did a lot in his first two seasons at Brenford against big six teams. You know, it could morph into a back five out of possession, but then you've got those aggressive wing backs who can push forward up the pitch. Um Kudos was excellent against PSG off the BS and so was Rachalison as well. So, I think that might be the blueprint. I I don't know if you can drop Rachel after he scored twice against Burnley, but then Salanki is still the better all round player. Um, but it's going to be really intriguing to see how Spurs get on in this game. Um, especially because their performances this season are good, but as we sort of touched upon earlier, because of what's happened with Ez and Gibbs White, the fan base are furious at the moment. So, it's a little bit confusing to sort of know what the mood is because the on pitch product, you're looking at it and saying there's definitely signs of improvement here from Anosa Koglu, but off the pitch seems like they're still making the same mistakes. So, I'm very intrigued to see how that's going to go. If they lose on Saturday, you could see the fan base really kicking off. If they win though, it will all be forgotten or this is it business. Yeah, but that's sort of Sorry. That's sort of the the the trouble that they could land themselves in where Thomas Frank does an excellent job. They beat Man City and you know Spurs might be thinking actually Thomas Frank's so good we can sort of find a way to navigate not having a number 10. Everything will be fine. They have much history of not making signings because they relied on the managers through. Well, maybe. But but then the sort of issue is that the second the Champions League kits in the lack of depth in that squad is going to get horribly exposed. So for the time being where they're playing one game a week, yes, it's absolutely fine. The moment they're in multiple competitions, they're going to be in serious trouble, which is exactly what happened last season. And that's what I mean. It feels like the history is repeating itself, not learning from their mistakes. Natalie, is Soleni a better player than Rishison? Well, I'm gonna say no because, you know, I I stand by my Brazilians, you know, and I'm very happy that that his Charlie had a good start because he's been talking about the importance of him having a preseason. He's been having physical issues uh for a while now. actually ever since he played the Olympics for Brazil, he's been on and off uh having having this this physical issues and and he he actually spoke to to ESPN Brazil after after the match and and highlighted that the importance of the preseason and how much he wants to do well because it's a World Cup year. So, he wants to make sure he's Brazil's number nine and Matioskuna is is doing pretty well as well. So, so they're both fighting for that that number nine in Brazil and and Spurs can definitely benefit from that. But I I was curious, I actually wanted to to see with Jay if Jean Palin is fully fit because maybe that would be a good match for him because against Burnley, they had a very offensive setup with Archie Gray, Bergal and and and Pep and Papasar. And of course, Man City, we know them. They will want to dominate midfield. So maybe Jean Palina could could help disrupt this this rhythm. Yeah, definitely. I think um Palinia's first game for Spurs against Bayern um wasn't particularly good. He obviously gave away that penalty, but against PSG, he was exceptional and I think he's one of the older players in that squad and like I said earlier, Spurs, obviously, I think he's just turned 30. Spurs have a lot of project players. Um and so you need someone like Pellina who's experienced and is just exceptional um off the ball. Um always puts his foot in, knows how to read the game and he did a brilliant job against PSG and I expect he'll do the exact same against Man City. Maybe in a midfield free of Pellinia, Benur and Sar. It's quite a stodgy and combative midfield, but it will definitely slow Randers and the like down. That's Man City Spurs on Saturday lunchtime. Later that day, we'll get to see how Arsenal fare against Lead. You talked about the impact potentially down the line of Ez coming in. Certainly Arsenal look way off their game last Sunday against Man United. What do you reckon about the game against Leads, Dom? They'll want to see more attacking coherence definitely, but they should have enough against a newly promoted team to win at the Emirates. I mean, they'd be up if they didn't. That said, I thought leads were really effective against Everton on Monday night and it was it was good to see the core of their championship winning or sorry, the championship um promotion team doing so well. I think it was eight of them started and and they all contributed. They all looked as if they belonged in at this level. um Everton at home even without Bransweight and and Everton sort of still trying to feel their way into the in the market it still an awkward fixture to start off with. So it was a really really good win for them and they'll go into this with a bit of confidence and they may cause Arsenal a few a few problems. So they'll be abrasive, they'll be aggressive and and Arsenal will need the likes of Odigard. I I I suspect that if Ezo is eligible he'll probably be on the bench uh to start off with. So, so they they they need Gawkareesh to to to show what he can do. I mean, it's it's a big moment for him. Um, you know, first first game there, first Premier League game there, and they all want to make a good impression to start off with, and but they really should have enough to beat Leads. They really should. Saturday, we're going to be bringing out a new Totally Extra. What's that, James? Well, it's the fourth show a week. We call it Extra. We ran out of other titles and we just talk about whatever we want in it. If there's something you'd like us to talk about, just let us know and then listen. Last time out in the first one we did Mario Balotelli because you know we found one or two things to say about him. James Hcast was very interesting on on the cultural impact of Balotelli and significance thereof in in Italy as well as of course all the great stories and great goals and that. Anyway, we've got another very interesting player with a bit of cultural baggage coming up for you this week as Jurgen Klinsman's going to get a bit of a mention and we've got a very special guest coming into the studio to discuss him. Oh, I've got your hopes up now, Don. It's Raphael Honikstein. He's actually not coming in the studio. So, not Klinsman's not the special guest. No, I'd rather have Rafa. Can you imagine Kinsman talking about Kinsman? That's coming up on Saturday. Right now, quick check on the Champions League playoffs. These are the two-legged affairs that will qualify teams, seven of them for the new league format. Uh what happened this week? First leg saw Jose Fenabash went nil nil with his former club Benfica. Celtic also goalless in their game with the Kazakhstan side Kai. Rangers hosted Bruge and within 20 minutes were 3 down. They did pull one back with Danilo at the start of the second half. That's how it stayed. 3-1 with a trip to Brussels ahead of them. Uh, is Russell Martin their manager? Yes, he very much is, Rangers. And it certainly looked like it in those opening 20 minutes. Did you see the goals at all? I've seen the the first one. Yeah. Ah, have you seen it? No, but I did notice that the the fellow who set a couple of them up might be as a replacement of Palace. Oh, who's that? The Greek fellow Zolace. The Greek fellow. Z. Z. Z. All right. Probably quantum of Z. Have you have you actually not seen the first goal? It's like Rangers pass the ball back towards the goalkeeper, the center back should really intervene and the goalkeeper gets lobbed from like 30 40 yards. Sounds very familiar. The second one is a bit casual as well. Yeah, it's all uh comical defending basically. The third No, the third one's a lovely goal from Bruce. Oh, it's a great finish. Yeah, but you know, you still shouldn't really be allowed to just Is it from a corner that he gets the second ball and just smashes? Is it? It might be, but it's the the way he takes it. Oh, it's a fantastic finish. Crazy aka Fesa. Mike Goodman says, "Very important to me that everybody understands that Pathos FC play in a sub 10k capacity stadium nestled behind the Aphrodite Water Park brackets, a top five water park in Europe." exclamation mark. Aphrodite water bike are also their main kit sponsor. And says Mike, if you so choose, you could watch PAOS games from the top of the park's big water slide. Wow. Can I now just say that my uh mom and stepdad have a property in Cypress. So Dom, if there's an athletic long read in watching PAOS from the Aphrodati Water Park, I know exactly the volunteer who's ready to do it. So just just bear that in mind. I've sent you to Cypress before. I'm sure that's happening. Yeah. Yeah. For Brenford beating him. But you know, come on. Water park. It's If you want another angle to it, David Louise joined them last month. Exact. Exactly. So you already, you know, water parks, David Louise and Halumi images, David Luiz in a water park and what that does to his hair. I mean like anything could happen. All right, back to the Premier League. Big weekend for Graeme Potter as West Ham take on Chelsea on Friday night. Is Graeme Potter already under pressure or is that just lazy journalistic twitching? You shouldn't draw too many conclusions from the first game of the season, but how about the 19 the 18? Exactly. That's the problem. Yeah, I mean, and it hasn't been the most inspiring summers in terms of squad strengthening there. It feels as if Potter has inherited a mess. The spending last summer was obscene for what they actually brought in. Um, and a they've got an aging squad that doesn't seem it seems imbalanced. Um, they're lacking in in too many areas. Uh it may be asking an awful lot for Graham Potter to to get a song out of this particular squad and team, but that's his job. That's what he's got to do. And he can't be see his team capitulate like they did the stadium light after Halime uh last Saturday. That that was an appalling start for them. So So yeah, there is there is pressure on him that it feels like a club on edge. It feels like a club that I think last season was one of stagnation. Complete stagnation there and they had nothing to play for. They weren't going down and they weren't going to get anywhere near the top half for the second half of that season and it just went nowhere. And I think that hangover that drifts through the summer into the new season then then he could well be in trouble. Chelsea, of course, former club of Graham Potters, they were three-0il winners in his fixture at the London Stadium just over a year ago. just nil nil for them on the opening weekend, but that was a way to the uh sorry at home to the mighty Crystal Palace on on Sunday. Natalie, you were there at that game. What what do you think was up with with Chelsea there? Was it Club World Cup hangover and Cole Palmer in particular who was exceptional over in the States in those summer fixtures? But if you take that tournament away, his goal tally is just one penalty in all competitions since mid January. Yeah, I think we're going to have to factor in in this especially in this first few matches from Chelsea the the physical aspect and how much of a an effect the Club World Cup had on them and and it's going to be a topic that's going to come up all the time and and Meska was already talking about it because especially in the second half they they looked laggy. they looked, you know, lacking energy and but talking about energy, a player who did bring some energy on the pitch was Stone uh when he he he entered in in the second half because he just showed so much personality, you know, it was not only the the energy James uh the initiative, you know, to go one-on-one against the defenders. Palace would double up on him and and he would find the small gaps in between defenders. And you mentioned Palmer, they are developing a a relationship uh on uh in the training pitch and as as much as Steon doesn't speak uh perfect English yet, uh he enters the pitch and like a couple of minutes later, Palmer already goes to him and says something and they're looking for each other on the pitch and I I actually spoke to Stone after the match and and asked him about Palmer. Um what is it about the game that that fits so well for both of them? and he he paused and said, "Oh, I think it's a bit hard to explain, but maybe it's because he plays midfield, I can play midfield." So, like they kind of understand each other. And Steon, he he's he's playing wide on on the right hand side, but he can play midfield. He has this versatility. So there are a few features of this game and I'm obviously not comparing levels because Steon just got here and he's 18 and and he's getting used to the Premier League, but there are a few features of both Palmer's and Istan's game that that can complement each other. It was interesting in America how easily Cole Palmer and Jean Pedro another new arrival seem to be immediately finding an an understanding. Great update as well on the on the name front because I I've been going with Esteo but it's Esta actually is Esteon William now because he yeah he asked to be to be called Estean William uh because he said no in England a lot of players are called by their first and last name and you know it's his name he'll do whatever he wants with it so now it's it's yes but it is in Brazil they they call him is is the the pronunciation yeah Sunday 2:00. What we got for you? Everton Brighton. First ever league game at Hill Dickinson Stadium. No water park there, but still a very nice facility. Great, great move for Everton. Uh there'll be a very celebratory feel until kickoff and then Brighton will probably come and wreck the party, so to speak. I can't imagine many worse teams to play in in your first game in your stadium than Brighton. Yeah, I especially a Brighton side that's been stung by a late equalizer in the previous match. I think that we just don't think they'll have any of the ball or Brighton tend to do very well at Everton. One of three of the last four visits. Totally true, Don. Yeah. Okay. Although the last time these two teams met in January at the AMX, it was Illeman and Dai who scored the only goal of the game. Illan and Dai who's one of I think the real prospects for a a better Everton season. I'll be intrigued to see if um Greish starts because um I know he only came on in the second half, but he did just try to move the ball quicker um and he did try and take two or three people on and and even if Greish is not as good as he was a couple of years ago, he still does have um a little bit of presence about him and I think he does draw two or three defenders towards him at once that creates space for others. And I think one of the things when I was watching the game on Monday that I noticed the most was that Everson just moved the ball so slowly. Um and I think Greish was at least trying to add a little bit of zip and I'm quite intrigued to see how him and Drewbury Hall in the long term sort of complement each other and link together and and Jai as well. 2:00 on Sunday that the other Sunday 2:00 fixture is a Sus Park and it's Crystal Palace against who? Who else but Nottingham Forest? Tom, are you going to be at that game? No, I'm not. Okay. Okay. Palace have request, is this right? They've requested additional security for the match. So heightened is the tension with their visitors after the fallout from the Europa League, Europa Conference League decision. Be surprised if this is going to be a partic particularly riotous occasion. There will be some what do we call it? Banter between the sets of supporters. I'm sure Forest fans are relishing the the chance to point out that they're in the Europa League and that they spent £150 million last week whereas Palace lost their best player. Um I'm sure that that will come into it. Palace there will be chance. There have been chance against UEFA at all their recent games. Um and those chance follow up with uh references to John Texter and Marinaris as well. But beyond I mean it's I I'm a bit uncomfortable with it all because Palace and Forest are actually and Forest fans won't like me saying this but in the modern era they're quite similar size clubs. I mean obviously Forest have got a far more glittering history. I'm not going to I'm not taking anything away from the you know the European Cup wins etc. and they were a massive club back in the day, but but at the moment they're similar sort of size clubs. And yet Forest can go out and spend £150 million in a week and Palace are slightly more frugal with how they do things and and and more cautious in the in the market. But I I don't see you I I'm one of these sort of supporters that quite enjoyed last season where the the middle class of teams did really well and it was the elite teams that suffered. We've witnessed a complete backlash in that this summer where all the the big teams have come in and taken the best players from the sides that did well last year. But I almost feel as if clubs like Palace, Forest, Brenford, Dourmouth should sort of almost be like rallying together to try and How's that going to work? It's not. It's obviously not. I mean, the natural order of things, it won't it won't work. And there'll be games like this that have added spice um for particular reasons. But but I I' I'd really hope this doesn't develop into some kind of ridiculous rivalry over the years. It might be it might be one like years from now people going to be calling this the M what do the A1 derby or something and cast derby or something derby is a good one. Yeah. Can I trade that as well? Yeah, that is that is good. It should be a great game though. Yeah, it should be. Yeah. Yeah. Lots of money spent as you mentioned by Forest of late and they've got three new players could make their debuts. Omari Hutchinson, James Mcatee and Arno Kimuendo after coming in from Ren Sunday on the banks of the tempames in Leafy Fulham. The Cottages will be taking on Manchester United. Natalie, are you going along to this? Yes, I am. It's been a bad few years this just in for Manchester United. But even amongst all their travails, they always seem to win at Craraven Cottage. They've won on their last eight visits there. Even Ruben Amarim has won at Craven Cottage with Manchester United. Do you see any signs of that run ending this time around? Fulham, to be fair to them, they they're always very organized. Uh Marco Silva has been doing such a good job with them, but also Justine and James. Uh everything that happens at Man United is um over um over everything. I don't know. Just choose a word and and and put over in front of it. So, so against Arsenal, they did well. They they they showed improvement, but I I bet the fans also want to see results. So, so we will see in fact how this Man United team uh is developing and and the connections especially up front if uh Cheshko is going to start or if they're going to keep Mason Mount for a while until he he he gets more used to to the way of of of playing. They're very different players. So it it completely did changes the the dynamic with Cheshko being more of a a a fixed striker. And with Fulham, we had Hodrigo Munice scoring the the the goal at at the AMX dramatic ending and and there was like these rumors that Hodrigo Munice would stay or will go the the the club saying he's not for sale. Atlanta interested in him. Maros Silva didn't confirm if Rodrigo would stay after the match. I mean, it doesn't really make sense for Fulham to to lose him. You know, he he saved the the the team many times as as much as you have Himenez. If you think about the long term, Hodrigo is is 10 years younger than Himemenis. So, the fans were chanting, "We want you to stay at the Almex at the end of the match." I can imagine they're they're worried about it. Well, indeed. The news from Italy very much that Atlanta have now moved their attentions elsewhere and he will be staying. Fulham who quite famously in this busy busy transfer market have so far signed the total of one reserve goalkeeper. However, Natalie there might be another new arrival on the way. Kevin from Shakar. Kevin from young. Yeah, he's 22. He's young. He's he came from the pomeas academy and he was player of the season for for Shakar the the past season. He played very little in Brazil because he came with uh he started in palmas alongside other promising talents and he got sold very quickly but he seemed to have adjusted really well at Shakar. I'll be curious to see how he would develop in the Premier League. Well, he won't be ready for this Sunday's game. One imagines 4:30 they'll be kicking off against Manchester United straight after that game. We'll be doing our Totally Football Show roundup of the weekend. And of course, we'll be live streaming that on YouTube. So, if you fancy hearing what Daniel Story and Adrien Clark and no doubt other assorted voices have made of the weekend so far, you can hear it all live on the YouTube channel or wait and it will drop on whatever podcast platform you prefer on Monday. For that, as mentioned, there's that totally extra which will be out on Saturday. Now, also coming up this weekend, one, two, three more games. You got Brenford against Aston Villa. You got Burnley Sunderland. You got Bournemouth Wolves. Jay, which tickles your fancy of those? Obviously Brenford Villa. Yeah, Keith Andrew's first home game in charge of Brenford. Um I didn't like the lineup he used against Nottingham Forest. Um but at least they have now signed Dango Watara, so maybe he'll go straight into the starting 11. I think it's uh imperative that Brenford play far better than they did against Nottingham Forest. I obviously ideally get a win. Um but Ollie Watkins has a habit of always scoring against his former club Brenford whenever he he faces them. Um but yeah, that's the game I'll be keeping an eye on. They also have the newly minted Morgan Rogers who won the PFA's young player of the year award on Tuesday while all that Isaac Each business was going on. Also on Tuesday night at the PFA awards, Mo Salah picked up the player of the year for the third time. First player ever to get it three times actually. Natalie Burnley Sunderland, two promoted teams, one of whom won big last weekend, the other not so much. Are you loving Sunderland back in the Premier League? It's a good story from a neutral perspective. Uh it is a very good story and and this meeting in the championship last season was was early because like Southerntherland won the first still in August it was 1 nil to Southerntherland and the second one was in January at Turf Moore it ended new and the amount of business both clubs but especially Sunderland did since it's it's it's almost like it's a a whole new fixture. I don't know how much we can take from from their meetings uh in the championship to this one. So yeah, well, three goals for Sunderland and three goals conceded by Burnley doesn't doesn't speak well for them, but you know, used to be a tough place to go, didn't it, Turfmore? A long time ago. Long long time ago. Let's see. It's a proper test, isn't it? And it's it was nice to see Sunderland's three scorers all again members of the Championship team as despite, you know, 37 new signings. It was three guys from last year that did the business and Bournemouth Wolves at the same time. Can Antoine Semeno continue his remarkable scoring run? He's nabbed four goals in his last two matches, although that does go back to last season, so it's a bit bit of a fiddle that stat, but still he looked great against Liverpool last weekend. And now they host Wolves. Natalie, you've got to go off and do your interview with Kuna now. Sorry we delayed you. So many, many thanks for being with us today and say hi to Kuna and we look forward to seeing you soon. It's fine. Uh they just knocked on on the on the hotel door here. So So yes, on the hotel door. So So we're on time. All right. Thanks, Natalie. Thanks everybody. Thank you to Jake and Charlie in the booth and you listener. We're back Saturday with the extra show and then live Sunday night if you want. For now, from all of us here, it's goodbye. The Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a week bringing you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around. And the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the link below.