================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 3l2DCQipv3c
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3l2DCQipv3c
TITLE: Why Washington Is Wooing Pakistan
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-01
DURATION: 48m 19s
VIEWS: 7,407
LIKES: 174
COMMENTS: 19
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
One of the most surprising developments in Washington, if you’re a South Asia-watcher, is the surprising turn in U.S.-Pakistan relations. Having largely sidelined Pakistan over the past decade or more, the current U.S. administration has courted Pakistan with an enthusiasm that has caught many analysts off-guard.

In June, Trump hosted Pakistan’s army chief, Asim Munir, in the White House. A few weeks later, the White House struck a trade deal with Pakistan that kept the tariff rate at 19 percent, lower even than the 25 percent rate slapped on India. Finally, officials from both sides have been discussing joint ventures in cryptocurrency and critical minerals.

To talk more about the sudden thaw in U.S.-Pakistan ties, Milan is joined on the show this week by Uzair Younus. Uzair is Chief Product Officer at TAG AI, the artificial intelligence-enabled platform developed by The Asia Group.

Prior to joining The Asia Group, Uzair served as Director of the Pakistan Initiative at the Atlantic
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 9,126

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
You say the real story in South Asia today is not of tariffs or Russian oil but Washington's quiet reassessment of Pakistan which is like kind of a significant statement right and and that's really at the heart of what I want to talk to you about today unabashed the most unpredictable becomes a headline the most volatile outrageous behavior unsubstantiated narratives a battle of personalities welcome to grant theamasha a co-production of the Carnegie endowment for international peace and the Hindustan times I'm your host Milan Invasive. One of the most surprising developments in Washington, if you're a South Asia watcher, is the surprising turn in US Pakistan relations. Having largely sidelined Pakistan over the past decade or more, the current US administration has courted Pakistan with an enthusiasm that has caught many analysts offguard. In June, Trump posted Pakistan's army chief Assam Miner in the White House. A few weeks later, the White House struck a trade deal with Pakistan that kept the tariff rate at 19%, lower even than the 25% rate slapped on India. Finally, officials from both sides have been discussing joint ventures in cryptocurrency and critical minerals to talk more about the sudden thaw in USPakistan relations. I'm joined on the show this week by Uzair Ununice. Usuzair is chief product officer at TAG AI, the artificial intelligence enabled platform developed by the Asia Group. Prior to joining the Asia Group, he served as director of the Pakistan Initiative at the Atlantic Council. He's the host of the podcast Pakistanomy, a show which gives listeners an accessible way of understanding developments related to the politics, economics, foreign policy of Pakistan and he is the author of a brand new book, Future Ready. Um the subtitle is innovations abundance in the global south. Uh I'm pleased to welcome you to the show is here for the very first time. Thanks for coming on. Thank you for having me. Um there's like a head spinning amount of stuff that we have to cover. Uh but I want to start by asking you about a piece that you authored for the diplomat which is a widely known publication which covers developments in the Asia Pacific. Um, you start the piece with, I thought, a pretty provocative line and I just want to quote. You say, "The real story in South Asia today is not of tariffs or Russian oil, but Washington's quiet reassessment of Pakistan," which is like kind of a significant statement, right? And and that's really at the heart of what I want to talk to you about today. Before we kind of drill down on that, let me ask you to kind of step back and give us a bit of history. As you note, we've had successive US administrations in Washington. They have sought to deepen relations with India while simultaneously kind of limiting or say downsizing their relations with Pakistan. What was the kind of inflection point in your mind right when why did successive US administrations make this decision and and what sort of prompted that rebalancing towards India away from Pakistan? So I think um Pakistan and the United States have had this relationship that you going back decades has had very high highs and low lows that you can't even imagine. I would put the lowest point that like right after the Soviet invasion and the collapse of the Soviet Union when the Soviet Union leaves Afghanistan years very quickly uh you know Pakistan is under sanctions. Um that was one of the lowest points where an ally that helped defeat the Soviet Union in Afghanistan gets targeted by the United States who's like okay cold war is over and here you go new reality right we didn't reach that point um in the last few years but really there were two things driving this from my perspective one was growing American frustration over the role of the Pakistanis in the war in Afghanistan uh allegations of double game Mike Mullen saying the Hakani network is the veritable able arm of the ISI etc. So that deep distrust became an issue where many in Washington rightfully in my opinion felt that the Pakistanis and their double game was responsible for the deaths of US soldiers in action in Afghanistan. Um so that was the more real sort of driver. I think the other one was that Pakistan was this problem child of the region that created all sorts of issues for itself in many on many occasions not even beyond terrorism on the economic side on issues related to proliferation of nuclear weapons its nuclear missile development program etc. So it was like okay we're going to keep this country in check and our goal here is just going to be bare minimum to make sure it doesn't collapse because a nuclear state with 250 million people nobody wants to see collapse. At the same time there was this long-term bet being made on the fact that India would be this new counterbalance to China. Um and so to build trust with India which had a history of uh mistrust with the United States particularly as it related to the cold war and the American embrace of Pakistan. It was like a lowcost way to build this trust by showing hey look like we're reassessing our ties with Pakistan and you're sort of the new uh target for our love and our altruism and for our grand strategy. And I think it worked really well. Um and and for years you had this um sort of tren trend in that direction. And I think finally it was just a frustration of uh the swamp so to speak with the same old people in Pakistan. Right? If you look at Pakistan's political landscape I often quote this to people like people who have been on the scene for years now are still there. Zardari is still president Naw Sharif is still relevant. The army chiefs keep changing but the military's ideology is still very much the same. So it's like okay you get tired after a certain amount of time and you sort of say enough is enough. Let's move on to you know greener pastures. I think many of us and it's something you talk about in the piece. You know, when we think about the current reset in USPakistan relations, we chalk it up to President Trump. You have this mercurial president. It's a very volatile kind of situation in the White House. He has his own personal factors whether it's his kind of love for strong men or he's upset that you know Modi didn't give uh him credit for bringing India Pakistan conflict to a ceasefire and so on so forth. But you say something very different which I thought was very interesting which is that the biggest factor is not Trump's personality. It's really America's own reassessment of its geopolitical vision. And I wonder if you could just kind of stop on that for a second and tell us, you know, what are the elements of this geopolitical reassessment you think is are going on. So look, personalities play a big role for sure. Um but they're not everything as I write in that piece as well. for example, um, personalities played a role in the Biden administration, too, who were people who had experience in the Obama administration who were frustrated with Pakistan. Didn't want to do anything with it. But I think largely speaking, the United States in West Asia, so to speak, um, sort of Arabian Sea and westwards into the Persian Gulf um, has three core sort of objectives from my perspective. The first one is to keep an eye out on Iran and Iran's sort of influence in the region and keep that in check. Um and the demonstration of that we've seen in the Trump administration have been the air strikes on Iranian nuclear facilities. The second one is find a pathway in the Middle East to create a new sort of security architecture that not only checkmates Iran which is related to the first point but also expands the Abraham Accords and the president is very much committed to that second part. And then the third is to keep in check in Afghanistan and in central Asia uh terror groups and you know make sure counterterror operations continue in a way such that there's no strike on the homeland or on American interests. And I think the conversation from my perspective even in the Biden administration postexit from Afghanistan was that Pakistan is important along all these three fronts. The administration itself was not super keen on that because it wasn't top of their agenda. But under this administration, all of those things are core and central uh to the foreign policy as it relates to the West Asian region. For example, the president from a at a personal level, from what I understand, cared deeply about bringing to justice the perpetrators of the Abigate bombing. Pakistan played a key role in that. Just remind us about the Abigate bombing. So the Abigate bombing was in in in Kabul right on the eve of the American exit. uh multiple soldiers dead, uh casualties across the board in Afghanistan, and it was one of those moments along with the with the flight videos that everyone saw in the exit to uh from Afghanistan, very similar to Vietnam and the exit there, right? If you want to sort of put that in contrast um and the president and the Republican party in general, even in the election campaign talked about this issue as being important. So the Pakistanis delivered on that and and sort of opened and built that trust. Um compare this to what happened on the entry of the Biden administration uh when they were taking power. The Pakistanis tested new missiles on the eve of that entry. Right? So this time the Pakistan are like we have an administration that we want to do business with. Let's build trust. Let's deliver this to the president. Related to this also on the terror side was the potential ISK attack on a Taylor Swift concert in Austria that was foiled. right now. It was it was inspired by ISIS Kurasan out of Afghanistan. And something that the Pakistanis had been arguing post exit from Afghanistan was that this is not going to go away. We need to work together. The Biden administrations for various reasons had downgraded that level of uh cooperation and this administration was like let's see what you can do over here. on Iran itself. Pakistan has a huge land border with Iran and one of the issues Pakistan was getting hard hit by was the import of diesel smuggled from Iran and the related impact it had not only on the economy but terror financing uh flow of illicit goods and materials, weapons, etc. So there the administration was like we're going to try to sort of squeeze the Iranians and this is one avenue where we want to cooperate with you. And then broadly speaking, finally on the Middle Eastern idea, Pakistan is not going to go uh join the Abraham Accords 2.0 from my perspective anytime soon. I think Saudi Arabia has to move first in that perspective. But at the same time, the new architecture being made in places like Syria, Pakistan is playing already an important role. So just a few weeks ago, there was a Syrian intel delegation in Pakistan to rekindle some of the old ties. Historically for your audience, uh, Pakistan has played a key role in working with the air forces of Syria and Jordan historically and Iraq in the old days as well. So that role in terms of Turkey and Saudi Arabia trying to find a way to coexist in the new Middle East. Pakistan is a trusted adviser or player for both of these countries. And so that role is something from my understanding the United States wants to see Pakistan sort of step into and play a role in that new security architecture. And I think all of those things mean that there are things that the Pakistanis can offer to this administration um that perhaps are far more valuable than they were viewed from the perspective of the previous administration. So you know in addition to those factors your piece outlines one other thing and I want to ask you about this because it gets a lot of attention here in Washington which is this idea of critical minerals and the deposits which exist in Pakistan. We know from what this administration has said that securing the supply of rare earth's critical minerals is a top priority. This mission this administration cares a lot about it. Um in the piece you write that you know one of the things which worries policy makers in Washington is that they don't want a Chinese flag to fly over these critical mineral assets which reside in Pakistan. But at the same time, we're seeing a Trump administration that is, you know, by cooling off on India. It seems to also be saying, you know, we don't really value India as much as a potential democratic bull work against a rising China. So I'm wondering how do you square the two? Because on the one, it seems a very clear kind of China containment policy. On the other hand, you're kind of pushing India closer towards a Chinese embrace. No, that's a that's a great question. And so on the critical mineral site right uh in Pakistan in in this place called Rico the Rico dig mine it's one of the world's largest undeveloped copper and gold mines uh that is left on earth um it's been a long case that was fought for a number of years in international arbitration for policy reasons that we don't need to get into but under the last army chief general Baja and Imran Khan when he was prime minister they settled the case um and that meant that Barrett Gold a Canadian company was back in business in Pakistan and was investing or develop this mine. Now from the P from the American perspective, the fear was that the Chinese will take over this mine and then link logistics into Guadada or potentially into Karachi, build that infrastructure around it, not only control critical minerals, but then their economic role near Guadada would be centralized as well. And the next step then would be naval presence. And that's the big fear that American policy makers have is that they don't want Chinese military capabilities on the on the Guadal seap port. Um the Pakistanis for whatever uh they could have been tried to have been trying to very clearly say that they don't want that to happen either. And one development that happened a number of months ago was when the United States's ambassador uh ambassador Bloom went to Guad and gave a speech there. And that was like a big moment where the Pakistanis credibly were trying to signal that this is open for everybody and only for commercial purposes. Um and so when Bareric starts developing this mine all of a sudden this interest is there from the United States and they want to see okay are you going to walk the walk Islamabad and Rahul Pindi do you really mean this uh this time around? And so you saw for example um the IFC and the World Bank start announcing financing packages for this mine. You saw a deal between Bareric and a Finnish uh power provider that was announced. You saw Bareric uh put forward a $400 million contract for mining equipment uh through Kumasu. Uh but the interesting part of that announcement was that four factories in the world will produce this uh equipment. Three of them are in America, red America, Republican America, right? So now all of a sudden there's a potential DFC financing angle to this and the ADB is also now taking an interest in the logistics around this money. DFC is the US Development Finance Corporation. So that is the entity through which we can back these kinds of projects through credits and loans and so on. Exactly. So all of a sudden and and this was confirmed then in a in an earnings call with by the barrack CEO a few weeks ago where he said we're looking to build together or bring together a G7 financing package for this mine. So clearly the Pakistanis are willing to sort of you know walk this talk that they've talked about on critical minerals. And the core argument they have is we want to be open to business and we want to be open to business to the west as much as to the Chinese. And that's point number one. On the India side, I think the administration's calculus from my sort of analytical perspective has been that there is a very low ceiling here in terms of where India can go with the Chinese. Yes, economically maybe BYD will partner with Reliance or Adani or somebody else and other Chinese companies may invest in India, but um the Indians are not going to give their mining assets to the Chinese. They're not going to anytime soon buy PL15 missiles from the Chinese or any sort of air defenses or not even allow Deepseek or Tik Tok anytime soon. Right? So from the administration's perspective, yes, economic ties if India wants to pursue with China are well and good, but it's not like there's going to be a new strategic opening between India and China. And therefore, it's all right if that sort of volatility in India ties causes New Delhi to look to Beijing from a different perspective. I mean, you know, we talked a minute ago about how personalities aren't everything, but they are something, right? and and and and you do acknowledge that personal factors play a role like you know we know there are connections between Trump's children in Pakistan there's a common interest in development of cryptocurrencies what do you think are some of the kind of unseen or behindthe-scenes factors which may have led these two countries to kind of rethinking their relationship so I think on the personal side on crypto it indeed uh opened up the door where um the personal ties particularly Zach Vitkov has been to Pakistan and has met Pakistani leaders in relation to cryptocurrency and this is the of course the son of the kind of special envoy for seemingly everything under the sun Steve exactly Steve Witkov so there is a crypto angle and um you know you kind of see the Pakistanis again very I think uh astutely trying to signal that they want to even in the crypto or cutting as tech space uh work with America more so than with anybody else. So for example, just this weekend they issued a a sort of a press release stating that we want uh US or western registered crypto exchanges to apply for licenses in Pakistan. If you're registered in the EU, uh in the United States, and Canada and these western jurisdictions, uh we will look at you from the perspective of you already are following best practices and therefore you can come and and open up in in Pakistan. So I think the Pakistanis are approaching it from this uh perspective and that personal connection I think allowed sort of uh Pakistan and its policy makers to override the base case skepticism that exists in Washington DC when it comes to Pakistan and I think they played that card uh really well from my perspective but I think that just focusing on that is sort of too simplistic an explanation and I think the other thing the Pakistanis also did uh very carefully and very sort of astutely in in the run-up to all of this was that they took uh very seriously what the downside of a Trump administration could be for regime stability in Pakistan. So just to backtrack a bit, prior to elections, there was an entire series of lobbying campaigns by the Tik Sav Irm Khan's party, Imran Khan, who's in jail right now, to try and win over the Trump administration such that he would tweet about them and sort of make this a bilateral issue. Right? I think that forced the Pakistanis to very quickly uh and very seriously look at the inner circle of the Trump administration and find avenues not only to connect economically on crypto or other things but also to understand what would they want at a strategic level from Pakistan and what can we give and I think they played those cards because you know you would see occasionally like every few days or weeks a kind of random member of Congress from the Republican party tweet something like Iran Khan right so there was clearly that effort underway you know getting just to the IndiaPakistan bit for a second. One of the lines you had in the piece which I thought was really intriguing which I have not heard other people talk about is that you had this recent conflict between India and Pakistan in India it's been referred to as operation sindur and that you believe that may have changed Washington's assessment of each country's relative military capabilities. What do you think the US sort of took away from this recent conflict in terms of reassessing you know what Pakistan is capable visa v India? So I think um if you look at sort of the large conflicts that have played out over the last few years, let's start with Azharbaian, Armenia, Russia, Ukraine, Israel and the Middle East and Israel and Iran in particular or now Israel and Qatar. Establishing air dominance is sort of the quintessential sign of any major power as like okay you can rule the skies over a country and therefore whoever is your adversary is basically at a disadvantage. And we've seen this across the world. You can sort of cut them off. you can cut them off completely. I think when the Pakistanis were able to stall that Indian attack on that first night um and and sort of claim what they say is multiple jets 6 as the Pakistanis often refer and I should just say you know the Indians have acknowledged losses but we still don't have a definitive statement from the government of India on what the losses were the first night in terms of their jet aircraft. Exactly. And we've had various reports from western sources on two three up to maybe more. The president has talked about this of like jets coming crashing from the sky etc. So I think that meant that okay this near bankrupt country dysfunctional whose politics are completely broken still has the wherewithal and the technological capabilities um and the doctrine and the human wear capabilities right this is not just about equipment and we can get to that in a minute can can sort of combat effectively was the first one and so I think that led to a reassessment of hang on a minute like there's something here that we kind of had forgotten about because of all the various dysfunction Pakistan has on the Indian side. I think the reassessment was that if India is to emerge as a net security provider in the Indian Ocean region or in the Indopacific at large, it has to build a maritime capability. However, if India continues to be bogged down in the Himalayas as I refer to it, uh either on the line of control with Pakistan or the line of actual control with China, it's not going to be able to invest as much as we would like as the United States in this maritime capabilities. and therefore the bet on it emerging as a net security provider has to be reassessed. And I think that's what this conflict did from my perspective. And it put in in place sort of this calculus that is very like based in realism, right? That says, okay, you're going to be bogged down in the Himalayas. um the Chinese already are a nearper competitor from from in terms of the United States and therefore the United States now all of a sudden has to invest a whole lot more than perhaps we envisioned in Indian capability such that it can achieve the role we want it to achieve. Um and I think that sort of led to a reassessment of saying hang on a minute like let's let's take a look at this conflict and the big takeaway being you're going to be bogged down in the north. Um and and we as the United States actually want you to get out of this. And I think this is also where the American ask of normalizing relations or talking to Pakistan that they've been encouraging New Delhi to do. Secretary Rubio did that in his tweet himself um is coming from and I think that has caused all sorts of issues in the relationship with India and the United States. But the United States's ask is based on its own understanding of its interest where it doesn't want India to be bogged down into the in the mountains. I mean it also I think is further proved by the fact that you have an ambassador nominee for India Sergio Gore who runs presidential personnel who's also been given if confirmed the dual hat of being special envoy for South Asia right I mean which is a signal that his remitt may extend beyond just a simple bilateral relationship just to kind of go back to Synindor for a second um you don't touch upon this in the piece but I'm just curious if you have views on it you know the the chief of defense staff in India has come out very clearly in saying you know when we were fighting Pakistan on the battlefield during that very short but very intense conflict we weren't just fighting Pakistan we were actually fighting two adversaries simultaneously Pakistan and China the extent not just of course of you know we know about the the the arms relationship but in terms of intelligence in terms of you know GPS tracking the two were really lashed up um is that your sense from a Pakistani perspective that there was Is this very unique intense collaboration in real time between China and Pakistan on the battlefield? Hey Grandmasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granthamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify or on your favorite podcasting platform so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. [Music] So the Pakistanis have maintained that yes they have a very strategic military relationship with China but the support as has been covered in Indian press primarily was nowhere near what they're saying was overblown was completely overblown and yes Pakistan works off of the BU system and that gives them some ability of GPS tracking and satellite imagery etc. But what the air force in Pakistan claims is that they've taken Chinese technology but the investments on software on integration of sensors on building the doctrine and most importantly from my perspective training the pilots in a particular way of warfare is all domestic and I think this is also what the Chinese in so many ways have signaled since the conflict as well which is that yes it's our equipment it was our BVR mis the PL15s the domestic variant not the export one but the pilots were Pakistanis is the interconnectivity of the systems was Pakistani um and they pulled this thing off from their perspective and my view is okay maybe the Pakistanis may be making or underplaying some of that much the same way the Indian media is overblowing it and maybe the Chinese also are doing it but then when you look at everything that has happened post Hindu for example the Pakistan air force chief was where where was his first trip to the United States where have the Turks now started sending their cadets to Pakistani air forcemies as well right? Uh who are the Middle Easterners talking about in terms of defensive maneuvers in the air? It's the Pakistanis. Right. So in all of these cases like I think it is yes Chinese equipment and technology and this was a coming out party for China's planes and their missiles but the humanware and the integration part of it is indigenous in Pakistan and the air force has invested a whole lot over the last decade or so in building this capacity. You know just to stick on this for another moment. um you have sensed that there is a feeling in Islamabad if not Rahul Pindi as well that you know there's a newfound willingness to engage with New Delhi and the Modi government but that sentiment hasn't been reciprocated from the Indian standpoint now of course if you go to New Delhi and you talk to policy makers there they say look go back to 2014 you had a new prime minister in Modi he invited all of the SARC South Asian regional heads of state to his inauguration uh Modi famously made that I believe was a Christmas day visit to Pakistan for the wedding of Noah Shri's daughter and so forth. there was that olive branch extended and in return India got beginning in 2016 and onwards a series of crossber kind of terrorist attacks right so do you think that this re-engagement policy has the blessing of the military in addition to the civilian government so I think um one this is the great sort of box policy makers on both sides are in now right where do you start the story and where do you start the blame game from the Pakistani perspective there was a recognition that Narendra Modi started engaging with them um and their own domestic politics for various reasons not trusting Nawas being key among them Nawashari the then prime minister was a driving force so for example when that engagement happened in Pakistani media uh in part uh sort of egged on by the Tikin Sav and Imran Khan the slogan in the elections was Modi whoever is friends with Modi is a traitor right so it played into that whole dynamic. I think when Iran Khan came into power, there was a concerted effort by the military establishment, General Baja himself, and he's talked about this in postretirement interviews. One of his biggest regrets was not to explore an opening with India or not to get across the line. Um so there was this effort made and from the Pakistani perspective the biggest inflection point or the biggest sort of exhibit a of their sincerity was that when Galwan was heating up and the Chinese and the Indians were sort of exchanging blows with each other the Pakistanis gave India a ceasefire at the line of control and by the way that ceasefire still holds to this day and so the Pakistanis were like we don't want to you know use this opportunity or signal that we want to use this opportunity for our own advantage. ages. In fact, here's a ceasefire. And from their perspective, what they got in return was a growing level of proxy activity in places like Balojasthan, assassination campaigns in the Pakistani homeland, multiple people from the Lashkaret, Taiba, etc. killed and assassinated in Pakistan. And so their conclusion of this was well what was a sincere effort to regain and rebuild trust was seen as weakness by New Delhi. Um and that sense has continued to this day. And so the Pakistani view is yes, we'll talk about everything including terrorism. By the way, they're very clear on that. Let's talk terrorism, but terrorism has to include Balojasthan and Pakuna and proxy activity there as well. Well, let's talk about trade. Let's talk about rebuilding or normalizing ties by through confidence building measures and also let's talk about Kashmir. And I think they're both locked in this dynamic where now there isn't a path forward to unlock any of this from my perspective. But Islamabad and both Pindi are convinced that they have to explore normalization of ties with India if they are to progress and if Pakistan has to have the space not only to look inwards a bit more but also look westwards where there is an insurgency uh growing both in Balojasthan and on the border with Afghanistan. But I mean just to drill down for a second I mean the underlying Indian objection to say you know we had a series of attacks you had uri you had patot you had pulwama pilgam I mean you could go back even further and talk about the Mumbai attacks the view from Rahul Pindi and Islamabad is there were other violations that were committed on Pakistani homeland by Indians that um that have led to this tit fortat kind of is that essentially the kind of argument that's pretty much it and even prealgam right the my timer on um sort of what I was beginning to uh monitor with a heightened risk level of risk uh in the run-up to Palam was post Jaffer Express attack in in Pakistan for those who don't know Jaffer Express was a train is a train in Balojasthan it was attacked by terrorists in Pakistan weeks before Pahalgam uh primarily women and children and the elderly from families of soldiers were held hostage and then there was an operation um uh uh conducted to free these And the Pakistani military very clearly days after that attack said that the BLA was behind this and the BLA is a proxy Balo liberal liberation army is a proxy of India and so that's their narrative on that side of saying hey this is not a one-way street in fact you've been conducting terror attacks on Pakistani soil for years as well I mean you already touched upon this but but I think it might be good to just kind of reiterate this point you know you there has been a long period I think where there's been a kind conventional wisdom in Washington which says look in DC we shouldn't try and play a medi mediating role between India and Pakistan um and clearly the Trump administration has a very different view I mean the president himself is vocal on this on so many occasions right um you say that like the current thinking in Washington now is that sitting out the India Pakistan equation is no longer feasible right why is that piece of it no longer feasible I mean Why is it the conviction of this administration that they have to get involved in somehow bringing this particular conflict to an end? So I think it's driven by this understanding that in particular the president has of um building sort of a postneoliberal order globally so to speak and this is connected from this is why he hosted the Azeris and the Armenians and build got that peace deal done that's why he's pushing on Abraor 2.0 know from my perspective and even Russia Ukraine which is the United States has to now beginning has to now start looking inwards um both to its domestic needs but also the needs of the western hemisphere and therefore it cannot continue to be drawn into these conflicts around the world that suck its energy out. Um and in India and Pakistan, not only are these two nuclear powers, but as I laid out, they want and need certain actions from the Pakistanis to look after certain security needs and they want and need the Indians to look after certain security needs in the region as well. But so long as both sides remain locked with each other over Kashmir and these skirmishes every few years that happen that bring us bring us to the brink of nuclear war, they don't want that. Right. And the president, you could say, okay, he wants a Nobel Peace Prize and okay, sure, my view on this is overplaying it. But even if an American president is trying to make peace deals around the world because he wants a prize selfishly, sure, great. We've had many presidents lie to us and take our country into war in Iraq, etc. Right? So, let's a different better dynamic in my view. But having said that, I think that's the argument that he's trying to make to both sides is you can engage with each other. you can try to normalize relationships. Okay, maybe you don't become friends over the next five years or so, but you come up with an understanding of some new rules of the road and start talking to each other and that allows each party to focus on some of the things that the United States wants them each to focus on. The final point on this from and I don't think this is something that goes on the in the mind of the president or the administration but from my perspective it's also important for both these countries to engage in this dialogue because Indian Punjab Pakistani Punjab the Kashmir's Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are not going to develop so long as this status quo remains in place like India's developmental trajectory has been amazing but it's primarily been on the back of the south progressing India and Punjab is in crisis All districts under flood over the last few weeks. Same thing in Pakistan right now. Um Pakuna is experiencing an insurgency. Um as is Balojasthan. Um and then India cannot access Central Asian markets effectively. The Pakistanis have a problem in terms of trade integration and energy integration as well. So all of these things can only be unlocked if the Hindi heartland of India and Pakistan's central and northern provinces integrate. And I think that has to be a reason for leaders to reconsider what they need to do to with each other in order to get to the negotiating table again. I mean, you know, getting to this idea of kind of peace negotiation or mediation. You say, you know, we had this era for a long time in Washington in which kind of New Delhi had gotten comfortable with an American posture that essentially kind of deferred to Indian preferences on a range of things including saying no mediation and what's fundamentally a bilateral dispute. Uh and that era is now over. I think there are some in India who believe look our best strategy is to run out the clock on this administration. Right? Yes, we need to figure out our tariff deal. We need to figure out our energy security deal. You know, there were there a bunch of irritants that exist we need to deal with, but essentially if we can survive and muddle through for 3 years, we'll be able to get to the next person in 2028. Do you think something more fundamental is at play here, which is like whoever we get in 2029, January, Democrat, Republican, they might actually share this administration's views on on on the new reset in the region? I think they might and I think um it's not just about the region. I think it's about the way in which the global order is being restructured. Um and you alluded to earlier for instance the way in which to the the eyes of this administration Pakistan is intimately connected for instance to fortunes in the Middle East for exactly. So with that change that's happening I think administrations even beyond Trump uh most certainly on the Republican side are going to look at many of the irritants in the US India relationship from the same perspective what is number one issue like I was watching Tucker Carlson yesterday on one of his all-in appearances right number one issue is population change and immigration that's not going to change anytime soon uh number two issue is onshoring of manufacturing well that's not going to change anytime soon uh Number three is do we get a fair deal from our allies and friends in particular in terms of how we deal with them and how they deal with us. It's not going to change anytime soon. And in all of these issues, if you're trying to run out the clock, um you're going to find yourself in a situation from my perspective where an administration is going to keep that locked in in terms of the base case scenario. I think the other thing that's important for New Delhi to recognize is that when it comes to the region, the overall approach of the United States now is we will extend a security umbrella, but the leg work has to be done by you. Um, and by you it's whether it's Japan, South Korea, it's the European Union or in this case India as a country. And again, it'll come back to this calculus of saying we want you to do certain things in the Indian Ocean region. The only way you can do that is by freeing yourself up on the line of control because the China situation is not getting resolved anytime too soon and there's a deep distrust there in any case. So I think from that perspective running out the clock is not a strategy. The other thing I would say even if it was a prudent strategy let's assume that that's true in three years the world will be in a place where the Chinese will continue to grow leaps and bounds forward in terms of emerging tech next generation capabilities on innovation AI etc where India needs the United States and in 3 years it might come to a place where no matter what the gap is it's insurmountable as it relates to the gap between India and China and I don't think Indian policy makers would want to be in that position where their closest uh friend and partner is a declining great power Russia. The United States is in strange estranged and the Chinese have sort of found a path forward where they've agreed to a G2 world with the United States. One of the things that we discussed earlier in kind of putting this reset into context was the visit of General Munir to Washington in June where he did get an audience uh in the White House and that I think particularly New Delhi and other places had a lot of tongues wagging a lot of eyebrows being raised. What do you think Munir's message was? I mean I know he did a bunch of engagements. I don't know if you were able to attend any of those, but you know, how did that visit go down in in kind of Washington policy circles? So, the most interesting thing I heard post visit by talking to a bunch of people who were sort of at the various events and listening to Munir speak was that they would always say he didn't have an ask. Why didn't he have an ask? The Pakistanis always have asks. And I responded by saying maybe they've caught on to the game, right? Like they don't need to make these asks anymore. um at least in public. Um and oh, by the way, there are no real asks uh of the Americans beyond the three core ones. From my perspective, the ask is cooperate with us on counterterrorism because it's a it's a shared threat. Um General Kella was key in terms of playing that role. And this is the head of SenCom, head of SenCom who just retired. Um and who General Moner feel Marshall Mour has referred to as a very close friend. He got a medal from the Pakistanis a few weeks ago before his retirement as well. Uh so do that. Look at our economy and investment opportunities in our economy particularly critical minerals but also in technology because we want to work with your ecosystems and and our people want to work in those ecosystems. So take a fresh look at that. And then third don't hyphenate India and Pakistan. This is was to me the most interesting part about the that trip and its key takeaway was that the Pakistani view was that the relationship was always hyphenated over the last few years. It was only being viewed from the New Delhi prism to to the downgrading of relations with Pakistan. And the Pakistani ask is look at the relationship between the United States and Pakistan from the perspective of the bilateral relationship and that alone. Um and so long as you do that, we're fine and we're happy with having a relationship. They also recognized in terms of uh their own assessment of South Asia policy in Washington that India is going to be a very strategic player when it comes to American strategic interest in the region and beyond. And their view is that's okay. That's a bilateral relationship and that will be much more important for the United States to manage than a relationship with Pakistan. But so long as the US treats Pakistan as a bilateral partner and bilateral partner alone, we're okay uh with that. I think in the Trump administration, part of the draw of hosting Munir was that he's a strong man in uniform and Donald Trump likes that. In fact, this was something I would tell that he kinsaf diaspora activists even during the election that whatever you can offer uh to Donald Trump, General Munir can offer to Donald Trump and oh by the way, he wears a uniform. So you need to take that into account. But I think the trip was also interesting in the sense that it came on the eve of the strikes on Iran. Um and the president alluded to uh this himself when he talked about nobody knows the Iranians better than the Pakistanis or the generals in Pakistan. And I think from the Pakistani perspective um they are very clear that Iran should not have a nuclear weapon. Um they don't say this publicly but it's it's said privately. They also view Iran as a revisionist power that creates all sorts of challenges in the neighborhood including for Pakistan. Um, and they also want to work in lock step with the Gulf countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, in whatever the path forward to peace in the Middle East is. And I think that's what he talked to the president about. And sort of said there's a vision here. We're supportive of this vision. Uh, we want to work with you and the Saudis on whatever comes forward uh comes next. And oh, by the way, we've played a historic role in the region when it comes to security uh sort of uh cooperation and partnerships. We have a treaty with the Saudis. In any case, uh, as I said, Iraq and Syria and Jordan have been partners for a long period of time. So, if there's a role we can play here that is positive, we're willing to play that and I think that's what the conversation was. Let me just kind of end this conversation by asking you to opine on something that you didn't write uh which is a recent foreign affairs piece by Mid Ysef. He was the former national security adviser to the Pakistani prime minister. He has a piece in foreign affairs called Why America Should Bet on Pakistan. Um it's a kind of play on my colleague Ashley Telles's piece perhaps America's Bad Bet on India. Um and the subhead to to Moid's piece is a better South Asia policy runs through Islamabad. And and one of the arguments that he makes is if the US sticks with a kind of Indiaentric policy in the region, it could lose not just Pakistan but all of South Asia uh in the years ahead. Um do you agree with that assessment and if so you know help kind of unpack the logic right? I mean what what does that Indiaentric policy stand to lose with respect to other countries that are not India and Pakistan? So I partially agree with uh Moid's uh essay. What I agree on is um the fact that in the region itself there is a position that all of the smaller powers including Pakistan but Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal etc have is that they want to always guard against Indian regional hegemony and that is something that is clear their elites talk about it. It's it's sort of dominant in the discourse that's there. What that means is in a situation where the United States um sort of down ranks its own interests and gives precedence to Indian interests in the region which is something that many policy makers uh former policy makers in Washington have openly written about. What that does is that all of these powers will then look elsewhere for a check on India and Indian hegemony or what they perceive as Indian hijgemony and that answers China and China alone. So the moment the United States sort of does not engage in the region on the merits and demerits of its relationships with all of the other countries on their own footing um it opens the door to the Chinese who have capital technology electric vehicles solar panels financing a lot of tools and a lot of tools right so it it sort of ultimately undermines American interest to follow this strategy because you're always going to be India will always be in my opinion out competed by China in the neighborhood on its own and therefore it is actually important for New Delhi to find pathways to work with Washington in all of these countries as well where American interests also play a dominant role in in foreign policy. Where I disagree with Mui is that I don't think this pathway runs through Islamabad or through New Delhi alone. I think this pathway runs through both these places um in a way that America plays the role of saying hey both of you need to work together. It's in your interest. It's something we want in our interest and oh by the way I think the Chinese will also sign up for something like this. So um the bet on Pakistan I don't think has to be made in the way Moid is talking about from an American policy perspective. But the bet that has to be made is to get these two nuclear armed countries to at least find a way to talk to each other once more. And if that happens, temperatures will come down and American interests in South Asia will sort of open up. Because if this continues, the proxy activity in Balojasthan will hurt American geoeconomic and national security interest. The proxy activity in Kashmir will hurt American national security interest by tying up India in the north. Um and then finally the integration in the region won't happen which will mean that part of South Asia will be poor and backward and unconnected or or not connected with each other as a result of which the resourcing needed for this region to move forward uh in an era of climate change major disasters etc will just not be there and America will continue to be sucked in to firefight and America does not want to firefight anymore in in that part of the world. I mean another way of saying what you just said is you know uh America needs to bet on both right uh that you need to have a bet on Islamabad and a bet on New Delhi which is what I write at the end of my piece is like the path runs through both New Delhi and Islamabad and I think the the sooner that both uh policy makers in both capitals realize that that that's a major shift and that shift is here to stay. Um I would argue not just in those uh in those capitals but also uh the blob in Washington recognizes that the better South Asia policy will be because if we don't uh uh sort of evolve the policy framework for this new emerging world order uh we will find ourselves as American policy makers continuing to be sucked in uh at a nuclear flash point and then be frustrated uh at why progress isn't being made. But if we help solve this problem in a way that there's some normalization, not solve Kashmir, just some normalization, it pays a lot of dividends for American foreign policy. My guest on the show this week is Urunis. He's the chief product officer at TAG AI, the artificial intelligence platform developed by the Asia Group. He's also the author of a brand new book, Future Ready, Innovation, Abundance, and the Global South. User, this was such a pleasure. Thanks so much for coming on. Thanks for having me. [Music] Grandma is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hindu Sun Times. This podcast is an HT Smartcast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Granthamasha, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mera Verge Giz is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabel Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart