================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: CiMohWsTzIA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CiMohWsTzIA
TITLE: Ep 417: Caste and the Census
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-05
DURATION: 2h 15m 40s
VIEWS: 7,730
LIKES: 175
COMMENTS: 5

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Data is apolitical and always useful, right? Then why is the caste census so controversial? Pranay Kotasthane and Raghu S Jaitley join Amit Varma in episode 417 of The Seen and the Unseen to discuss its history, context and implications.  

(FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 23,334

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
This episode breaks with the pattern of the show in two ways. A few weeks ago, after 8 years of being a weekly show, the scene and the unseen went fortnightly. Well, because of the topicality of the issue I tackled today, this episode comes just a week after the last one. But I go back to fortnightly now and the next episode will be 2 weeks from now. My YouTube show Everything is Everything is still weekly. Of course, the second way in which I'm breaking the pattern is that after a long time, I talk about one single subject today. This podcast started as an exploration of individual policies which would often last less than an hour to deep dives into subjects which could last 3 hours or more to deep dives into people akin to oral histories and those go on for many hours. My longest episode is 12 hours. I've got seven episodes over 8 hours and that's actually one reason why I went fortnightly. I love doing it, but it was just so much work and so intense. But I decided to do a subject-based episode this week because A, the subject was in the news, b my two guests today had different and wellthoughtout views on it, and c they're both awesome thinkers and regulars on this show. So, a perfect storm. I enjoyed doing this episode. It felt just like the good old days. And I wonder if you want more of these from me. Let me know. Welcome to the Scene and the Unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral science. Please welcome your host Amit BMA. Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My guests today are Prane Kotasan and Ragu Sanjal Jetly Aka Arj who write the brilliant newsletter anticipating the unintended at public policy. Earlier this week, our prime minister Narendra Modi announced his support for a cast census. The opposition had been demanding it for a while. The ruling party had been against it. So this turn of events was interesting. Prane and RSJ in their newsletter had a debate on this last September and I'd love that post and managed to agree with both of them. Now they've both written on this subject extensively in the past. So I invited them over and we discussed the cast census in particular and reservations in cast in general. Now there are a couple of issues all three of us want to get out of the way before we begin. Number one, people might want to know our cast and say that we cannot discuss this subject if you are saer. That's a valid point but in the wrong context. I agree that if we discuss the lived experience of Dalits then only Dalit should speak on that and the rest of us should pass a mic. But if we talk about public policy or economics, whether this measure works, what that data indicates, then all of us have the right to make our points. The three of us have been writing about these subjects for a combined 50 years now. You should then look at our arguments on their own merits. Our identity is irrelevant. Number two, I've noticed that on social media especially where many prefer simple narratives to a complex discourse, people often focus on the person and not the argument and ascribe intent and malice to you if you make a point they disagree with. For example, if you express reservations about reservations, it is automatically assumed that you must be cast. But that's not necessarily so. It is possible to be anti-cast and yet believe that reservations are an imperfect solution that have been politicized. So I will ask you gentle listeners to listen to us in good faith and take our words at face value. Regular listeners already know how much I despise the cast system which I keep ranting against and some have even attacked me as anti-Hindu. Let me reiterate that and say just one thing about all three of us. We are all anticcast and consider it the deepest evil of our society and our discourse around it needs to go beyond posturing and virtue signaling. We need more goodfaith discussions on the subject. One thing we can't deny is this. 78 years after independence, we are very far from the annihilation of cast. We need to understand why. Before we get to the conversation though, I want to plug the Takshashila Institution's post-graduate program in public policy. A 48week program that starts in June. Prane works at Takuishila and is one of the teachers for this course and both Pran and RSJ are alumni of Tuxishila. If you care about public policy, I recommend this highly. Check out more details at school.takuishila.org.in/pgp. I'll link it from the show notes. And now let's head to the conversation. But before that, a quick commercial break. Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant Ajay Sha. We've called it everything is everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma amit v a r. The show is called everything is everything. Please do check it out. Pran and arch welcome to the scene and the hi good to be back. Good to be back. Hi. So I'm really happy to uh have you uh you know this is one of those scene and scenes which is kind of topical. Typically I try tend to do timeless episodes and I'm hoping this will be timeless uh as well but it's sparked by the topicality of Prime Minister Modi announcing that there is going to be a cast enumeration that is going to be done soon surprising many people because hey it was really Rahul Gandhi in the opposition which was demanding a cast census quite oiferously. So how come this shift has happened? Before we start, I kind of want to set the context for people who may be from abroad and therefore may not be aware of the entire context of what we are talking about. Uh set a context of cast in India and how you know the policies that have formed around it over time and uh you know a quick potted history to bring you up to current times. cast as all of us would agree is you know one of the original sins of Indian society as I keep uh as I've kept saying for many many years and this is something that you find not just in the historic record but the genetic record one of the great til uh that hit me during the show was when I did an episode with Tony Joseph who wrote the great book early Indians and Tony Joseph in that looks at the genetic data and you know shows how India was essentially partying till about 2,000 years ago. Partying in the sense that all the people who came here in the different migrations were mingling with each other and it was an awesome inclusive society. But something happened around 2,000 years ago where a particular ideological strand from the gangetic belt took over and you had severe cast endogamy being practiced which means people only marry within their own cast and the the genetic record shows this to such an extent that there is a great quote by David Reich that if you're looking for a large population you need to look at the HanChinese. uh India is really a collection of many small populations and this is deeply and terribly tragic in a variety of ways. What this cast indogamy also affects is that it increases um the drive towards female seclusion as uh uh you know I had a great episode with Alice Evans where we discussed this and it's been discussed in many other episodes where obviously if you have such severe endogamy you want to control women's sexuality and therefore what they do outside the home is curtailed and it just goes all the way down the line. So cast very much a deep reality of Indian society. At the same time uh as my recent episode with Manu Ple shows Hinduism was a kind of a very open-source religion also for the last 2,000 years constantly adaptive different things happening except for this castogamy which wasn't really affected by it. Now when the British came here uh what they kind of did was they tried to understand the country through the the prisms of their interlocutors and the interlocutors happened to be uppercass Brahmins. So their understanding of the country was a particular understanding uh which was very Manusmati and cast based and all of that and therefore that became part of uh the way they uh looked at the country a sort of a simplifying narrative in a deeply complex space and from 1881 onwards they started doing a census which included cast like 1872 there was a partial census but from 1881 every 10 years they did a kind of census and in 1901 in fact there was a little bit of a controversy because uh the census uh head HSI attempted to rank the cars 1 2 3 4 and there was political appro saying ranking up galadi and etc etc which just tells you uh the complexities and the political uh repercussions and what their uh their censuses also um their car census also ran into the criticism of actually hardening identities. Uh right and um there's a great quote I like by Peter Gosch where Peter Gosch talks about how classifications of convenience for government officials transformed into contested identities for the Indian public as a census went from an enumerative exercise of the British government to an authoritative representation of the social body and a vital tool of indigenous interests. stop quote and this is all pre-independence talk but you see how the same issues can apply today that are you merely gathering data or is there a political purpose or an inevitable political consequence of gathering that data so you could argue that these policies of the British both exploited and mitigated cast divisions at the same time now after independence you had a move led by Ambitkar and others to do something about these deep inequalities that ran through Indian society and therefore you had reservations coming in and these reservations gained a political taint when the Mundal Commission was set up in 1980 and in 1990 the Mundal commission was put into force and OBC reservations became a thing and you had the increasing politicization of cast now since then you had two interesting things happen the first of them is never mentioned when you talk about the history of cast in India but I think it is super important that's 91 reforms The 1991 reforms brought millions of people out of hundreds of millions of people out of poverty including uh a large section of Dalitz and most importantly it showed that society is not a zero- sum game where you need to redistribute either wealth or opportunity and um you know that is a big lesson that you get from there. In fact, thinking of the empowerment of Dalits, I often make the controversial statement that Manmuan Singh did as much for India's Dalits as Amitka did and both are great heroes of mine. I had an episode with the Dalit scholar Chundraan Prasad where he asserted that his two heroes were Amitkar and Adam Smith which shows the power of uh markets uh happening and and really that period of growth was between 91 and 2011. I'm being utterly I'm being party agnostic when I say that we haven't had a uh the best time of it since then as far as the economy is concerned. The second thing that happened really happened perhaps over the last 10 12 years where the BJP managed to consolidate the Hindu vote. um you know RLJ in earlier pieces you have in fact written about the cohering versus centrifugal forces that uh what the BJP attempted to do was cohhere all these cast identities and build one Hindu vote whereas there was also at the same time a natural centrifugal tendency to the other direction but for a long time between 2014 and 2024 it seemed that the BJP had succeeded and they succeeded partly using cast pashan ja in his great book on how the BJP P1 on 2014 talks about how um you know they went to UP and they attempted to play upon resentments within Dalits by getting non-dalit jadavs uh to uh you know vote against the jatavs and getting non-yad OBC's to vote against the yadavs in Maharashtra non marata OBC's uh to vote against them etc etc but regardless the fact remains that in 2014 and 2019 in those general elections more Dalits voted for the BJP than for any other party the great Dalits caller Badri Narayan who has a bunch of books um on Dalith politics in India and I'll link them from the show notes in fact referred to the BJP as a default Dalith party of India in all of this time in these 10 years Rahul Gandhi was coming up and making a cry saying we need a cast system and talking more and more about cast while the BJP of course their project was the opposite you know unite the Hindu vote and then do your anti-Muslim politics or anti- other politics or whatever the case might be and they kept speaking speaking against it. Now these lines aren't drawn in sand. You know the Atal Bihari Wajpai Ministry of Social Justice in fact had first come out and suggested a cast census when there was a debate in the Lok Sabha in 2010. The BJP was for a cast census and Manu was dithering. As recently as 2018, Rajnad Singh in fact said that there will be in the next census uh where typically SCST identities are asked for, they will also ask for OBC identities. So these are not lines drawn in sand but over the last few years what you have had is the opposition demanding a cast census uh to expand reservations which is something they've been very uh clear about especially for OBC's and the government saying that no no this will be divisive etc etc except that just a day ago and we are recording this on May 1st just a day ago uh the prime minister Narendra Modi said that there will indeed be a cast census at which point what do I do to make sense of all of this? I go on Twitter, just joking, I don't go on Twitter to make sense of anything. It's an addiction. And I came across u you know my favorite public intellectual, Pran Kotas in his Twitter account where he tweeted to an excellent uh edition of the newsletter. Uh he writes with RLC um and uh it was written in this particular piece was written in September 2024 and they were essentially on opposite sides of this issue which fascinated me. Both were making great arguments. So I found myself agreeing with both of them and finding it making sense. And then I read up more. I looked at Prane's earlier pieces. I looked at where RHJ had written on the subject before and I thought that okay let's do an episode. Let us go through all the different points of view and uh sorry this is ended up being a bit of a longish monologue but I wanted to kind of set this context. If I have missed anything that you guys feel is important to uh uh shed clarity as we lay ground for the debate, uh please let me know. But uh this is broadly where um um you know I'd say we stand at this moment. Yeah, Amit, if I could add some more context uh to this story. Uh so even before independence, there was a move towards giving some more electoral representation in one way or the other. some states and princely states were already doing that like in Kolapur etc. But in the at the national level uh the demand for uh reservations for electoral representation began. Uh there was a lot of talk in 1910 1916 around that period and uh there was this earlier idea was actually to have separate electorates and that was what the Britishers were also willing to uh encourage right because that worked in their uh scheme of things as well. But then there was this Puna pact where it was agreed that there will not be uh separate electorates but there will be reservations instead uh for electoral representations. Right? So separate electoral electorates meant that only persons of particular cast could vote for people of that particular cast. Whereas reservations mean that only the person who's going to contest is uh going to be representing from a particular cast. So seats will be reserved for particular cast but people all the people who vote will can be across cast. So that was the difference. Uh and on the cast census thing other important points are that uh it's not true that cast was not enumerated since 1931. since 1931. The full uh I mean when if the uh cast uh if the census officer comes to us they will ask that whether do you belong to SCST or not. Uh and within SCST there are more subclassifications dried down to the jati. So that was already happening since 1931 and it still continued. uh the only thing now what this car sensor is doing that no it will ask everyone about their casts about their jatis it's not just for SCST so that was one thing uh in the so this was 1931 in 19 uh after independence electoral representation reservations had already agreed been agreed to since Puna pact after independence it was also applied to government jobs uh and government educational institutions now there's a big mcon conception of that many people have that it was agreed that reservations will only last for 10 years. That's not the case. The uh 10-year thing applied uh to the electoral representation thing that we will uh reconsider after 10 years. But there was no such limit applied for governmental educational institutions and jobs. So that was uh the fact and yeah that that was the beginning and then you had the bundle commission which said you know let's use uh reservation for more purposes you know so the purpose itself changed that uh it was no longer about correcting historical wrongs but it was also for uh reducing relative deprivation and then reservations got applied to a larger set of uh people and that was what came into being in August 1990. After that there was the Indras Swani judgment in 1993 which said that uh okay you can have reservations but it put some limit that there should be 50% limit on total reservations and there is no I mean there is no uh logical justification to this just to the but just the fact that 50% sounds like a decent number you can say that half the seats are general and half the seats have some particular cate uh reservations so that that is like the uh past history of this that I wanted to add. Sounds amazing. There's one uh element of the context that I want you guys to fill me up on or at least what your theories are what or what your sense of it is which is that why now why this about turn by the prime minister because that whole uh tussle over the last few years appears to have been a tussle of on the one side the consolidation of the vote and therefore you don't want to get into uh issues of uh cast and reservation and all of that and on the other side this was a way out for uh the the Congress. So what has kind of changed now or what could have changed now because I mean we can't possibly know for sure that the wind has turned like Arisha you wrote this uh in your newsletter in September you wrote about at RSS convention where the RSS actually said that we need this cast enumeration and that kind of made it a done deal that is going to happen at some point in time. So give me a sense of you know how we make sense of you know why now why why this yeah I think uh uh the RSS convention uh was the time and when I looked through read through the notes that they had it was quite clear that this will happen and uh and I was quite certain it won't happen immediately there will be enough of opeds and other things which will satisfy the core in terms of saying why this is a bad idea and Then um you know sometime maybe 7 8 months later they will slip this in. Now why now? Uh see the the force of what you are trying to stop uh is uh politically not uh going to be beneficial to you because eventually this idea that you are stopping something which will show that uh there are more claimments uh and there have been in some sense wrongful you know deving of benefits in the past which also needs to be corrected even the recent past since when there has been reservations and and let's use reservations right now very broadly as a substitute for benefit u I think all of this uh would continue to gain uh you know it would be a political snowball that would continue to gain both mass and momentum so they knew this that they were on a weak wicket and that was amply shown to them during in the 2024 election, the ability to use that that uh BJP is out there to change the constitution and that whole thing was about the res about BJP being uh against reservation. Uh and therefore every single month, every single election, you would find this as a bit of a uh uphill battle to say that we are against this, we won't do this. So that's one. Second, I also think that what individual states started doing u they couldn't call it census because census can only be done uh by the by the central authority uh but they started calling it surveys of different kinds and names and eventually started publishing the results of it right so you had Bihar start off with that uh and you had Telangana Andhra Pradesh Orisa also has done something of that kind and the results of those eventually get placed in the in the local or the state uh legislation uh in the state assembly. Uh so people have now started seeing some of those um results and people often contest that which will happen if you do the overall census as well. But then those results are out there. Um and therefore you know it's better to take the initiative and show that we have ourselves decided to do it centrally uh than for individual states and their chief ministers and different political parties claim that they actually got this done and put further pressure on this idea of you know jutney jani bhyari utnahak and all of that. So I think uh I think those are the things extreme political expediency could be you know this is possibly a time when there are other things also that is bothering the government. So uh let's put this into the mix and see uh what we can you know do in terms of some amount of distraction. Uh but u that would have only meant a month or two here or there. this was going to come up u you know in if September was the RSS meet the next RSS meet is going to be in September again so it was this 12- month window when this would have happened I I would add one more thing to uh this there is I think Roshan Kishor in HD had a very nice article about the justice Rohini commission which has been established by this government in 2017 which tries to stratify by OBC as a group as well, right? And the uh the report apparently is uh completed and pending. So there might be the government also might be trying to create reservation within reservation and I'm sure there will be people trying to do numerical calculations about if what will help their own electoral fortune. So that might also be a big uh role here. By the way, this government I don't think is opposing reservations because they have also given this uh economically weaker sections reservation in 2019. It's just on what basis should it be done is a different thing. So it looks like reservation as a policy instrument everyone believes in that even though it's like we can we should question that but looks like everyone believes it's just now people are thinking how should that be divided. Uh so that is uh one thing and incidentally last year in u there was uh uh seven judge bench of the Supreme Court which had permitted subclassification for scheduled cast and scheduled tribes and reservations by state governments. So I think they also want to apply the same thing to for OBC's also probably that's why this becomes relevant in the context of the upcoming Gujarat uh Bihar elections also. See the the point on uh this government or any other government uh since the time Mandal u you know came in it's almost impossible for any government to be against reservation. The core challenge for BJP is this idea of you know having consolidated the Hindu base vote base. Uh will something like this create uh that kind of disagregation that they saw through the '90s which worked in the favor of uh smaller regional parties, castbased parties and broadly what you might today call the you know different constituents of UPA. Uh and that has nothing to do with even if they give the reservations the idea that you have this kind of a base which is different from sometimes what the original narrative was about what different you know casts and subcast groups actually were as a part of population is one of the challenges because then it gives a very different dimension to those groups their leaders in terms of how they would want to see themselves politically. uh whether they believe standing for that particular subcast group will give them better both economic benefits at a group level and at an individual level than to go and align themselves with the larger single unitary behummoth which stands for a consolidated Hindu vote base right so uh so the the the outcome of this from a you know reservation and all of that we shall see but I think even there the script is somewhat written because if this happens Maybe 5 years from now or whenever we will have a census done. We will have some of those data come out and then you know there will be broadly an all party consensus to go back on uh to and change the law in order to make sure that you are able to breach that 50% which came through justice Indraani's judgment. All of that will happen. The problem here is politically uh what would this mean at least for BJP and in that sense it's a bit of a risk. uh but I think they have weighed this and they have decided that it is better to go with it and then see how in the new reality you know we will manage and we'll figure our way out in terms of finding ways to win elections and also in all of this there is always this core question of who is it who wants to do this right I mean um and so BJP would like to show that they are doing it u because they truly believe in this and then take whatever downstream benefits of it are. Uh you mentioned Rizley of in 19001 again you know that guy was a he used to study race scientifically. He was one of those eugenics kind of a guy. Uh so for him the fact that Indians had so many long years and centuries of endogamy uh meant that cast is almost like as good a data set for race uh that he would have got anywhere in the world. uh and therefore uh the idea of getting those seven or six or whatever those numbers in order in hierarchical order was largely his personal motivation to study and confirm certain racial uh biases or certain racial hypothesis that he had. uh which also applies to the guy who did the 1931 uh census the who whoever was the chief census officer u which was a guy called John Hutton uh another anthropologist who spent a lot of time uh studying various kinds of tribes and populations and subpopuls trying to understand what does that mean in terms of their inherent traits their acquired tra traits and their ability to be socially mobile and things of that U so in that sense you know we'll see the other the next chapter of the story as and when this unfolds I'm going to think aloud for a moment because it seems to me that this moment is not just about one political tactical move but it's a deeply existential moment for the BJP across a couple of dimensions. Dimension one is a question that I've raised in past episodes where I talk about the necessary trade-off between being true to whatever your core beliefs are and the will to power. And if you are a political party, you have to cater to the will to power. I mean the I've brought this question up in the past in a completely different context in the context of for example uh you know wooing people from other parties to make up the numbers in a particular state and that is purely playing for the will to power and the will to win and nothing to do with your core ideology and here what I see is that at one level their core ideology has been to say that uh you know Hindus are Hindus and uh the the other as it were are Muslims etc and we will consolidate the cast identity And that seems to have been a sort of a core belief of theirs since uh um you know the foundation of the RSS as it were. And in a sense this plays against that where you say that okay there is a tide and they decided that rather than fight against the tide they will actually ride the tide and they will say that we did this. But I also wonder if that is an admission of failure of their own. For example, to quote from the piece you wrote, uh, at one point you said, "You can still speak of 60 years of Congress misrule and rally your supporters, but there's a new generation that has grown up seeing you as a representation of the power structure. Further, you have to defend your own track record of a decade that has missteps, which gives the opposition reasons to show you as part of the problem rather than the solution." Stop quote. And you know I used to say earlier and I used to say this many years earlier perhaps it changed a bit that the co the Congress would often uh behave as if there was nothing before 2014 except perhaps 2002. So they would just bash the BJP for what they did after it and maybe bring up 2002 but it's like everything that happened under them just didn't exist. And the BJP would be behave as if there was nothing after 2014 and they would just keep talking about Neu and this and that and not talk about it. And the point is now that so much time has passed since 2014, you can't pretend there's nothing after it. You have an economic uh uh record as well and that has consequences. And it it strikes me that the only reason that we are even talking about reservations today or that this has become an issue is that there has been economic failure like u um you know in a couple of your pieces uh prane you you quoted Prattab Bhanu Mata's great piece on this where he points out that the most important things required for social justice do not require cast data you know making quality education available to all the creation of public goods the design of welfare the best mix of subsidies and income enhancing measures and Most importantly, an expanding economy that creates mobility do not require the framework of cast. The mistake of the social justice agenda was that it forgot Ambidkar's lesson that to effectively attack cast, you have to for the most part strongly but indirectly attack the range of material deprivation that make its logic so insiduous. Stop quotab's eloquent words. and uh uh you know had the economy been booming had the rising tide been lifting all boats I don't think this debate would have been so powerful so in a sense for the BJP to say that we are going back to the logic of cast and the logic of reservations um it also feels like it is an admission of its own failure at some level which perhaps 2024 brings home and therefore it is existential at two levels that it's an indirect admission that it needs to go back to the old playbook because uh it's failed to deliver on the new way forward. The other is that okay the consolidation of the Hindu vote uh can wait for and now you know let's go back to talking about uh the things that divide uh Hindus and I'm just thinking aloud taking off from what you guys are saying so what would your sense be of this I mean I'll take a small stab at it and then maybe prana can add u see I I see this as uh at a theoretical level all of those points uh that you mentioned some of which we have written as true. Yes. Uh it is in some sense an admission that eventually if we were we continue down the path of consolidation you know and we have long years of governance it will become 15 uh by 2029. it'll be difficult to then justify the track record uh and yet be able to say that the consolidation is working in your favor because then like I said the entire new generation that comes up they will say we are not getting something and then somebody will try and wean it away one uh you know subgroup after the other. uh but one should not discount in some sense the political genius of uh the the the BJP in terms of still finding issues that can cohhere uh and I think they are taking that bet they are saying that listen there is no point fighting against this we will figure out ways in which uh we'll still find things to bring and consolidate and uh maybe in their playbook they have more than one such idea that they believe they can continue doing it. So that's one way of looking at it. The other way of looking at it is if you were to take uh the wherever there has been some amount I mean one of the things that you would notice at a macro level is how castbased politics has you know evolved over the years right so even as late as the 60s and the '7s before the BP Mundal report that came out first in 7879 and then it was you know kept at the back burner the leaders would come in as some kind of cast-based leaders but they would still align themselves to largely the bigger political parties. So you know you had the given Ram huge cast leader, Chad Singh, huge cast leader. They would be Congress leaders because it was large tent and if they were moving they would move to another you know configuration of Jantaa party, Jantaa Dal whatever still a large unit. only in the 80s you started having I think the first big one in my mind at least as far as I remember was Chan Singh moving away and creating the Indian national logul at that point in time in ' 84 and then by the '90s you started finding some degree of splintering but those that splintering was also still fairly macro you know you would have some guy who will say that I am an OBC leader and cut to 2014 and 19 and 24 now you have you know Kuswah leaders you have Musihar leaders You have leaders that you know you've you've got further fragmentation of these because an ability the more you are able to get a sense of who you are and what strengths do you have in which location and the cast sensors with or without cast sensors increasingly people know exact numbers of their people. I mean that at a at a district and at a town and a taluca and a punch level this is known. uh the easier your your ability to aggregate and then say that I might form a much more uh homogeneous and uh unique and a distinct entity and then I will ask for votes on that on that basis. So I think there is one bet that they are taking that some of this will lead to more fragmentation and the fragmentation the more fragmentation would mean that you being still a larger unit would have a greater magnetic force whatever that magnetic force reasons for that maybe power money whatever else and you will still be able to attract some of them right before the election or as part of an overall understanding and be able to win votes. So, so in some sense the one of the theories here is that there is an optimum level of fragmentation which might hurt consolidation. But if it goes beyond that and fragments and becomes really atomized, you might still be the beneficiary because you are the larger pole and the larger pole will continue to attract a hugely atomized polity because those guys will have no other way of consolidating themselves. uh they will just continue to do further and further you know um segmentation and then trying and winning you know two seats four seats in different places. So that's one way of thinking about how they might be thinking at this point in time. I think uh agree with uh what RJ said and one sort of point is uh people in the opposition thought that they could run with this argument and puncture the narrative of the ruling party but we always felt that it was uh I mean they can the ruling party can easily switch and claim victory on this point you know because I mean they have better credentials they can say the PM is from OBC and they can they can do that then they did this. So I think in that sense uh uh I don't know whether BJP is as ideological uh amit as we we think it is. Maybe its ideology is to be in power. If this helps it stay in power, it is done doing that and maybe it has figured out these kinds of calculations. So don't know I think you know any uh debate about the car sensors is at its heart the debate about reservations because that is what it comes down to. So my next question is really about that that how how do we look at reservations like when we think about reservations as it came about after independence a country was driven by inequalities in fact that was a core reason for uh uh the debates that happened about how much should we centralize power and Gandhi G of course wanted more village economies and Ambedkar's uh uh absolutely valid point that I agree with was that look our villages are uh you know dens of ignorance of localism etc etc he just felt that all our social uh fractures would be exacerbated if you had more of a bottom-up thing. So therefore a lot of that centralization of power happened and the attempt to embed certain values in the constitution and then we have reservations and you know that happens 2 3 four decades and then you have the Mundal commission and then the expansion of it to OBC's and then sort of the explosion of that to the extent that it just uh you know been polit politicized so much that again and again you have recent agitations in India which happen whether it's u you know or the Jarts or the Maratas or the Yadavs all uh asking for more reservations uh for themselves and all of these by the way being landowning casts and you know uh not enough people moving out of agriculture because the economy is not growing fast enough and therefore the land ownings diminish with every generation because it gets fractured and therefore the only way out seems to be government jobs because what the the the escape routes of economic uh uh growth have kind of slowed down. So how does one think about reservations today that at one level to even have any doubt about how well they are working appears to be coming from a cast position but I would say it is equally valid to say that I care deeply about solving the problem of cast in India but uh are reservations really working? That's a valid question to ask. Thomas Sil had a great book on affirmative action around the world where his case using data was that it works nowhere in the world. you know I'll link the book from the show notes uh useful for everyone reading but then my question is how effective have there been what metrics would be typically used for this and is the question uh not about effectiveness but about the political importance of reservations as a tool that you're offering to whichever naive vote bank you are uh talking to is is that the whole point of it so how how does one think about this uh you know as you said that no party will ever be against it because you uh simply can't But what is the thinking of this uh uh nevertheless in the political discourse as far as nuance differences may exist between parties and what is really the thinking of this on the ground as well? Do we do do we have a sense of that? Yeah. Okay. I'll begin on this. So one thing uh uh Amit I think is one this cast sensus is as you said directly tried to reservation. People have said oh no let's calculate first then we'll see what happens. But it is very clear that the implication is that one read that 60 50% limit and second uh people political parties have also talked about reservation in quote unquote media and big companies as an outcome of this. So private sector reservation etc is also on the at least uh in the overton window if whether it happens or not. So it is all connected to this central question of reservation. Now if we look at uh I mean from a policy angle if we have to look at it we have to ask what is the outcome and what is the output which is desired from this right so from my sense I think earlier outcome that was desired was that there were certain historical injustices done no one can deny that there was cast discrimination and what is the best way to do that in at a time when you didn't have great data you didn't you didn't couldn't people didn't even have their whatever birth certificates etc. So cast became a marker to through which you identify uh that if you are belonging to a particular depressed cast the terms that that was used at that time you must be having uh deprive you would have been deprived of a lot number of things education uh and the historical injustices would have been done etc. So that became a marker to signify a lot of other things and hence reservation as a policy became quite practical at that point of time and I think it was it made did make sense as the easiest way to do affirmative action under the conditions that India had at that point of time. So that was the outcome at that point of time. But cut to 2024 no one is talking about that outcome. I mean no one is talking about uh doing correcting historical injustices. Apparently, it is now an instrument to uh some say for relative deprivation to correct that or uh it is purely a go-to solution for any group that wants to flex its political muscles. Plain and simple. That's the way it's a numbers game. If I have the numbers, I should have uh seats and and that's plainly what it is saying right what RSJ said uh the statement which was made by the opposition party. So it is just the the numbers exist and that's why because the numbers exist you need to have a share in government jobs in probably in private sector also. So there's no no idea of that this will be used to correct historical wrongs but it is just uh because of the numbers. So in that sense from a policy angle I think this is a violation of the tinburgen rule right where you say one policy instrument one goal or fewer one policy instrument should have as few goals as possible. Now it is completely flipped and the same reservation policy is being used to do multiple things. uh and that's how I see uh it being used. see two three uh points of divergence there uh from Renee right. Uh firstly and this was one of those points on which we diverged when we um on that particular edition of our newsletter the fact that you know both of us agree that this was inevitable you would have to do it. Now the question was what do you do with the data and uh in prana's mind you know that's uh it's it's a it's a particular point uh you know leverage in a complex ecosystem you start getting that data all kinds of you know things will go downhill from there my sense is that to come back to your original question on whether it's working and you know how effective they have been for a moment let's try and separate these two parts there political parties who intend to use this as a tool of reservation because that's the simplest way to say that we have fought for you and we have won for you something uh and it's a pure you know zero sum fixed pie mindset which in India is the easiest thing that politicians first think of and therefore redistribute and we've bought for you and we've got some redistribution going for you that is that is one way of thinking about this and then say that therefore this is all this is reduced to. But if you truly look at it uh there is it's not just historical u you know injustice there is injustice even today u in in large parts of India. uh and therefore we have to ask ourselves what is the way to solve for it and you can you can say as pratabanu meta is saying that you know the right way of solving it is you know good investment in infrastructure education making sure the I mean the cast data additional data is not going to help you at all. I mean I I agree to that. But you know if you get that data and and since that data is so in in multiple places there is enough in that data to suggest that there are systemic targeted you know work that you can do once you have that data in order to solve for it. You can actually at least have a look at that and ask yourself is there something that you can get better in terms of how to draft a policy for that because if you only think of this as a pure political you know exercise which it is but in the same breath therefore say that it there is no such problem that exists today and it is all historical injustice. I think I think you might be doing uh some disservice to a whole lot of population of people in India today who are still under the uh under the oppressive system of cast right now. Right? So I'm I'm sure Prne will have counter to this but or counter or clarification to this. But that's one uh which I think is uh important for for all of us to acknowledge. Second, the data that at least has come out in public domain of the statewide census that they have done. Um, and interestingly there is correlation I mean there is data of cast and you know various economic performance parameters of those groups you know so you have u both economic and social. So you have education, you have ownership of land, ownership of tractor, two wheelers, computer, internet, all of those things are there. I mean if you look at that and since you mentioned uh Thomas Sowell, you will find that this is exactly what has happened. uh you know there has not been any marked improvement in the lives of uh if when you take the averages there uh despite you know years of affirmative action at least to the sections of specific subgroups in these states. So for instance in Bihar the Yadav community has not is not dominating the government jobs or education metrics or anything of that kind. um you know so uh so clearly the way reservation is worked I mean it's not solved any problem and if you don't look at the data then at least those who are trying to do this in the right way we'll have nothing to go by and now you can always say everybody is a bad faith actor once they have the data all politicians are bad faith actors fair enough but everybody cannot be bad faith actor right so the data might help and if by chance in future we have some good faith actors across like we had at the time when we had the economic reforms you might get something good out of the data that you are having by not having the data you will never come to any kind of conclusion which actually will give you something which is fairly directed and somewhat uh specific in terms of solution so those are a couple of my points on on on the on on that can I add to this uh I I think uh the point is not that data doesn't exist. The point is whether the state should do the counting exercise of this nature which only makes uh cast more as a more salient and it gives a semi-permanency if the state counts anything right the person becomes their cast that's what uh it will happen so I mean the numbers the data exists right tj the fact that many surveys have been done by state level as you already said many individual organizations have done this surveys they have found out and anyways for historical injustices especially against uh SCST we already have that data and the state already counts that so all those thing exist now it's just a point that it is being expanded to a whole uh larger number of uh people so that's uh my point data exist we can still find out all the things uh that we know maybe this data will be more clearer it will probably give aggregate number uh at the national level but I don't think the costs of doing this will be a lot more than the benefits of getting incremental uh data on this. That's my point. One sort of meta point that I have and a point that was made about the British is that the very fact that you count something and put a category to something can really deepen that and deepen the division. For example, uh I keep saying on the show, I keep quoting Walt Whitman and uh saying that hey, we contain multitudes. But then the point is the moment you do a cast census and and you force a person to put uh something there no matter what it is, then uh a you are affirming that that is important to the state and it kind of matters. B when there is political mobilization based on uh the cast and when promises are being made based on what that is, it further deepens that aspect of identity. instead of letting your multitudes kind of uh express themselves as should be the case in any society where all individuals are a complex history of different identities and preferences and they express each other in uh different ways. You know, part of the reason that in 2014 uh so much of the Dalith vote went for uh Mr. Modi was not necessarily because they were thinking as Dalits but because they were thinking as Indians and saying we want to change a better economy etc etc which may or may not have happened and then they could vote according to again a cocktail of different factors but if you boil it down to one there is a danger that uh you know that can get oified. What do you guys think about a the notion that that is indeed one thing that happened through all these years of the politicization of reservations and b that the car s census stands a chance of um uh you know making that worse you know as one aspect of the trade-off I'm not disputing the positive aspects of the trade-off I I'll come to you later about that RJ agreed that data is a political and I love data the more the better but u you know what do you feel about this sort of aspect about it that it plays into a zero sum identity based vision of the world u uh you know rather than something else. I mean I I'll push back a little on that with a with a particular historical um you know example. So I think I think the broad push back and if if somebody else was sitting here uh he or she might have told you that uh it's not that when the when the when the colonial British government started counting it uh it led to some further oification or further crystallization of this idea. I mean this has been there and it's been very very badly you know prevalent. everybody knew it and u and and that only kind of quantified it a bit. I don't think it I mean there is this belief uh that that that particular excise actually made it worse and possibly people started realizing uh that uh that you know that this kind of numbers and this kind of um you know this deep rooted you know thing exists. But I I think at an individual level um or at a unit level of a village this was very wellnown. So I don't think they they aggravated anything but uh I'll come back to the example that I was talking about as to what what was a positive uh benefit of the 1931 possibly uh we spoke about puna pad. Now why did it come about? Right. The 1931 census uh was also done at the same time when the provincial government and the idea of a separate electorate for the Muslims was being demanded for by the uh Muslim League and that demand had to be exceeded too because of you know just the power of that idea and then Jina and others you know pushing for that really really strongly. Now coinciding with that came this 1931 census where surprisingly and surprisingly for you know people but technically that is what it is now it's now it doesn't sound like a surprise they found that 52% of India is actually this depressed people uh as it as as they were called then and remember in 31 during that census a lot of people were actually you know giving a cast that was higher than what their original cast was because That was what they thought this is a opportunity for them to get out of this oppressive system and we'll come to the we'll come to how things have completely inverted it itself you know over the last 90 years so that 52% was actually might have been even more um and there were other challenges of how to consolidate those numbers because in India it's you know whenever we do it even this this exercise when we do it and we might come to the you know actual logistics and mechanics of doing this it is almost impossible to do this correctly because you don't have a standard taxonomy for cast in India very very difficult to say in one region what is one cast and what it's called and what is what it is called in the other region and so on and so forth anyway we'll come to those points later but when that number was seen and Ambedkar by which time had you know moved out of Congress was starting to build his own was taking representation was standing up as the representative of the of the Dalif The demand then started that we need a separate electorate for ourselves when that data was seen. Now please bear in mind that the two strands from 1810s onwards of Indian u political movement per se where a politic was there was a political movement for some kind of freedom or some kind of representation for Indians and then there was a social reform movement that was running in parallel. So the social reform movements had the likes of Raja Ramon Ray and you know Joti baffle, Mahatma, the entire Bengal, Pune, Renaissance of a kind that used to run in parallel Agarakas and all of these guys right and then you had the political movement and the political movement largely driven by the Indian elites the whatever you know forward cast guys who were all looking for you know some kind of freedom and you know and then Tila comes and says it's not just freedom it's full swarad and all of These were two parallel tracks and even after Gandhi came in uh and post 1914 he was still running this like a political movement the social movement was still being run somewhat separately although there was there was much more movement of people between these two but these were still separate the 31 census and Ambedkar's demand made Gandhi realize that this movement has to be not just freedom movement but also movement of emancipation of you know Indians and this this this change is very evident in Gandhi in his speeches. So the 32 Puna pact and please remember one of the things that people don't remember I mean people do remember I'm just reiterating this puna pact was the first time Gandhi went on fast unto death that was his first fast unto death threat he had never done that before and he did that for 5 days as these guys were negotiating Ambedkar on one side and Madan moan Malvia the most sort of right of you know center guy from um from Congress apart from Purush Tamasan but since Malvia was alive he was way taller than all of these guys and both of them while negotiating they knew this overhang of this sword hanging on their head of Gandhi being on a armor and an right on a fast unto death and the the things that Gandhi got them to agree eventually was like PR mentioned not a separate electorate but you know the constituencies will be the representative will be from that so they were about 148 or so and the second thing Gandhi was asking for 5 years only uh Ambedkar demanded for 10 and that 10 got again replicated once he became uh a republic and that's the 10 that often people think that it was only for 10 years but 10 years was actually only for political representation but please note post the puna pact for about 3 years and this also coinc coincided with Gandhi having you know in some sense faced a bit of a humiliation as part of the second roundt conference. He was in jail immediately after the second round table conference. He came out of jail and for almost two or three years all Gandhi did was talk about Harajan untouchability. He went on a whirlwind tour of India and mostly going to temple towns going to you know braaswara temple in Tangjour going to Maduray and asking why aren't Harijan allowed inside and in many of these places that was the first time those doors got opened because he realized at that time that once this genie is out I have to we have to take proactive steps to start addressing ing this otherwise these two were going separately and possibly we would have continued to go separately except for someone like Ambedkar who was starting to demand political and that demand became even more legitimate after the 31 uh census and this was no easy task again there are people forget that there was a the first attempt on Gandhi's life was in Pune in 1933 or 34 when a bomb was thrown on Gandhi as his cavalade was going four or five people got injured and because the sav Hindus were you know really really pissed off as to what he's now what what new thing had he picked up now and he's running around with this so actually the 31 census was a trigger for this significant move of Gandhi to become even more uh convinced that it is not just freedom it is also emancipation both these tracks should run really really strongly uh through the next 15 years or so as you know India progress towards freedom. So my sense is that we don't know you know what positives could come because as I would reiterate that there will be good faith actors who would take this data and try to do something better with the data apart from you know the usual political shenanigans that will happen with this data. So sorry a long um ramble on this. Yeah. No my point to that is that data exists. If someone has to make use of it, they it already exists. You know, one thing that we need to think broadly is like what Ambedkar mentions in his grammar of anarchy speech that casts are antinational, right? So finally the goal is of annihilating cast and yeah uh and that's why I mean the boundary condition for that is obviously a lot of historical injustices have been done and that's why reservation exists and I'm okay with the way it was framed in 19 after independence. So that obviously makes sense in uh that situation. But now we are talking about 2024 right like what is it uh going to be done here with the state giving a blessing that it should from the union government this is an identity that you should tell me when I'm counting you I think that gives it a semi-permanency which is profound you know it's not just an act of mere counting it is really like in a complex system a leverage which will have snowballing effects you know and there is lot uh work in public policy on this. Deborah Stone's book policy paradox talks about how any kind kind of counting by the government is a political exercise. And I'll read out two one or two points which I thought were interesting. You know that one for example she says how numbers can create the illusion that the very complex and ambiguous phenomenon is simple countable and precisely defined. Second, numbers can create political communities out of people who share the same trait that has been counted and numbers by seeming so precise help bolster authority of those who count. So the idea is that the state by counting this is very different from the fact that uh the numbers that you have otherwise. So my simple question is if the state starts counting it and formalizes it in a way that this has been imagined then we can pretty much discard the hope of annihilating cars even a century later. I don't think that can happen unless uh so that's uh how is it how can an exercise that hardens a tragic aspect of our society help to eliminate it is uh something that I fear about. I want to talk about the data aspect of it and for a moment I'm going to sort of add to what RHJ said and then I then pane I'm going to ask you to steelman his position about the power of data and you know earlier I made the somewhat controversial assertion that the 91 reforms did more to empower Dalitz than anything uh Ambbitkar did uh and Ambitkar for me is just one of the great men of the century nevertheless I will say that and the thing is I think it must be by a factor of 100x or 200x in terms of how many dalits it would have empowered. And my case would be that it empowered the reforms empowered more uh dalit to rise out of poverty and reach prosperity than uh all the downstream effects even of all the educational and government institution reservations given to Dalits before that. But the point is I have no data to prove this. I don't know if the data exists to prove this. And a larger point um which I'm sure RJ would agree with is that data is great because data can shed light on a lot of the contestations and arguments that are actually happening within society. That if someone is to contest, if someone is to say reservations have really worked, this is how they have worked. The question is where is the data? If someone is to say the opposite and say reservations don't work, Sil is right u you know economic growth works. The question is where is the data? So my simple point there would be that uh uh and you know like I said at the start of this episode I kind of agree with both of you guys but my simple point there is that u you know data is usually important because otherwise what happens is that we are all telling stories by joining dots but there are so few dots out there that we can uh you know draw anything we want and it will seem plausible and then it becomes a question of one point of view versus another point of view. Whereas the more data that you have and you're right that other data exists, there are other proxies for figuring this stuff out. But you know this would be another data set that is kind of coming up happening on a regularized basis through a process that is hopefully transparent and uh accountable in some way. So uh for me this is the biggest kind of part of it. A point that RHA makes in his piece that data is a political you can use it for many things and one of the things you can use it for is not necessarily to propose one policy or another policy but to just shed light on where does society stand today. So I I've tried to give a bit of a sense of what I feel about the importance of data and prane would you like to respond and would you first like to steelman his and my position on the importance of data and then you can respond. Yeah, I mean obviously data is important right like I I can't make the uh argument that for any policy an analyst it is important and in fact a lot of people who are supporting this move are also uh data an analysts and political observers and their point is right that in the sense this the government has become more restrictive in terms of giving out data. So it makes sense to demand more data from the government and hence uh if they give uh this kind of data it will probably help and make sense of a lot of the things right that's uh probably the assumption given that there's no very few data available maybe this will help in that sense is the general argument so that's how I would steal man it but now let me question the as wait wait wait uh RHA is the steel maning correct do you agree with it yeah broadly right I think I agree with okay so now let me ask that same question now as as we said the data is being counted just not for OBC but on SCST every census has been counting it right so you already have that data there are many papers which have been written on whether reservations are helping but as you know many of these studies they'll be done will be done in one particular uh segment there'll be uh arguments on both sides so you will have a very broad set of answers. So given that that data already exists, the fact that you are still asking this question that did reservation work or not proves my point that that data is you will have more data but it will not give you a absolute answer that you are looking for. So I'll I'll I'll bring up another question which is about what are we trying to fight exactly and what are we correcting for like there are these beautiful lines by you prren in your 2021 piece where you write and so it appears that reservations have ceased to be a means to correct for inadequate representation of certain disadvantaged sections. Instead reservations have become springboards for all groups to demand proportional representation. The implicit norm now is that the state needs to enable representation of groups in educational institutions and government jobs according to their proportion in the population. The question of historical disadvantage has been relegated to an incidental criterion and this seems to me to be a superbly important shift that at one point you uh one point you could say that look the constitution says we should treat everyone equally. Why is taking cast into consideration ever uh um a basis for treating anyone uh differently as reservations do? But the argument against that was look historical inequalities and just look at what the Dalits have gone through and this is necessary to uh have that kind of emancipation which u uh you know our great leaders spoke of and interestingly Ambedkar and Sawkar were on the same side of the debate against Gandhi and here I would say that uh you know I I I'd agree with both of them and not Gandhi on this particular matter but then the question here is that see intention it started with and fine those inequalities are deep accepted let's go on but if that shift has happened today where as it's clearly the case that you are really talking about proportional representation and not correcting for something uh for historical grievances and it's a separate debate whether historical grievances can be corrected for in that matter but assume that they can uh but if it is now become a question of proportional you know etc etc as uh the slogans go then isn't that a means through which these group identities will forever be perpetuated and cast can simply not be annihilated because it will now become the basis of the redistribution of opportunities and perhaps even wealth later within society and in fact as far as redistribution of wealth according to cast is concerned Rahul Gandhi has even spoken of that in speeches. So RSJ what would be your uh sort of counter to this aspect of it because as you can see I agree entirely with you on the importance of data but there is a social impact to the collection of the data and what it will inevitably be used for like all of us know the inevitable outcome. Right now OBC's are restricted to 27% of reservations. These numbers are going to find that they are more than 50% and then there will be a massive political movement for demand that then give us more than 50% and this becomes a terribly slippery slope. The Bihar sort of the informal cast census kind of thing they did last year founded OBC's EBC's together were 63%. Uh so given that what do we do that are would there then be a danger that we are working against the annihilation of cast and not for it? So um I mean just to quickly dispatch off this first point on u on you know going down the slippery slope of this proportional representation everywhere. Uh of course that is uh you know just completely a stupid idea and it's impossible to achieve. I mean this is that old argument of uh you trying to create a patterned society. I mean you cannot ever create a patent society because every single new transaction will disturb the pattern and then you'll it's it's very soon you'll be down to Soviet Union uh commisars and everyone trying to make sure that the pattern remains constant and even in this data like you know which was there and when I was looking at the data I'm like you know in in if you try and balance the land holding then you will find that you know some two-heer holding is going to be different. It's already different. uh so it's not that it's always in the same pattern of you know u the way the pro population is so this is I mean anybody going down this path will soon realize that this is a path to nowhere uh and in some in some ways uh there might be an election or two where some of these things will be salient soon people will realize that and I'm I'm hoping that that's that futility and stupidity is understood by doing this and then showing to people that this is waste of Okay. Uh in so far as trying to use this as reservation, proportional representation and all of that basis because you people will very soon see impossible to do it. Uh and and any one thing that they try and do they'll find something else is lacking and and then it's like trying to you know catch your own tail. uh the thing that I'm interested in and you know again ane not anecdotally but broadly speaking are things like so for instance on various metrics you know a few states have done well u when it comes to the output of the reservation scheme that they have run right now it's also true that some of those states have been possibly better governed and they have also done well economically And therefore there is that element involved in that but I mean the classic example of this is Tamil Nadu and to some extent Karnataka and Telangana Andhra Pradesh also these were some of the first states which went up to 50%. In fact, Tamil Nadu first tried 69. It was the first use case. And if you notice, I mean there was all of these fears that you know all kinds of people will become engineers all kinds of you know they will then build bridges and you know since merit will not be taken into consideration things will fall apart and so on and so forth. just looking at you know outside in the economic parameters and social parameters in the binadu it seems to have worked really really well now the thing about asking for data is to check what worked and to pron's point on you know you already have the SCSD data listen there is a problem there I mean uh and I don't have full data to prove that but feels like that often that's 22.5% reservation many of which those seats were never filled up and in many cases those folks it was not filled up because a whole lot of other issues on the ground meant that a lot of them never came up to that position to do that. So that you know it's in my sense somewhat of a sparse data not even fully available for us to draw many conclusions from that's my you know not a very scientifically bagged view but there is some I think there is some merit to that but if you have a full Tamil Nadu data where we had this 27% of OBC getting in and see it maybe there are some lessons to be learned and maybe we have to think about that uh same with Karnataka same with other things and it is so apparent I mean this is just a uh the anecdotal part of it I began to my working career with a 11 month stint in Tamil Nadu in in Chennai and I had never been to Chennai before that and uh you know I liked my you know meat and fish and everything and the that first 2 three months were an absolute shock in Chennai because in the places that I would stay and frequent and things of that kind. There was just hardly any restaurant that served non-vegetarian food. This is 97. I used to go to military kitchen out in near RDR signal to eat non-veg food. There was hardly anything. Um I go now over the last 7 8 years every alternate shop is a biryani shop in Chennai you know. So that which only goes to prove that I mean whatever has happened in their last 25 years and many others might dis disagree with me whether that has been good for Tamiladu or not but broadly speaking uh a lot of that change socially culturally everything has happened uh because of maybe coming together of good governance uh I mean it's been very corrupt but it's still it's effectively corrupt as they might say and you know good representation and the ability to do both of it together and raise the uh standards of the state. So I'm I'm in no way saying that you know proportional representation is in any way good idea. I mean it's a it's the most terrible idea but getting data for a Tamil Nadu kind of an experiment and there could be many more examples of this maybe at more granular level could be of tremendous use. Yeah. But that data exists. So in the sense that Karnataka also did the Yeah. doesn't call it the census but it did a survey right. So that survey exists. Yeah. So my so sorry P just my point remains the same the if you do it systematically every 10 years done by the central government for everyone some amount of aggregation is done. I mean how is that? I mean I I fail to see how is that going to strengthen uh the already strong endogamous cast thing that we have. The only way the cast affiliations have gotten weaker is through economic growth and urbanization. Those are the only two things that I have seen that have actually helped. I've often said this my son knows he's upper maybe that's why but he really doesn't know the his uh the guy who's sitting next to him what is his cast because he's never asked that question nor is that guy asking and I think that is true in most large urban agorations and therefore we should continue working on that none of these are going to solve whether you count them or don't count them is not going to either strengthen or weaken that particular identity the only way it weakens is possibly you know the older formulation of study, read, you know, study in English, get educated and go to urban locations and get out of villages. Yeah. No, I think that's where we disagree on this point that uh once the state counts it has a very different implication whereas uh I think RS it doesn't impact significantly. Elaborate on that. Once a state counts, why does it have a very different? Because every like I discussed uh every counting by the state is a political exercise. It creates numbers create that sense uh you know that uh when you measure something this factor is more important than other factors. Right? Any counting exercise is an exercise about categorizing. And when you categorize you are trying to say this factor is more important. you have to include some people in this category and not in another category. Right? I mean if you can see today probably the biggest reason of uh not being able to improve might just be you not being a part of a network right you are in a rural area maybe your parents not knowing English is the biggest uh barrier to you becoming something right so when you are counting not many of those factors but you're counting one particular factor which is cast then that gains a much more significant uh factor than others and that's and I'm I'm again I'm not this is not a defense of not having data right I'm saying that data exists people can count there is the the state governments are already counting but when you do that from the union government that has a very long-term effect that we should be aware of is my point so just help me we are counting data of income we are counting data about education how are those counts not political and creating a whole lot of you know identity chaos and you know things of that kind u and just an addition of cast will you know create that kind of thing. Yeah, because casts are antinational whereas different having different incomes is not international. Religion. Yeah, religion is religion is obviously known to people anyways. So that's the it's can't be hidden. Are you saying that there is a shaping involved in the act of asking cast whereas there is obviously religion is known, income is known, there's no shaping there. Those are just colder facts. Whereas asking a cast has implications and is that what you're saying? Do you want religion to go away? Is religion antinational? No, it is not. I mean, you can have different religions. It's okay for people to say I'm a but is I mean that's the whole uh point right if you want a particular phenomenon to go away if that is your whole objective then how is it that giving it so much importance that it should be uh counted every time and you you have to give that uh point how is that going to reduce its salience so a further question um but before that a very quick question for RLJ what's the difference between conglomeration and elomeration. I think conglomeration is a planned thing, right? I mean you have corporates that are conglomerates. There is much more um central kind of a thing with a planned idea with some common ways of doing things. Aglumeration happens because some there is some poll and that attracts people. But it's not necessarily the poll's job to attract people under some guidelines. It just happens. I think that's my very nice. No, no. I I'll check if it's true, but if it's true, then I'm totally for elomerations and against elomerations because we are all in the bottom of way of doing things. Here's a um question for both of you. Like let's let's think a little ahead. Let's go beyond the first order effects of and why they are doing it and the inevitable uh demand that's going to come for uh you know a certain kind of reservation happening here. Let's think about the unintended consequences of that, the downstream effects, the second and third order effects of this. Uh and I'd like you both to speculate on that both good and bad. So um who wants to start? Uh let me begin. So I think one second order effect is uh consolidation around cast will also lead to another round of consolidation around religion. So again uh the cycle which we saw in ' 80s late 80s and '90s probably right that is what I can speculate. Uh the other one yeah like I said this is done for a political purpose. So it will you will have many downstream things. I can see just like today we talk about one nation, one market because we have uh one supposedly one tax system. Uh but we will not be one market because we will be many markets for labor because then this idea of uh filling seats in private institutions according to uh your background your cast will gain salience. So that I think it will it really uh divides the Indian labor market in ways we can't foresee. uh and yeah RSJ mentioned probably this will be done and people will realize and go back I I mean it's too big a cost to uh do in uh my opinion that was uh the third the second one uh the other sort of long-term yeah what could be the positive impact yeah positive impact could be that uh just because there is also an exercise in subcategorization as RSJ was saying maybe if there is economic growth on the other side then these this factor will become less salient over time but that is probably uh one hope. See an example I can think of is engineering seats. Uh see the whole issue is coming because there is scarcity of certain things and when scarcity is there you have this idea of you know how do you distribute something scarce and then reservations and quotas become one way but if you look at say engineering seats and compare that with medical seats for example engineering seats there's no as such shortage in at least in many uh states in southern India so this idea of you getting into it because of scarcity and hence you need uh some form of kota to get into it becomes less relevant. uh so if that kind of abundance exists in many other areas then probably you will not have uh this as uh more important but uh that that's tough to imagine uh that happening uh suddenly the third point I want to say is I think what I can foresee is uh that under represented once this number is counted under represented subcast will seek quotas within quotas then over represented will find a way to fudge their cast and then their income certificates to position themselves favorably. Then new subcasts will be conjured up. Uh demand for new quotas will rise. These are some things we can foresee, right? The fact that the government already has this economically weaker sections kota just proves that point that this will just be you keep dividing the pie more and more you keep expanding this to others. That is something will be probably the second order effect. Arj what about you? I mean one of the particularly enlightening parts of your piece had been about the many different questions that you can ask with the data. I think you'd given four examples. I'm sure there are many more. Um would you like to speak a bit more about that like then then from a from the point of view of someone who is trying to gain legibility into society that what is happening? Um you know what are the current problems? How are they getting solved? How is X policy helping? How is Y policy hurting? um you know data can shed light on that. So would you like to talk about like those four examples and what else comes to mind and what other downstream effects can be? Just one point uh before I go see the uh thing around affirmative action is uh or any of this kind of kota reservation does stem from scarcity but it uh is not that when things are not scarce this will not be there. I mean uh the reason why there is demand for affirmative action in the US or it started was not because US there was at India level scarcity uh but it's al it's a question of what is the relative position of a particular group with respect to another group and whether they feel that the relative position is in sync with the capabilities of that particular group or have they started off at a very different starting point and therefore this delta exists right so so I don't think we think that uh a large of large part of this is because we are not able to create enough jobs and enough you know not increase the pie to some extent that is right I mean that is true and which is why I wanted to bring that Tamil Nadu example but if you grow the pie also and if the relative positions continues to remain as wide as they were in the past this demand will always be there it's not that the blacks And uh and this is where I have some difference of opinion with Sabul. He says that in the last 70 years u the blacks have had the best time. I mean in terms of how much they have come, how far they have come in terms of things that have improved and therefore what's the point of this affirmative action. But the demand for affirmative action does not come because you have done well only. It also comes because what is the relative gap between you and the others? that continues to animate uh and demand you know I mean demand uh you know better representation and and things of that kind. So that's that's a point I mean I just want to make sure that people appreciate that I mean I I would just say just to push back a little that the demand for affirmative action in the US is nowhere near as central as it is in India. So the level of scarcity definitely plays a part. It is of course there because people will always protest social uh inequalities. Uh you know it is not as high there as you know in India it is absolutely central. Amit we had an entire decade in the US with deaths riots actually India has not had that kind of a thing. the entire the whole of 1960s um was way more in terms of political activism you know people going behind bars fighting for this I don't think India has had that level of ferment largely because we somewhere at I mean there are other theories around why we possibly accept our station in life the ferment was great but how much of it was about affirmative action per se the ferment was about the social inequalities and the different ways of say MLK or Malcolm X to deal with that but it wasn't so much about that one issue. No, I agree. I'm not but uh it's not I mean affirmative action is a broader I mean is is a smaller I mean subset of the point that that we are not getting the right representation uh in everything right and whether it's how we are treated in you know restaurants and buses and and public spaces everything so while the lot of blacks in terms of economic pure economic measures in 60s was way better than say 1900 so they should have been happier that we are better than our ancestors. uh but it was a different problem and I think a lot of Indian literature and if you were to sit on a panel of people where where Dalith leaders and Dalith scholars are talking about uh issues they will come back to this point on on respect on on all of these things uh which we don't have lived experience often we don't speak about it and and for them we might not be able to articulate the link between this activity of cast senses to what it means for their selfrespect. So that's one on the points in terms of the upside or the possible benefits. I mean I think there is going to be some good coming out of the very fact that whether it is whatever has happened so far has it worked? Uh not just the 22% of SC but this additional 27%. um and why has it worked in some places and why hasn't it worked in some places uh or is it a complete disaster in which case then you know you can have a good amount of debate to see how to make that you know how to make some of these reservation things effective I mean that's one way of uh looking at it the second is this old question of how long should we be doing this again I don't think there is any good debate around what is what is a good length of time for which you should have some of this but clearly we've had it for at least 20 years in case of OBC's and 70 plus years in case of um SCST clearly the OBC data is much wider and possibly um has u has more number of states and everything represented we should ask ourselves that question as well uh you know what is the ideal duration for for for continuing something like this. Uh then there is also the question of you know who should be excluded if if uh I mean there is always this question of there is a creamy layer and and and things of that kind. Uh so what is the relative movement that has happened at least economically on these matters and uh if there is a reason for us to say that uh some people have cornered a lot more than they should largely because of state intervention and maybe we should um the state should not intervene but maybe the state should create a playing field which makes that you know either go away or brings the other faster uh you know at the same level. So, so there are ways of looking at this which can help with um some of these questions today which we do not necessarily have proper answers to and I might say that individual surveys exist in different places but I have a feeling a national survey every 10 years if you do it twice you'll get something way better uh in in terms of a good aggregate uh data I do have reservations about uh not reservations wrong term to use but I do my own apprehensions about how this will be done. I mean the pure you know logistics the taxonomy and things of that kind but that's a different uh discussion altogether. Amit I wanted to add one big point that uh of the second order effect that I think Prattab also made in that article. I think the fact that the opportunity cost of all this is the all focus is on cast and counting cast and doing this which sort of then uh defeats the point of the other things that the state has to do in order to actually improve things right. So the I mean see just look at it right a lot of this the OBC uh political representation things came from the northern states Bihar Uttar Pradesh and there were strong parties which came out of that as well. Uh but the record of those parties on the things which will actually improve uh the situation of a whole lot of people is pretty poor. uh you know in fact when Prattab wrote this article there were other people who had responded also saying that you know that is not right just see the number of people in Bihar who are appearing for government uh UPSC exams and others that proves that it is not the case I mean that exactly proves his point that uh people don't have any other opportunity so they are trying to look things in the government jobs they have no other option so in that sense I think the opport opportunity cost point is very significant for me because we'll just declare victory that you know now we have given reservation for everyone uh there is 2% according to your cast or whatever and that's it like that the state has done its job whereas the what what the state should have done you know having uh financing education or having better uh higher educational institutes that is just not on the table at all and that to me is what scares me. And the second uh one more thing that sort of is uh downstream effect is just the fact that a group identity becomes more important than your individual agency is sort of something which uh worries me. I know it already exists. There is uh but do you want to even emphasize it even more is uh something that concerns the uh in India the classic thing applies right there is always an example on the other um side as well where did the first set of real genuine social reform start of the militant kind is not north India is actually Tamil Nadu and Kerala right uh And so and there the political formula the the political formulations that evolved from there whether it was uh you know per and the entire uh you know namudaris giving away their land and the communist movement in Kerala uh actually worked out somewhat better than north India because you didn't have all of this you know problems of you had regional parties you had uh parties based on very strong regional cast other identities. Uh but broadly they did fine. So I you you don't know whether the reason for that was the north Indian parties going on the basis of cast and just using that and not actually doing anything serious. Um when some other parties have done that in some other states it's actually worked out fairly well. So I I want to sort of double click on um Pran's point about opportunity cost and you know take that further and come to my next question which is that I also worry that what happens here is that there is a crowding out effect in the world of ideas in one's head that we are almost uh you know diying one particular framework of thinking like if you say that okay we're going to have a cast census and then that inevitably leads to um you know political calls for proportional distribution ution of opportunities when it comes to education or government jobs and uh so on and so forth. What it does is that it means that you are thinking um that you're internalizing at least um you know two frameworks that I find deeply dangerous. One is a zero sum mindset that there is um uh you know a fixed basket of opportunities and perhaps even wealth and we need to redistribute that for social justice and the other is an identity based way of thinking. uh which essentializes um you know one's um which takes away one's agency and it essentializes to you to whatever your identity of birth is which is something that in any good society we should all transcend and as you pointed out RLJ that's exactly what happens in the case of uh you know that's exactly what economic growth and urbanization do to us they allow us in different ways to play in a positive sum game not a zero- sum game and you know transcend those identities and I worry about this I worry that uh like first of all I think it is an admission of failure by the current government to say that okay we're going to go back to cast and we are going to try to play around those margins and we're going to try and do it better than the other guys because we are smarter than them but that's essentially the game that we are playing and the moment you define it like that I worry that these frameworks come into play where you think of society as a zero something and then everything is a fight over who gets what percentage of that pie and that then deviates the citizen's mind from asking for accountability from the state which is supposed to serve us because then I no longer ask where are the good roads where is the infrastructure where is the economic growth where are the 40 million jobs that would have existed had you run the economy properly because I don't even know they're not there and instead the mind goes to okay this is my identity of birth and am I getting enough reservations and etc etc and I I just think that that's just in the space of ideas and what is conceptually possible and how we think of our citizenship and the relationship between us and the state I I think it's very dangerous What would you guys have to say about that? I uh I think uh I I'm on that uh same uh thought process uh Amit and I think not just the relationship between individuals and the state but the relations between each other is also uh an important factor right then because that essentializes your identity. I mean that that's why Ambedka says casts are antinational right if you want to be an Indian nation then you can't have casts so uh that's the whole point of course I mean how to achieve that etc is a different question but that's I I agree with you on that see the uh see the only question here is uh the point that if we agree to the point that by the act of including this in a census and counting ing it makes it stronger. Um then then it is then it follows that then you will have way more energy and u whatever limited policy thinking etc uh you know that we have will get devoted to this and it'll crowd out uh good ideas. I'm not very sure whether that is necessarily the going to be the case but if you agree if you if you take that point as given then it will definitely uh crowd it out. My sense is that you know any day you open the India newspaper or you know you open the matrimony page I mean where are we uh going away from cast in any case? So um so I mean this point on people getting distracted and therefore not demanding the more fundamental macro things because all of this takes a lot of your time away. I would say that that uh problem is a problem in general to solve for. uh whether this actually makes it worse. Um I I I mean I'm not yet um convinced that it makes it worse. U you know so I'll have to maybe sit down with Prren over a beer sometime in person and try and get some more some deeper understanding of why will it make it worse just because the state is counting. He's given that I understand what he's told but I still need to be convinced. Yeah, I know. Uh I think like one point on that is Dish Kapoor had a very nice paper, right? Uh why does the Indian state both fail and succeed and one of the points in that paper is also about how the demand for public goods in India is much lower than community goods or private uh goods, right? So uh and that is again a situation which arose because of a mult multiple reasons. Once you have this uh going ahead, I think that will accentuate. So again, why do you want public goods to be provided? I can if I can get something for myself, it's done, right? And if I can get something as a quot, it's done. But by by the way, my whole point is not against affirmative action, right? I think affirmative action is definitely required. There's no all the things we know from India, it is required. I'm just debating whether quotas and reservations are the way to do affirmative action and we had written a few other ideas on that but uh that's my only limited point. Yeah, my point is also not against him actually. I don't think they make much of a difference this way or that way and I don't think it's a big deal uh if they remain and I'll be a Dal Dalbadlu and now quickly shift over to back backing up RH's point and say that yeah I mean it's like one quote I remember which has a lot of truth in it is Andrew Breitbart's quote that politics is downstream of culture. So rather than say that hey the state is doing this and that will change society. I think we often underestimate and do an injustice to society when we say that that society is already uh you know uh is resilient. Everything happens bottom up. It's messed up in a bunch of ways. You know if you think of the if you think of um the political class as a reflection of uh you know supply responding to demand you know then it changes completely. So a complete sort of question you might not have expected what's happening with Indian society because on the one hand you would expect that the world has globalized over the last 30 40 years and uh there's been much more uh prosperity though as we discussed since 2011 a lot of it has stalled and things haven't really gone in the right direction but what do you think of when you think of a society like one of the thoughtprovoking points uh that um you know made me reconsider a lot of things uh during all these years of the seen and the unseen Because when Vir Sangi made the argument that uh you know that look 1991 was great or I was it when I sit who made this argument that look 1991 was great because it got aund hundreds of millions of people out of poverty but at the same time the empowered middle-class rose began to assert itself politically and it was large and that that was one of the factors that led to the growth of hindutwa because it was deeply to use a euphemistic term kind of conservative in that way and and so it is not necessary that economic growth and opening up to the world necessarily uh makes you more liberal or more progressive in the ways that uh we would like. So what is kind of your sense of that? Because uh you know RHJ you started at first by talking about um not your words but I'm paraphrasing that the BJP had no option but to respond to this tide of public opinion and it chose to ride it rather than uh you know have to give into it um later. So what is really happening uh with the people? What is your sense of this right? What are the directions we are moving in? Yeah, I I'll just begin by this. Actually, it's true for the US also, right? Like uh let's look at what is happening in the US. So I think there are some uh global currents which are uh in play. Uh I mean internet also has to do uh social media also has to do something with it. So there are some global forces it's I mean conservativism and uh popular populism is being there in many other places. So it's not just an India specific thing on India specific thing I think there is uh my perception is that there is still limited mobility uh the kind of mobility we should have been able to do we have not been able to do and that has had a lot of downstream consequences right uh uh so the that I think is the central point which generates a lot of uh other things you know the idea that also uh you have if there are no opportunities in India you would want to go outside if there are no that mobility point impacts in many ways and it also probably has an impact on this particular situation I I would begin there I don't know RSJ what do you think see I mean this question of Indian society I will sort of lean on possibly a person who I consider to be among the finest most astute observer of any society wherever he went even for a week and then he would write a book about that which is uh be a snipaul and you know back when he wrote an area of darkness uh it's quite um stunning that uh within the first maybe I'm misremembering u but I think it was fairly early in the book he gets off um as he's coming out from the airport and heading towards his hotel in uh south Mumbai. He sees a huge queue standing of all kinds of people looking fairly destitute not local to Bombay of course we all standing in a queue very orderly and um being the man that he was some you know good observer of people I know there are lots of negative stories about Nepal but you know I'm I'm of the kind you know I like Woody Allen I like Nepal you know you can keep the personal fibables aside He gets off and he asks and then he realizes that this is Ammedkar gently and uh this is people are there is that Ambedkar memorial there in Bombay and even now on December 6th by the way it is December 6th I mean the way currents in India work uh you know everybody comes and they stand in the queue so the so this thing intrigues Nipal and he's like oh wow this is something interesting and while he had come on a bit of a personal trip eventually he goes to UP to the same village where his original parents came from and they offer him food. He is not very keen on eating their cooked food. Then they go take him to a nearby K and they give him some peas and he eats those peas and so on and so forth. But coming back so he notices this and then guess who does he spend a fair amount of time in Bombay during that trip? He spends time with Bal Takre a young Bal Takre in the 60s when Tak had not really become anything as as he later became. So he recognized this you know this trend also and then he also speaks of poverty because that book is called an area of darkness. is so appalled by India's poverty and the political decisions that the government was taking at that point in time which he felt was completely wrong for uh India. Now the reason why I'm telling all these three things he noticed he met Tak and he was appalled by India's poverty. I grew up there were three key events and surprisingly and for all of us they happened in three successive years and they might have been more salient to me and Amir because we are a bit older than Pra maybe he was he might have felt not as intimately as we possibly felt it in 1990 Rajiv Gowami tried to emulate himself it's a day I mean all of us who were there as kids He never forgot. I I was 14 and I remember that day and I remember that evening news bulletin and you know all the maramari that was happening all the kids outside protesting and things of that kind and there is this boy from Dhandu College who has burnt himself right and that image in the next week's India today and everything I mean the first time I realized that this thing about cast is real in India till then I was it was just some concept and that began my lifelong fascination with cast. uh in ' 91 we had Manman Singh stand up and give the 91 budget dismantling everything and in ' 92 we had Babri uh those three have been seinal events of my life and uh it's no surprise that 35 years since then these are equally relevant today we are eventually talking the same thing we are talking see even while starting off with a cast discussion We went we said there is some something will happen because of this around religious consolidation. So we'll be back to commandal and we will and we did talk about you know economic reform and the pie growing and and things of that kind. So uh and maybe almost 25 years before that Nepal came and he noticed the same three things. He noticed people standing for Ambedkar. He noticed Baltak doing something and he noticed that our economic policies were all downright crap. So I think my general view about Indian society therefore to cut I mean to come to some kind of a point that I'm trying to make here is the balance relative balance and what how it is getting played out. We will have decades you know and we'll be lucky if we have decades of economic growth taking precedence over the other two. We did have about 15 20 years of that. Good for us. But you know this is like some kind of a cycle. We will continue to be in this kind of cycle for some time now. Some amount of political genius, some amount of pragmatism can make it you know can actually bring uh economic growth regardless of what you do on the other two factors. a large part of '90s we were able to navigate that um and that was great for us and some part of 2000s also fair amount of 2000s also so my general hope is that in in the Indian society glacially will continue to move towards something that is looking better than what it was yesterday clearly our society today in broad sense is better than what it was in the '90s notwithstanding keyboard warriors and you know all these guys who come on Twitter and you know do crap but it is glacial. There will be all these m you know moments of one step forward two steps back and so on and so forth but these three strands will continue to be the dominant ones. I'm just I always hope and that's what both Prrenai and Ray and I hope in our newsletter is that despite some of these we need to continue to keep the singular objective of getting as many people in India prosperous as our sole aim of our policym and everything else is secondary to that. Um so so that's really some uh you know broad uh brush broad brush uh view of uh the Indian society. I think everything else like Nepal wrote in his third book in India there are a million mutinies now all the time I mean that's always happening uh it's very difficult to arrive at um a single story that uh takes um you know that gives sense to the particular moment that we are in but these three strands will always be the three strands that will go up and down in political and social life of India what's your view myth No, no. I mean uh a million mutinies now is actually 1.4 billion mutinies now. And I'm going to be a little mischievous here and I'm going to suggest that uh you know just you know the point you made pane about u uh you know a lot of this ferment being a response to opportunities drying up to not being better jobs out there. It makes me uh you know think of another trifecta not the one uh RHA mentioned but another trifecta of things that seem to have a circular relationship and I'm being mischievous here just as I earlier said politics is downstream of culture in certain ways it could be said that culture is downstream of economics and of course economic policy is made by the state so economics is downstream of politics and therefore you have the circle of a snake eating of a snakes eating or three snakes eating each other's tail as it were and god knows where that ends up but my my sense of it is that um you know it's largely I think I agree with what RHJ said and what I know you would say that the way out is simply economic growth. We take it for granted when it happens and most people don't realize the extent to which that is the answer to all questions including in the long long run uh uh you know to the terrible problem of cast and I I totally agree with Prane that it's it's just uh uh deeply antinational. I remember you know the great Dalit scholar Chandrahan Prasad was on my show and he said his heroes were Amitkar and Adam Smith and uh uh both awesome heroes to have and both really relevant heroes to have. So that is my sort of uh short view that um you know the future is unknown unknowns and therefore I am never completely hopeless and also you know there is that phrase pessimism of the intellect, optimism of the will. I think um uh that kind of describes me well. You know, I I I'll link to everything both of you guys have written on it. Even though this is going to be an extremely extremely short episode of The Scene and the Unseen if we wrap it up soon. Um I'll do that, but I'll ask for closing remarks from uh both of you uh before I go to recommendations at the end, which I won't let you get away from, but uh closing remarks before that. And what do you think are uh the best case and worst case outcomes for that? I know I asked you a version of that pane um about you know unintended consequences. Uh RLJ completely dodged that question but uh he can't dodge it now. So give me a sense of the best case and the worst case. What do you think of Indian politics today? Where is it? What makes you uh what gives you hope? What gives you despair? I'm mostly optimistic in life. So um although sometimes what I write doesn't seem like that my u general view is that um you know the broader forces of u you know I mean we might have a receding of globalization in terms of trade but there is not going to be any receding of globalization in terms of culture and service and things of that kind and um That's a very important powerful force. Um, and unless we really shut our borders and, you know, do a China- like thing on some of these platforms and things of that kind, I think that's a positive force for, you know, continuing to have people uh, question, learn and um, you know, in general broaden their worldview uh, and and in in general therefore there there will be progress on many of these things that in the past was slow because people just didn't know better. The negatives of some of those things are there. All the WhatsApp forwards and everything. I agree with that. Um but I think broadly the positives will outweigh the negatives. Uh and as I as I have seen generationally in in the last 30 40 years. So that's um that's one positive way and then automatically the political parties will respond. uh firstly because a lot of them will come out of this lot eventually and secondly they will uh respond to what the uh what the demand side of the equation is. Second I think I and I'm this is again being very hopeful and optimistic. I think that you know there is going to be some degree of running out of trying all of these you know emotional slash identity you know issues. Um either some part of that we would have run the course or in some cases it would be so settled a matter whether you like it or not that there is not much that you can extract out of it. So for instance hindutwa as an ide ideology I think uh you know post Ram temple and everything after sometime you will lose uh I mean sometimes I feel that there is nothing much to more to mobilize yourself although people do try their best to do it. Uh you will run out of um runway for some of these ideas or some of these uh topics. Uh I have a feeling and which is my maybe maybe there is a 5 10 year share ferment but I have a feeling even this cast thing once you get this thing out it might mean some terrible times and is right that that's that is not worth the cost of everything else. Uh but I again if I take a slightly longer hopeful view of it again people will realize this it it amounted to nothing and we were better in the way we were going. this was just a complete distraction. Uh so I'm hoping that some of these things that uh seem to be so deeply embedded in in our in our polity once we give once we fan them and give them full air either they resolve themselves one way or the other we might not like it but it gets resolved or people run out of patience uh with them in which case then maybe we'll come back to more core issues and hopefully that will be better for The third thing I believe is the we we are we have not spoken about all of us are talking things which are like have been in India for thousands of years but technology is going to play a very important role uh and while in the past the there was some demarcation because a lot of technology was used by institutions in service of the end user and consumer Um but this uh direct to consumer technology in terms of its democratization whether it is direct to consumer products or it is this whole business of giving large computing power um and making it democratic in terms of access for people. I I really don't know. I mean somebody needs to do some work around that in terms of where what kind of impact that will have on many of these uh issues that u that uh have historically been uh core political issues for us because clearly there is an economic impact uh which might make it worse in terms of jobs and employment for us uh which might then lead to more demands for some kind of universal income and and things of that kind. But even otherwise um what kind of jobs what kind of things that will matter uh maybe we'll have a full circle life going full circle where people who can work with their hands will actually have some advantage over people who are just you know doing the white collar traditional uh services jobs. So I think that's the third thing that um um to me again it it might be it'll be a force of good but again that it will play out in various ways and it might become a political issue 5 to 7 years from now as more and more of that comes in and people will have to start finding some solutions for some answers to that. So those are my positive takes. negative take is you know this this battle of consolidation of um Hindu words versus uh this centrifugal force that people are trying to use in order to break uh BJP's uh political hegemony. I think that could bring us to some of the worst instincts of uh Indian society which we have seen in the past. uh and that would mean you know 5 to 10 years of um just complete waste of uh you know of of time in terms of using and uh doing the good things. Instead we'll be just uh in some sense uh going over the same old questions and um and losing time. Amit I wanted to end this by actually talking about an idea for affirmative action uh which is different. So Nitin and I had written uh this a couple of years ago on on trying to reimagine if how can we think about it and the idea comes from golf just like golf has different handicap scores to in order to uh have an even game. uh there are something which can be imported for them in today's times right remember it the kotaas as a policy was done at a time when you really didn't know anything about the person and uh a lot of things were cerminous with cast but today things might be different so one idea that we had was actually to have a a situation where there are no predetermined kas for any post but positions are filled on the basis of a composite scores And the composite score has two components. One is the inequity score and that inequity score can you know account for multi-dimensional problems like parents level of education, income levels, rural upbringing, childhood nutritional deficiencies which also has a very long-term impact. Right? Those things are not even being thought today. Right? So you need to have those kinds of factors for the inequity score. And the second measure is purely measuring effectiveness for the particular post or uh you know job or uh uh study position which is being considered for right. So that is just measuring how good you are in doing that job which I require and no seats are reserved. There is a combination of these two factors uh and the person who's looking evaluators who are looking at the efficiency score have no idea about the inequity score. So that is kept aside and then finally you have a combination which tries to uh positions are filled based on the sum total of these two right there's no fixed uh position that way you are taking into account the fact that you're judging a person on the merit of them being able to do that task and you're also taking into account the uh huge amount of impact that your past has on your ability to go into the future and we try to design it in a way that you know there can be a national commission for equity which can be formed to propose the review parameters the weightages for each of these factors they doesn't need to even be a one-sizefits-all solution states can assign their own factors and weightages can be according to local conditions uh so these this I think I I don't think it is a perfect solution but I think we need more ideas on how affirmative action can be done in today's time and age otherwise current situation is we have one solution in mind and we are copy pasting it for solving everything. Uh and that I think is a thing I want to leave people with. Uh I'll link to that um the the the essay that you and Nathan wrote on this. I think it was for uh free post right uh first post. Yeah. I'll I'll link on that. I mean I find it fascinating and thoughtprovoking and worth discussing. Though my instinctive thought when I first uh read it was that it's an it's a fantastic engineering solution to a problem that has been scientifically uh defined in a wrong way but uh I'll elaborate on that some other time but it's a welcome addition to the discourse. Before I let you guys go, uh you know you've been on the show both of you multiple times. Prane, you two though two are like here almost every uh uh third week at the pace with which you write books. But so I can't ask you for overall recommendations about the things that you have loved most in your life. But since you guys last came, you know, what is top of mind? What books, films, music have you been particularly uh impressed by recently? I'll begin quickly. Uh three things. So uh I would recommend a Mandarin movie called uh Upstream which is a very nice movie on uh delivery workers in Shanghai and nice uh nicely done movie released last year. On books I as I was telling you Amit Manohar Malgawar's books I have been trying to look at he he used to write novels long ago but I have discovered him now because reprints of his books have come out in the last 2 three years. So there's a book called the seahawk on the marata navy and karno jiangra's navy very nicely written for people who are interested and listening apart from seen and unseen I've been listening to ideas of India of course and manoj our common friend has a podcast called the great power show so people who are interested in geopolitics for them it's really a fun podcast so these are my three recommendations this is a super manosh cablemani he refers to who's been on my show a number of times and absolutely one of the best thinkers in China in the whole wide world if not the best. Love that guy. Just on Manur Bawer um for some strange reason he was a very popular author in our engineering college days. So fire on the mountain there are other books that are fairly good and surprisingly I never found him again elsewhere like nobody was ever reading him. There was a period of time when I saw a lot of people reading him but then after that it seemed to have all disappeared. On uh recommendations um movie recommendations are quite a quite a few I mean that uh you know I've been watching over the last year or so which is uh something that uh people can take. I think uh uh I I I'll possibly talk of a few that are somewhat less known so that um people might you know have a look at them. So there is this movie called May December which is uh I think now it's available in some of these uh streaming platforms uh which is quite good. It's actually based on a real life case of a of a teacher falling in love with stu with a student and going to prison because of that and then they then she comes out and actually marries that boy and then there's a life around that and then the movie is about someone wanting to portray that person as an actor and going to them and then seeing their life and and and and figuring things out with them. So um that was um kind of interesting. thing I mean if you if you are if you like sort of drama that's a bit slow and uh you know goes uh easy hard truths is another one which I saw a movie that has uh uh Marian Jean Baptist she was there in in a movie almost 30 years back called secret and lies where she's a young black person who uh goes around searching because she was adopted so goes searching for who her real parents were and discovers that her mother was a white person and and that's u and that triggers off another story. So this is the same director who's who's made this with the very different Maran John Baptist one of the great actors of our time. So so that again I don't know whether it's available somewhere but you know if people get a chance somewhere to see this uh or if the video comes or if it comes somewhere on the not platform please watch it. uh real pain which is uh which got a little bit of uh Oscar news because uh you know the one of them I mean this Kulkin guy won the best supporting actor uh and it's a great great movie about two cousins uh both Jews whose grandmother left them some money uh with a specific instruction after she passed away that in her will that they should go visit Poland which is where she came from and uh she was a Holocaust survivor. these two these two boys Jesse Eisenberg and uh um and Kiran Kulkin. Uh Kiran Kulkin is a guy who was there in succession as Roman Roy and Jesse Eisenberg u the social network he was uh Zuckerberg. Um so they go to Poland kind of funny slice of life kind of a thing but uh quite well written. So those are the movies. Book reading has been somewhat uh sporadic and sometimes reading old stuff, new stuff, different stuff um at times. So I read the orbital uh by Samantha Harvey. She won the booker uh last year uh which was quite uh quite good. Um right now actually I'll I'm reading what Amit gave me how music works by David Bahan. It's right here. uh quite a good book very very interesting book and I'll not tell you the reasons but I'm also reading visual arts in the 20th century this is as detailed a book on every single art movement of the 20th century with very nice reprints of u some of the great works of art of the 20th century um which is great uh which is absolutely a fantastic book Um, so those are the three things right now next to me, uh, next to my bedside table. Um, so yeah, so those are some of the recommendations. Thanks so much. This episode has cost me a lot of money because I'll be going out and buying all of this now. So thank you for that. But it's all for a larger cause. So yeah, it was great talking to you and I love reading your newsletter. The recommendations I would give are basically the great podcast Pulya Bazi by Pranane Kotasune plus friends. They are all awesome, wonderful discussions. In fact, we even had a great Hindi discussion on the car census uh as it were and of course a newsletter written by Prune and Arche which is brilliant. Their book on public policy is magnificent. Uh I had an episode with them on that as well. So thank you guys. This was it was very quick. It feels like hello but thank you guys. There's actually one point you know sometime back prane and I were thinking about you know what is the next book on I mean what's the topic on which we'll write the next book and we've been sort of throwing back ideas and so on and so forth one I think I mentioned it to him um almost a year a year and a half back I was telling him that uh we should write a book which starts off with Rajiv Gowami emulating himself and then talk about cast and you know talk about it in all various ways and forms and and maybe this is a good trigger for us to think about that that book. I I I I would love to read that book and have you guys on again. I mean, maybe this is a spark that lights that fire. So, go for it, guys. Thanks so much. Thank you. If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. You can follow Prren on Twitter at Prrenic Cotus. RLJ, of course, being synonymous does not have an account there. You can follow me on Twitter at Amitma Aitb. You can browse past episodes of The Scene and the Unseen at seen ununseene.in and every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of The Scene and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You can go over to sceneunseene.in/support and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you.