================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: Hn0rB4vcCTs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hn0rB4vcCTs
TITLE: Farage vs Corbyn: The UK's Next Prime Minister?
CHANNEL: The Rest Is Politics
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-14
DURATION: 48m 37s
VIEWS: 67,631
LIKES: 1,355
COMMENTS: 875

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Watch AD FREE here: https://youtu.be/s3Ym18gPUec

Is Starmer too afraid to take on Farage? What does Germany’s turn away from Israel signal? And, how much should kids know about geopolitics?

Join Rory and Alastair as they answer all these questions and more.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rest Is Politics is powered by Fuse Energy. Fuse are giving away FREE TRIP+ membership for all of 2025 to new sign-ups  TRIP+ gets you ad-free listening, discounts, and early access to episodes and pre-sale tickets for live shows! To sign up and for terms and conditions, visit https://www.fuseenergy.com/politics ⚡
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Podcast episode: 437
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
✅ Subscribe Here:  https://www.youtube.com/@restispolitics
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
🎙️ Liste
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 17,958

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Coming up on the show today, Coming up on the show today, &gt;&gt; this is probably the biggest opportunity &gt;&gt; this is probably the biggest opportunity we have to demonstrate that we can we have to demonstrate that we can control immigration while doing it control immigration while doing it legally and humanely. legally and humanely. &gt;&gt; I think that Labour's probably got &gt;&gt; I think that Labour's probably got another year to 18 months and they've another year to 18 months and they've got to engage better on that with the got to engage better on that with the public. Robert Genrich who's trying to public. Robert Genrich who's trying to sort of vage for the same space by doing sort of vage for the same space by doing sort of snappy Instagram posts. He said, sort of snappy Instagram posts. He said, "Do these politicians and these civil "Do these politicians and these civil servants live near these asylum hotels?" servants live near these asylum hotels?" you, Robert Genrich, until quite you, Robert Genrich, until quite recently were the minister in charge of recently were the minister in charge of this. In fact, the numbers currently is this. In fact, the numbers currently is a lot lower than when the Conservatives a lot lower than when the Conservatives are in power. The rest is politics is are in power. The rest is politics is powered by Fuse Energy and Fuse are now powered by Fuse Energy and Fuse are now offering 20 credit and free trip plus offering 20 credit and free trip plus membership if you switch to a fixed membership if you switch to a fixed tariff before the end of August. They've tariff before the end of August. They've listened carefully to their customers listened carefully to their customers and the number one request was gas and the number one request was gas tariffs. So now at last you can switch tariffs. So now at last you can switch both your gas and electricity to fuse. both your gas and electricity to fuse. One supplier, one bill, one less One supplier, one bill, one less quagmire to navigate. quagmire to navigate. &gt;&gt; It's also cheaper. Fuse gas and &gt;&gt; It's also cheaper. Fuse gas and electricity customers typically save electricity customers typically save £150 versus the price cap. £150 versus the price cap. &gt;&gt; Today's political climate is full of &gt;&gt; Today's political climate is full of talk about control and clarity. Well, talk about control and clarity. Well, Fuse have quietly exercised some, at Fuse have quietly exercised some, at least when it comes to your energy bill. least when it comes to your energy bill. And they began with a mission which was And they began with a mission which was to make electricity cheaper, cleaner, to make electricity cheaper, cleaner, simpler. And Fuse now supplies over simpler. And Fuse now supplies over 50,000 homes across the UK. All done 50,000 homes across the UK. All done quietly, efficiently, and without a quietly, efficiently, and without a single campaign bus tour. single campaign bus tour. &gt;&gt; Fuse's support is available 24 hours a &gt;&gt; Fuse's support is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with real people day, 7 days a week, with real people replying in under 2 minutes. So go to replying in under 2 minutes. So go to fuseenergy.com/politics fuseenergy.com/politics fuseenergy.com/politics to switch your gas and electricity to to switch your gas and electricity to Fuse and get your 20 credit and free Fuse and get your 20 credit and free Trip Plus membership. &gt;&gt; Welcome to the Restless Politics &gt;&gt; Welcome to the Restless Politics question time with me Rory Stewart question time with me Rory Stewart &gt;&gt; and with me Alistister Campbell. And &gt;&gt; and with me Alistister Campbell. And Rory, you said in the main episode you Rory, you said in the main episode you were going to be nice about Iette were going to be nice about Iette Cooper. Well, we've had a lot a lot a Cooper. Well, we've had a lot a lot a lot of questions about all that's going lot of questions about all that's going on on the immigration front. Let me just on on the immigration front. Let me just give you a few. Haley Bright, not give you a few. Haley Bright, not everyone protesting immigration can be everyone protesting immigration can be lumped into the farright category. Many lumped into the farright category. Many of us are simply concerned about our of us are simply concerned about our children and community and rising levels children and community and rising levels of crime squeeze public sector. Do you of crime squeeze public sector. Do you understand the legitimacy of these understand the legitimacy of these worries? Sean Trainer, with the worries? Sean Trainer, with the onein-one out treaty being applied onein-one out treaty being applied without having received parliamentary without having received parliamentary approval, are you worried that approval, are you worried that parliament's role in our democracy is parliament's role in our democracy is being undermined? Mariam and Benny, why being undermined? Mariam and Benny, why is Star reluctant to call out and fact is Star reluctant to call out and fact check Farage? I might have a go at that check Farage? I might have a go at that one in a minute, but where do you want one in a minute, but where do you want to start, Rory? to start, Rory? &gt;&gt; Let's start with the deal itself. I &gt;&gt; Let's start with the deal itself. I think begin by massive praise for Iette think begin by massive praise for Iette Cooper pushing ahead with this. This was Cooper pushing ahead with this. This was something that was trailed in their something that was trailed in their policy before the election. And it it policy before the election. And it it gets to the number of the issue, which gets to the number of the issue, which is, as we've often said on the podcast, is, as we've often said on the podcast, France is a safe country. There is no France is a safe country. There is no humanitarian reason why you would need humanitarian reason why you would need to leave France and move to the United to leave France and move to the United Kingdom. and doing it with people's Kingdom. and doing it with people's smugglers in very very unstable, smugglers in very very unstable, dangerous dangerous dangerous craft um threatens people's lives and craft um threatens people's lives and also of course is being used by the far also of course is being used by the far right to stoke right to stoke massive anxiety and is contributing to massive anxiety and is contributing to the possibility that we could end up the possibility that we could end up with Nigel Farage as a very very major with Nigel Farage as a very very major force in government. So you've got to force in government. So you've got to deal with it and the correct way to deal deal with it and the correct way to deal with it is a deal with France which says with it is a deal with France which says everybody who lands in Britain on a boat everybody who lands in Britain on a boat will be returned to France. That's the will be returned to France. That's the bit positive bit Cooper. The negative bit positive bit Cooper. The negative bit I'm afraid I'm going to have a bit bit I'm afraid I'm going to have a bit of a go at your friend President of a go at your friend President Mackerel here Mackerel here Mackerel here because France somehow is missing the because France somehow is missing the whole point of the thing. whole point of the thing. They're saying that they'll take people They're saying that they'll take people back up to a certain number. Now that back up to a certain number. Now that that's exactly misses the whole point. that's exactly misses the whole point. The whole point is deterrence. If every The whole point is deterrence. If every single person who arrived on a boat was single person who arrived on a boat was automatically returned to France, the automatically returned to France, the numbers would cease, right? There'd be numbers would cease, right? There'd be no point you getting on a boat anymore. no point you getting on a boat anymore. That's what happened with the EU Turkey That's what happened with the EU Turkey deal. Furthermore, it's ridiculous for deal. Furthermore, it's ridiculous for France to say every time uh you return France to say every time uh you return someone to us, you take someone for us. someone to us, you take someone for us. Because again, if the policy works, Because again, if the policy works, nobody would be coming to the UK. then nobody would be coming to the UK. then they wouldn't be taking anyone from they wouldn't be taking anyone from France and then France wouldn't have any France and then France wouldn't have any incentive to collaborate. The real incentive to collaborate. The real structure which is what Iet Cooper and I structure which is what Iet Cooper and I think the British government wanted to think the British government wanted to push for says everybody returns back to push for says everybody returns back to France but Britain will undertake to France but Britain will undertake to take a set number of asylum seekers from take a set number of asylum seekers from France every year regardless of how many France every year regardless of how many people arrive. And final thing, if people arrive. And final thing, if Macron can develop the courage and the Macron can develop the courage and the detail to get this right, and I think detail to get this right, and I think Germany should get behind it, the Germany should get behind it, the European Union should get behind it, we European Union should get behind it, we have a model for what could happen in have a model for what could happen in the Mediterranean for dealing with the Mediterranean for dealing with immigration in the Mediterranean because immigration in the Mediterranean because we would have proved that there is a we would have proved that there is a legal legal legal court approved, court approved, court approved, perfectly reasonable method of dealing perfectly reasonable method of dealing with this kind of illegal migration and with this kind of illegal migration and it could then be extended to safe third it could then be extended to safe third country return from people arriving on country return from people arriving on the European borders. the European borders. &gt;&gt; Interesting. The reason you were I gave &gt;&gt; Interesting. The reason you were I gave you the the the open uh door to mock me you the the the open uh door to mock me over my calls to some of the secure over my calls to some of the secure about Palestine action was because about Palestine action was because actually we said last week we were going actually we said last week we were going to talk about immigration. So I was to talk about immigration. So I was talking to people in the in the home talking to people in the in the home office and elsewhere and it's really office and elsewhere and it's really interesting you say that because I think interesting you say that because I think one of the things they feel at the one of the things they feel at the moment is that largely because of our moment is that largely because of our media and because of populists like media and because of populists like Farage and now Robert Genrich who's Farage and now Robert Genrich who's trying to sort of v with Farage for the trying to sort of v with Farage for the same space is the government feels same space is the government feels they're not getting remotely a fair deal they're not getting remotely a fair deal on this debate at all. Um, just to give on this debate at all. Um, just to give you one example, at the moment, you one example, at the moment, virtually every day you pick up the virtually every day you pick up the right-wing newspapers and they're right-wing newspapers and they're covering these. This relates to Haley's covering these. This relates to Haley's question. Not everyone protesting question. Not everyone protesting immigration could be lumped into the far immigration could be lumped into the far right category. These are people often right category. These are people often presenting themselves as concerned presenting themselves as concerned mothers outside hotels that are mothers outside hotels that are currently housing asylum seekers. Now, currently housing asylum seekers. Now, fact, the numbers currently being held fact, the numbers currently being held in asylum hotels is a lot lower than in asylum hotels is a lot lower than when the Conservatives are in power. Is when the Conservatives are in power. Is that a fact that the government has been that a fact that the government has been able to land with the public? It would able to land with the public? It would seem not much much harder when you do seem not much much harder when you do have the um the media that we've got and have the um the media that we've got and the populist politics that we've got. the populist politics that we've got. This relates to Marian's question. Why This relates to Marian's question. Why is StarMA so reluctant to call out and is StarMA so reluctant to call out and fact check Farage? Very good example. fact check Farage? Very good example. This week, Farage posted a video This week, Farage posted a video purporting to be of men with brown skin purporting to be of men with brown skin arriving on a beach shouting alo a Akbar arriving on a beach shouting alo a Akbar and Farage saying these are sort of and Farage saying these are sort of people that Star's sort of letting into people that Star's sort of letting into our country. Turned out it wasn't our our country. Turned out it wasn't our country at all. It wasn't 2025. It was country at all. It wasn't 2025. It was years ago. And then Genrich, I'd be years ago. And then Genrich, I'd be fascinated, Rory, what you think about fascinated, Rory, what you think about Gener's positioning because because what Gener's positioning because because what Haley's question relates to, Genri had a Haley's question relates to, Genri had a uh did a social media post and he's uh did a social media post and he's becoming like List Truss. He thinks he becoming like List Truss. He thinks he can become leader of the Conservative can become leader of the Conservative Party by doing sort of snappy Instagram Party by doing sort of snappy Instagram posts. And he turned his Instagram post posts. And he turned his Instagram post presumably at the Mail on Sunday's presumably at the Mail on Sunday's request into an article headline, I care request into an article headline, I care more for my daughter's safety than the more for my daughter's safety than the rights of foreign criminals. That's why rights of foreign criminals. That's why I support every peaceful protester I support every peaceful protester outside an asylum hotel. If you want to outside an asylum hotel. If you want to study populism at its most venal, there study populism at its most venal, there you have it. I care for my daughter's you have it. I care for my daughter's safety more than the rights of foreign safety more than the rights of foreign criminals. Find me a parent who doesn't. criminals. Find me a parent who doesn't. But what he's saying is, and in his But what he's saying is, and in his video, he said, "Do these politicians video, he said, "Do these politicians and these civil servants, do they live and these civil servants, do they live near these asylum hotels?" No, they near these asylum hotels?" No, they don't. Well, I assume that includes you don't. Well, I assume that includes you because you, Robert Genrich, until quite because you, Robert Genrich, until quite recently were the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] minister in recently were the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] minister in charge of this and the policy pursued by charge of this and the policy pursued by Vet Cooper, as your former colleague Vet Cooper, as your former colleague Rory Stewart seems to acknowledged, is Rory Stewart seems to acknowledged, is at least beginning to work better than at least beginning to work better than the expensive gimmicks and the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] the expensive gimmicks and the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you came out with. But I do think you came out with. But I do think there's a very interesting question there's a very interesting question about all these leaders I cooper about all these leaders I cooper in the sense that they had an incredible in the sense that they had an incredible opportunity here with this big summit opportunity here with this big summit between Macron and Star to come out with between Macron and Star to come out with a really big bold courageous statement a really big bold courageous statement which is every single person now which is every single person now arriving on British shores will be sent arriving on British shores will be sent back to France. It would have been a back to France. It would have been a fantastic headline and achievement. I'm fantastic headline and achievement. I'm very confident it would have stopped the very confident it would have stopped the the issue overnight. So why didn't they the issue overnight. So why didn't they do it? Why did they both do it? Why did they both miss the opportunity by going for a sort miss the opportunity by going for a sort of technocratic fix? And this is where I of technocratic fix? And this is where I think the flaw is. They're not doing think the flaw is. They're not doing spectacular, courageous stuff when all spectacular, courageous stuff when all the world media is looking at them, the world media is looking at them, which allows them to appear decisive. which allows them to appear decisive. they get into these sort of slightly they get into these sort of slightly overly detailed, half-hearted things overly detailed, half-hearted things which in the end which in the end run the risk of being the worst in all run the risk of being the worst in all worlds because somehow the French worlds because somehow the French government doesn't get it. The point of government doesn't get it. The point of this needs to be to stop this and the this needs to be to stop this and the way you stop it is every single person way you stop it is every single person who comes over is returned. who comes over is returned. &gt;&gt; This is what we said at the time when &gt;&gt; This is what we said at the time when this deal was done is that it's a step. this deal was done is that it's a step. I think nobody should project this as I think nobody should project this as the sort of, you know, the thing that's the sort of, you know, the thing that's going to end, going to end, &gt;&gt; but they shouldn't do it as a step. No, &gt;&gt; but they shouldn't do it as a step. No, but wait a minute. But Rory, the point I but wait a minute. But Rory, the point I was going to make, we we said at the was going to make, we we said at the time that we wondered whether the time that we wondered whether the European Union, the Commission and all European Union, the Commission and all the member states would buy this because the member states would buy this because there was a there was a worry amongst there was a worry amongst some of the European Union member states some of the European Union member states that this would be basically France able that this would be basically France able to lob its problems further south to to lob its problems further south to some of the countries that are already some of the countries that are already dealing with this. So I think having got dealing with this. So I think having got the principle accepted, I hope that what the principle accepted, I hope that what then happens that this is taken to the then happens that this is taken to the to the next stage. So I agree that it's to the next stage. So I agree that it's it's not the I think one of the the it's not the I think one of the the points that Vette Cooper does quite well points that Vette Cooper does quite well she doesn't and this is in direct she doesn't and this is in direct contrast to when Jenner was in charge. contrast to when Jenner was in charge. She does not say we're doing this and She does not say we're doing this and this is going to sort it. She says this this is going to sort it. She says this is really quite difficult really quite is really quite difficult really quite complicated involves a lot of complicated involves a lot of international cooperation and that is international cooperation and that is what we're building. And I asked them at what we're building. And I asked them at one point last week I'll send it to you one point last week I'll send it to you and you can have a look at it. I asked and you can have a look at it. I asked them to send me a kind of catalog of all them to send me a kind of catalog of all the different things that they've been the different things that they've been trying that they've been doing, the trying that they've been doing, the different initiatives, the different different initiatives, the different meetings, etc. Nobody can say she's not meetings, etc. Nobody can say she's not putting the work in. And I think that is putting the work in. And I think that is part of the battle because where you're part of the battle because where you're right, listen, I really worry about this right, listen, I really worry about this issue because I think that Farage issue because I think that Farage he he's becoming ever more reckless, I he he's becoming ever more reckless, I think, in in his exploitation because I think, in in his exploitation because I think he will be feeling slightly under think he will be feeling slightly under pressure from Genrich. And I'd be pressure from Genrich. And I'd be fascinated to know what you think of fascinated to know what you think of generic's kind of transition from this generic's kind of transition from this sort of Cameroon figure to this sort of, sort of Cameroon figure to this sort of, you know, list trust on steroids you know, list trust on steroids Instagram guy wandering around making Instagram guy wandering around making ever more kind of extreme statements cuz ever more kind of extreme statements cuz he knows that's what plays into this he knows that's what plays into this kind of right-wing conservative party kind of right-wing conservative party vote that he wants to have when Chem Bay vote that he wants to have when Chem Bay falls off her perch. But I I think that falls off her perch. But I I think that Labour's probably got another year to 18 Labour's probably got another year to 18 months to carry on with this style to do months to carry on with this style to do the sort of detailed stuff and at the the sort of detailed stuff and at the end of it to be able to say look it's end of it to be able to say look it's not perfect but we these this is the not perfect but we these this is the progress that we've made bearing in mind progress that we've made bearing in mind that their opponents including the press that their opponents including the press and and it is amazing if you think about and and it is amazing if you think about it Rory if you read the Sun the Mail the it Rory if you read the Sun the Mail the Telegraph the Express the Times etc you Telegraph the Express the Times etc you would think that there had been no would think that there had been no asylum hotels until Kama became prime asylum hotels until Kama became prime minister. minister. minister. when in fact Labour have got fewer when in fact Labour have got fewer people in fewer hotels than was the case people in fewer hotels than was the case when they were elected. Now that's a when they were elected. Now that's a communications issue and a political communications issue and a political issue and they've got to engage better issue and they've got to engage better on that with the public and better at on that with the public and better at challenging reform and at challenging challenging reform and at challenging Gener who's clearly decided this is his Gener who's clearly decided this is his issue. issue. issue. &gt;&gt; This is the um big challenge um for &gt;&gt; This is the um big challenge um for everybody who cares about the everybody who cares about the progressive center because here's an progressive center because here's an opportunity. This is probably the opportunity. This is probably the biggest opportunity we have to biggest opportunity we have to demonstrate that we can control demonstrate that we can control immigration immigration immigration while doing it legally and humanely. while doing it legally and humanely. Th this is the opportunity if if we can Th this is the opportunity if if we can get this right with France, which is to get this right with France, which is to say everybody arriving in Britain from say everybody arriving in Britain from France will be returned to France. And France will be returned to France. And by doing so, who's going to pay €15,000 by doing so, who's going to pay €15,000 to a people smuggler if every single to a people smuggler if every single person who arrives gets sent back? In person who arrives gets sent back? In fact, what they found with Turkey when fact, what they found with Turkey when Greece did this is you only have to Greece did this is you only have to return the first hundred people and the return the first hundred people and the thing stops almost immediately. If we thing stops almost immediately. If we can get this right, we can prove that we can get this right, we can prove that we can do it while respecting the European can do it while respecting the European Court on Human Rights, the European Court on Human Rights, the European Court of Justice, the Refugee Court of Justice, the Refugee Convention, the Convention on Child Convention, the Convention on Child Rights, the Convention against torture, Rights, the Convention against torture, all these things. all these things. The next stage to that would then be The next stage to that would then be Europe making a deal with for example Europe making a deal with for example Kenya or Sagal or another EU Turkey deal Kenya or Sagal or another EU Turkey deal to do the same thing in the to do the same thing in the Mediterranean because what they will Mediterranean because what they will have established is exactly what the far have established is exactly what the far right keep claiming from Farage to Trump right keep claiming from Farage to Trump to the AFD which is we've got to ignore to the AFD which is we've got to ignore all international law. We've got to rip all international law. We've got to rip up the European Convention on Human up the European Convention on Human Rights because the only way to deal with Rights because the only way to deal with this issue is to break the law. break this issue is to break the law. break all international conventions and take all international conventions and take the world back to where it was before the world back to where it was before the end of the Second World War. So the end of the Second World War. So Britain and France got this get this Britain and France got this get this right and then Europe's got to get this right and then Europe's got to get this right because it's in Europe's right because it's in Europe's existential interest actually to make existential interest actually to make sure Farage doesn't end up leading the sure Farage doesn't end up leading the United Kingdom and that the AFD doesn't United Kingdom and that the AFD doesn't end up leading in Germany. It's on 25% end up leading in Germany. It's on 25% even though the German economy isn't in even though the German economy isn't in the trouble it might be in in two or the trouble it might be in in two or three years time. So yeah, I I think the three years time. So yeah, I I think the stakes couldn't be higher, but because stakes couldn't be higher, but because of that, we need to hear the courage. of that, we need to hear the courage. And final point to you, I still don't And final point to you, I still don't quite get why Stalmer is not calling out quite get why Stalmer is not calling out for Ashmore. There should be huge for Ashmore. There should be huge possibilities in saying, possibilities in saying, "No, you're lying about your crime "No, you're lying about your crime statistics." I mean you see people oddly statistics." I mean you see people oddly people like Fraser Nelson the exed people like Fraser Nelson the exed editor of the spectator very much on the editor of the spectator very much on the right seems to be more consistent in right seems to be more consistent in making the arguments for multi-thnic making the arguments for multi-thnic Britain making the arguments around Britain making the arguments around crime than some of the Labour leadership crime than some of the Labour leadership is. I mean what given it's a progressive is. I mean what given it's a progressive government why are they not why are they government why are they not finding this huge opportunity to not finding this huge opportunity to stand up for the values that most Labor stand up for the values that most Labor voters deeply care about? Well, is what voters deeply care about? Well, is what about this? I said ages ago, even before about this? I said ages ago, even before they got elected, the Labour should have they got elected, the Labour should have a team of people, including MPs, who a team of people, including MPs, who basically get on with their day jobs, basically get on with their day jobs, their MPs, they're doing their their MPs, they're doing their constituency stuff, etc., but give them constituency stuff, etc., but give them the job of taking down Farage and taking the job of taking down Farage and taking down reform. And you see bits of it. down reform. And you see bits of it. There's a guy Mike Tap in do I think There's a guy Mike Tap in do I think does quite good stuff on on social media does quite good stuff on on social media but you know with all due respect to him but you know with all due respect to him I how many of our listeners would would I how many of our listeners would would have seen that been aware of it don't have seen that been aware of it don't know K then made that big speech really know K then made that big speech really going for reform going for reform um but that was a one-off I didn't see um but that was a one-off I didn't see the sort of campaigning coming through the sort of campaigning coming through on the back of it that said right we say on the back of it that said right we say you're going to be a you're a big threat you're going to be a you're a big threat to the country this is how we deal with to the country this is how we deal with big threats to the country we take them big threats to the country we take them down and I think I still think they're down and I think I still think they're in mode of not quite deciding whether if in mode of not quite deciding whether if they go after him very very hard it they go after him very very hard it somehow plays into his hands. But I somehow plays into his hands. But I think if you you cannot allow somebody think if you you cannot allow somebody like Farage to get away with constant like Farage to get away with constant misinformation misinformation misinformation with constant polarization with with constant polarization with constantly getting you know this line constantly getting you know this line that all of these people are decent that all of these people are decent people. Some of them are decent people. people. Some of them are decent people with a Some of them are decent people with a genuine concern that you have to genuine concern that you have to address. You've made that point. they address. You've made that point. they have to sort the issue, but where it is have to sort the issue, but where it is being whipped up by the Tommy Robinsons being whipped up by the Tommy Robinsons and and and and their ilk and you've got and and and and their ilk and you've got to call it out. And then the other thing to call it out. And then the other thing to to bear in mind, we're going to talk to to bear in mind, we're going to talk about Corbyn in a minute. Jeremy about Corbyn in a minute. Jeremy Corbyn's always been a leader who Corbyn's always been a leader who doesn't really like having people to the doesn't really like having people to the left of him. Okay? And that's why he's left of him. Okay? And that's why he's going to be quite comfortable in this going to be quite comfortable in this position he finds himself in now. Nigel position he finds himself in now. Nigel Farage wants people to the right of him. Farage wants people to the right of him. He wants the Tommy Robinson, Steven, He wants the Tommy Robinson, Steven, Yaxley Lennens. He wants to be able to Yaxley Lennens. He wants to be able to say they're not us. I think Labour say they're not us. I think Labour should be saying I'm sorry you actually should be saying I'm sorry you actually you're part of the same tribe on this you're part of the same tribe on this and call that out a bit more and and you and call that out a bit more and and you know and repeat my point which I'll know and repeat my point which I'll repeat probably in vain till the day I repeat probably in vain till the day I die. Um that the other way that far has die. Um that the other way that far has got to be hit hard. The one thing you've got to be hit hard. The one thing you've done with your life and your career you done with your life and your career you gave us Brexit and look where it's got gave us Brexit and look where it's got us. So are we really going to give you us. So are we really going to give you over the whole country? Well, and I over the whole country? Well, and I think that I think everything you say I think that I think everything you say I mean Labour and peace I talked to and mean Labour and peace I talked to and adittly they may be more on the center adittly they may be more on the center left of the party it would be complete left of the party it would be complete music to their ears. They're horrified music to their ears. They're horrified because what they see is that because what they see is that everything from the statements on everything from the statements on immigration to the Palestine action immigration to the Palestine action stuff all feels to them as though Labor stuff all feels to them as though Labor is chasing is chasing is chasing Farage votes rather than standing up for Farage votes rather than standing up for the values that most Labor MPs the values that most Labor MPs profoundly believe in. And one of them profoundly believe in. And one of them obviously would be consistently talking obviously would be consistently talking in defense of minorities. And that in defense of minorities. And that that's also I think why they were quite that's also I think why they were quite worried by some of the positions the worried by some of the positions the government took on on trans issues too. government took on on trans issues too. Because as one of them was saying to me Because as one of them was saying to me last night, last night, last night, there is a very very strong belief there is a very very strong belief rightly or wrongly in the Labor Party rightly or wrongly in the Labor Party that if you start attacking one group of that if you start attacking one group of minorities, it doesn't stop. You should minorities, it doesn't stop. You should stand up for minority rights full stop. stand up for minority rights full stop. Um, here's a question for you from Tom Um, here's a question for you from Tom Yardley, Trip Plus member from London. Yardley, Trip Plus member from London. In the scenario where Labour became as In the scenario where Labour became as unpopular as the Tories were prior to unpopular as the Tories were prior to the last election, it's coming down to the last election, it's coming down to Corbyn versus Farage, who would you vote Corbyn versus Farage, who would you vote for? There we are, Alistister. Go on. for? There we are, Alistister. Go on. We're putting you on the spot here. We're putting you on the spot here. &gt;&gt; No, Rory. Tommy Yardley did not pose &gt;&gt; No, Rory. Tommy Yardley did not pose that question to me. He he posed to both that question to me. He he posed to both of us. So Rory, who would you No, I of us. So Rory, who would you No, I would I I would um look, I I I have I would I I would um look, I I I have I I've despite being expelled by him, I I've despite being expelled by him, I did at one point vote for Jeremy Corbin did at one point vote for Jeremy Corbin to be prime minister. I voted Labour. to be prime minister. I voted Labour. &gt;&gt; Not a complicated question for you. No, &gt;&gt; Not a complicated question for you. No, &gt;&gt; but I you know what I would I don't &gt;&gt; but I you know what I would I don't think that is going to happen. I don't think that is going to happen. I don't think that is going to be the choice. think that is going to be the choice. But I do think this is what's so But I do think this is what's so interesting about what's going on is interesting about what's going on is that we are on the cusp certainly and that we are on the cusp certainly and maybe we're already in it of becoming a maybe we're already in it of becoming a kind of European style multi-party kind of European style multi-party democracy democracy democracy in in a first pass the post system. So in in a first pass the post system. So it's not impossible that somebody could it's not impossible that somebody could end up becoming prime minister and end up becoming prime minister and including with a majority in some including with a majority in some scenarios by getting a quarter of a very scenarios by getting a quarter of a very low turnout. low turnout. low turnout. So I've answered the question very So I've answered the question very directly. Mr. Stewart, who would you directly. Mr. Stewart, who would you vote for, vote for, vote for, &gt;&gt; Corbyn or Farage? I &gt;&gt; Corbyn or Farage? I &gt;&gt; It's a pretty horrible choice, isn't it? &gt;&gt; It's a pretty horrible choice, isn't it? But probably narrowly I'd go with But probably narrowly I'd go with Corbyn. Corbyn. Corbyn. &gt;&gt; And not just because of his beautiful &gt;&gt; And not just because of his beautiful ears. Now Alistister on on this ju just ears. Now Alistister on on this ju just just just remind us for a moment because just just remind us for a moment because this European story is very interesting this European story is very interesting isn't it? As you've reminded us on isn't it? As you've reminded us on France but I'm not sure everybody's France but I'm not sure everybody's fully taken this on board. Basically the fully taken this on board. Basically the French equivalent of conservatives and French equivalent of conservatives and labor kind of almost disappeared labor kind of almost disappeared &gt;&gt; and were replaced by a center a far &gt;&gt; and were replaced by a center a far right and a far left. And that's right and a far left. And that's happened in other European countries happened in other European countries too. Go just quick reminder on that too. Go just quick reminder on that because I do think it's relevant to your because I do think it's relevant to your point about European democracies. Take point about European democracies. Take Germany, the biggest country in in the Germany, the biggest country in in the European Union. So they've currently got European Union. So they've currently got another grand coalition. So the two main another grand coalition. So the two main parties parties parties uh have now come together to form a uh have now come together to form a government, right? But nobody should government, right? But nobody should read from that that that's basically the read from that that that's basically the public saying, you know, we really public saying, you know, we really support the two parties. This has support the two parties. This has happened because they're the only two happened because they're the only two that could come together and form a that could come together and form a majority. We've talked a lot about majority. We've talked a lot about Holland where the builders is a very Holland where the builders is a very very very very powerful force and he's very very very powerful force and he's the kind of you know the far of the the kind of you know the far of the Netherlands. Even in the kind of Netherlands. Even in the kind of Scandinavian democracies we've seen Scandinavian democracies we've seen we've seen coalitions forming between we've seen coalitions forming between parties that you wouldn't necessarily parties that you wouldn't necessarily expect to work together. So I think that expect to work together. So I think that that is a sort of European trend. And that is a sort of European trend. And the other one of the other things I read the other one of the other things I read this week was actually about the the the this week was actually about the the the numbers of parties, you know, when you numbers of parties, you know, when you put them into the different families, put them into the different families, the the numbers of parties on the far the the numbers of parties on the far right is still growing. I mean, it'd be right is still growing. I mean, it'd be very very interesting to see what goes very very interesting to see what goes on with Corbyn because of course I think on with Corbyn because of course I think Labour's response on this has to be very Labour's response on this has to be very careful and quite clever because I think careful and quite clever because I think part of them think well you know and part of them think well you know and their initial line was well the guy has their initial line was well the guy has been rejected twice. Well, okay. But he been rejected twice. Well, okay. But he got almost 40% of the vote and Labour got almost 40% of the vote and Labour and Tory between them in the polls right and Tory between them in the polls right now now now are around about that, if not slightly are around about that, if not slightly below it. The other thing I think Labour below it. The other thing I think Labour should be careful of is is to understand should be careful of is is to understand that Corbyn is going to become in terms that Corbyn is going to become in terms of when he gets this party up and of when he gets this party up and running, if he does get up and running, running, if he does get up and running, you can have Farage to the right, Corbyn you can have Farage to the right, Corbyn to the left, Corbyn in previous to the left, Corbyn in previous elections, the media has been trying to elections, the media has been trying to kill him because he might have become kill him because he might have become prime minister. Okay, this time the prime minister. Okay, this time the media will be using him like they're media will be using him like they're using Farage now to try to undermine the using Farage now to try to undermine the Labor government. That's a very Labor government. That's a very different dynamic. different dynamic. different dynamic. &gt;&gt; Couple quick things. I mean first the &gt;&gt; Couple quick things. I mean first the there's an interesting parallel as there's an interesting parallel as you've just pointed out with Germany and you've just pointed out with Germany and this not not the Vagam Connect party on this not not the Vagam Connect party on the far left but Delinka which has just the far left but Delinka which has just brought in a charismatic young leader brought in a charismatic young leader maybe there equivalent to Zara Sultana maybe there equivalent to Zara Sultana and is now up I think well up above 10% and is now up I think well up above 10% in the polls. A second thing, what an in the polls. A second thing, what an very strange party this new Jeremy very strange party this new Jeremy Corbyn party is. Jeremy Corbyn of course Corbyn party is. Jeremy Corbyn of course collects around him a very very uh collects around him a very very uh diverse group of people including diverse group of people including these people like Andrew Murray who grew these people like Andrew Murray who grew up I think I'm right in saying in sort up I think I'm right in saying in sort of protocommunist Troskyite bits of the of protocommunist Troskyite bits of the Labour Party and when they're Labour Party and when they're interviewed by people like the New interviewed by people like the New Statesmen it's absolutely extraordinary. Statesmen it's absolutely extraordinary. I mean they talk in this incredibly I mean they talk in this incredibly complicated jargon complicated jargon complicated jargon &gt;&gt; about their parties procedures and their &gt;&gt; about their parties procedures and their mechanisms. Um so one of them says uh we mechanisms. Um so one of them says uh we we have to aim to support extant popular we have to aim to support extant popular institutions organized labor institutions organized labor cooperatives anti-war groups and build cooperatives anti-war groups and build new ones billpayers unions boycott new ones billpayers unions boycott campaigns to lay the foundations for an campaigns to lay the foundations for an effective socialist electoral challenge. effective socialist electoral challenge. And then Murray replies, "An umbrella And then Murray replies, "An umbrella alliance would fail to articulate a alliance would fail to articulate a coherent oppositional politics while a coherent oppositional politics while a centralized party could struggle to centralized party could struggle to incorporate independent forces. A party incorporate independent forces. A party with an affiliation model might be one with an affiliation model might be one way of squaring the circle. But whereas way of squaring the circle. But whereas Schneider envisions a largely extra Schneider envisions a largely extra parliamentary organization, Murray hopes parliamentary organization, Murray hopes to have anyway goes on and on and on in to have anyway goes on and on and on in this kind of way. A credible this kind of way. A credible parliamentary block that could use its parliamentary block that could use its national profile to mount a genuine national profile to mount a genuine systemic challenge. Its main goal should systemic challenge. Its main goal should not be to create such forms of not be to create such forms of associational life. Rather than using associational life. Rather than using the party to reconstitute the working the party to reconstitute the working class, the party could create the space class, the party could create the space for the working class to reconstitute for the working class to reconstitute itself. Ah well itself. Ah well &gt;&gt; when you were coming into labor politics &gt;&gt; when you were coming into labor politics were you somewhere on the fringes of were you somewhere on the fringes of your world people talking in this highly your world people talking in this highly kind of theoretical I mean it's almost kind of theoretical I mean it's almost he sounds like a sort of he sounds like he sounds like a sort of he sounds like a a a German philosopher at times right a a a German philosopher at times right &gt;&gt; my newspaper the new world one of my &gt;&gt; my newspaper the new world one of my fellow columnists Paul Mason who flirted fellow columnists Paul Mason who flirted with corbinism for a while um but he's with corbinism for a while um but he's become like a lot of people who dip become like a lot of people who dip their toes into this sort of politics their toes into this sort of politics he's come out absolutely horrified and he's come out absolutely horrified and he's written a very good column this he's written a very good column this week analyzing the educ education of week analyzing the educ education of people like Andrew Murray, James people like Andrew Murray, James Schneider, who you mentioned, Sheamus Schneider, who you mentioned, Sheamus Mil, uh, Corbyn's right-hand man. Mil, uh, Corbyn's right-hand man. Sheamus Mil went to Winchester. Sheamus Mil went to Winchester. Schneider went to Winchester and Schneider went to Winchester and according to Paul Mason, the school that according to Paul Mason, the school that Andrew Murray went to, the current Andrew Murray went to, the current annual fees are £45,000. annual fees are £45,000. So, and this is if you go back to the So, and this is if you go back to the 30s, Paul's very interesting on this as 30s, Paul's very interesting on this as well. You go back to the Communist Party well. You go back to the Communist Party of Great Britain, which is kind of back of Great Britain, which is kind of back in the 30s where these guys would in the 30s where these guys would probably be, it was full of public probably be, it was full of public school educated school educated school educated uh kind of, you know, intellectuals who uh kind of, you know, intellectuals who were telling the working class what was were telling the working class what was good for them. And of course, these good for them. And of course, these people wouldn't really understand the people wouldn't really understand the lives of the working class much at all. lives of the working class much at all. And and the other thing you got to say And and the other thing you got to say about Jeremy Corbyn when he was leader about Jeremy Corbyn when he was leader of the Labour party, he he was kind of of the Labour party, he he was kind of doing his own thing, but he was a he was doing his own thing, but he was a lot more constrained than he will be a lot more constrained than he will be with this. And my point about not with this. And my point about not wanting anything to the left of him wanting anything to the left of him means that this thing is going to be means that this thing is going to be wide open to all sorts of kind of people wide open to all sorts of kind of people that ultimately I mean, God, he got in that ultimately I mean, God, he got in enough trouble with getting selfies with enough trouble with getting selfies with dodgy people, but this time it's going dodgy people, but this time it's going to be, but we'll have to see. I think to be, but we'll have to see. I think the other thing that most listeners uh the other thing that most listeners uh in Britain will be aware of but maybe in Britain will be aware of but maybe international listeners won't be aware international listeners won't be aware of is is a large core of his MPs seem to of is is a large core of his MPs seem to come from this independent group which come from this independent group which were were were predominantly Muslim um candidates who predominantly Muslim um candidates who ran against Labour candidates in in ran against Labour candidates in in often Muslim dominated constituencies. often Muslim dominated constituencies. This is an alliance which will have This is an alliance which will have highly progressive people who are very highly progressive people who are very much in favor of of transgender issues. much in favor of of transgender issues. you know, might get Clive Lewis you know, might get Clive Lewis sympathetic towards them, Labour MP, or sympathetic towards them, Labour MP, or but on the other hand, it's going to but on the other hand, it's going to have Muslims who's maybe much more have Muslims who's maybe much more conservative in their social values. conservative in their social values. &gt;&gt; I got sent this from somebody I don't &gt;&gt; I got sent this from somebody I don't know um who've emailed me on my website know um who've emailed me on my website and it's a voice note from a young man and it's a voice note from a young man called Jacob Stokes and I've checked out called Jacob Stokes and I've checked out with him. He's happy for us to to use with him. He's happy for us to to use this. I'd be really interested your this. I'd be really interested your reaction. I've edited it down a little reaction. I've edited it down a little bit, but he's a young guy, early 20s bit, but he's a young guy, early 20s from the north of England, currently from the north of England, currently studying in the south of England. But studying in the south of England. But just just have a listen to this because just just have a listen to this because I think this speaks to what we've been I think this speaks to what we've been talking about in this episode so far talking about in this episode so far about immigration, about Farage, and how about immigration, about Farage, and how he exploits it and and also about Corbyn he exploits it and and also about Corbyn and Labour. I think I record this and Labour. I think I record this because I'm disillusioned, disenchanted, because I'm disillusioned, disenchanted, and probably distraught by the way that and probably distraught by the way that the UK seems to want to do politics the UK seems to want to do politics either on the far right with Farage and either on the far right with Farage and the weaponization of immigration, the the weaponization of immigration, the lack of care for detail, the lack of lack of care for detail, the lack of care for complexity, typical populism, care for complexity, typical populism, and the proposition that will leave the and the proposition that will leave the ECR and become on brothers in arms with ECR and become on brothers in arms with Russia and Bellarus as the only free Russia and Bellarus as the only free nations to opt out of the ECR. And then nations to opt out of the ECR. And then on the far left, we've got Corbin on the far left, we've got Corbin promising to reationalize everything promising to reationalize everything that ever existed and to bring about that ever existed and to bring about world peace and bring about human rights world peace and bring about human rights across the world. For me, as a person across the world. For me, as a person who genuinely believes in the center who genuinely believes in the center ground, I don't relate to either of ground, I don't relate to either of those parties. I don't relate to either those parties. I don't relate to either of those people. and either of those of those people. and either of those people's history. What I do relate to is people's history. What I do relate to is rational debate, a rejection of populism rational debate, a rejection of populism and a true belief in the center. But and a true belief in the center. But come three years time when the UK goes come three years time when the UK goes to the ballot box, who the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] do I to the ballot box, who the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] do I vote for? I can't vote for Labor. vote for? I can't vote for Labor. Massive failure. Failure in Massive failure. Failure in communication. A pandering to the far communication. A pandering to the far right. A government that seemingly right. A government that seemingly changes with the wind. A reactionary changes with the wind. A reactionary government that cannot communicate what government that cannot communicate what it actually believes in. I can't vote it actually believes in. I can't vote for the Tories. 10 years of failed for the Tories. 10 years of failed leadership, a no deal Brexit, and a leadership, a no deal Brexit, and a tendency to appease the far right in tendency to appease the far right in their own party. Reform, need I say their own party. Reform, need I say anymore? Of course, I won't vote for anymore? Of course, I won't vote for reform. And then you've got Jeremy reform. And then you've got Jeremy Corbyn's new party, which fragments the Corbyn's new party, which fragments the left and makes it more likely for a left and makes it more likely for a reformed government based on the polls. reformed government based on the polls. So, where the hell do I go? Where the So, where the hell do I go? Where the hell do many people that I do genuinely hell do many people that I do genuinely believe we represent, not just me, but believe we represent, not just me, but the fact that Rory and Alistister have the fact that Rory and Alistister have the most popular political podcast in the most popular political podcast in the UK. Where the hell do those voters the UK. Where the hell do those voters go? We cannot wait and let this pass us go? We cannot wait and let this pass us by. And now I'd love to step out on my by. And now I'd love to step out on my door and create a movement, but the door and create a movement, but the reality is I don't have that leverage, reality is I don't have that leverage, but you you two do. you both have that but you you two do. you both have that leverage. Please, I beg you, create a leverage. Please, I beg you, create a party for the center ground and let's party for the center ground and let's fight. fight. fight. &gt;&gt; I mean, it's very very powerful and and &gt;&gt; I mean, it's very very powerful and and he's he's right, isn't he? Um because he's he's right, isn't he? Um because it's everything that this podcast has it's everything that this podcast has been about from the beginning. Um and been about from the beginning. Um and look, none of this is easy. Uh because look, none of this is easy. Uh because setting up a new party is shattering and setting up a new party is shattering and often humiliating and painful. I went often humiliating and painful. I went through a horrible experience trying to through a horrible experience trying to run as an independent in London and I run as an independent in London and I really, you know, I felt that it was really, you know, I felt that it was something that was probably not something that was probably not something you could do in a year. It something you could do in a year. It felt to me more like something I'd have felt to me more like something I'd have to keep chipping away at over 10, 15 to keep chipping away at over 10, 15 years before you'd really get into years before you'd really get into position. Um, but part of it, it's just position. Um, but part of it, it's just a small part, um, is this question of a small part, um, is this question of how does the center ground act boldly? how does the center ground act boldly? You know, we we talked about migration You know, we we talked about migration as an example. I think that's an example as an example. I think that's an example of how we could answer his challenge. of how we could answer his challenge. You know, explain how you can be humane, You know, explain how you can be humane, respect European Court and human rights respect European Court and human rights and deliver and deliver and deliver uh and stop giving the impression that uh and stop giving the impression that the only people who can do things are the only people who can do things are the far right. I think this is the risk. the far right. I think this is the risk. I mean, Trump's created this world which I mean, Trump's created this world which Far is feeding into, which is we're the Far is feeding into, which is we're the only people who get anything done only people who get anything done because we just ignore international because we just ignore international norms. We ignore courts, we can just norms. We ignore courts, we can just crash it through. But yeah, it's the big crash it through. But yeah, it's the big challenge of our isn't it? And um I I challenge of our isn't it? And um I I don't know. I mean, how do you struggle don't know. I mean, how do you struggle with this? You presumably continue to with this? You presumably continue to believe that the Labour Party can be the believe that the Labour Party can be the vehicle to do that. vehicle to do that. &gt;&gt; Well, funny enough, I had I had an &gt;&gt; Well, funny enough, I had I had an exchange with Jacob after he sent the exchange with Jacob after he sent the voice not loads, not least to ask his voice not loads, not least to ask his permission that we could we could use permission that we could we could use it. Um, and I I think I do. Yeah. And it. Um, and I I think I do. Yeah. And but I think that I think the Labour but I think that I think the Labour Party really really needs to listen to Party really really needs to listen to what he's saying. He's 23, I think, and what he's saying. He's 23, I think, and obviously coming from quite a left-wing obviously coming from quite a left-wing family, a leftwing background, but family, a leftwing background, but feeling that what he sees of the Labor feeling that what he sees of the Labor government so far is not inspiring him. government so far is not inspiring him. And it's the old Harold Wilson thing, And it's the old Harold Wilson thing, you know, the Labour Party is a moral you know, the Labour Party is a moral crusade or it's nothing. I sense of him crusade or it's nothing. I sense of him that he will get reinspired. He'll get that he will get reinspired. He'll get re-engaged if he's reinspired. And and re-engaged if he's reinspired. And and what's inspiring at the moment is is a what's inspiring at the moment is is a sort of a mixture of fear and anger. And sort of a mixture of fear and anger. And as he says, he's distraught. and he's as he says, he's distraught. and he's looking to us to think, well, you guys looking to us to think, well, you guys have got a lot of listeners and you have got a lot of listeners and you know, people seem to like your podcast. know, people seem to like your podcast. I've got to be honest, whenever people I've got to be honest, whenever people say to me, as they often do, please get say to me, as they often do, please get back, please get engaged, please do back, please get engaged, please do this, please do that, there's a part of this, please do that, there's a part of me that feels kind of moderately me that feels kind of moderately flattered, but inside I feel a sinking flattered, but inside I feel a sinking because it's the point that you make. because it's the point that you make. It's like, well, how it's bigger than It's like, well, how it's bigger than anything that we're talking about. the anything that we're talking about. the things we're talking about are big but things we're talking about are big but to do that and and I really gen maybe to do that and and I really gen maybe this is the tribalism when Corbyn is this is the tribalism when Corbyn is asked you know Neil Kinnick has this asked you know Neil Kinnick has this line it's going to become you know Nigel line it's going to become you know Nigel Farage assistance group um now up to a Farage assistance group um now up to a point that's obviously clearly right but point that's obviously clearly right but Corbyn will Corbyn's answer to that is Corbyn will Corbyn's answer to that is well I'm the only one out here who's well I'm the only one out here who's constantly attacking the reform agenda constantly attacking the reform agenda that will be his argument that will be his argument &gt;&gt; his argument would also be that um he's &gt;&gt; his argument would also be that um he's partly there because um Zara Sultana was partly there because um Zara Sultana was suspended suspended suspended &gt;&gt; and he and he was expelled &gt;&gt; and he and he was expelled &gt;&gt; and he was expelled and that if and this &gt;&gt; and he was expelled and that if and this was the point Labor MP was making me was the point Labor MP was making me yesterday that when you guys were in you yesterday that when you guys were in you actually tolerated actually tolerated actually tolerated what Corbyn was up to and I suppose what what Corbyn was up to and I suppose what Tony Ben was up to and the rest of them Tony Ben was up to and the rest of them you didn't do this that that in some you didn't do this that that in some ways this is a problem of Star's own ways this is a problem of Star's own making that had he not been suspending making that had he not been suspending and expelling them they wouldn't have and expelling them they wouldn't have found it necessary to make a new party. found it necessary to make a new party. &gt;&gt; Anyway, listen I want to thank Jacob. &gt;&gt; Anyway, listen I want to thank Jacob. He's he's he's given us lots of food for He's he's he's given us lots of food for thought. Um, I'm not going to promise thought. Um, I'm not going to promise that we're going to play voice notes that we're going to play voice notes every week. So, but if people do want to every week. So, but if people do want to communicate it that way, that's fine. I communicate it that way, that's fine. I just found his I found his message, he just found his I found his message, he just arrived out of the blue. I found it just arrived out of the blue. I found it very moving actually. very moving actually. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it it was very moving. And look, &gt;&gt; Yeah, it it was very moving. And look, look, one small thing just for Jacob. I look, one small thing just for Jacob. I am wondering now um increasingly in am wondering now um increasingly in terms of my own personal life whether terms of my own personal life whether the answer isn't for me to re-engage the answer isn't for me to re-engage with politics at a much more local level with politics at a much more local level so much less kind of grand national so much less kind of grand national international um but think about you international um but think about you know I I keep banging on about the know I I keep banging on about the importance of mayers and local democracy importance of mayers and local democracy and citizens assemblies and I'm and citizens assemblies and I'm beginning to wonder whether I shouldn't beginning to wonder whether I shouldn't be trying to make that work at a much be trying to make that work at a much more um local focused more um local focused &gt;&gt; Cumbria &gt;&gt; Cumbria that's right Cumbria &gt;&gt; Cumbria that's right Cumbria &gt;&gt; are you dropping are you dropping a very &gt;&gt; are you dropping a very large end here already. large end here already. &gt;&gt; No, this is just the beginning of a &gt;&gt; No, this is just the beginning of a thought process, Alison. The beginning thought process, Alison. The beginning of a thought process. of a thought process. &gt;&gt; But when when I when I when I put this &gt;&gt; But when when I when I when I put this to you a few weeks ago, you said, "No, to you a few weeks ago, you said, "No, that's not happening." that's not happening." &gt;&gt; No, I I'm be I'm beginning to shift. I'm &gt;&gt; No, I I'm be I'm beginning to shift. I'm beginning to think, but of course, it's beginning to think, but of course, it's it may be all pie in the sky because, it may be all pie in the sky because, you know, how on earth does one run as you know, how on earth does one run as an independent against all these big um an independent against all these big um parties and parties and parties and &gt;&gt; Well, they're not The point Jake is &gt;&gt; Well, they're not The point Jake is making is they're not as big anymore. making is they're not as big anymore. &gt;&gt; That's true. &gt;&gt; That's true. &gt;&gt; They're not They're not the same things. &gt;&gt; They're not They're not the same things. Um, Um, Um, &gt;&gt; now here, Alistister, we're going to &gt;&gt; now here, Alistister, we're going to catch you out with a niche question. catch you out with a niche question. Test your general knowledge. With the Test your general knowledge. With the news that Cameroon President Paul Beer news that Cameroon President Paul Beer is running for another term in his 90s is running for another term in his 90s and will be 100 at the end of this term, and will be 100 at the end of this term, do ANR envisage still podcasting when do ANR envisage still podcasting when they hit three figures? I I guess I'm they hit three figures? I I guess I'm pushing you more to talk about Cameroon pushing you more to talk about Cameroon than about our future podcasting in 50 than about our future podcasting in 50 years time. I I think it's highly years time. I I think it's highly unlikely that I will be alive. Um but unlikely that I will be alive. Um but Cameroon, so you think you can trick me, Cameroon, so you think you can trick me, do you? Well, I I've met Paul Beer. do you? Well, I I've met Paul Beer. &gt;&gt; What? When did you meet Paul Beer? &gt;&gt; What? When did you meet Paul Beer? &gt;&gt; Oh, at one of those big sort of EU &gt;&gt; Oh, at one of those big sort of EU Africa events with uh with TB cuz he has Africa events with uh with TB cuz he has been in power for a long time. Lori. Um been in power for a long time. Lori. Um &gt;&gt; Oh, you mean he you mean you mean he's &gt;&gt; Oh, you mean he you mean you mean he's not one of these guys that first stood not one of these guys that first stood for politics in his 90s? for politics in his 90s? &gt;&gt; No. No. He's not he's not one of these &gt;&gt; No. No. He's not he's not one of these guys that I've consulted or advised guys that I've consulted or advised either. Would I have advised him to put either. Would I have advised him to put his name forward right now? I'm not his name forward right now? I'm not sure. What's happened here in in sure. What's happened here in in Cameroon? There was a guy, I think the Cameroon? There was a guy, I think the main opposition guy, a guy called Camto. main opposition guy, a guy called Camto. He was ruled out. The electoral body He was ruled out. The electoral body decided, "No, I'm sorry, Mr. Morris decided, "No, I'm sorry, Mr. Morris Camto. You can't run." Um, but the Camto. You can't run." Um, but the president, he was cleared to run for his president, he was cleared to run for his eighth term, and it means he's 992. eighth term, and it means he's 992. The election is next year. He'll be 93. The election is next year. He'll be 93. It's a seven-year term, so he would be It's a seven-year term, so he would be 100 if he got to the end of that term. I 100 if he got to the end of that term. I just hope nobody tells Donald Trump. As just hope nobody tells Donald Trump. As Africa minister, um, Cameroon largely Africa minister, um, Cameroon largely featured because there's an Angle, an featured because there's an Angle, an English-sp speakaking part of Cameroon English-sp speakaking part of Cameroon that has a very, very difficult, that has a very, very difficult, fracturous relationship with a fracturous relationship with a French-speaking part of Cameroon and French-speaking part of Cameroon and where there have been huge uh, human where there have been huge uh, human rights abuses and demands for rights abuses and demands for independence. In fact, actually we we independence. In fact, actually we we should next week talk about Trump now should next week talk about Trump now signaling things on Somali land. But I'm signaling things on Somali land. But I'm very struck that his excellency Paul very struck that his excellency Paul Beer became prime minister in 1975. Beer became prime minister in 1975. He's the second longest ruling president He's the second longest ruling president in Africa after the president of in Africa after the president of Equatorial Guinea. Equatorial Guinea. Equatorial Guinea. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And the longest consecutively serving &gt;&gt; And the longest consecutively serving non-royal national leader in the world. non-royal national leader in the world. The oldest head of state in the world. The oldest head of state in the world. And I'm very struck by his remarkably And I'm very struck by his remarkably black hair given his advanced age. What black hair given his advanced age. What does what does Scaramichi call it? Latin does what does Scaramichi call it? Latin dictator. dictator. dictator. Latin dictator Brown. Latin dictator Brown. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, so I I suppose I suppose &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, so I I suppose I suppose maybe we're being a little bit flippant maybe we're being a little bit flippant because presumably it is a very very because presumably it is a very very worrying and sad for Cameroon and its worrying and sad for Cameroon and its development and its future that somebody development and its future that somebody is sitting there since 1982 and is is sitting there since 1982 and is trying to extend themselves into another trying to extend themselves into another term. term. term. &gt;&gt; It's is pretty absurd and uh but there &gt;&gt; It's is pretty absurd and uh but there we are. There are plenty of absurdities we are. There are plenty of absurdities in the world and he that story adds to in the world and he that story adds to them. Okay, next one for you will cave them. Okay, next one for you will cave trip plus member Somerset. Hi Rory and trip plus member Somerset. Hi Rory and Alistister. Can you comment on Alistister. Can you comment on Chancellor Mets's decision to Chancellor Mets's decision to discontinue military aid to Israel? How discontinue military aid to Israel? How will this affect Germany's post-war will this affect Germany's post-war relationship? Will America plug the gap? relationship? Will America plug the gap? Or isn't even Trump beginning to sense Or isn't even Trump beginning to sense that he has something to lose by that he has something to lose by continuing to supply weapons to the continuing to supply weapons to the prior state? prior state? prior state? &gt;&gt; Well, this this is a big deal. He &gt;&gt; Well, this this is a big deal. He hasn't, as it were, suspended all arms hasn't, as it were, suspended all arms to Israel. He's he's done what Britain to Israel. He's he's done what Britain did a while back which is essentially did a while back which is essentially saying we're not sending any arms to saying we're not sending any arms to Israel which might be used in in Gaza Israel which might be used in in Gaza which when Kman did it he got criticized which when Kman did it he got criticized sort of both sides Israel saying this is sort of both sides Israel saying this is sort of rewarding Hamas and people on sort of rewarding Hamas and people on you know the sort of progressive side of you know the sort of progressive side of politics basically saying this doesn't politics basically saying this doesn't go far enough but this is a really go far enough but this is a really really really big deal for for Mets to really really big deal for for Mets to do this and and it's not without do this and and it's not without controversy he's he's actually you know controversy he's he's actually you know he's only about 100 days in and he's he's only about 100 days in and he's starting to come in a lot of internal starting to come in a lot of internal criticism because of this. So the criticism because of this. So the minister president that's like the sort minister president that's like the sort of prime minister as it were of Hessa of prime minister as it were of Hessa one of the lender guy called Boris Ry as one of the lender guy called Boris Ry as in the river he has very very very in the river he has very very very strongly criticized it said that our strongly criticized it said that our support for Israel should be support for Israel should be unconditional that the security of unconditional that the security of Israel is the is the what they call the Israel is the is the what they call the start the resandra of the German federal start the resandra of the German federal republic republic republic &gt;&gt; and and sorry just just to state the &gt;&gt; and and sorry just just to state the blinding obvious bizarre for any country blinding obvious bizarre for any country to say their support for any other state to say their support for any other state was unconditional um except in the case was unconditional um except in the case of Germany because of the Holocaust. of Germany because of the Holocaust. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; And therefore that sense that they have &gt;&gt; And therefore that sense that they have this immense moral obligation towards this immense moral obligation towards Israel. Israel. Israel. &gt;&gt; Germany's position though is &gt;&gt; Germany's position though is &gt;&gt; such a major problem because France &gt;&gt; such a major problem because France Saudi brought together this um plan for Saudi brought together this um plan for Gaza which Canada and the UK joined. But Gaza which Canada and the UK joined. But there's no European Union vision. there's no European Union vision. Basically, the truth of the matter is Basically, the truth of the matter is that there is the Trump Netanyahu that there is the Trump Netanyahu vision, which increasingly looks like vision, which increasingly looks like the annexation of the whole of Gaza and the annexation of the whole of Gaza and pushing the Palestinian population out pushing the Palestinian population out and the end of any two-state solution, and the end of any two-state solution, the creator of creation of greater the creator of creation of greater Israel. And then there's what ought to Israel. And then there's what ought to be an alternative peace plan, but that's be an alternative peace plan, but that's being stymied because Germany won't come being stymied because Germany won't come on board. I mean, that's the big on board. I mean, that's the big obstacle to getting a common European obstacle to getting a common European position, isn't it? Well, I guess I position, isn't it? Well, I guess I guess one of the reasons why those who guess one of the reasons why those who are very very much on the Israel side, are very very much on the Israel side, of course, the Israeli government, but of course, the Israeli government, but also their allies in different parts of also their allies in different parts of politics and and my god, Roy, have you politics and and my god, Roy, have you seen how many American politicians have seen how many American politicians have taken their summer holiday in Israel, taken their summer holiday in Israel, it's quite amazing, the Republicans it's quite amazing, the Republicans um including Johnson, the the speaker, um including Johnson, the the speaker, uh who shut down, uh Congress early, but uh who shut down, uh Congress early, but I I so I think what others are try are I I so I think what others are try are trying to work out is whether this is a trying to work out is whether this is a step by mess step by mess Um but he certainly had a backlash Um but he certainly had a backlash already. And of course the other thing already. And of course the other thing that's happened this week is Australia. that's happened this week is Australia. So you you know you were saying recently So you you know you were saying recently Rory that you he thought it'd been so Rory that you he thought it'd been so much stronger if Britain and France had much stronger if Britain and France had done the Palestine recognition move done the Palestine recognition move together. And I think what Macron would together. And I think what Macron would say is that he wanted to be seen as the say is that he wanted to be seen as the leader of this move. So it's gone leader of this move. So it's gone France, United Kingdom, then Canada and France, United Kingdom, then Canada and now Australia now Australia now Australia uh also come out. So a lot of the the uh also come out. So a lot of the the kind of these kind of key middle kind of these kind of key middle countries as it were and of course in countries as it were and of course in the UK and France's case members of the the UK and France's case members of the United Nations permanent members of the United Nations permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. So they United Nations Security Council. So they go to anger United Nations General go to anger United Nations General Assembly in September and they would Assembly in September and they would argue there'll be momentum behind this. argue there'll be momentum behind this. And I think what some in Germany are And I think what some in Germany are thinking I have my doubts I've got to be thinking I have my doubts I've got to be honest is is Mertz kind of eventually honest is is Mertz kind of eventually moving that direction. And I don't think moving that direction. And I don't think we're going to see that. But this is a we're going to see that. But this is a big big deal what Mertz has done and big big deal what Mertz has done and he's already facing a backlash. he's already facing a backlash. &gt;&gt; Yeah. But just imagine a different world &gt;&gt; Yeah. But just imagine a different world for a second just before we go into the for a second just before we go into the last question which is where actually a last question which is where actually a very detailed consistent plan was worked very detailed consistent plan was worked out behind between all these major out behind between all these major countries and released together because countries and released together because the problem with what Macron's doing is the problem with what Macron's doing is it sounds great on the surface but what it sounds great on the surface but what he's actually created a situation where he's actually created a situation where every single one of these countries has every single one of these countries has set different conditions for set different conditions for recognition. recognition. recognition. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Different nuances in what they're doing. &gt;&gt; Different nuances in what they're doing. But it doesn't actually end up being a But it doesn't actually end up being a block. It's a divided, disunited series block. It's a divided, disunited series of people grandstanding, all of them of people grandstanding, all of them using the opportunity to play to their using the opportunity to play to their own domestic audiences. But what it own domestic audiences. But what it isn't is where the West needs to be in isn't is where the West needs to be in the absence of America, which is the absence of America, which is confident people really getting that confident people really getting that balance between the big picture and the balance between the big picture and the detail and doing it together. It's the detail and doing it together. It's the only hope that Canada, Australia, UK, only hope that Canada, Australia, UK, Europe, and I'd hope Japan, South Korea, Europe, and I'd hope Japan, South Korea, and others can really have of shaping and others can really have of shaping the world in the future is if they stop the world in the future is if they stop this business of endless sort of sort of this business of endless sort of sort of individual statements, little bilateral individual statements, little bilateral statements, but actually start to statements, but actually start to rebuild an idea of what their vision is rebuild an idea of what their vision is for Palestine, or their vision is for for Palestine, or their vision is for tariffs, what their vision is for tariffs, what their vision is for nuclear weapons, what their vision is nuclear weapons, what their vision is for AI. Right. Okay. Last question from for AI. Right. Okay. Last question from me. Bertie trip plus member Manchester me. Bertie trip plus member Manchester as a young person he's 13 where do you as a young person he's 13 where do you think the line should be if there is one think the line should be if there is one for how aware children should be in for how aware children should be in geopolitical affairs on subjects such as geopolitical affairs on subjects such as Israel Palestine etc and reminder Israel Palestine etc and reminder quickly that uh question time is being quickly that uh question time is being released for non-members on A levels released for non-members on A levels results day for school students in results day for school students in England Wales and Northern Ireland England Wales and Northern Ireland &gt;&gt; now what's your view on how deep one &gt;&gt; now what's your view on how deep one goes into I mean I'm struggling with goes into I mean I'm struggling with this with Sasha and I cuz they're always this with Sasha and I cuz they're always either hearing fragments of podcasts and either hearing fragments of podcasts and they're hearing Shashana and me debating they're hearing Shashana and me debating Israel Gazer and the 8-year-old keeps Israel Gazer and the 8-year-old keeps popping in and saying, "Who are the good popping in and saying, "Who are the good guys? Who are the bad guys?" And they've guys? Who are the bad guys?" And they've developed increasingly extreme views on developed increasingly extreme views on Donald Trump which they share with Donald Trump which they share with everybody they meet on an American bus. everybody they meet on an American bus. &gt;&gt; Well, they're big fans, are they? &gt;&gt; Well, they're big fans, are they? &gt;&gt; No, unfortunately for their relationship &gt;&gt; No, unfortunately for their relationship with people in the south of the United with people in the south of the United States of America, they they seem to States of America, they they seem to believe that Donald Trump is is about as believe that Donald Trump is is about as evil as they get. evil as they get. &gt;&gt; Oh, well, good for them. Good for them. &gt;&gt; Oh, well, good for them. Good for them. Um well look at Bertie the first thing Um well look at Bertie the first thing is as a young person as you know Rory I is as a young person as you know Rory I I think politics and citizenship and I think politics and citizenship and engagement should be taught in primary engagement should be taught in primary schools and I've written a book to that schools and I've written a book to that effect available in all good bookshops effect available in all good bookshops and I've written one for people of your and I've written one for people of your age as well Bertie Alistister Campbell age as well Bertie Alistister Campbell talks politics and and one of the talks politics and and one of the reasons why I think Jeremy Corbyn uh to reasons why I think Jeremy Corbyn uh to go back to that subject he's this is go back to that subject he's this is another threat to Labour when you look another threat to Labour when you look at the polling he's very popular with 16 at the polling he's very popular with 16 and 17 year old demographic, a certain and 17 year old demographic, a certain section of it. So the fact is it's I section of it. So the fact is it's I think it's in all of our interests for think it's in all of our interests for young people to feel that they should be young people to feel that they should be engaged in politics. I'm horrified engaged in politics. I'm horrified sometimes about how little you I met sometimes about how little you I met somebody the other day, young British somebody the other day, young British kid, knew nothing about the history of kid, knew nothing about the history of Northern Ireland. Nothing. Didn't even Northern Ireland. Nothing. Didn't even know there'd been a peace agreement and know there'd been a peace agreement and I thought, God, you know, we put in all I thought, God, you know, we put in all that bloody work and you don't even know that bloody work and you don't even know what we did. So I think that sort of what we did. So I think that sort of stuff we should be teaching our kids stuff we should be teaching our kids pretty young. pretty young. pretty young. &gt;&gt; I agree. I And I think there's also &gt;&gt; I agree. I And I think there's also obviously one of the things obviously one of the things traditionally that that new voters can traditionally that that new voters can bring is the very basic questions to our bring is the very basic questions to our complacency. So to maybe sort of wrap complacency. So to maybe sort of wrap together some of the themes the last together some of the themes the last couple of episodes, I think people like couple of episodes, I think people like Bertie are the people who should be Bertie are the people who should be asking us why we are taking for granted asking us why we are taking for granted that Putin's not going to invade the that Putin's not going to invade the Baltic or that America is going to Baltic or that America is going to provide a security guarantee or that the provide a security guarantee or that the AFD is not going to win in Germany. I I AFD is not going to win in Germany. I I think that our politics has become very think that our politics has become very complacent and I think young voters complacent and I think young voters asking I mean I feel this with um you asking I mean I feel this with um you know when I'm debating with Sasha about know when I'm debating with Sasha about this stuff that of course he asks very this stuff that of course he asks very sensible questions you know why on earth sensible questions you know why on earth we doing this why are we still dealing we doing this why are we still dealing with this country why are we recognizing with this country why are we recognizing them why are we allowing them to do this them why are we allowing them to do this why are we not you know if you say why are we not you know if you say plastics is such a problem why aren't plastics is such a problem why aren't you doing anything about it if you say you doing anything about it if you say that that that &gt;&gt; AI um has great benefits but also huge &gt;&gt; AI um has great benefits but also huge risks and of of course I don't have good risks and of of course I don't have good answers to those questions because of answers to those questions because of course one operates in this sort of cozy course one operates in this sort of cozy little world of talking to people who little world of talking to people who are in the system. Um and and and that are in the system. Um and and and that of course is the appeal of the far left. of course is the appeal of the far left. It's the appeal of the far right but It's the appeal of the far right but it's where I think young people have got it's where I think young people have got a point. a point. a point. &gt;&gt; And also I I think the other big big &gt;&gt; And also I I think the other big big factor in this is the is the media's factor in this is the is the media's role. I mean I I I'm I'm getting role. I mean I I I'm I'm getting increasingly horrified by the way that increasingly horrified by the way that the the mainstream media covers Trump. the the mainstream media covers Trump. And I understand it. they want access. And I understand it. they want access. But when you see these little he he very But when you see these little he he very rarely gets properly challenged. rarely gets properly challenged. Uh and the reason maybe because these Uh and the reason maybe because these journalists think well if I really go journalists think well if I really go for him and really push back and really for him and really push back and really try to get under his skin and really try try to get under his skin and really try to probe him on some of the sort of to probe him on some of the sort of corruption and some of the lying and corruption and some of the lying and some of the double dealing and the rest some of the double dealing and the rest of it, they just stop getting any access of it, they just stop getting any access whatsoever. Um and that's part of how whatsoever. Um and that's part of how autocrats and authoritarians operate. autocrats and authoritarians operate. But surely the role of media in that But surely the role of media in that space is not to pander and play along. space is not to pander and play along. It's to challenge it. So I would say to It's to challenge it. So I would say to Bertie, be engaged, be interested, be Bertie, be engaged, be interested, be involved. And actually, I think one of involved. And actually, I think one of the most important things people can the most important things people can think at the moment about is actually think at the moment about is actually trying to do what they can do to improve trying to do what they can do to improve journalism as well because I think journalism as well because I think journal the decline of good journalism journal the decline of good journalism is a big big big part of of the mess is a big big big part of of the mess that we're in. that we're in. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. But there's still a lot of &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. But there's still a lot of good stuff out there. um is we've just good stuff out there. um is we've just got to work out how we defend it and got to work out how we defend it and support it. I mean I it's that there's support it. I mean I it's that there's some amazing some amazing some amazing reporting. But you're right, it's it's reporting. But you're right, it's it's it's under so much pressure, isn't it? I it's under so much pressure, isn't it? I mean, I I keep my my final depressing mean, I I keep my my final depressing thought is there are exceptions. I mean thought is there are exceptions. I mean I think the economist as the editor uh I think the economist as the editor uh has been emphasizing to me is still very has been emphasizing to me is still very well funded still has a good set of well funded still has a good set of foreign correspondents are still doing foreign correspondents are still doing well but so many other bits of the media well but so many other bits of the media landscape their revenues are falling landscape their revenues are falling they're losing their foreign they're losing their foreign correspondents they're losing their correspondents they're losing their strings I mean all these countries where strings I mean all these countries where I used to operate where there were I used to operate where there were always three or four really good foreign always three or four really good foreign correspondents who were asking serious correspondents who were asking serious questions getting into detail they questions getting into detail they they've all gone they've all gone and um and there's less and less space and um and there's less and less space for this. I think I was joking to you for this. I think I was joking to you that friend of mine who was an Africa that friend of mine who was an Africa correspondent for one of the big British correspondent for one of the big British newspapers because they're doing it all newspapers because they're doing it all on page impressions. So his editor on page impressions. So his editor basically only promotes things that get basically only promotes things that get a lot of likes and retweets. He a lot of likes and retweets. He basically couldn't get them to print any basically couldn't get them to print any of his stuff about uh droughts in Kenya. of his stuff about uh droughts in Kenya. They just wanted to know about some new They just wanted to know about some new early homminid protoander tools that early homminid protoander tools that have been found in the Rift Valley have been found in the Rift Valley because that would get, you know, 2 because that would get, you know, 2 million retweets because people are more million retweets because people are more interested in early homminids than they interested in early homminids than they are in drought. are in drought. &gt;&gt; God, I know it's pretty terrible. The &gt;&gt; God, I know it's pretty terrible. The one one one sort of sliver of um nostalgic good sort of sliver of um nostalgic good news. I've had I decided this week, Roy, news. I've had I decided this week, Roy, I wasn't going to do anything apart from I wasn't going to do anything apart from the podcast. I've been sort of vaguely the podcast. I've been sort of vaguely trying to not work all the time. So, trying to not work all the time. So, I've not been doing any other stuff, but I've not been doing any other stuff, but I had a a whole wave of bids asking for I had a a whole wave of bids asking for me to talk about on the radio and the me to talk about on the radio and the television and newspapers about this television and newspapers about this apparently this new wave, this trend on apparently this new wave, this trend on Tik Tok of romanticized videos about the Tik Tok of romanticized videos about the new labor era and and some what new labor era and and some what somebody's called Charlie who one one of somebody's called Charlie who one one of these accounts says she's engrossed by these accounts says she's engrossed by the Blair Brown Mandlesson Campbell the Blair Brown Mandlesson Campbell psycho drama. But I looked at a few of psycho drama. But I looked at a few of them. They were actually very they were them. They were actually very they were very sort of affectionate. I thought very sort of affectionate. I thought um so I think people are looking back um so I think people are looking back and think maybe that wasn't such a bad and think maybe that wasn't such a bad government after all. government after all. &gt;&gt; That's that's social media for you. It's &gt;&gt; That's that's social media for you. It's amazing what kind of remakes they can amazing what kind of remakes they can do. Going to make Robert Generick into do. Going to make Robert Generick into the leader of the Conservative Party. the leader of the Conservative Party. &gt;&gt; Well, yeah. All right, Roy. Lovely to &gt;&gt; Well, yeah. All right, Roy. Lovely to talk to you. Bye-bye. Thanks again. talk to you. Bye-bye. Thanks again. &gt;&gt; See you soon.