================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 6V6IuQCk_6s
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6V6IuQCk_6s
TITLE: Why We Still Don’t Know the Whole Epstein Story
CHANNEL: The Rest Is Politics
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-31
DURATION: 34m 9s
VIEWS: 190,603
LIKES: 3,320
COMMENTS: 562

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Watch AD FREE here: https://youtu.be/RpJL3EmKTgU

What does Epstein’s circle reveal about power, secrets and how justice really works? Can Zelensky survive a war abroad while fighting enemies at home?  And, is addiction a personal failure or a rigged system designed to keep us hooked?

This week, Alastair is joined by Katty Kay, host of The Rest is Politics US, to discuss all of this and more.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rest Is Politics is powered by Fuse Energy. Fuse are giving away FREE TRIP+ membership for all of 2025 to new sign-ups  TRIP+ gets you ad-free listening, discounts, and early access to episodes and pre-sale tickets for live shows! To sign up and for terms and conditions, visit https://www.fuseenergy.com/politics ⚡
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Podcast episode: 433
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
✅ Subscribe H
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 12,967

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
The rest is politics is powered by Fuse The rest is politics is powered by Fuse Energy and Fuse are now offering 20 Energy and Fuse are now offering 20 credit and free trip plus membership if credit and free trip plus membership if you switch to a fixed tariff before the you switch to a fixed tariff before the end of August. end of August. &gt;&gt; They've listened carefully to their &gt;&gt; They've listened carefully to their customers and the number one request was customers and the number one request was gas tariffs. So now at last you can gas tariffs. So now at last you can switch both your gas and electricity to switch both your gas and electricity to fuse. One supplier, one bill, one less fuse. One supplier, one bill, one less quagmire to navigate. quagmire to navigate. &gt;&gt; It's also cheaper. Fuse, gas, and &gt;&gt; It's also cheaper. Fuse, gas, and electricity customers typically save electricity customers typically save £150 versus the price cap. £150 versus the price cap. &gt;&gt; Today's political climate is full of &gt;&gt; Today's political climate is full of talk about control and clarity. Well, talk about control and clarity. Well, Fuse have quietly exercised some, at Fuse have quietly exercised some, at least when it comes to your energy bill. least when it comes to your energy bill. &gt;&gt; And they began with a mission, which was &gt;&gt; And they began with a mission, which was to make electricity cheaper, cleaner, to make electricity cheaper, cleaner, simpler. And Fuse now supplies over simpler. And Fuse now supplies over 50,000 homes across the UK. All done 50,000 homes across the UK. All done quietly, efficiently, and without a quietly, efficiently, and without a single campaign bus tour. Fuse's support single campaign bus tour. Fuse's support is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with real people replying in under week with real people replying in under two minutes. two minutes. two minutes. &gt;&gt; So go to fuseen energy.com/politics &gt;&gt; So go to fuseen energy.com/politics to switch your gas and electricity to to switch your gas and electricity to Fuse and get your 20 credit and free Fuse and get your 20 credit and free Trip Plus membership. Trip Plus membership. Welcome to the rest of politics question Welcome to the rest of politics question time with me Alistister Campbell time with me Alistister Campbell &gt;&gt; and me Katy K &gt;&gt; and me Katy K &gt;&gt; and Katy. Thank you for being here. As I &gt;&gt; and Katy. Thank you for being here. As I said on the main episode yesterday, Roy said on the main episode yesterday, Roy Stewart is absent without leave or on Stewart is absent without leave or on leave without permission. Just leave without permission. Just disappeared, vanished to the other end disappeared, vanished to the other end of the earth, of the earth, &gt;&gt; lost wandering somewhere vaguely around &gt;&gt; lost wandering somewhere vaguely around Colombia. Colombia. Colombia. &gt;&gt; He will be back, fear not, next week. &gt;&gt; He will be back, fear not, next week. But in the meantime, it's great to have But in the meantime, it's great to have Katy Epstein. You said yesterday that Katy Epstein. You said yesterday that Epstein has been dominant in the Epstein has been dominant in the American media and clearly been breaking American media and clearly been breaking through in Australia as well. Jennifer through in Australia as well. Jennifer is a member from Adelaide. What is the is a member from Adelaide. What is the likelihood that Trump will be impeached likelihood that Trump will be impeached over Epstein? Would this be an over Epstein? Would this be an opportunity for Vance to make a move to opportunity for Vance to make a move to assume the presidency? I'm guessing not. assume the presidency? I'm guessing not. Yeah, I think the chances of him being Yeah, I think the chances of him being impeached at all, even if first of all, impeached at all, even if first of all, the Democrats would have to take back the Democrats would have to take back the House in the midterm elections next the House in the midterm elections next year because at the moment they don't year because at the moment they don't control the House, so they can't do control the House, so they can't do anything about an impeachment process. anything about an impeachment process. There's a whole load of things that There's a whole load of things that various Democrats have muttered about various Democrats have muttered about trying to impeach Donald Trump on trying to impeach Donald Trump on particularly around corruption and money particularly around corruption and money issues. But the chances of him being issues. But the chances of him being impeached over Jeffrey Epstein, I think, impeached over Jeffrey Epstein, I think, are pretty slim. The reporting is from are pretty slim. The reporting is from the Wall Street Journal that Donald the Wall Street Journal that Donald Trump's name is mentioned in the Trump's name is mentioned in the mysterious Jeffrey Epstein files, mysterious Jeffrey Epstein files, whatever they may be. Uh, but that whatever they may be. Uh, but that doesn't necessarily mean he was kind of doesn't necessarily mean he was kind of doing anything particularly nefarious doing anything particularly nefarious with Jeffrey Epste. It just means that, with Jeffrey Epste. It just means that, you know, Jeffrey Epstein had his you know, Jeffrey Epstein had his contact or they were at a party contact or they were at a party together, all of which we already know. together, all of which we already know. So, I think the chances of him being So, I think the chances of him being impeached are pretty slim around that. I impeached are pretty slim around that. I think JD is going to play. We spoke think JD is going to play. We spoke about this on the podcast yesterday and about this on the podcast yesterday and David from spoken about this with you in David from spoken about this with you in your interview Alistister around JD your interview Alistister around JD Vance. JD is going to keep Donald Trump Vance. JD is going to keep Donald Trump very close for as long as he needs him very close for as long as he needs him which is probably going to be right up which is probably going to be right up until the primary process. Even through until the primary process. Even through the primary process cuz even if Donald the primary process cuz even if Donald Trump is not running in 2028, he's going Trump is not running in 2028, he's going to be a very big figure in the election to be a very big figure in the election process. He still has people who adore process. He still has people who adore him, millions of Americans who adore him, millions of Americans who adore him. And so I don't think JD is going to him. And so I don't think JD is going to move against Trump in any way and move against Trump in any way and particularly not over Epstein. If you're particularly not over Epstein. If you're hoping that this is the way this ends, I hoping that this is the way this ends, I don't think that's the right ending for don't think that's the right ending for this story. this story. this story. &gt;&gt; Can I just ask you something? So Rory &gt;&gt; Can I just ask you something? So Rory and I talked about this last week and I and I talked about this last week and I had a few people said, "Hold on a had a few people said, "Hold on a minute. Trump and Epstein were minute. Trump and Epstein were unbelievably close. Unbelievably close unbelievably close. Unbelievably close for quite a long time. There's little for quite a long time. There's little that Epstein would be doing that Trump that Epstein would be doing that Trump wouldn't necessarily have known about." wouldn't necessarily have known about." And you read on the rest is politics US And you read on the rest is politics US last week. You read some of the last week. You read some of the testimony and I must be honest I had not testimony and I must be honest I had not read it. It was interviews with some of read it. It was interviews with some of the the the &gt;&gt; children that had been abused by Epstein &gt;&gt; children that had been abused by Epstein and it was pretty and it was pretty I don't even know the word. It was like I don't even know the word. It was like oh my god this is even worse than I oh my god this is even worse than I thought. Do you think there is a thought. Do you think there is a desperation in Trump for the full story desperation in Trump for the full story of Epstein not to come out? I think of Epstein not to come out? I think anyone who had an association with Trump anyone who had an association with Trump and remember you know Vera Wang the and remember you know Vera Wang the amazing fashion designers allegedly has amazing fashion designers allegedly has sent one of those letters to Jeffrey sent one of those letters to Jeffrey Epstein for his 50th birthday as well. I Epstein for his 50th birthday as well. I mean there is a whole host of people mean there is a whole host of people which now given what the public knows which now given what the public knows Jeffrey Epstein was doing at the time Jeffrey Epstein was doing at the time don't want any kind of association don't don't want any kind of association don't want their names to be linked both want their names to be linked both Democrats and Republicans. Bill Clinton Democrats and Republicans. Bill Clinton has often been associated with Jeffrey has often been associated with Jeffrey Epstein. They don't want their names Epstein. They don't want their names coming out. They don't want this to go coming out. They don't want this to go anywhere. And I think the reason I read anywhere. And I think the reason I read that out on the podcast last week is I that out on the podcast last week is I think there's a a tendency with the think there's a a tendency with the Epstein story to see this in political Epstein story to see this in political terms. You know, will he be impeached? terms. You know, will he be impeached? Could JD Vance move? Could JD Vance move? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And when we do that, we ignore the &gt;&gt; And when we do that, we ignore the voices of these victims. I read through voices of these victims. I read through that testimony. God, it's making me that testimony. God, it's making me almost tear up again thinking about it, almost tear up again thinking about it, Alistister. It's so chilling because Alistister. It's so chilling because it's so clinical and the way he moved on it's so clinical and the way he moved on these girls and and deliberately seemed these girls and and deliberately seemed to go for 14year-old girls, many of whom to go for 14year-old girls, many of whom had already been abused had already been abused &gt;&gt; who we then told when they became 18 &gt;&gt; who we then told when they became 18 they were too old. they were too old. &gt;&gt; Orain Maxwell stopped calling them and &gt;&gt; Orain Maxwell stopped calling them and the understanding was that they were too the understanding was that they were too old at the age of 18. It's not just that old at the age of 18. It's not just that these girls suffered then. Every time these girls suffered then. Every time this story comes back again, they have this story comes back again, they have to relive that trauma of abuse, the to relive that trauma of abuse, the guilt, the embarrassment, the shame, guilt, the embarrassment, the shame, &gt;&gt; the fear that comes with that. And I &gt;&gt; the fear that comes with that. And I think it's that story actually in a way think it's that story actually in a way that is the important political story as that is the important political story as well because this was a really awful well because this was a really awful thing that Epstein did. And therefore, thing that Epstein did. And therefore, anyone who knew what he was doing, anyone who knew what he was doing, tolerated what he was doing, even if tolerated what he was doing, even if they didn't do it themselves, they're they didn't do it themselves, they're complicit in this unbelievably complicit in this unbelievably awful series of rapes of children. awful series of rapes of children. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, I'm going to make an &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, I'm going to make an executive decision here, Katy. I think executive decision here, Katy. I think we should play into this part of this we should play into this part of this podcast for those who don't necessarily podcast for those who don't necessarily yet listen to Trip to US what you read yet listen to Trip to US what you read out last week because it was horrific. out last week because it was horrific. is quite a difficult listen but is quite a difficult listen but listening to Katy from last week's trip listening to Katy from last week's trip us. us. us. &gt;&gt; Okay. So this is um the questioner is &gt;&gt; Okay. So this is um the questioner is Moren Comey who was the prosecutor for Moren Comey who was the prosecutor for the prosecution in the trial of Gileain the prosecution in the trial of Gileain Maxwell. Now Jane I want to ask you did Maxwell. Now Jane I want to ask you did there come a time in your life when you there come a time in your life when you met someone named Jeffrey Epstein? Yes. met someone named Jeffrey Epstein? Yes. What year was that? 1994. What year was that? 1994. Did there come a time in your life when Did there come a time in your life when you had sexual contact with Jeffrey you had sexual contact with Jeffrey Epstein? Yes. How old were you when that Epstein? Yes. How old were you when that first happened? 14 years old. There's first happened? 14 years old. There's another bit I want to read you from another bit I want to read you from another witness, too. And this is when a another witness, too. And this is when a young girl is brought to Jeffrey young girl is brought to Jeffrey Epstein's house. When you walked into Epstein's house. When you walked into the kitchen, what happened? We were the kitchen, what happened? We were greeted by Ms. Maxwell. Did Mr. Epstein greeted by Ms. Maxwell. Did Mr. Epstein touch you during your this first touch you during your this first massage? No. After that ended, what massage? No. After that ended, what happened next? happened next? happened next? I was paid. In total, approximately how I was paid. In total, approximately how many times did you go over to Mr. to many times did you go over to Mr. to Epstein's house to give him massages Epstein's house to give him massages over a hundred. About how often did you over a hundred. About how often did you go over to his house to provide those go over to his house to provide those massages? Two or three times a week. massages? Two or three times a week. About how old were you the first time About how old were you the first time you went over to his house? 14. And you went over to his house? 14. And about how old were you the last time you about how old were you the last time you went to his house? 18. When you went to his house? 18. When you interacted with Maxwell, what if any interacted with Maxwell, what if any conversations did you have with her conversations did you have with her about your family, about my upbringing about your family, about my upbringing and things that were going on at the and things that were going on at the time? What did you tell Maxwell? That my time? What did you tell Maxwell? That my mom was an alcoholic and I had been mom was an alcoholic and I had been molested and just random personal molested and just random personal things. I remember telling her that I'd things. I remember telling her that I'd been raped and molested by my been raped and molested by my grandfather starting at the age of four. grandfather starting at the age of four. After you told Maxwell you were 14, did After you told Maxwell you were 14, did she continue to call you to schedule she continue to call you to schedule massage appointments with Jeffrey massage appointments with Jeffrey Epstein? Yes. During how many of the Epstein? Yes. During how many of the massages you gave Jeffrey Epstein did he massages you gave Jeffrey Epstein did he masturbate? Every single time. During masturbate? Every single time. During how many of the massages you gave how many of the massages you gave Jeffrey Epstein, did he touch your Jeffrey Epstein, did he touch your breasts? Every time. During how many of breasts? Every time. During how many of the massages you gave Jeffrey Epstein, the massages you gave Jeffrey Epstein, did he touch your buttocks? Every time. did he touch your buttocks? Every time. Were there ever massages you provided Were there ever massages you provided Jeffrey Epstein where nothing sexual Jeffrey Epstein where nothing sexual happened? No. Something sexual happened happened? No. Something sexual happened every single time. Why did you stop every single time. Why did you stop going to Jeffrey Epstein's house? going to Jeffrey Epstein's house? Because I became too old. How old were Because I became too old. How old were you? 18. you? 18. you? 18. &gt;&gt; That kind of in many ways speaks for &gt;&gt; That kind of in many ways speaks for itself. But let me just put something itself. But let me just put something back to you. You made a point somewhere. back to you. You made a point somewhere. I can't remember where I saw you say I can't remember where I saw you say this, but Donald Trump has not once said this, but Donald Trump has not once said anything that I would define as being anything that I would define as being empathetic about the victims. The only empathetic about the victims. The only person he has been nice about in this person he has been nice about in this entire thing, Epstein is now a sort of entire thing, Epstein is now a sort of terrible person. He always knew he was a terrible person. He always knew he was a terrible person. Nothing to do with me. terrible person. Nothing to do with me. Go away. is Gileain Maxwell. Now, I know Go away. is Gileain Maxwell. Now, I know Gileain pretty well from my days on the Gileain pretty well from my days on the mirror. In fact, I've written my entire mirror. In fact, I've written my entire page in the New World this week about my page in the New World this week about my my knowledge of and insight into my knowledge of and insight into Gileain, who I've always thought was a Gileain, who I've always thought was a lot more I always found her very funny, lot more I always found her very funny, very engaging, but there was something very engaging, but there was something deeply sad about her as well. And if deeply sad about her as well. And if you'd have said to me back then, she'd you'd have said to me back then, she'd have become the sort of madam to the have become the sort of madam to the notorious sex trafficker. I said, "No, notorious sex trafficker. I said, "No, no, that's not her." But if you'd have no, that's not her." But if you'd have said to me, "She'll become attached to a said to me, "She'll become attached to a very, very powerful man who moves in very, very powerful man who moves in mysterious circles and lives a life mysterious circles and lives a life where fact is a bit stranger than where fact is a bit stranger than fiction, I could have seen it because fiction, I could have seen it because that was her that was her dad." And I that was her dad." And I don't want to go psycho babble, but I don't want to go psycho babble, but I think if you've got a father like Robert think if you've got a father like Robert Maxwell, it's going to be quite hard to Maxwell, it's going to be quite hard to come out sort of unscathed. But what come out sort of unscathed. But what does this say about Trump that he's even does this say about Trump that he's even now quite openly talking about the fact now quite openly talking about the fact that he does have the power to pardon that he does have the power to pardon her? Could he get away with that? her? Could he get away with that? &gt;&gt; Listen to that testimony, right? That is &gt;&gt; Listen to that testimony, right? That is from Gileain Maxwell's trial and she is from Gileain Maxwell's trial and she is clearly the conduit of these girls. clearly the conduit of these girls. She's the recruiter of these girls and She's the recruiter of these girls and the idea that she might be pardoned, I the idea that she might be pardoned, I think you would have uproar. He did say think you would have uproar. He did say up in Scotland this week that he had the up in Scotland this week that he had the power, it was something that he could power, it was something that he could potentially do. And it is weird. It's potentially do. And it is weird. It's almost unprecedented, according to almost unprecedented, according to constitutional lawyers that I've spoken constitutional lawyers that I've spoken to, for somebody senior from the to, for somebody senior from the Department of Justice who is a political Department of Justice who is a political appointee to go to a prisoner to have appointee to go to a prisoner to have kind of post-trial discussions. And it kind of post-trial discussions. And it looks like they're trying to get looks like they're trying to get something from Gileain Maxwell in something from Gileain Maxwell in exchange for some sort of, you know, exchange for some sort of, you know, commutation or lessening of her sentence commutation or lessening of her sentence or something. So, it all looks very or something. So, it all looks very fishy. But when you hear that testimony fishy. But when you hear that testimony and you are reminded of the role she and you are reminded of the role she played in destroying the lives of these played in destroying the lives of these girls, I do think you'd have real push girls, I do think you'd have real push back from evangelical Christians around back from evangelical Christians around the country. I know they've been in the the country. I know they've been in the Trump camp. They've tolerated an awful Trump camp. They've tolerated an awful lot. They did a fouian bargain, but look lot. They did a fouian bargain, but look at the whole Epstein saga. The Epstein at the whole Epstein saga. The Epstein saga is being kept in the front pages saga is being kept in the front pages not by Democrats but by MAGA, right? And not by Democrats but by MAGA, right? And it would play into the idea of powerful it would play into the idea of powerful people defending powerful people people defending powerful people defending pedophiles. The world is run defending pedophiles. The world is run by pedophiles. It's the ultimate by pedophiles. It's the ultimate conspiracy theory. And if she's conspiracy theory. And if she's pardoned, that plays into the conspiracy pardoned, that plays into the conspiracy theory. theory. theory. &gt;&gt; Okay. Now, Katy, you're on instead of &gt;&gt; Okay. Now, Katy, you're on instead of Rory for this week, but it coincides Rory for this week, but it coincides with me receiving this question last with me receiving this question last week from a lady called Kira Bergman. week from a lady called Kira Bergman. She's the chief executive of Rape Crisis She's the chief executive of Rape Crisis England and Wales. There is a link England and Wales. There is a link clearly to what we've just been clearly to what we've just been discussing about. This is specifically discussing about. This is specifically about England and Wales. Despite about England and Wales. Despite repeated strategies, says Kira, repeated strategies, says Kira, successive governments have failed to successive governments have failed to reduce violence against women and girls reduce violence against women and girls in a meaningful way. The current in a meaningful way. The current government pledged to have violence government pledged to have violence against women and girls in a decade, but against women and girls in a decade, but its strategy has been delayed and key its strategy has been delayed and key funding decisions like the 53 million funding decisions like the 53 million investment in the drive perpetrator investment in the drive perpetrator program were made without consultation program were made without consultation with questionable evidence of impact. with questionable evidence of impact. Meanwhile, rape crisis centers are Meanwhile, rape crisis centers are closing, services for marginalized closing, services for marginalized survivors are underfunded, and the survivors are underfunded, and the response to rape remains deeply response to rape remains deeply inadequate. Why do you think governments inadequate. Why do you think governments continue to fail on this issue? What continue to fail on this issue? What would a serious effective strategy to would a serious effective strategy to reduce violence against women and girls reduce violence against women and girls look like? How can politicians, look like? How can politicians, especially male politicians, help drive especially male politicians, help drive real change? And Kira actually said that real change? And Kira actually said that she wanted me and Rory to talk about she wanted me and Rory to talk about this because she felt male politicians this because she felt male politicians felt they couldn't really engage in this felt they couldn't really engage in this issue in a way that women can. But you issue in a way that women can. But you first and then I'll I'll have a few first and then I'll I'll have a few thoughts of my own. thoughts of my own. &gt;&gt; You should answer this because it's a &gt;&gt; You should answer this because it's a very UK specific question when it comes very UK specific question when it comes to funding and policy and what's being to funding and policy and what's being done. But I will say that one thing I'm done. But I will say that one thing I'm noticing in the states is that there is noticing in the states is that there is there is a push back against women and there is a push back against women and women's issues. At its easiest, it's women's issues. At its easiest, it's around DEI issues, but it's happened in around DEI issues, but it's happened in the last few months and the progress of the last few months and the progress of that from kind of, well, women have just that from kind of, well, women have just been appointed because of DEI. We should been appointed because of DEI. We should clamp down on DEI. And I've had lots of clamp down on DEI. And I've had lots of my friends who work in this space say my friends who work in this space say there's no funding for it anymore. You there's no funding for it anymore. You can't really talk about it anymore. You can't really talk about equity issues in can't really talk about equity issues in the workplace anymore. and the sort of the workplace anymore. and the sort of steps from that to violence against steps from that to violence against women and increasing violence against women and increasing violence against women. I could see that happening and I women. I could see that happening and I think it is something that women think it is something that women generally are afraid of and I think it's generally are afraid of and I think it's true. It's something that male true. It's something that male politicians feel very squeamish about politicians feel very squeamish about talking about and I wish we could pull talking about and I wish we could pull them into the conversation much more them into the conversation much more because we would all be better off if because we would all be better off if men joined us in this conversation. I do men joined us in this conversation. I do agree with that and of course you know agree with that and of course you know my daughter Grace who is a comedian and my daughter Grace who is a comedian and talks about sex a lot, writes about sex talks about sex a lot, writes about sex a lot and she had an experience of rape a lot and she had an experience of rape in America a few years ago now and she in America a few years ago now and she wrote a piece about it and she in that wrote a piece about it and she in that piece which obviously you know was a piece which obviously you know was a very very difficult read on all sorts of very very difficult read on all sorts of levels for her parents but one of the levels for her parents but one of the points that came through to me was that points that came through to me was that she and I spoke to her friends about she and I spoke to her friends about this as well they the the idea of this as well they the the idea of reporting it to the police is just like reporting it to the police is just like they don't even think about it. And one they don't even think about it. And one of the points that Kira made to me is of the points that Kira made to me is that the the conviction rate on rape it that the the conviction rate on rape it hovers somewhere between 1 and 2%. hovers somewhere between 1 and 2%. Whereas there is uh more probably not Whereas there is uh more probably not adequate and the services aren't good adequate and the services aren't good enough, but domestic violence that we enough, but domestic violence that we think of as you know a man knocks a think of as you know a man knocks a woman about and the woman goes off to woman about and the woman goes off to try to find a a refuge. we men can kind try to find a a refuge. we men can kind of handle that rape it gets to a of handle that rape it gets to a different sort of level and maybe we different sort of level and maybe we don't want to be part of the debate when don't want to be part of the debate when as you say we have to not least because as you say we have to not least because governments are going to have to address governments are going to have to address this and so just to give some of the this and so just to give some of the stats around this is the England and stats around this is the England and Wales 798,000 Wales 798,000 Wales 798,000 women raped each year that's one in 30 women raped each year that's one in 30 so most of us will know somebody raped so most of us will know somebody raped or sexually assaulted the waiting time. or sexually assaulted the waiting time. And this is at a time when Brian And this is at a time when Brian Leverson, the judge, retired judge, has Leverson, the judge, retired judge, has just done a report about crown court just done a report about crown court trials and the massive, massive backlog trials and the massive, massive backlog that there is. So, we're talking about that there is. So, we're talking about an average of at least 2 years to get to an average of at least 2 years to get to court. Currently, almost 12,000 waiting. court. Currently, almost 12,000 waiting. The answer to Kira, look, you know, she The answer to Kira, look, you know, she knows about this a lot lot more than I knows about this a lot lot more than I do. But I think that when we talk about do. But I think that when we talk about having a strategy, having a strategy, there has to mean something. There has there has to mean something. There has to be a strategy that says this is the to be a strategy that says this is the scale of the problem. These are the kind scale of the problem. These are the kind of measures that we think we ought to be of measures that we think we ought to be able to address it. But one of them has able to address it. But one of them has to be that women feel much more. And to be that women feel much more. And men, by the way, men who get raped um men, by the way, men who get raped um tend not to report it because they say tend not to report it because they say the police don't understand. So I think the police don't understand. So I think it's about understanding it's then about it's about understanding it's then about us understanding that we think the us understanding that we think the services are there actually the women services are there actually the women you talk to who work in this area they you talk to who work in this area they say the services are disintegrating in say the services are disintegrating in part because we're not prepared to talk part because we're not prepared to talk about this and also without getting too about this and also without getting too political I couldn't help noticing we're political I couldn't help noticing we're a year on from the Southport riots that a year on from the Southport riots that followed the murder of those three followed the murder of those three little girls and I saw think that two little girls and I saw think that two out of five of those who were convicted out of five of those who were convicted of violence were known to the of violence were known to the authorities for domestic violence. I'm authorities for domestic violence. I'm not saying, by the way, domestic not saying, by the way, domestic violence is an exclusively right-wing violence is an exclusively right-wing thing. I am saying this is a way bigger thing. I am saying this is a way bigger problem than we sometimes like to admit. problem than we sometimes like to admit. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And it's one of those subjects &gt;&gt; Yeah. And it's one of those subjects whether it's domestic violence or rape. whether it's domestic violence or rape. I thought those figures that our great I thought those figures that our great producing team put in there about how producing team put in there about how one of the things that women say and we one of the things that women say and we heard this during Me Too I does make me heard this during Me Too I does make me think of the Epstein story is the think of the Epstein story is the embarrassment and the shame that women embarrassment and the shame that women face when they've been sexually abused face when they've been sexually abused or raped. Um and that they carry that or raped. Um and that they carry that guilt with them for years. somehow they guilt with them for years. somehow they feel they were at fault or they were too feel they were at fault or they were too weak or they should have fended this off weak or they should have fended this off or if they were in the wrong place at or if they were in the wrong place at the wrong time. And when they go to the the wrong time. And when they go to the police very often what these women say police very often what these women say in the states and here in the UK is my in the states and here in the UK is my understanding is that that increases understanding is that that increases their mental health stress because the their mental health stress because the police treatment is not sensitive enough police treatment is not sensitive enough and is not open enough to what they are and is not open enough to what they are feeling and what they've gone through. M feeling and what they've gone through. M &gt;&gt; and you know the thing that Grace said &gt;&gt; and you know the thing that Grace said about her things look you know she she about her things look you know she she had this even from her own kind of her had this even from her own kind of her own circles online of people saying well own circles online of people saying well hold on a minute if you if you're going hold on a minute if you if you're going to talk so much about sex and you're to talk so much about sex and you're going to do comedy shows about sex it going to do comedy shows about sex it almost like saying well you know you're almost like saying well you know you're going to have to expect a bit of this going to have to expect a bit of this you know it's like the old judges used you know it's like the old judges used to say well if you're going to wear a to say well if you're going to wear a minikrt minikrt minikrt &gt;&gt; if you're going to wear a short skirt &gt;&gt; if you're going to wear a short skirt it's it's it's &gt;&gt; off short skirt you can't expect men &gt;&gt; off short skirt you can't expect men will be boys will be boys will be boys will be boys will be boys &gt;&gt; another stat that's kind of relevant to &gt;&gt; another stat that's kind of relevant to this which Kira from the rape crisis this which Kira from the rape crisis center told me an average of two women center told me an average of two women each week are murdered by men and yet each week are murdered by men and yet women and children really struggle to women and children really struggle to find a refuge and of course we had a find a refuge and of course we had a very I don't know if you saw this Katy very I don't know if you saw this Katy you were probably in the states at the you were probably in the states at the time we had a big case recently where time we had a big case recently where the controlling husband of a woman who the controlling husband of a woman who was in a refuge tricked her into was in a refuge tricked her into revealing where she was and he found her revealing where she was and he found her and he killed her. Um so there you are and he killed her. Um so there you are Kira thank you for that. That is a very Kira thank you for that. That is a very very very heavy subject, but I think very very heavy subject, but I think it's one that Kira's right that men do it's one that Kira's right that men do need to talk about. We'll come back to need to talk about. We'll come back to it with Rory another time. it with Rory another time. &gt;&gt; Shall I read the next one? &gt;&gt; Shall I read the next one? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. This one comes from Viv Thelton. &gt;&gt; Okay. This one comes from Viv Thelton. Why did the European Union withhold 1.5 Why did the European Union withhold 1.5 billion dollars in aid to Ukraine and billion dollars in aid to Ukraine and how does this reflect the EU's stance on how does this reflect the EU's stance on President Zilinsk's recent domestic President Zilinsk's recent domestic policy decisions? Why don't you explain, policy decisions? Why don't you explain, Alistister, what happened and why? Well, Alistister, what happened and why? Well, the reason that they've said they're the reason that they've said they're withholding it, I suspect that given the withholding it, I suspect that given the way he's reacted in recent days, it will way he's reacted in recent days, it will not necessarily be seen through is not necessarily be seen through is because Zalinsky, who has, you know, I because Zalinsky, who has, you know, I said in the main podcast yesterday when said in the main podcast yesterday when I was introducing this, I think has been I was introducing this, I think has been an extraordinary leader and has barely an extraordinary leader and has barely put a foot wrong. But I think he did put put a foot wrong. But I think he did put a foot wrong with this. Essentially what a foot wrong with this. Essentially what happened was that they they brought in a happened was that they they brought in a new law in the Ukrainian parliament to new law in the Ukrainian parliament to relieve two big anti-corruption agencies relieve two big anti-corruption agencies of their independence and put them under of their independence and put them under the control of the prosecutor general the control of the prosecutor general who was appointed by the president. It who was appointed by the president. It led to the first really big protests. It led to the first really big protests. It led to a couple of days where the led to a couple of days where the Ukrainian government was very defensive Ukrainian government was very defensive and saying no no no this is because and saying no no no this is because these guys have been infiltrated by the these guys have been infiltrated by the Russians and d people didn't really buy Russians and d people didn't really buy that. It may be true, but people were that. It may be true, but people were not willing to buy it. There were more not willing to buy it. There were more protests and eventually, not least under protests and eventually, not least under pressure from the European Union and pressure from the European Union and others. Um, Zalinski reversed this and others. Um, Zalinski reversed this and he reversed it pretty quickly. So, I he reversed it pretty quickly. So, I think he was aware that this was a bad think he was aware that this was a bad bad move. And one of the the the things bad move. And one of the the the things that this has brought out much more into that this has brought out much more into the public is that there are people who the public is that there are people who have been close to Zilinsky in the past, have been close to Zilinsky in the past, including a former deputy prime including a former deputy prime minister, including somebody in his own minister, including somebody in his own team who were under investigation and team who were under investigation and have been under investigation by these have been under investigation by these bodies for corruption. So, bad move to bodies for corruption. So, bad move to do it in the first place, good move to do it in the first place, good move to reverse it, and probably damage undone, reverse it, and probably damage undone, but with a bit of a tarnish uh still but with a bit of a tarnish uh still there. Yeah, that's what I'd heard from there. Yeah, that's what I'd heard from UK officials who follow this that it UK officials who follow this that it could be that it was just getting too could be that it was just getting too close to Zalinski and that was why he close to Zalinski and that was why he felt he should push ahead with these felt he should push ahead with these moves, but something that clearly moves, but something that clearly annoyed not just the Europeans, by the annoyed not just the Europeans, by the way, but a lot of American senators, way, but a lot of American senators, including Republican senators, who want including Republican senators, who want to see corruption stamped out in to see corruption stamped out in Ukraine. Ukraine. Ukraine. &gt;&gt; Okay, let's take a quick break and then &gt;&gt; Okay, let's take a quick break and then we're going to come back for more we're going to come back for more questions. questions. questions. Welcome back to the rest is politics Welcome back to the rest is politics question time with me Alistister question time with me Alistister Campbell Campbell Campbell &gt;&gt; and me Katy K. Now, Rory and I had a &gt;&gt; and me Katy K. Now, Rory and I had a discussion a few weeks ago about health, discussion a few weeks ago about health, the health service and prevention rather the health service and prevention rather than cure. And I dropped into the than cure. And I dropped into the conversation that, you know, well, we do conversation that, you know, well, we do seem to have this sort of fondness for seem to have this sort of fondness for things that damage us like alcohol, like things that damage us like alcohol, like crap, food, and whatever you have. And a crap, food, and whatever you have. And a guy called Joe Wolf, amazing name, WF, guy called Joe Wolf, amazing name, WF, got in touch and told me he was writing got in touch and told me he was writing a book. And the question goes as a book. And the question goes as follows. Considering your idea of a follows. Considering your idea of a public health fund, I just say I said public health fund, I just say I said there maybe should be a public health there maybe should be a public health fund where we actually get these food fund where we actually get these food companies and drink companies. They have companies and drink companies. They have to make contributions as well. How do we to make contributions as well. How do we stop treating addiction as just an stop treating addiction as just an individual fault? Instead, how do we individual fault? Instead, how do we break down this addictive environment by break down this addictive environment by limiting how products are sold and limiting how products are sold and advertised? Surely we need alternative advertised? Surely we need alternative forces like youth clubs, community forces like youth clubs, community spaces that help people connect and spaces that help people connect and thrive, especially the young, rather thrive, especially the young, rather than just offering more support to quit than just offering more support to quit or more education. And Joe Wolf's point or more education. And Joe Wolf's point is that, and this is the book he's is that, and this is the book he's writing about, is called the addiction writing about, is called the addiction economy. That alcohol, fast food, junk economy. That alcohol, fast food, junk food, it's designed to make us addicted food, it's designed to make us addicted to us. And this is what he is going to to us. And this is what he is going to be writing about. So listen, you live in be writing about. So listen, you live in the capital of the of glo am I allowed the capital of the of glo am I allowed to say America is the capital of global to say America is the capital of global junk food with a president who loves it junk food with a president who loves it as well. as well. as well. &gt;&gt; We do have a secretary of health now in &gt;&gt; We do have a secretary of health now in Bobby Kennedy Jr. who is actually trying Bobby Kennedy Jr. who is actually trying to diminish the amount of addictive to diminish the amount of addictive properties that are in junk food. Um has properties that are in junk food. Um has been pretty successful in moves to take been pretty successful in moves to take out for example break I don't know if out for example break I don't know if you've ever had Froot Loops. Have you you've ever had Froot Loops. Have you ever had the pleasure of a bowl of Froot ever had the pleasure of a bowl of Froot Loops for breakfast? Loops for breakfast? &gt;&gt; Froot Loop &gt;&gt; Froot Loop &gt;&gt; there in the south of France is not &gt;&gt; there in the south of France is not perhaps something that's available. They perhaps something that's available. They are bright neon colored little circles, are bright neon colored little circles, purple, blue, orange, yellow, green, and purple, blue, orange, yellow, green, and they're basically pure sugar and food they're basically pure sugar and food dye. I mean, it's a bowl full of sugar dye. I mean, it's a bowl full of sugar with some food dye. At least now Bobby with some food dye. At least now Bobby Kennedy, to his credit, is trying to Kennedy, to his credit, is trying to diminish the amount of addictive diminish the amount of addictive properties and sugar and food dyes and properties and sugar and food dyes and things in food. So I think things in food. So I think &gt;&gt; will that save more lives than the sort &gt;&gt; will that save more lives than the sort of you know antivax movement? of you know antivax movement? &gt;&gt; No, I don't I don't know. I I if you &gt;&gt; No, I don't I don't know. I I if you were to do the scales on this I don't were to do the scales on this I don't know that you could do the scales on know that you could do the scales on that. Although obviously obesity is a that. Although obviously obesity is a massive massive massive &gt;&gt; is killing as well as saving. &gt;&gt; is killing as well as saving. &gt;&gt; Yeah. But I think obesity is probably &gt;&gt; Yeah. But I think obesity is probably the bigger killer in the United States the bigger killer in the United States at the moment. Anyway, that that is a at the moment. Anyway, that that is a debate that some epidemiologist or debate that some epidemiologist or scientist or doctor will have to have scientist or doctor will have to have and we'll have to look at the numbers. and we'll have to look at the numbers. But he's doing something right in that But he's doing something right in that field. And you're right that there is a field. And you're right that there is a huge amount of addiction to fast food huge amount of addiction to fast food and there's a great book called the fast and there's a great book called the fast food nation which is all about how the food nation which is all about how the big fast food companies um have put big fast food companies um have put deliberately put addictive properties deliberately put addictive properties into food to make us addictive. But what into food to make us addictive. But what I'd be interested in from your I'd be interested in from your perspective and Joe Wolf's perspective perspective and Joe Wolf's perspective is to what degree do both of you think is to what degree do both of you think that some of these addictions are that some of these addictions are actually genetic and therefore we should actually genetic and therefore we should be looking at the scientific measures to be looking at the scientific measures to stop whatever it is that turns on those stop whatever it is that turns on those genes in people from genes in people from getting them caught in in addictive getting them caught in in addictive behavior. cuz that is the focus of behavior. cuz that is the focus of attention in the states at the moment attention in the states at the moment with drugs like WGO the the idea that with drugs like WGO the the idea that drugs like wgoi these the fat fighting drugs like wgoi these the fat fighting drugs that were taken on for obesity has drugs that were taken on for obesity has a different name here in the UK doesn't a different name here in the UK doesn't it but in America ampic it but in America ampic &gt;&gt; yeah that they actually have the &gt;&gt; yeah that they actually have the potential to cut addiction so that's potential to cut addiction so that's where the most of the focus is where the most of the focus is &gt;&gt; yeah although they they are going to be &gt;&gt; yeah although they they are going to be 15% at least more expensive to American 15% at least more expensive to American consumers consumers consumers &gt;&gt; as a result of the uh the tariffs I did &gt;&gt; as a result of the uh the tariffs I did actually suggest the Danish government actually suggest the Danish government when Trump was going on about Greenland when Trump was going on about Greenland uh where apparently he's still going on uh where apparently he's still going on about Greenland more privately than he about Greenland more privately than he is publicly at the moment that actually is publicly at the moment that actually what Denmark would say well you invade what Denmark would say well you invade Greenland and we block all sales of all Greenland and we block all sales of all the swimming drugs to America see how the swimming drugs to America see how you like that fat man so I think on this you like that fat man so I think on this that that's very interesting because I that that's very interesting because I did a BBC documentary about depression a did a BBC documentary about depression a few years ago and I went to Canada to few years ago and I went to Canada to interview a really interesting woman interview a really interesting woman called Dr. Janine Austin and she's a called Dr. Janine Austin and she's a geneticist. She she studies genetics. geneticist. She she studies genetics. Now, we were talking about genetic in Now, we were talking about genetic in relation to mental health issues such as relation to mental health issues such as depression and anxiety. depression and anxiety. &gt;&gt; Her view was that it was much more &gt;&gt; Her view was that it was much more environmental than genetic, but I hadn't environmental than genetic, but I hadn't really thought about it in the context really thought about it in the context of straightforward addictions. But I of straightforward addictions. But I think the this is where the think the this is where the environmental environmental environmental uh mixes with the experiential if you uh mixes with the experiential if you like because of course if you're brought like because of course if you're brought up in a in a house that is addicted or up in a in a house that is addicted or believes that there's nothing wrong with believes that there's nothing wrong with fast food. There's nothing wrong with fast food. There's nothing wrong with junk food. There's nothing wrong with junk food. There's nothing wrong with all the stuff that we you know I mean I all the stuff that we you know I mean I imagine that breakfast that you imagine that breakfast that you described is a breakfast cereal that described is a breakfast cereal that kids eat before they go to school. kids eat before they go to school. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. On a sugar high. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. On a sugar high. &gt;&gt; Exactly. So, so and and I I you know &gt;&gt; Exactly. So, so and and I I you know regularly when I'm going to this coming regularly when I'm going to this coming back from the swimming pool in the back from the swimming pool in the morning will see kids going to school morning will see kids going to school eating crisps, eating chocolate, eating crisps, eating chocolate, drinking Coca-Cola, whatever you and and drinking Coca-Cola, whatever you and and I kind of I get in a rage about it I kind of I get in a rage about it because I just think well that's so bad. because I just think well that's so bad. But what Joe is saying is that we But what Joe is saying is that we shouldn't blame the people who are doing shouldn't blame the people who are doing this because they are conditioned by the this because they are conditioned by the industry and then of course this is not industry and then of course this is not a genetic point but it's a parental a genetic point but it's a parental point and then by parents who have grown point and then by parents who have grown up thinking there's nothing wrong with up thinking there's nothing wrong with this stuff anyway and then of course this stuff anyway and then of course what you have where this becomes what you have where this becomes political you have the sort of Nigel political you have the sort of Nigel Farajes of this world say that people Farajes of this world say that people like me who say you know it's bad to eat like me who say you know it's bad to eat crap all day long we just want to spoil crap all day long we just want to spoil people's fun. And this then becomes the people's fun. And this then becomes the sort of political thing. We're the sort of political thing. We're the killjoys and they the populace are the killjoys and they the populace are the people who want to give you a better people who want to give you a better life because you want to eat this crap life because you want to eat this crap and you should be trusted to make those and you should be trusted to make those decisions for yourself. And what Joe decisions for yourself. And what Joe Wolf said about the discussion that Rory Wolf said about the discussion that Rory and I had, he said we were sort of and I had, he said we were sort of revealing what he felt was a sense that revealing what he felt was a sense that that being fat, being drunk, losing your that being fat, being drunk, losing your money to gambling, that's your fault. money to gambling, that's your fault. These are choices you're making. The These are choices you're making. The point that Joe's book is going to make point that Joe's book is going to make is that well maybe up to a point and I is that well maybe up to a point and I said actually in that film is you know said actually in that film is you know when when when an alcoholic picks up a when when when an alcoholic picks up a drink that is the individual choice that drink that is the individual choice that they are making at that time but they are making at that time but alcoholism is in part created by an alcoholism is in part created by an industry that wants people to drink more industry that wants people to drink more and more and more and more &gt;&gt; and by genes. &gt;&gt; and by genes. &gt;&gt; I don't know about the genetic bit. &gt;&gt; I don't know about the genetic bit. &gt;&gt; I know about the genetic bit on some &gt;&gt; I know about the genetic bit on some addictions and there's definitely a addictions and there's definitely a genetic profile in certain addictions. genetic profile in certain addictions. But is it a genetic profile or the fact But is it a genetic profile or the fact that if you're raised in a family that that if you're raised in a family that say is addicted to drugs or addicted to say is addicted to drugs or addicted to alcohol or anything else that you might alcohol or anything else that you might be more liable to follow those patterns be more liable to follow those patterns of behavior? I don't know of behavior? I don't know &gt;&gt; to be discussed. This is for you &gt;&gt; to be discussed. This is for you Alistister from Sam who is a member. Alistister from Sam who is a member. Thank you for being a member Sam from Thank you for being a member Sam from Hartfordshire. I know I'm young and Hartfordshire. I know I'm young and probably over optimistic but I've been probably over optimistic but I've been thinking a lot about whether hope is a thinking a lot about whether hope is a weakness or a responsibility. You've weakness or a responsibility. You've both seen how messy the system is up both seen how messy the system is up close, but from the outside, I see close, but from the outside, I see something still worth salvaging. Do you something still worth salvaging. Do you think people like me are wasting time think people like me are wasting time trying to fix it, or do you think we're trying to fix it, or do you think we're essential to saving it? I love this essential to saving it? I love this question, and I know Alistister, you've question, and I know Alistister, you've spoken a lot about this. So, what's spoken a lot about this. So, what's what's your optimistic answer to Sam? what's your optimistic answer to Sam? &gt;&gt; Well, look, Sam, thank you for that. Uh, &gt;&gt; Well, look, Sam, thank you for that. Uh, and yes, I mean, I often say to Rory and yes, I mean, I often say to Rory that where I get my hope is talking to that where I get my hope is talking to young people. I think there are more young people. I think there are more people like you, Sam, than you might people like you, Sam, than you might think. And certainly think there are think. And certainly think there are more people like you than the older more people like you than the older generations think. And you've got to generations think. And you've got to stay hopeful. In fact, breaking news. stay hopeful. In fact, breaking news. because I'm probably saying something I because I'm probably saying something I shouldn't say here, but I'm involved in shouldn't say here, but I'm involved in a a campaign a former colleague of mine a a campaign a former colleague of mine in number 10, Kate Garvey, who went on in number 10, Kate Garvey, who went on to do all sorts of amazing things to do all sorts of amazing things working on and she's currently working working on and she's currently working on the sustainable development goals, on the sustainable development goals, which right now feel like they're under which right now feel like they're under pressure and she is currently putting pressure and she is currently putting together a a campaign which I am going together a a campaign which I am going to be part of and the rest is politics to be part of and the rest is politics is going to be part of called Be Hope. is going to be part of called Be Hope. And as we work our way up towards the And as we work our way up towards the United Nations General Assembly, we're United Nations General Assembly, we're going to be trying to find ways of being going to be trying to find ways of being hopeful. Um Kate actually wants all the hopeful. Um Kate actually wants all the big podcasts in the country and in the big podcasts in the country and in the States and around the world to have an States and around the world to have an episode where we just find things to be episode where we just find things to be hopeful about and talk to people that hopeful about and talk to people that make us hopeful. So I think if you make us hopeful. So I think if you don't, what's the alternative to hope? don't, what's the alternative to hope? It's despair. And right now, okay, you It's despair. And right now, okay, you turn the television on tonight and what turn the television on tonight and what do you see? You see Gaza feels hopeless. do you see? You see Gaza feels hopeless. You see Russia, Ukraine, it feels You see Russia, Ukraine, it feels hopeless. You see wildfires going across hopeless. You see wildfires going across Turkey, Albania, Greece, it feels Turkey, Albania, Greece, it feels hopeless. Um, but what do you do if you hopeless. Um, but what do you do if you just say, well, okay, it's hopeless. just say, well, okay, it's hopeless. Therefore, I'm going to stop trying to Therefore, I'm going to stop trying to do something. So, you have to retain do something. So, you have to retain that hope that these are problems that that hope that these are problems that can be fixed. And I think there's none can be fixed. And I think there's none of those problems that you look at and of those problems that you look at and you think, well, we haven't the world you think, well, we haven't the world hasn't dealt with things like that hasn't dealt with things like that before. the world has dealt with things before. the world has dealt with things like that before. So no Sam, you are not like that before. So no Sam, you are not wasting your time trying to fix it. You wasting your time trying to fix it. You are essential to saving it and um keep are essential to saving it and um keep on keeping on. I agree, Alistister. on keeping on. I agree, Alistister. People like Sam are indispensable. And People like Sam are indispensable. And whenever I get really gloomy about the whenever I get really gloomy about the state of American politics, um, and state of American politics, um, and global politics, I look to younger global politics, I look to younger people cuz I see so much energy there. people cuz I see so much energy there. And it's hard for them to stay And it's hard for them to stay optimistic because of a lot of the optimistic because of a lot of the things that we've done, particularly things that we've done, particularly around the climate. But I'm so glad that around the climate. But I'm so glad that somebody like Sam is still committed and somebody like Sam is still committed and engaged and wanting to be engaged. engaged and wanting to be engaged. &gt;&gt; Right, Katy? Maybe I should ask you this &gt;&gt; Right, Katy? Maybe I should ask you this one. I think it's a very very very one. I think it's a very very very unfair question. We put out a a call for unfair question. We put out a a call for questions and for some weird reason our questions and for some weird reason our producers included a photograph of me. I producers included a photograph of me. I know to the day when it was taken know to the day when it was taken because it was the day that we called because it was the day that we called off the 2001 general election because of off the 2001 general election because of an outbreak of foot and mouth. So that an outbreak of foot and mouth. So that was 24 years ago. Why are they using 24 was 24 years ago. Why are they using 24 year old pictures of me Katy? Is it to year old pictures of me Katy? Is it to make me look the same age as you? make me look the same age as you? &gt;&gt; I think that's quite good, isn't it? &gt;&gt; I think that's quite good, isn't it? Wouldn't you uh wouldn't you like it if Wouldn't you uh wouldn't you like it if somebody uses a much younger picture? somebody uses a much younger picture? &gt;&gt; No, because I don't look like that &gt;&gt; No, because I don't look like that anymore. anymore. anymore. &gt;&gt; It's kind of nice. &gt;&gt; It's kind of nice. &gt;&gt; It's fake news. I've got I've got no &gt;&gt; It's fake news. I've got I've got no receded hairline. I've got no lines receded hairline. I've got no lines under my eyes even though I was working under my eyes even though I was working 23 hours a day. 23 hours a day. &gt;&gt; And you've been moisturizing like &gt;&gt; And you've been moisturizing like Anthony. So, you've learned which is Anthony. So, you've learned which is good. I like that. good. I like that. &gt;&gt; I've never I've never used moisturizer &gt;&gt; I've never I've never used moisturizer in my life. Talking of Anthony, the in my life. Talking of Anthony, the question is this. Martin, Greg, Katy, question is this. Martin, Greg, Katy, how do you keep such massive egos as how do you keep such massive egos as Alistister and Anthony Scaramucci in Alistister and Anthony Scaramucci in their place? their place? their place? &gt;&gt; Well, first of all, Martin, both &gt;&gt; Well, first of all, Martin, both Alistister and Anthony are delightful Alistister and Anthony are delightful human beings with very well therapized human beings with very well therapized egos who are very happy to let me egos who are very happy to let me participate in the conversation and participate in the conversation and they're pretty easy to manage. I and I they're pretty easy to manage. I and I say that in all seriousness. Actually, say that in all seriousness. Actually, both of you are people who are men who both of you are people who are men who have worked all your lives with women have worked all your lives with women whose voices have sometimes struggled to whose voices have sometimes struggled to be heard and who have taken that on be heard and who have taken that on board. And Alistister, partly because of board. And Alistister, partly because of your daughter, I think, and your wife. your daughter, I think, and your wife. You know that, well, first of all, You know that, well, first of all, you're going to get from your you're going to get from your daughter if you don't let another woman daughter if you don't let another woman be heard. So, your ego is welltempered. be heard. So, your ego is welltempered. Um, but Martin, I thank you for the Um, but Martin, I thank you for the question because yes, in my life it has question because yes, in my life it has been on occasion the case that I've had been on occasion the case that I've had to deal with male egos, rather expanded to deal with male egos, rather expanded male egos. Apparently, I've been told male egos. Apparently, I've been told that men tend to think they're 30% that men tend to think they're 30% better than they actually are. better than they actually are. &gt;&gt; I am currently reading because we're &gt;&gt; I am currently reading because we're going to be talking to her on the going to be talking to her on the leading soon Nicholas Sturgeon's leading soon Nicholas Sturgeon's autobiography, which I'm thoroughly autobiography, which I'm thoroughly enjoying. Um but she does make the point enjoying. Um but she does make the point that women have to sort of be twice as that women have to sort of be twice as good as a man to be considered to be good as a man to be considered to be half as good. Um and I think there is half as good. Um and I think there is something that I you know one of the something that I you know one of the people in in my life that I think is I people in in my life that I think is I was talking earlier about Gain Maxwell was talking earlier about Gain Maxwell and when I worked on the mirror um Eve and when I worked on the mirror um Eve Pollard was my editor at the Sunday Pollard was my editor at the Sunday Mirror and she was a very she was a just Mirror and she was a very she was a just a very very good woman and a very good a very very good woman and a very good person and I liked working for her. I've person and I liked working for her. I've never had that hang up about thinking never had that hang up about thinking that if you work for a woman it's you're that if you work for a woman it's you're somehow, you know, demeaning yourself. somehow, you know, demeaning yourself. It's why I don't get the thing in It's why I don't get the thing in America and frankly we've also had it in America and frankly we've also had it in the Labour Party. You know, I honestly the Labour Party. You know, I honestly do think that one of the reasons that do think that one of the reasons that was held against Hillary Clinton and was held against Hillary Clinton and Camel Harris is they're women. And I've Camel Harris is they're women. And I've got to say, I still think Hillary and got to say, I still think Hillary and Camela will be better than what we've Camela will be better than what we've got right now. Because if you want to got right now. Because if you want to talk about massive egos, Martin, don't talk about massive egos, Martin, don't look to Scaramucci. Look to the guy that look to Scaramucci. Look to the guy that fired him after 11. fired him after 11. &gt;&gt; Look to Scotland &gt;&gt; Look to Scotland &gt;&gt; 11 days. Look to the greatest country of &gt;&gt; 11 days. Look to the greatest country of the world where currently the greatest the world where currently the greatest ego in the world is planted himself. ego in the world is planted himself. There we are, Katy. It's been an There we are, Katy. It's been an absolute joy. absolute joy. absolute joy. &gt;&gt; That was great. I feel very, you know, &gt;&gt; That was great. I feel very, you know, honored to be to be invited to the top honored to be to be invited to the top table included with the grown-ups. That table included with the grown-ups. That was fun. Thank you. See you and thanks was fun. Thank you. See you and thanks everyone for listening. everyone for listening. &gt;&gt; Take care.