================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: L3eqOkZymKw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L3eqOkZymKw
TITLE: The Decline and Fall of an Indian Ed Tech Empire
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-18
DURATION: 47m 46s
VIEWS: 321
LIKES: 3
COMMENTS: 0
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
India’s celebrated education technology company Byju’s went from being one of the world’s most hyped start-ups to being sued for fraud in a Delaware court and accused of engaging in unethical, if not illegal, behavior.

The episode serves as a cautionary tale about the world of start-ups, venture capital, and the crushing social pressures Indian children and parents face to climb up the social ladder. 

The story of the rise—and sudden fall—of Byju’s and its founder Byju Raveendran is detailed by the journalist Yudhijit Bhattacharjee in a new piece for the online magazine Rest of World titled, “The math tutor and the missing $533 million.”

Bhattacharjee is a contributing writer at The New York Times Magazine whose writing has also appeared in The New Yorker, National Geographic, Wired, and other U.S. magazines.

He is also the author of the New York Times-bestselling nonfiction thriller, The Spy Who Couldn’t Spell, and host of the podcast “Scam Likely.”

To talk more about his recent 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 6,813

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. [Music] Welcome to Grand Theash, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Hindustan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bashov. India's celebrated education technology company Baiju went from being one of the world's most hyped startups to being sued for fraud in a Delaware court and accused of engaging in unethical if not illegal behavior. The episode serves as a cautionary tale about the world of startups venture capital and the social pressures Indian children and parents face on a daily basis. The story of the rise and sudden fall of Baijus and its founder Baiju Raindran is meticulously detailed by the journalist Yudajjit Badachari in a new piece for the online magazine rest of world titled the math tutor and the missing 533 million. Bachargi is a contributing writer at the New York Times magazine and his writing has appeared in the New Yorker, National Geographic, Wired and other US magazines. He's also the author of the New York Times best-selling non-fiction thriller, The Spy Who Couldn't Spell, and host of the 8 episode podcast, Scam Likely. To talk more about his recent reporting, I'm pleased to welcome Yudji to the podcast for the very first time. Thanks so much for coming on. Thanks so much, Milan, for having me on. So, I want to start uh with a little bit of background for some of our listeners. tell us a bit about who Baiju Raindran is and and how did he get this inspiration for this edtech company Baiju. So, Baiu Raindran uh is a really interesting entrepreneur uh technologist, educator uh who rose from humble beginnings and achieved sort of superstardom uh over a very short period of time and then uh since then has has sort of crashed and burned. Uh, Baiu Raindran uh was an exceptionally gifted math tutor um who was very good at math not just in doing it himself but also in teaching it. And so many years ago back in the early 2000s he started to teach math uh to groups of his friends and their friends. Uh and then he got the idea of sort of scaling up this operation um going online with instructional videos uh which led to the founding of this company um that he called Baiju back in 2015. Uh, Baiju was an online learning app uh for math and for other subjects that quickly gained in popularity and suddenly you had venture capitalists from all over the world uh making a beline to invest in this company. So it grew and grew and grew very rapidly until some bad things started to happen. You know, I just want to pause for a second on his story. Uh the way that you narrate it, you know, he started to teach kind of small groups of friends. Uh and more and more people, you know, started to show up for these tutoring sessions. He realized that he could charge, you know, a thousand rupees per ticket uh to cover the kind of rentals for auditoriums. He eventually is moving into sports arenas to stadiums with, you know, 20 or 30,000 uh people. I mean, this is kind of a remarkable uh you know, story of of of scaling up literally from from nothing. I know. Um I mean, I'll give you a little personal anecdote from my own life uh in India. I grew up in India. Uh and I remember when I was um when I was sort of preparing for uh the joint entrance exam to get into one of these uh prestigious Indian institutes of technology. I remember um going for chemistry tutoring uh specifically organic chemistry which was supposed to be something that you could do really well on to improve your rank uh in in the joint entrance uh engineering test which is a very competitive test. Uh used to be competitive back then it's even more competitive now because India's population has grown. But anyway, uh I remember we were a group of 13 kids who would sit around this instructor uh who was a guy named Mr. Jiang uh who who would teach um he would basically write out notes on a piece of paper that had 13 or 14 sheets underneath it with, you know, with carbon paper in between the sheets. Um and we would you know if if person A got the first sheet of notes uh in the first round then you know it would rotate. So then the next time you'd get sheet number two. So by the time you came to sheet number 13 it was really faint but you could still read it because this guy had developed like really strong wrists. You would do this day in and day out. He was an excellent teacher. Many of us did well. But anyway, that's that's just an aside. Um, but but I knew from, you know, from my own experience how valued good tutors are in India. And I suppose that's what Bai found out himself when he started uh his uh his tutoring back in the early 2000s. He quickly realized that he had a gift for this for communicating math uh for simplifying problems. And so when he started getting huge numbers of students showing up to his to attend his classes, he realized that he could make a spectacle out of it. And and that was the point of of hosting these math shows at stadiums. So really Baiu kind of projected himself as a rock star of math tutoring. Um, and I think he was because I've seen at least one short video of him teaching uh at a math at a math stadium. See, I'm calling it a math stadium, in fact, when it's when it's just a an indoor stadium, a sports stadium uh with a large capacity. So, I think he did a few of these events over the years. Um, and I think he primarily did that as a marketing tool because he wanted to show just how popular he was. But yes, the stadiums were indeed back. I mean, you know, your own personal anecdote and what you just said is a nice segue to to to kind of an important kind of environmental fact that I feel like we need to bring out which is you know there's a very welldocumented anxiety among many Indian families that you know gaining entry to a respected college or institute of higher learning is kind of best path to career success and and I wonder if you might just kind of say something about the sort of contextual factors operating in India which allowed this kind of app to take off so brilliantly. That's a great question Milan and you've hit the nail on the head because that's really the crucible in which uh this company was born. Um I mean you know for decades Indian middle-class parents have pushed their kids to study hard so that they could get into a good college and the best of those colleges um in India were the IITs the the other regional engineering colleges the state engineering colleges the medical colleges the management institutes These have always been considered by middleclass India to be the gateway to a better life. Uh and the way that you crack these tests is often by getting coached in test taking. Um you know by by having the discipline to to burn the midnight oil you know for months on end uh preparing yourself for these grueling tests. uh and and so India's always had uh a a pretty thriving um you know tutoring business and so you've got people like Mr. Jan who used to offer their services. Uh and then slowly you started getting the coaching centers which would which were basically like little schools you know conducting evening classes or morning classes uh for different types of tests whether it's the engineering entrance tests or the medical entrance tests or the IAS the civil services exam or the management institute tests which you know the last one is what Baiu himself started to specialize in. Um and so India had always had this but then you know once the internet um penetrated deep into India uh you could see that there were just you know you could sort of 100x this phenomenon because now you had people living in small towns and villages aspiring uh to get a seat into in in these prestigious colleges. is uh and now having the option of u you know of of taking classes online. Uh that's why Baiu knew that he'd hit upon a a great uh great idea. He knew that there was a huge market, a huge demand uh for remote learning. And so if he could package u his courses his own course and courses like it online then he knew that that the app would become very popular and it did become extremely popular. I mean by 2020 by was situated in the kind of upper tier of global edtech companies. I mean you note in the piece by 2022 it had a valuation of $22 billion. I mean, it's a stunning number, right? And I'm wondering, you know, you mentioned he he figured out how to package it, how to market it. How did Baiju attract a kind of who's who of venture capital and institutional investors? Well, success begets success. And I think that Baiju was a master at uh attracting uh investors because people from the outside just saw future growth, you know, they just they just had dollar signs in their eyes because they knew that India's population being what it is uh that there would be just hundreds of millions of students wanting uh to subscribe to this app in the future. So the numbers always the numbers that were true in the moment were simply for investors uh foreshadowing huge success and growth in the future. And I have somebody in the story uh uh you know a former executive that that worked for one of Baiju's companies uh say that you know a lot of investors think that everything in India can just be multiplied by 1.4 billion people and so every business especially businesses or especially venture capitalists who don't have any idea about how India really works. uh when they come into India uh they think wow so many people well of course there's going to be tremendous growth and profitability it's a no-brainer let's put the money in and so if A puts the money in then B thinks well A just put the money in so I need to put the money in too I mean that's how the valuation got to this insane level which ultimately everyone could see was not justified by the profits that the company was actually making I You know, you write that in the absence of real profits, you know, by Jews became dependent on new rounds of fundraising. Each round was enabled by massive spending on brand building. You know, they spent millions of dollars on endorsements. At at one point, I think you say they they became an official sponsor of the FIFA World Cup. Um, I mean, tell us a little bit about their marketing efforts. I mean what was the what was the kind of uh strategy that they employed to to kind of you know to to do this brand building? Well, their strategy was to create a lot of flash and blitz. Um, I heard from one of Baiju's former employees that even in the early days of Baiju back in 2015 when he was just starting to build the brand, he had just launched the app, you know, he would spend an outsized uh amount on buying advertising, you know, full full page ads in the Times of India, for instance, uh, which cost a lot of money. Uh and so people would advise him, they'd say, "Hey, are you sure you want to spend that much?" Uh and he'd say, "Absolutely." And and he would just take that risk. And so the brand just kept growing. In 2017, uh he brought in, you know, Shah Ruk Khan to do an ad for him. Uh which attracted a lot of attention because Shah Rukhan is Shah Rukh Khan. Uh and then he became a sponsor. Baiju became a sponsor to the Indian cricket team which is another huge expenditure. So more than actual success itself on the ground by knew Baiju knew that uh projecting success was more important than real success. Now he's not the first one to have discovered this. You know this is this is several start this is the story of so many startups and businesses that if you if you dress like you're a billionaire then one day the billions will follow. It's it's kind of kind of that theory. Uh and so even though Baiu started out with a very good product to begin with a lot of people have have praised uh the product itself. I think he quickly realized that simply relying on the product wasn't enough that he needed to uh create an aura around the company and he successfully did that. you know by 2018 or so you say that some of the cracks in Baiju began to appear and you know as you mentioned you know uh venture capital other funders have this idea of you know you do something in India you multiply by four billion so there's this constant pressure to acquire new subscribers you write in some detail about the strategies Baiju's employed which you know essentially were were pretty questionable, you know, ethically, right, in terms of signing up new subscribers. Tell us a little bit about how that actually worked on the ground. Well, Baiu, of course, knew that you can't multiply everything by 1.4 billion and that, you know, you can hit your cap on growth pretty quickly if you just go by um, you know, the middle class because the middle class is just a small uh small segment of the Indian population. But he couldn't afford to stop there. He needed to show that there were new subscribers, that there would be new subscribers still. And so there was tremendous pressure on the marketing team at at Baiju to go out and get new subscribers from uh segments of the population that that really couldn't afford uh the app. I mean, these are these are families that get by on on very little income, you know, vegetable vendors, uh, fruit sellers, uh, you know, autoshot drivers. I mean, this is this is most of the Indian population and of course many of them, you know, have done slowly better and better over the years. they are moving up the socioeconomic ladder. Uh but they have a long way to go um before they can start affording you know highquality education for their kids because public education um in India as in many other parts of the world is not the best. Uh and so if you want to be competitive, if you want to take one of these competitive exams and succeed, then you do need tutoring, you need special instruction. And so many of these families had the aspiration, but they didn't have the means. And this is the segment that the marketing team uh increasingly went after uh using all sorts of hard cell tactics. I heard, for example, stories about how uh they would go and they, you know, they'd just do sort of a they'd test the family's kid. Uh they they'd give them uh sort of, you know, difficult problems to solve, and when they couldn't solve, then they'd be like, "Well, you know, your kid really needs help." Uh and so immediately parents would be worried that, you know, their kid was falling behind. I mean these were just manipulative tactics uh to get these parents to sign on. When parents said look we can't afford it by came up with a solution they they tied up with uh with banks uh and they arranged for loans to be given to these uh to these families so that they could subscribe. uh and often you know within maybe two months 3 months you know the family would start defaulting on the loan uh but by then would have moved on uh and and so quietly that subscription would be lost but somehow there'd still be this you know th this this inflated number uh and and this ability to show growth on the books in the number of subscribers even though that growth wasn't attached to any revenue. you know 2020 comes around this kind of worldchanging co 19 pandemic hits shut down schools uh in India particularly for quite a long time gave a boost around the world really to virtual learning now this would seem like a once in a-lifetime opportunity for an edtech company like how did it fare during the pandemic so during the pandemic um by sensed an opportunity because not because of of what was going on with virtual learning, but more so because what investors thought was going on with virtual learning. So investors thought, "Oh my god, this is just going to take off now." And so investments just compounded. Uh and once that happened, Baijus knew that they had to do something to show growth. And one way of showing growth was to acquire companies. Um and so they went on this acquisition spree starting sometime in 2017 uh 2018. They they acquired Akash which was a very successful coaching center business like a physical business uh with centers all over the country. Um uh they you know they acquired companies in America including Epic uh which is a very popular you know learning uh company here in the US, Osmo uh White Hat Jr. uh which is a company that that teaches coding software coding uh to kids. uh and it appears that there was no real vision behind these acquisitions. The idea was simply that there was money coming in and that money had to be allocated uh in order to justify or rather to show that that the company was growing that the Baiju empire was growing. Hey Granamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granthamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform, so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. [Music] In 2022, Baiju announced it received new funding from a global tech fund called Sumemeru. Uh you and others uh had some questions about this fund. Um you know, what did you learn when you started digging into this particular investment? Right. Well, um I should say that it wasn't me that started digging. It was actually a very um very diligent and talented journalist in India named Praep Saha uh of the publication the morning context who started digging um much of the Indian press had simply run the story as you know Baiu wins big again here's more funding coming in for Baijus uh but Praep Saha got a tip that um that that this money actually never came in. And so when he started digging, he discovered that this was essentially a phantom investment that it didn't exist. it was uh that that and then he discovered that even though um vai juice knew that this money hadn't come in they were still you know telling the market that they had received this investment and so it appeared I mean there's you know you'll really have to connect the dots but it it appeared that that this kind of investment had almost been ginned up that this was just nothing but an announcement of an investment. Uh that had been ginned up in order to inflate Baiju's valuation ultimately because you know with every round of investment the valuation goes up. Um and when Praep Saha looked in further he saw that this wasn't the first such investment that there had been a prior investment very much like this that had never come in. What was interesting about Sumeruu was uh you know and Praep's reporting on this is quite detailed. He lays it out in his book the learning trap which anybody interested in in the Baiju story should definitely go out and buy this book. Um it sumemeru was interesting because it had made many such investments that were all just nothing but um you know but announcements or promises of investment that never came through. Uh so it would appear that this was kind of a wellthoughtout plan to inflate uh Baiju's valuation at least at least in that round. So I I want to ask you about another mysterious transaction. Baiju was taken to court in Delaware for alleged fraud. It was said that the firm transferred more than $500 million to a somewhat enigmatic hedge fund called Camshaft. And when lenders who had lent by Jews uh funds did some digging, they discovered that this was uh a rather strange outfit. In fact, you point out that the business address for this fund had once been listed as being inside an IHOP, an international house of pancakes in Miami, which is, you know, kind of a remarkable thing. Um, tell us a little bit about this relationship by Jews had with this supposed hedge fund. Well, so let me back up just a little bit. Like you said, um, Baiu, uh, Baiju took this $1.2 2 billion loan from American lenders uh in 2022 and then um you know he probably the company needed money at that point because it had paid all this all this money to acquire these companies that I told you about White Hat Jr. Akash and so on. And as would come out later, uh the company's core business wasn't making a profit. In fact, it was making a loss. Uh so there was probably a big cash crunch of the company and that's why Baiu needed this term loan. Um and a a few months later, perhaps a year later, uh after Baiu started to default on the loan, uh repayment, uh the lenders started some legal action uh to try and recover the loan. And that's when they made this discovery that 533 million of this $1.2 2 billion dollars was had vanished. You know, they couldn't find it. And so they kept digging and finally discovered that the 533 million had been sent to a hedge fund called Camshaft like which like you said uh seemed like a very dubious operation because a company that handles hundreds of millions of dollars shouldn't have its office inside listed as as residing inside of an IHOP. pop. Um, and the company was run by a guy named William uh Morton who hadn't even finished high school uh, leave alone college. He just didn't seem to have the right background to be running such a large, you know, financial operation. Uh and so uh it it was it started to look like Baiu uh had simply diverted this money out of the loan uh without letting the lenders know uh because he wanted the money for something else. I mean I guess that's the question right Yudjit I mean to what end right? I mean, have you been able to sort of pinpoint why he undertook this transaction? I mean, he is quite defensive in the piece of saying, look, I mean, this was just he was advised to to go with this hedge fund. There was nothing untoward about it. Have you been able to kind of figure out what the objective of this was? I have not. Um I mean in the absence of any other explanation uh it would appear that this was just money taken out of uh you know out of the account simply for either for personal gain or to settle debts or to somehow um you know to invest in in sort of some secret uh ventures. ers, but you know, I hesitate to use the word stealing, but you know, if you speak to the lawyers of the American lenders, then that is the word that will spring to their tongue. Uh that essentially it appears that 533 million was just stolen from this term loan. I mean you went to see Baiju in Dubai and you know uh he's somebody who had accumulated a lot of money in a short period of time. He had appeared on the Forbes list of richest Indians. Um he was known to kind of have you know a kind of lavish lifestyle. He I think showed up in a Cadillac although what he showed you was something different right? I mean he took you for kind of a very simple South Indian meal of Italy sambar and you know was I think dressed in just kind of a plain t-shirt you know what did you make of him when you you you spent more than 5 hours with him? Yeah. So I I I was I was surprised. I mean I really did I I didn't think he was lying to me when he was saying that he was down to earth. I mean he he does seem pretty down to earth. Uh, and I I think that is genuine, but it's only half the story. You know, he also is the owner or has been the owner of just tens of millions, hundreds of millions of dollars. Um, I I learned about all the properties that he had owned in Bangalore. Um, I learned about all the cars that he had owned there. when he came to pick me up from the hotel, he did show up in uh a Cadillac. Uh which was very impressive. I mean, certainly for me because I drive a Prius. uh uh and and and so I had, you know, I got enough information from people that had worked for him uh that that made it clear that this was only like he was being very selective in sort of disclosing uh you know his his financial status uh and how accustomed he'd gotten to wealth. um not just him but also his his wife and co-founder of Baijus uh Diva Gokulath uh so it it's it's clear you know I'd heard from another source that that he lived in sort of this this really mansion of a house uh in Dubai um you know that that he wasn't he he wasn't hurting you know that that he was he was living a life of luxury. He'd been living in luxury for years, even though personally his own style is still fairly down to earth, but you know, I could be down to earth, you know, and still sort of own an island, you know, and then I could wear flip-flops on the island, you know, and I'd go like like I I' like I'd forsake chairs and couches and just sit on the floor. uh you know on my large estate like that that I mean so those two things can coexist and I feel like that's probably the the reality for Bai. I mean you know tell us a little bit uh about where things stand now with the company. I mean it seems like in your interactions uh he still holds out hope for regaining control of his company and if not uh successful in that endeavor that he would like to get back out uh start a new company. I mean he said that you know he could go out and teach and you know attract tens of thousands of people. So you know where do things stand today? Well I think his legal troubles have only been mounting. um you know the Delaware court um earlier this year it issued a judgment saying that yes you know but the 533 million had indeed been illegally transferred. Now there's a new lawsuit that specifically says uh that from the lenders uh accusing Baiu of having stolen the money of having engineered this this conspiracy along with others uh of stealing the money. So I think that Baiu will be quite busy for a while trying to defend himself against these charges. But look, the man clearly had a lot of charm at one point and I don't think that the charm has deserted him. I mean, I I quite sort of liked his company the few hours that I spent with him. I I knew that, you know, that he was being selective with the truth. I could tell that he was uh he was obiscating some details and and and I could tell that, you know, I would ask him questions and he would say, "Yes, I'll send you this document. I'll send you these names." And then he'd never send them to me. And that's a classic technique that you know that that people who are being less than honest often use. They'll promise things to your face and then they they'll never follow up. So, from all of those signs, I knew that he was being economical with the truth. Um, but he's still charming. He can still be persuasive. He can still convince people that he might be able to deliver. And look, as you can see, there are investors out there looking to plow their money into something that they think will bring them quick profits. And if he's able to persuade them that hey this is a new Baiju 2.0 this is going to be a 3.0 we'll have this other platform and you know we'll simply focus on tutoring or something like that. I mean he could change his narrative based on or he could change his pitch based on the new circumstances and perhaps he would succeed. Um but I don't think that these lawsuits are going away anytime soon. Um only in the last two or 3 weeks I I just read uh news that uh that a couple of the American companies uh of the Baiu empire that he had acquired a few years ago uh were recently sold at throwaway prices by the lenders because the lenders are trying to recoup their their loan. So if that that trend continues then I don't know how many resources he'll have left. Um and plus he'll be liable you know so I I don't think we've seen the end of the story. Um my personal feeling is that he started out with very good intentions but you know suddenly you know he couldn't believe it. He couldn't believe that he was he was seeing not tens but hundreds of millions of dollars flowing in. And I think that that may have destabilized him. It may have, you know, uh really derailed him from his absolutely original mission of just teaching math to kids and enjoying it. I do think that there's a core of truth to that. Um, so I wouldn't just, you know, be completely negative about the man's beginnings. Uh, but I don't think there's any doubt that in the last several years, you know, many of the practices that the that the company engaged in were either unethical or outright fraudulent. According to the court, you know, this this is I haven't been able to do a a a full in-depth analysis of their business practices. I I'm not competent to do that, but the court certainly has ruled uh decisively against him in the matter of the missing 533 million. I mean, I want to ask you by way of closing, you know, what do you think the larger lessons are from this debacle? was reading a editorial published in the Financial Times about the Baiju fiasco and I just want to quote uh a selection from that editorial. It says venture capitalists are by nature exuberant. As a result, they can sometimes stuff exciting companies with excess capital and press them to expand too quickly until the entire operation chokes leading them to jump ship. I'm wondering whether you sense in this particular case any meaningful reflection or learning when you speak to the various actors who were kind of implicated in this episode and that includes the investors who who doubled down and kept doubling down. Well, I came away with the feeling that some of the investors knew what was going on, but they had no incentive to stop the juggernaut from rolling on. The juggernaut of, you know, of of of inflated figures and, you know, and and false promises or or exaggerations. um they because they stood to benefit from it, you know, they they wanted the valuation to keep rising. Uh and so they were not going to go and clear the air or they were not going to pull Baiu aside and say, "Hey, we really need to see your profit and loss statement. We need to see ex, you know, nobody wanted to kick the tires because in in some corner of their mind, they knew that if they kick too hard, the whole car might crumble, you know. So uh so I think the lesson here is that you know there's a lesson for startups and there's a lesson for investors and then there's a lesson for the media there's a lesson for consumers of any type of technology um and there's a lesson for you know stockholders I mean if the company were to go public uh but I think startups need to again I'm not a startup consultant. But it seems that if Baiu had stuck to just the math app, if he had decided that he wouldn't acquire any new companies, if he had decided that he would just focus on his core competence, his own core competence and that of his founding team, then perhaps uh he would have been, you know, quite successful, but maybe he wouldn't have ever been a $22 billion company. He might have been a $2 billion company, but he might still be around as a $2 billion company. Uh, I think that's one lesson for investors. The lesson is to to really, you know, to do due diligence. I mean, it's the same lesson for journalists. You know, I come across information all the time or story ideas all the time that seem too good to be true. um that I don't, you know, that I would love to just run with. Uh but I have to wait and then I have to go back to all the sources. I have to look at it from all angles and be like, could this really be true? Where's the evidence? And it doesn't make any sense. And be the devil's advocate. Uh I mean, we know now in this, you know, we're living in an age of selfdeception. uh where hype kind of becomes reality like like within hours or days. Uh and so doesn't matter how many people think that something is true that by itself doesn't make it true. You know, just the fact that several investors believed that Baijus would succeed didn't mean that Baiju was fundamentally strong as a company, as a business. Uh so a new investor would have done well to say, look, I don't know what you guys are seeing. I need to see it first before I I put in money. I mean I I'm not saying anything that is that is radically new here. I'm just I'm just you know we just keep learning these I think we as in society as a whole keeps learning these lessons aresh with every disaster with you know with uh uh Elizabeth Holmes with you know with with Sam Alman with you know and now with Baiju they're all different cases you know I I'm not saying they're identical and that they're all thieves leaves and they're all frauds. I I don't know. I mean, I think the story is complicated and different for every single one, but the overarching lesson is the same, which is try to cut through the hype. There are investors who will very smartly try and find out well what does the company really need? you know what is what is the direction in which they need to expand and what resources will that require and let's put in those resources and not more than that uh let's also evaluate assess before putting in yet more money before releasing more funding I don't know I it it I'm sure that people have been saying this type of thing for decades And you know, and yet investors have still been falling in the traps knowingly because they can benefit because they think that if the valuation keeps rising, they can just sell and exit and it doesn't matter. You know that that they knew all along that there was no real business, no real profit underneath. they if I you know if they believe that the hype would carry them through well somebody's going to be left holding the bag and I think that's what happened and I should just point out as a final note that many of the investors who did invest did make out pretty well because they exited at the right time. Exactly. And you know and I I suppose somebody needs to investigate. It's also one thing that I found strange about the story when I was reporting it is how reluctant everyone was to talk about what went on. Um, I mean, I've never had this kind of experience reporting a story. I've reported tons of stories, you know, involving difficult subjects, involving crimes and corruption, espionage. Exactly. And I've never had this experience where, you know, everyone just shuts down and says, "I'm sorry, I can't talk to you. I won't tell you anything. Don't use my name. Even if I talk to you, I'll just, you know, talk to you for half an hour." I mean, it it was just really ridiculous. And I feel that there's a lot more to the story that that we have not unearthed at all. I mean what I've done here is you know I hope a good entertaining job and illuminating job but I think it only scratches the surface. Uh I think Praep Saha has done a pretty good job. Uh but I but I think that there's a lot more to be found about what investors knew what when um and why they made the decisions that they did uh to stay in when they stayed in to invest when they did and to exit when they did because it's impossible that none of them had any clue about what was really going on. My guest on the show this week is the journalist Yuthit Bachari. He's the author of a new piece for the online magazine Rest of World titled the math tutor and the missing $533 million. He's also a contributing writer at the New York Times magazine and his writing has appeared in esteemed places like the New Yorker, National Wired and elsewhere. You it was really a fascinating story. Um congrats on the piece and and thanks again for taking the time. Thank you so much Milan. I love talking to you. Grandmasha is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hind Times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Grand Theash, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mera Viz is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart glass.