================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: vNOSttvoC4s
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vNOSttvoC4s
TITLE: Vajpayee and the Making of the Modern BJP
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-03
DURATION: 1h 4m 18s
VIEWS: 755
LIKES: 6
COMMENTS: 0
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Believer’s Dilemma: Vajpayee and the Hindu Right’s Path to Power, 1977-2018 is the much anticipated second volume of author Abhishek Choudhary’s biography of former BJP prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The book traces his life from his stint as external affairs minister in the short-lived Janata government to his death in 2018 following a period of prolonged illness.

The first volume of this biography, Vajpayee; The Ascent of the Hindu Right, 1924-1977, was widely acclaimed, winning the 2023 Tata Literature First Book Award in 2023. Abhishek Choudhary studied economics in Delhi and Chennai, followed by stints in development and journalism.

To discuss part two of this exceptional work, which Ram Guha calls the “finest biography of an Indian prime minister that I have ever read,” Abhishek joins Milan on the podcast this week. They discuss Vajpayee’s entry into the Sangh Parivar, his turbulent stint as foreign minister, and his core ideological beliefs. Plus, the two discuss Vajpaye
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,823

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. Welcome to Grant Theamasha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Hindustan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bashnov. Believer's Dilemma Vajpi and the Hindu Rights Path to power 1977 to 2018 is the much anticipated second volume of author Abhishek Chri's biography of former BJP Prime Minister Atal Bihihari Vajay. The first volume of this biography Vajayi the ascent of the Hindu right 1924 to 1977 was widely acclaimed winning the 2023 Tata literature first book award. Abhishek studied economics in Delhi and Chennai followed by stints in development and journalism to discuss part two of this exceptional work which Rahm Guha calls the finest biography of any Indian prime minister I have ever read. Abhishek joins me on the podcast for the very first time. Abishek congratulations on this monumental achievement and thank you for taking the time. Thank you man for having me. Uh so we were in touch around the time volume one of this uh two volume study was published but by the time we got in touch uh you were already hard at work I think finishing volume two so we didn't have the chance to to converse. Um I I I want to spend most of our time talking about the most recent volume. But before I get into that um and without asking you to kind of recount the entire narrative arc of the first book, I wonder if you could just for our listeners say a few words about Vajay specifically, you know, where and how did he grow up? What was his path into first the Janung and then the broader SP ecosystem? Give us a a bit of a kind of character sketch about, you know, who this man was and what his roots were. So Wajo's family came from a village near Agra. So that place is called Bateseshwar. That's where he was born in December 1924 and that's where he spent his early childhood and at age 10 he was sent to Golia which was the capital of then Sindy old Golia state uh where his father worked as a school teacher. uh the town had a strong presence of Arisama and Hindu Mahasabha and very soon the RSS opened its uh branch there too and it became popular and the young he continued to volunteer with the RSS while you know finishing his formal education first his u secondary education and then his bachelor in Gualier and then he got a scholarship from the darbar to study m uh his masters at DA college Khanur uh after finishing ing his masters. He had signed a bond to serve the Gualier state for a few years but he got the waiver because independence and partition upset every card including the very fate of the Gualier state. Uh, of course it also came as a huge shock to the RSS, I mean the partition and they were trying to float mouthpieces across the country and Waji joined them in floating one in in Lacno. Uh, it was called Rajdar and it was a monthly and Adulari wajp was appointed as one of the two editors. Uh, this was in August 1947. It coincided exactly with uh the month of the partition. uh it it kind of took off because 5 months later he was given the charge of uh launching another mouthpiece. This was this time it was weekly. It it was called Punch Janya. This was in the second week of January. Punchya by the way is still very much in print. U and this was 2 weeks before Gandhi was murdered and all this while all the moth pieces of the RSS had been basically spilling uh venom on Gandhi. And so uh when the RSS was banned by the home ministry on the charges of you know helping create the environment in which Mahatma could be murdered uh the entire press was sealed and pretty much all of them were jailed. Uh I mean we don't have all the time so I wouldn't talk about in details about how exactly he evaded arrest etc. But the the the main point is that you know at a time at this time many other people were leaving the san pari and this was exactly the movement when waji backed them. He helped run the underground movement after during 194849 and that's how he very organically he got noticed and he rose up the hierarchy. uh four years later in he was moved to Delhi again as a journalist by the RSS. By by this time the Janisung had been launched and Waji had you know acquired a reputation of being a young guy who speaks very well and so on and he had started helping the Jan candidates in canvasing etc. Uh but even then his political career the very fact that he might actually end up becoming a politician was far from certain. I think it was only after Shamak Pushad Muphaji's death that Janis was in search of new faces and Watch happened to be one of them and uh Dinda Lupaday he made him fight a bipol from Lacano in 1955 and even though watchpai you know came third in that poll his popularity began to grow. Uh then came 1957 I think the party Janis must have been really desperate because they made him contest from three seats. Uh I am not an expert on election but I have never seen another example of uh of of a candidate fighting from three seats. Yeah. I mean two seats happens quite regularly for the for the biggest politicians but three is something else. I have never seen and and if you ever find out please uh let me know. I would want to see who that person is and why. So it must have been a rather unique situation and you know so he he lost one very badly and then he lost one very narrowly and he then he just about won one and that's how he became a parliamentarian and you know the rest is as they say history. Well well let's let's get into the rest now. You know, volume two starts in this pivotal year of 1977 and and you picked that dividing line between the two volumes of your biography. I'm I'm I'm sure quite uh purposefully. It it was a consequential year in that it was the first time you have a non- Congress government, namely the Jantaa coalition that uh occupied the seat of power in New Delhi after this 21 month traumatic period of the emergency under Mrs. Gandhi you write um that when you were sat down to write the second volume um which goes all the way until Vajay's death in 2018 um you encountered I think a much more difficult challenge of narration than you did in in the first volume and I wonder if you could just kind of step back and tell us a little bit about the kind of art and craft of writing biography. What was that challenge of narration you faced for volume two? Right. Right. I I have written Milan that it was the literary equivalent of a hungry tram desperately holding cigarette butts strewn by the roadside and and I actually meant it because you know um the primary archival sources on Wajo and the RSS are really scattered and scanned even to begin with even you know when you go looking for hunting for them you know from the 1940s and 50s and so on but by the 80s everything all archives basically dry up uh so we unlike like Americans or you know Britishers we don't have forget private papers we do not after the 60s we do not even have the intelligence files something that all you know any third rate democracy releases uh frequently after whatever stipulated time they have 30 years or 20 years or sometimes in 50 years. So I think that was uh that becomes that will become a problem for any modern historian of 20th century. Uh as a substitute I was forced to do other things. I escorted information out of literally dozens of newspapers and magazines. Uh and I had to japose them with interviews and uh other material from private collections, photos and souvenirs and letters and documents and so on. But I always I was always scared of you know the fact that the second that the second half might turn a little gossipy. So that was my my fear and this is something I've never talked about Milan but I want to talk about uh some of those things which the common errors that many biographers make. Um uh one is the limitation I realize the limitation of interview as a mode of research. I I have never mentioned it uh in the book. uh by by that what I mean is that politicians at the top generally are very shrewd at planting their versions on you and sometimes they exaggerate their role in the decisions and sometimes they have if they are old they have genuine memory lapses um and if you're not extremely extremely careful you might end up you know pariting what they are telling you you might end up you know quoting something entirely fious now that might work very well for a you know newspaper journalist because you know it's like X said this and Y said this so you are quoting but the I I think the point of a biography is uh you know not quotes the point of a biography is real psychological insights and that you know in that sense you know relying on interviews really distorts that and I could clearly because I have been with the subject for so long I could now I can see the the occasions when people are lying and you know politicians have a lot of stake lot at stake and they lie very very frequently they lie more frequently than you and I That is a big problem and uh I I think yeah of and the only way and see it's different if I was in my 70s and I was researching a book it would be different because then I would know people from older generation but as a young guy as as somebody who started off in the late 20s I found I I began to realize the limitation of interview. Yes, what works is that you know if you if you interview someone five times then they might begin to open up but if you just interview someone for the first time so versions differ significantly milan uh when I interviewed someone the first time and the fifth time the the it was almost like meeting a new person and I realized that you there multiple layers uh and that you have to peel off anyone uh and I mean I don't know if it's the right occasion to talk but part of the reason I think Vina got some things very crucial things wrong in the book was because I think he became a recipient of some of the plant and uh I think that's and that's an error that many of us make maybe I also have made that error in my book somewhere maybe I'll discover it 5 years down the line uh but what I meant is that these are some serious limitations and there was one more uh which is that you know quite apart from digging up waji's life or understanding the trajectory of the Hindu right I realized that so many things that I took for granted could in fact not be taken for granted and by that I some problems of historioggraphy. Now let me just explain it to you. Uh you know the most universal and the most cliched explanation Milan for Janata's disintegration you you read that in all books is the RSS's dual membership. Now when I dug deeper into this matter I realized that you know that was in fact a secondary reason. I realized that the most significant reason was that the Jantaa elders that is primarily Muraji Desai and certain sections of the Jansen faction they did not give Chan Singh or his middle class constituency the due that he thought or you know the middle class people thought they deserved during the Jantaa government. uh and I think not just jantaa even the successive congress governments in the 80s did not grasp the sociological undercurrents and then you know by 1990 the middle class casts broke the door open and suddenly we had lu in bihar suddenly we had mullay in UP and a few months later in 1990 the same year we had the mundal in broglio and even arwani I I strongly think arwani began his ratyatra partly to save a bp that was vertically split on mundal education because by then half of BJP letters MPs and MLAs were from middle class. So and now of course we have a middle class prime minister and I and I don't think India will ever have a long spell by a Brahmin prime minister ever again. Maybe that's not such a bad thing. Uh but what I'm trying to say is you know something like this story of middle class political ascent which manifest itself in a million ways including criminalization of politics about which you know much much better um uh and the fight for economic resources and so on. it bypassed me when I went with a secondary literature that was available and it was only while rewriting the second volume that I grasp it fully uh the essentially on so many other matters I realized that you know the secondary literature that I was reading that I had taken for granted was not necessarily how I came to see them while reworking on on a on various matters on something as basic as whether Babu demolition was planned on something as basic as whether nuclear tests were necessary on these matters which is why the reworking uh you know restructuring took uh slightly it was more painful. I mean you know what you're describing in a way abishek is kind of the the the classic kind of researchers dilemma right which is uh I mean even in my field political science you're when you're studying something that is a complicated political or kind of sociological phenomenon um there's no kind of silver bullet right I mean there's you may have survey data you may have some ethnographic work you may have interviews and it's it's it's really the truth or the closest approximation emerges as a kind of triangulation of sorts amongst different things where you look at kind of underlying variables and common themes and and and and so on and so forth. I I want to circle back to the question of the the middle classes the OBC's and so on. But be before I do that, let me just uh start uh by asking you about um the the shortlived JA government uh specifically Vaji's tenure as the external affairs minister. Um, one of the things I found so interesting about that chapter is you really go into much detail documenting the difficulty that Vajpi had in many ways in adapting to this role. And and at one point you note that he was kind of continually at the receiving end of and mockery from various sections inside and outside of the government. I guess the question is why do you think Vajay found his first ministerial stint such tough going? Do you think it was just simple kind of inexperience never having held the reigns of political governmental power or were there other factors involved? Right. Uh so Milan I think Waji loved his day job and in fact in some crucial ways or at least for the first few months uh it insulated him from the vagaries of day-to-day domestic real politicking and he was actually very happy with that. Uh yes of course Jantaa was his first experience with executive power and and beyond a point yes inexperience combined with other kinds of you know lack of in institutional precedent. uh for example by uh you know till then the the MEA had been held by the prime minister and it was an entirely new situation wherein the Jansen faction has a larger number than Moraji who had didn't have a great numbers and so there was this constant tension between Moraji and Waji on a variety of matters both domestic and foreign policy on pretty much they disagreed on pretty much everything uh they somehow managed to tolerate each other uh but they differed on everything and that that you know led to a lot of pressure and criticism and and self-doubt. But even then I would say by and large he loved his job and by and large he was willing to take risk and which is why despite uh the risk that you know his Chinese his visit to China in February 79 uh you know he might be humiliated he still went knowing that there was a chance that Chinese might attack Vietnam and they did and yet he came back and so in that sense he was foreign policy was one arena where he had original ideas and he was always willing to take risks he was always willing to try out new things I I think the the problem with Janata began a year later which is somewhere around mid78 and I think it had to do with the larger problem which is the sociological incompatibility of Janata's factions and which was at the lower level because there was a lot of violence inflicted on Daliths by uh middle casts uh and of course I mean in rural India that was a new phenomena of course quite apart from the upper class inflicting violence on both of them uh so that was happening that began in a major way during Jantaa government and also at the top you know there was a lot of hubris and conceit and ambition among the leaders and uh uh beyond a point it just didn't seem to work there was also a problem within San Piwar for the first time see executive power had made waji a bigger brand than the organization uh and given the janata's composition there was some kind of a duality that began by that I mean uh some decisions were taken in by the Jantaa party uh others by the RSS and you know other Jantaa constituents the socialists and others uh they began pressurizing Jansen elders to you know give away their RSS ties and the the the san was heard that Waji in all these debates he he began to speak like a referee uh and when the jantaa collapsed in 79 he aortioned you know some of the blame to Nagpur he said you were being directly political in a way you should not have been and I think it really hurt them that was the first time an insider was you know spilling beans and newspaper he basically wrote for Indian express an editorial long op uh so for an organization that thrived on secrecy and misinformation this was blasphemy so and that's where the problems with sari actually began and it continued you know throughout their lifetimes so it was a mix of all of those things that made jantaa stint a hell towards the end you know one of the things that you talk about during this period uh as the ja uh kind of experiment comes to an end is there is this search that Vajpai undergoes along with Elk Advani and and and other elders of that time about what the kind of ideological focus of the new BJP Bartha Jantaa party which came out of the Jansung is going to be and this is kind of in the you know early 1980s and you describe this kind of constant sort of flip-fpping that's going on uh Vajpi sometimes appears to endorse this kind of uh idea of integral humanism popularized by Dindal Lupady um as the kind of movement's guiding philosophy. At other points in time he goes back to endorse a kind of older kind of Gandhian socialism. tell us a little bit about the reasons for Vajay's kind of oscillation on this core question of ideology and what this new Avar the BJP would actually stand for right so Mil my one line answer and it might it might sound a little cocky and a bit of a slight oversimplification is that they did not have a definite economics uh if if you look at the larger trajectory uh depending on circumstances they could say everything and it's exact opposite but but but let me give you a longer answer which is that you we must step a little backward. So during the early Gwalker years, the 1940s, economics or foreign policy was never uh Sank Par's chief interest. Their chief interest was protecting Hindus or what they used to call saving Bhat Mata's soul. So they never thought about it in great details and when the Jansen was formed in 5152 they went about it in a very makeshift way. So economics was handled by Dinda Rupadi who was by the way not uh not a trained economist at all. He was a prcharic full-time pracharak who read a few couple of books and you know somehow merged Gandhiism and socialism and you know splashed it with a bit of saffron. So it was something like that. Uh waj and balas madhog did much of the talking on foreign policy. Uh but so it was much of it was ad hoc. So even if you look at what they say about nuclear test whether or not India should have nuclear uh tests or nuclear weapons you would see it went through 20 times they are saying yes we should have and then we should not have and during Wajo's years he went through at least 10 flip-flops uh on coming back to economics their ideas were never fully coherent they just shifted with political needs they rejected Congress style socialism in rhetoric but they and they favored decentralized ownership and encouragement of small traders and yet they accept est state planning. They endorsed protectionism and on certain matters such as land reforms uh you know it's it's like they avoided firm commitment in public and in private they were partly because they were party of rajaras and maharajas privately they were rather very opposed to it. So its leaders off into contradictory position so that you know depending on circumstances the party could you know plausibly argue both for and against the same economic measures that used to happen uh that confusion remained in the uh Jan all through all all through its years and then when they joined Janata and then they adopted JP's Gandhian socialism and after that part of the reason Waj adopted this was because he wanted to claim uh that BJP was the real uh heir of uh JP's ideology and That's why uh you know he did away with integral humanism and adopted Gandhi and socialism. Now both Gandhism and socialism you know it had been covered for vague defined ideologies and Waji when he was younger and more boisterous had derided both of them. But I think this one the present articulation of of that articulation of 1980 it was I think it was at once it was both tactical maneuver which was he wanted genuinely to see to uh you know for his party to be seen as progressive and centrist but it was and it was also a result of his intellectual awakening over the past years. So there was also a slightly genuine reformist streak. He thought that you know that would help BJP expand uh geographically across cast and communities. Of course the RSS elders never bought that. All of them thought that you know this kind of talk was what they used to call airy philosophiz philosophizing you know yeah yeah yeah and many of them didn't even they refused to even join BJ because of that said why are you using a word like socialism we have you know our we have a rich vocabulary of so many Indian words so they didn't even go for the tangri or nan didn't even go for the BJP's ever they actually they were part of BJP and yet never part they were always kind of a little a little pissed with uh that Gandhian socialism bit and you know I in one way I don't even blame them because in the end what was was Gandhian socialism it was basically a it was a mimicry of JP's own overs simplistic ideas uh you know for rural reessa uh what was it it was a it was a mimicry that was not entirely devoid of idealism but you know somehow more a result of yearning for a right kind of symbolism And clearly no one among BJP's largely urban voters bought it and which is why it led to one electoral disastrous after the other and they had to finally drop it in ' 86. You know 1989 was this kind of very pivotal year um and very important uh with respect to this conversation we've just been having on on ideology. Um, of course, it was around the time of the Mundle Commission report which recommended reservations for the other backward classes for civil service positions and higher education seats. It was the beginning of a 25- year period of coalition rule. It just predated market liberalization, the demolition of the Bobby Mustard, and so on and so forth. it 1989 though was the year as you put it that the BJP really dropped the pretense of being everything to everyone uh is how you've written it and I wonder if you could walk us through this transformation and how Vajay approached the question of whether or not the party should once and for all demonstrate a fullthroated embrace of Hindutva. Right. Right. Um Milan I I the sentence about BJP dropping the pretense of being everything to everyone. I meant it both in I meant it in ideological uh terms and also in electoral terms. But firstly let's discuss the electoral terms. Uh Waji was really stung by 84. So he bore the cross of 84 all through his life it continued. And we should mention this was the Lok Saba year in which the BJP won just two seats right in the entire Lok Sabha. Right. Let let me explain it to you. Uh it is and since you are a political scientist, you might appreciate it better than historians would. It is important to understand the sheer scale of BJP's misfortune in that election. So few parties would ever ever bear the vag of the first pass the post electoral system as badly as harshly as BJP did in 84. So they stood second to the winning candidates in 101 constituencies. Uh and they were so unlucky that you know uh CPM uh with 5.8% 8% of votes nationally won 22 seats. On the other hand, BJP with 7.7% won only two seats. Uh and the part of the reason was that see see with CPM their geographical spread is basically what Kerala and West Bengal with BJP their party was you know it was conspicuously present everywhere and yet nowhere was it so strong that you know it could not be ignored with impunity. So it was they realized that you know something had to be done about it. So that was the first point. Of course they also knew that some of some of the uh that embarrassment that stigma had to do with the sympathy wave after Mrs. Gandhi's murder as BJP's vote share might have been much higher. Uh but the larger point ideologically was that Congress was turning right and it was helping Congress electorally and people in BJP were slightly awkward with it because after all they thought we are the original Hindu gans party. Uh so Waji and and here is why I think he deserves some genuine credit. All through those years Waji tried very hard to not play uh uh the Hindu card. He kept reminding Indra Gandhi every now and then to not play the Hindu card and he told her repeatedly that you know this is a dangerous game. You will hurt yourself and you will hurt you know the country. And in a way he was right. I mean Mrs. Gandhi in the end she did what she did and in some way she paid with her poor things. she with her life. But Rajiv also I mean with Rajiv there was another problem. Rajiv was young and immature and you know by turn he was soft on the Hindu right and the Muslim right. Uh and some people I interviewed in in RSS in Nagpur they say Raji was the only prime minister who was multi-communal. So now this is of course a retrospective judgment and certainly very different from uh what people in South Bombay you know they think of Rajiv Gandhi as you know the Beatles lover and so on. uh but there is a very strong part of Rajiv that being multi-communal uh that tag sticks to Rajiv Gandhi too which many Indian liberals have never talked about and something that you know that that kind of later helped BJP um uh so basically uh Waji in that circumstance the he he waited for many years and then he he he decided and again very reluctantly to support his party hardliners on two things because the Gandhian socialism was not working and he He was told that look we gave you 6 years 7 years how long do you want us to struggle? It was that and Waj I mean he was just very isolated within his party so much so that in ' 86 people were not even very excited to send him to Raj Sabha and again these were things that really stung him. He had been the face of the party for nearly three decades and here the you know hardliners were saying that we don't trust why do you need a rata why do you need to be in parliament so given the congress turned towards the right and waji was more or less forced uh he was reluctantly you know he decided then to side with the party hardliners on two things and that was at palumpur that's how they passed the palampur resolution in 1988 because nothing else was working out so then He agreed very reluctantly about BJP's plunge into Iayodha. I mean had it not been for Waj, BJP would have supported Aayodha since ' 83. They actually formally plunged in 88 and in those five years it was because of Waj you know he was the one who stood uh who who who ensured that the party did not plunge into Aayodhya and then it was also around that time that you know BJP more or less okayed a future collaboration with Shivena especially in Maharashtra. uh some Waji had been opposed to both these things. [Music] Hey Granthamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Grand Theash, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. [Music] So, so Aodia one can understand I mean because of the the the national repercussions uh and and we saw the national repercussions post92 of course but just for our listeners say just say one word about why was Vaj skeptical about a tie up with the Takres and Shiv Senna because by then uh they had started targeting they had changed their tactic by then they had you know they had basically Ship Shenna was targeting first uh uh South Indians and by the mid 1980s again Ship Shenna was basically like basically started targeting Muslims too. So in the 1987 87 V parlay bipole election uh Balthak made speeches for which by the way he was he was banned uh from contesting elections for almost 10 years I think. uh and it was part of the larger move towards the right uh and basically Waj wanted to a avoid his party turning right and he certainly did not want his party turning right and then you know collaborating with another right-wing party so that was his that was his uh dilemma but but by 1988 he didn't have a choice and so he said okay uh because he was also on the sideline you know BJP had kept a door open for VPC so watch was hoping something would work out with VPC But again VP Singh was too self-conscious and he was also like every politician had his own calculations. VP Singh was also hoping to get communist support and communist said if you bring on BJP we will not collaborate with you and so all of so late 1980s Milan are there a really confusing period and a really event packed period. U well also you know you you mentioned in the book that Vajay also considered at one point leaving the BJP and joining BP Singh altogether. Right. Right. Right. That's true. That's right. That's right. I mean he realized eventually because VP Singh was not offering him a clear-cut program and VP Singh was too much his own man and and in the final analysis VP Singh did not have uh he had become something of Arvin Kival of sorts uh but he did not have an organization and and as an organization man Waji had been with Sang Pariad and he knew he had been part of you know he had more or less erected a political party bottoms up so he had some idea of what it takes to sustain a party for a generation or two if not more and so he somehow he couldn't trust uh VP Singh and so he returned even though he was not very happy uh with BJP and and the turn RSS was saying some mean RSS were also trying to bur Rajiv Gandhi so it was basically a very confusing very muddled period anyhow by the end of 1989 you know they met in Palampur and uh BJP decided that okay we'll keep all doors open we'll collaborate with Ship Sennena and if BP Singh wants we will also you know collaborate with him on uncertainties is basically they wanted to host Rajiv Gandhi uh and you know there's a very interesting uh line in that document Adwani says that you know to acquire a sizable presence for BJP in Lok Sabha so uh that was that would be one of the aims so whether in power or outside the party can quote unquote play the role of uh you know a nucleus in Indian politics and that let us resolve to achieve these objectives if other opposition friends cooperate with them if they do not without them and if they oppose in spite of them. So see we in in Ardwani BJP formed a clarity that was missing in Wajpai. Wajpai had mixed into the gray of socialist politics. So the cater was then enthused by this clarity. uh and yeah Waj po was sulking all this while he was still not very happy and if if you remember uh 1989 was the only time Milan that Wajo in his in his career of almost six decades he was still bearing the scars of the defeat and for some reason he had whatever hunch he had he decided to not fight in the election he he adwani instead he he suggested Adwani to make uh Loka debut and he swapped positions with Adwani and by the way Adwani was 62 when he fought his first Lok Sava election. So Hadwani celebrity was a little came a little late. It's unusual for a politician to fight first Lok Sava at 6. Very unusual. I mean this is a kind of nice segue because you know volume two in many ways is not just a biography of Vajay but you know it's also a study of the kind of human dynamics between these two men. you have Vajpai who was always um uh or usually kind of in front and then you you have this longtime collaborator Elk Advani who at times was also uh the front man. Um but you know you say that for for for most of the period except for maybe the years 1989 1992 give or take Advani had sort of deferred to Vajpi for most of his career. You know tell us a little bit about the kind of unique partnership between these two men. I mean, you know, the the kind of simplistic thumbnail sketch we've always been told is, you know, Advani was the hardliner and Vajay was the kind of uh, you know, the mask and so you had a kind of good cop bad cop kind of routine. But tell us a little bit having studied both of these men because their lives were so inextricably linked, you know, how do you understand the nature of their partnership? Right. Right. I mean, I was recently asked how I would sum it up in one word and I said I would say brotherhood. Uh but let me give a longer answer. Yes, I do think there was rivalry between them. Yes, they wounded each other on some occasions. But the crucial thing is there was always a deep personal affection uh that was forged in their youth that endured for almost six decades. Um so they met in 52 they started working together in 57. Arwani came on board as his researcher. He helped Waj tackle or let's say attack Neu in parliament. And if and if you remember Waji managed to get a white paper on the matter of you know Chinese capture of Tibet and for that I think some of the credit does go to Adwani and while Waji continued to be the face Arwani remained the backroom boy. I think it was only after Dinda Lupady's death in in Feb 1968 that his climb was faster and it was of course backed by Waji himself. Um uh 5 years later watch Adwani was made the party president in 73 and then they were together in jail during emergency for a few weeks and all through emergency Waj was in you know in touch with Adwani through letters uh again during the Jantaa government they agreed on most matters and I think up to 1983 uh you know uh Adwani more or less agreed with everything uh that was said it was only after BJP's defeat in Delhi that year you know the one place the place they actually held power that they had got won during Janda government that Adwani began to tilt towards the hardliners because you know there were a series of electoral defeats and after 1984 a little more so at the same time it is Milan very crucial to understand that Arwani always ensured that Waji did not feel neglected by that I mean if Waji continue to stick with BJP and the larger SP I think much of the credit for that actually goes to Advani because he kind of became a bridge between Uh and so even when they def deferred as they did on Aayoda there was a lot of mutual affection and respect between them. The a meltdown came in 91 u till then Adwani kept saying that you know if BJP ever wins power of course Adeli will be our prime minister. After the yatra ratiatra what happened was he got fame and after that you know BJP did even better in ' 91 and hardliner somehow convinced him to take up the leader of opposition role and Adwani I think was still not entirely sure if he should do that because he knew it would create problems between them and somehow you know I mean l there was a slight lack of communication and he took up that job and that really hurt Waji I think again their relationship uh remained very close and after the demolition when Adwani was arrested Wajpai came to his defense in street and in parliament. Um and I think that softened Adwani slightly and after he got stung in Hala uh he realized that you know Waji was better suited for the top job and of course there was also post Babri demolition there were also the other thing that you know many parties that were shy of collaborating with the BJP they they said we'll come around only if Waji is the candidate. uh so with all these things in mind and more generally there was an old psychological compulsion that you know Adwani had deferred to Wash all his life and somehow invitably thought that you know he was a better candidate he passed on the battle and that's how BJP came to power in you know for 13 days in 96 and then for more or less 6 years in during 98 2004 I think the one major the last major complication was the presence of brakes mishra uh I don't think waji brought that you know as opposed to the cliche to check adwani I Vaj Pay wanted we should just remind our listeners Mishra was the personal private secretary to Vajpi but also dualheaded as a national security adviser. Right. Right. Right. The first national security adviser. Right. Uh and I'm actually coming to just that very point. Uh I think Vaj's aim was he wanted somebody who could give keep by and large S pariar and he wanted someone who could run the bureaucracy and handle the day-to-day administration. So he could he was not a man of micro details ever unlike Manon Singh. So his thing was he wanted to focus on larger ideas and he had many larger ideas uh and and leave all the details of implementation to Mishra who in turn would delegate they were it was watch PMO was very good in some at delegating work. Uh so that happened and the clash between Adwani and Mishra some of it came from the fact that you know the institution was new the institution of national security adviser was new uh and you know in such cases it took and there were so many overlapping jurisdiction it happens everywhere uh between home ministry and the national security advisor's office and it was the first time which is why it led to some serious friction And yet uh the important point is that even there even on those days during those days when they met each other privately uh separately they genuinely enjoyed each other's company they could very easily be with each other for three or four hours and not get bored at all. In fact they liked spending time with each other. Uh so that always that was always there and Waji named him successor in 2005. He defend he was the only person who defended him during Adwari's jina episode and he of course he also allowed himself to to be wheeled into parliament to vote against nuclear deal something he did not want to do in private and he did all of that just so you know Arwani could have a sword at the top job you know he thought that Arwani deserved it because you know he he had backed him up uh I mean that did not happen is another story altogether I'm telling you the larger trajectory and this whole cliche about moderate versus hardliner yeah So, you know, we could have an entire podcast just about the Bob demolition, but um because there are so many other topics that I want to cover with you, let me just ask you one question on that, and it's something that you already kind of mentioned in passing, but I wonder if you could just unpack it a bit. Um you noted in the book that Vajpay was really the only major kind of politician uh at least from the Hindu right to kind of come out unscathed from Bob's uh takeown in '92. Right. And I wonder if you could just say a word on that. Why what allowed Vaj to emerge from this massive controversy with relatively little baggage compared to all the others? Right. Right. Right. Um well milan some of it was an old reputation that had he had cultivated over the decades as that of an enlightened conservative. Uh it was also public knowledge that for a very long time as we just discussed between 193 to 1983 to 888 he had stopped his party from plunging into Aodia and Waji was personally never linked to the planning or the actual execution of the demolition. He was kept out by the hardliners. actually they preferred that he did some talking here and there and that watch pay was not that he did his own thing. Um and for the same reason and this is the most crucial one he was not present in Iayodia on the 6th. Many observers think or rather he chose to absent himself from Iayodha on 6th December 92. Many observers think had he been in iodia that day he would never have become prime minister. No, I mean I don't necessarily agree with that but we can debate it. But uh the the the point is by and large most people in media and politics thought that he was genuinely upset with the demolition and they thought that his defense of his party and the largest S para was an act of compulsion rather than conviction. The truth I think lies somewhere in between but I mean in these matters perception matters. Truth doesn't matter and he clearly he benefited enjoyed the benefit of the dog for a very long time. I think the only time he was actually blamed formally for was by labor hunt commission in 2009. Um but by then he had retired so it didn't m it didn't matter and BJP of course used those charges as uh of his indirect involvement to discredit the report itself. But if you ask me as a researcher I would say liberan commission you know uh was right about one basic fact which was that the demolition was planned. So you know you have so many disruptions going on around the same time you know as we already discussed you had the Mundo commission report you had the masid and of course the third of that kind of trio was the kind of market liberalization and the the rapid change of the kind of makeup of the Indian economy and its relationship with the world it relationship with private capital and so on and so forth you write that in a way Vaji inherited the kind of liberalization privatization globalization paradigm. It's a paradigm that was set into motion by uh Narcia Mara Man Singh that entire team that was in place in 1991. But when Vajay was in office from 98 to 2004, he doubled down on many of these kind of free market reforms. And you know to to to to kind of link this back to our earlier conversation on ideology, what did you learn about Vajpi's own economic convictions, right? And and how did they compare or contrast with the views of other major party leaders like Advani and key players in the Sun ecosystem? So Milan even though a few times he strategically opposed the reforms in public basically to throw mud on RA and Congress and so on it was petty postering because all the while he did hold a basic conviction that government ought to spend its resources on the core sectors which is education, health and defense and atomic energy and so on and he did believe that other sectors could benefit from a rush of private entrepreneurial energy and you know he used to joke that you know we excel at only two things. uh you know he used to say if you know Hindi you know it's like so it's a revealing we're we're good at beauty contests and and it yeah he used to say that the world knows us only for these two things and the sure way of killing it would be if you bring it within government so he did he had seen red tipism firsthand all all through these decades uh and he knew what it how it hurt the economy. So there was a part of him that strongly wanted to do away with controls. Um but there's also another thing Milan which is when I talk about this whole liberalization privatization globalization paradigm uh that you know others had set rolling. I mean that you know by and large all parties except communists agreed by the uh you know late '9s on the need to quote Americans the need to quote IMF and W uh World Bank and their recommended growth models and something else happened but ironically after the nuclear test and the you know uh reproachment with the west and you know the sanctions that followed and after that the uh it made the opening of the economy even more urgent but again it in when he tried to broaden or deepen the economic reforms it angered the Swisses within his ideological family uh because while in he had himself to blame part of the reason was he had himself to blame because opportunistically in India every opposition leader opposes liberalization and then when they are in party if they are responsible people they try doing something about it and I do think that you know Dutri's criticisms dutrier he founded bharti mazdur and later Sudishi Jagran Munch in 93 to oppose liberalization and they were lifelong friends they were almost exact contemporaries uh I think some of his criticisms about the unfairness of global trade I don't think it it wasn't entirely devoid of merit I mean what we are seeing right now you know you see what is happening now we have 50% tariff and one could say that you know he did after all the old man had a point but also but back then we had Clinton and later Bush uh after 2000. uh and I think in that situation you know Tangris was a mostly black and white world in which you know for all of them it was that you know international trade means a take capitalist Vatican conspiracy to to rob India of its sovereignty and you know he had those ideas about a parallel floating the parallel WTO and I think you know Waji had so many limitations he was an old man he had he didn't have the econom neither the vision nor the bandwidth to you know erect an alternate economic system and in any case like which developing country would think of India as you know angel of altruism you know nobody would ac nobody is going to quit the WTO and join you. So I think deep inside psychologically speaking I think some of it was simply inertia because clearly present generation of uh BMS and SGM leaders have no problem with capital. I think back then these were people who had spent a lifetime opposing a government. Uh and with Wajpai's survival perpetually on tender hooks they were also a little worry of being seen as co-opted by Waj's coalition. So it was in this confusing milu you know it became really impossible. It was impossible to separate genuine ideological grievances from habit ideas such as you know quitting the WTO petty postering and sometimes merely personal ego clashes. They they were all exact contemporaries and I'm I'm pretty sure that you know they used to think that you know here is one man he has all the power he has all the prestige he has a loving family and you know he has the love of the country and what do we get we are in our 80s and you know he he's not moving ahead on any of our demands and you know they don't even pay us adequate respect there was also some petty personal jealousy in in all of that of course they all pass it off pass it off as you know uh in in terms of crit criticism of economics and foreign policy. But there was also that element to it the human dynamics of having grown up together in an ideological movement 50 years and then comparing that oh it's like in academia that that you know someone has to do a postto for 10 years and someone become professor so you know it's a very human thing in in in in in some ways but in any case Waj went ahead and he did what he had to so all of them opposed this dis this investment uh and and pretty much all of them opposed all reforms and and Waj he tried he had a two-way strategy basically he would uh British Mishra would approach Congress people who had a majority in Rajy Sabha and uh they he would basically try to enthuse them sufficiently to support the government and if they if Congress only if Congress agreed to support something now Waji would then go to NDA and present the plan as a fate and what will happen was and this am and this really angered RSS people because what he would do is the promote Mahajan would issue the whip so that all BJP MPs should be forced to support a particular bill and half of those MPs has sympathies with you know BMS and SGM. So half of them did not want to and you know and yet you know a whip was issued and everyone has to vote in favor of passing the bill and that's how that's how watch succeeded in amending patent laws and insurance laws and a few other crucial legislations that got passed but every single transaction villain it was really hard fought because I I understood that you know in India nobody wants economic reforms of any kind not opposition not sank par not the allies I mean at least at that point uh even when it's badly required. You know this is the first time I think in this conversation promote Mahajin's name has come up. I mean just as a footnote uh this book gave me the greatest insights into him and and also reminded me how you know there's a target of a biography that's just you know waiting to be plucked right for those of you listening to this podcast. Um somebody who India would have been different and Mr. Modi would have had a really tough time had he been alive. Yeah. and and and somebody whose name we don't remember uh because you know it's India is such a young country people have moved on bra mahajin is kind of a name from from the the history books but had such a pivotal role and it is kind of fun reading your book to think about the counterfactual right right right I mean just one point I think after the 2002 December win in Gujarat I think it was Shikhar Gupta who wrote an art article saying that Modi might be hindutwa's next leader and promote mahhatan called him up and and told him so you know so he was quite quite a character. I want to in fact just spend one minute on 2002 because obviously you know this was one of the most controversial moments of Vajay's career. It was his decision not to sack the then chief minister Narendra Modi after the 2002 Gujarat riots. You write in the book that um Vajay was was was pretty clear that the failure in Gujarat was a mix. It was a mix of Modi's deliberate administrative uh inefficiency and the kind of Sun's planned vendetta. And I'm wondering if you could just kind of peel back the curtain a bit and tell us about what do you think in the final analysis uh in the final analysis were the factors that prevented Vajay from ultimately sidelining Modi. Right. Basically Milan Waji one has to step back a little and see the larger picture. So basically when Waji got the top job it was on the condition that the San Par would put their all core agendas on hold because they needed to quote allies by that by by core agendas they had three pet agendas which was basically abolishing article 370 implementing UCC and building Ram temple. Modi has fulfilled already two of them and the third one is in the process I suppose. Uh anyways but talking about back then uh most of BJP's allies opposed those goals. But they remained central to you know the emotional world of world of Sanwar. Uh now Wajp's job was to you know have Spar support and yet somehow balance the contradiction survive in office and get work done. What happened was that by early 2002 the patience of San Par was you know wearing thing. Uh so it was Wajo's lack of progress on those three core demands that when this go Modi thing the after post riots that made it harder for Waji to sack or even swap Modi they were not even willing to swap Modi for Kasham Kashinatra Kasharam Rana in Gujarat which was Waj's original proposal. Basically what happened was that you know there was a four member team that was meeting every day every every day at 7 RCR or every week. Uh that was Waji Adwani and Kushawak and Madas Dvi and uh the the Madundas Dvi was a senior RSS leader. Um so the party had basically lost all major assembly polls before that uh you know five or six major losses and Gujarat was the last place where they had a majority and Gujarat was also awaiting polls in less than a year uh and they thought that you know firing Modi would be a top- down decision and they thought that firing Modi would pit you know the the center against the local carriers and it basically worsen the confusion on the ground and this this midway solution could be that you know and they they tried to act clever and they said that okay let's do something let's call for early elections and they somehow calculated that you know there was a Hindu resurgence at work and they thought that party would massively benefit they were more or less right about that and on side by side par was also carrying a fierce whisper cap basically their plan was that Modi had to be defended at all costs they had they had found a poster boy in Modi and they said okay wajpai is already, you know, too old. He is too out of sync with the party's dominant mode mood and he has led us into one electoral mishap after the other and he keeps threatening resignation himself. So why not we go to him and ask him to formally resign. So basically he was like Waji has entered the fifth year of office. Um maybe he should you know demit in favor of Adwani. So they actually uh there was the former RSS chief was on his literally he had Raju Bay Rajendra Singh had made way for KS Sudashan and he was almost literally on his deathbed when he went to meet Waj Bay and to beg him that why don't you you know he indirectly said why don't you resign and just go become president or some such and but Waj loved power too much uh anyway so he was clearly not in a mood to resign and he was surprised by the force of Modi's backing especially you know and in Goa uh and then He realized that you know his authority was fading so he did what he had done in the past. He choose to he chose to fall in line and that's what happened at the end and that's how Mr. Modi survived. I want to just ask you about the last general election campaign that Vajpai fought which was the infamous 2004 quote unquote India shining campaign. Um, one of the interesting things that you uncover is that Vajay throughout the campaign was quite unhappy uh with this kind of India shining narrative because he he thought that the campaign thrust should have been much more pro poor from the start and in fact at one point the PMO replaced India shining as the kind of key campaign slogan with the much more kind of sober uh dreams for new India. Um why did Vajb break with his colleagues and and and why was he not able to convince them because you know there's a whole debate and you talk about this and in fact it goes into the footnotes of the book about you know to what extent was India Shining really responsible for the loss or not but be that as may the perception certainly is that it it hurt them rather than help them. What did he see that his party colleagues did not see? Well Milan I wouldn't say he broke with his colleagues so much. I think it was it was more a matter of giving the campaign a slightly balanced a slightly po poor tilt. But what happened was you know there was an informal division of labor and promote mahajan whom Waji trusted almost blindly at this point. Promote was running the campaign. uh but Waji realized that there had been a mistake but by the time he realized the mistake uh and uh PMO you know replaced India shining with a more overdk uh I think it was a bit late but I would still I I would I would come back and I would still say that you know the blame placed on India shining campaign is somewhat misplaced and somewhat exaggerated. Uh voters were unlikely to reject BJP simply just because it ran a campaign called India shining. I think it's it's it's more like the it's it's mostly it comes from English media in Delhi because in a small town Bihar I was on my uh post my boarding school estate I was spending some time in my ancestral village and the slogan I remember is that of the one in Hindi which was bat U in which translates as India rising not so much as India shining and Bat U was more or less I mean you can't say it was a fraudulent phrasing Because the truth was that some some pockets of India had found prosperity like never before. See now we we take for granted in 2025 that you know being second largest second fastest growing economy the cliches and so on. And it's true that you know we must focus on redistribution etc. But our short memory uh means that we don't recall that as late as 50 years earlier you know India's perception uh across the world. I mean we had a former uh American ambassador to Delhi saying that saying during emergency that India was capable of nothing except you know exporting communicable diseases to have simply moved from that kind of racist framing racist dismissal to a degree of grudging admiration. It was in some ways a real achievement and Waj deserved some credit and he took that credit but he you know he was also aware of the basic fact that much of role India was not shining at all and some things were happening you know Sik Shabyan had taken over and so on but I think the major problem was that agriculture had stagnated everywhere and health I mean of course uh uh there had been no investment in irrigation storage uh the price of some of the basic goods had doubled or tripled for example price of kerosene and so on. So overall they should have been a little more careful from the beginning but I would still say India shining millon was more of a symptom. It was not a cause for the defeat. I I want to just ask you maybe as a way of wrapping up a uh a question just about kind of the final years of Vajay's life, right? You have this really uh tragic line which is on the penultimate page of the book uh when describing Vajay's later years, you say he didn't die year after year, though he didn't quite live, right? Which is kind of a sort of a haunting line. tell us a little bit about what his life was like in his final years and and do we know anything given the limitations on him about his views on the BJP's trajectory kind of after he left the scene right uh so uh Milan Wajp had a rather debilitating stroke in 2007 uh which was kept a secret at the time uh he couldn't recover from it and gradually faded from public life and politics and I also written about his tragic last visit to parliament about the nuclear deal and so on. Um but yes he did have some sense that things were not going well. So in 2009 there was another Jenna controversy when Singh wrote a book if you remember portraying Jenna in a slightly more favorable light than BJP would have liked him to and he was swiftly expelled and even even very crucially even Adwani did not support him. Then watch was just about conscious enough to I think register that expulsion and when just one thing went to see him he asked what had gone wrong and so on but I think he was he was almost on the verge of losing awareness and surely I mean shortly thereafter he lost awareness. Um so clearly there are no conversations with Waji from 2010 and this is exactly when the tide began to turn. you know if you remember first with the common will games scam and then with the Anna movement next year and so on. Uh but by then he had turned more or less comes and yeah it was it yeah I mean it was it was actually haunting to talk to people about his last days because it was depressing because uh you know they had been his fanboys and colleagues all his life and they would say you know we would go to him to have a chat and they he he would stare blankly like a child and you know it would take them a while to understand that you know he wasn't understanding everything. it was the dementia had set in and so on. Uh so in some way it also you know reminded villain of their own end their own mortality. Uh and pretty much his house had turned into a temple by the end and I think before long by 2011 Mr. Waji had already more or less uh you know passed on from politics to history. So yeah that's how I concluded that he became a remissance in his own lifetime. My guest on the show this week is Abhishek Chri. He is the author of a two volume biography of the former BJP prime minister Adul Bihari Vajpi. The second volume is called Believers Dilemma Vajpay in the Hindu rights path to power 1977 to 2018. Uh one of the things I was doing Abhishek uh when I was was was reading uh about about the book after I'd finished the book was I was looking at reviews on Amazon for some reason and I just want to quote what one uh reader of your book has said. He said, "How often do we come across a biography that tells an unbiased story? Most biographies tend to portray their subjects either as flawless heroes or complete villains. Just pick any and the pattern is hard to miss." Vajay too was a leader shaped by his struggles, limitations, convictions, love, and successes. This book captures all of that with remarkable honesty and depth. And it's not just the story of Vajay. It's the story of our leaders and of our country. It helps us understand why India was the way it was and why it is what it is today. I thought it was a beautiful comment and a real testament to your book Abishek. Thank you so much for this pathbreaking two volume study and but uh most importantly thanks uh for taking the time out to to talk to me today. Thank you Van. It was a pleasure talking to you. Granda is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hind times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show to support the work we do on Granthamasha and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mera Viz is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart [Music]