================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: xIxkHaTblLs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xIxkHaTblLs
TITLE: Ep 415: Ramki and the Ocean of Stories
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-04-14
DURATION: 4h 49m 24s
VIEWS: 2,428
LIKES: 39
COMMENTS: 3

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
He observed our society from up close as an advertising man -- and then became an iconic storyteller on Twitter. Ramakrishna Desiraju aka Ramki joins Amit Varma in episode 415 of The Seen and the Unseen to talk about his journey, and all that it taught him.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Ramakrishna Desiraju aka Ramki on LinkedIn and Twitter.  2. Cartwheel Creative Consultancy. 3. Selected legendary threads by Ramki. 4. Ramki's commercial for Kotak Mahindra Bank featuring Ranveer Singh. 5. Celluloid Man -- Shivendra Singh Dungarpur. 6. The Secret Life of Walter Mitty -- James Thurber. 7. Mungerilal Ke Haseen Sapne -- Prakash Jha. 8. All We Imagine as Light -- Payal Kapadia. 9. Heere Ko Kya Pata -- SBI Life Insurance commercial by Prasoon Pandey. 10. The Prem Panicker Files — Episode 217 of The Seen and the Unseen. 11. Dead Poet's Society -- Peter Weir. 12. The Spectacular Life of Prahlad Kakar -- Episode 414 of The Seen and the Unseen. 13. Rumbl
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 54,597

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
When it comes to understanding society, who has the most skin in the game? My answer might be counterintuitive to you. I would say someone who works in advertising has the best incentive to understand society. It's definitely not the sociologist or the anthropologist in a university. They are stuck in silos. They have to follow academic fashions of the day. They are tied down by conventional thinking and the thought police. and their incentives are all wrong. That is why so much work coming out of academia often seems to have no connection with the real world. But advertising is different. You have to sell product. To sell product, you need to understand the buyer. Who is she? What does she want? Why does she want what she wants? How are her desires changing? What stories can you tell that will grab her attention and win her loyalty? As society changes, people in advertising, at least the good ones, have to keep updating their priors. Their survival depends on it. This is why I say that a TV commercial for wheel detergent will tell you more about the Indian housewife than any academic paper in a sociology journal. And what about a 5-hour conversation with an advertising man? That could work too. Welcome to the Scene and the Unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics, and behavioral science. Please welcome your host, Amit Varma. Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My guest today is Ramak Krishna Desi Raju better known as Rami within the advertising world and on Twitter and he's a near legend in both worlds. Ramki did his engineering in the 1980s went to IM Aidabad and amazingly enough chose to be a copywriter. He started with Mudra went on to lead creative at Lintas and JWT and eventually formed his own company Cartwheel creative consultancy. with cartwheel. He's done many famous campaigns including his iconic commercial for Kotak with Ranir Singh which is linked in the show notes and which we discussed in some detail in this conversation. I'd met Ramki once when I was a kid some 35 years ago and had followed his career since then from the periphery. Then I noticed him again a few years ago when he became a Twitter superstar. Ramki came to fame on Twitter as someone who told these delightfully entertaining threaded stories and people have even compared him with good reason to the likes of Oh Henry and Saki. I reconnected with him a while back and said, "Hey, remember me? Let's do an episode and it turned out that he listened to the scene and the unseen. So he agreed right away. It took a little time to make the logistics work, but we finally happened to end up in the same place which was my home studio and we made it happen. I found so much insight in this conversation and also so much entertainment. and I know you'll enjoy it too. But before we begin, let's take a quick commercial break. Many of the things I have learned in my life, I had to learn on my own. I think you'll agree with me that our education system doesn't teach us so many things that we need to make the most of ourselves in this world. I learned my lessons when life happened to me and I happen to be paying attention. For many years now, I've been thinking what are the essential life lessons that everyone should learn to be able to live a complete life. I invited my friend AJ Sha to join me on the intellectual challenge of figuring this out and then we decided to put together a course where we would actually teach this stuff. So we created life lessons which you can check out at lifelesssons.co.in. In this 5week course running across five Saturdays, we have put together 15 webinars that are intended to help launch you down journeys of discovery. We will speak about learning how to learn, learning how to think, mindsets, mental models, clear writing, how to communicate better, quantitative intuition, probabilistic thinking, the history of thought, the foundations of economics, and even practical matters like how to think about personal finance and how to think about personal health. People who do the course also get to be part of a larger community that will have in-person meetups once a year. Basically, while we've always been sharing what we have learned in a peacemeal way in our show and our writings here and there diffused, this is an effort to synthesize our knowledge for you. So, please head on over to check out life lessons at lifelesssons.co.in. Never stop learning. Ramy, welcome to the scene and the unseen. Thanks, Amed. Finally, we made it. You know just before we started uh recording this you were talking about um the great PK uh the legend of the film archives of India in Pune and you were speaking about this uh uh film made by Shivendra Singh on him and you described that there are scenes in the film which show Mr. and I just you're sitting alone and watching a film and taking notes on a pad and then later being able to tell you years later if you mentioned some particular scene and said I don't remember which film it was from he would tell you the film he would tell you which real it was from because it is you know in a physical real and all that right and I love stories like that and I love sort of passions like that that you know when a person gives his life to something and it is just pure love there's nothing instrumental it's just it's it's a love affair you spoke about your father-in-law's love affair with football. He was a football reporter and he just knew the sport so intimately. You spoke about a mutual acquaintance of ours, a late Shamin Desai. Um, uh, you know, and his love for cinema and so on and so forth. What are what is the closest thing in your life that comes to being something that you just have that unconditional, you know, love for that you really care about? H I guess it's maybe something to do with words. Uh words have always kind of had a strange fascination for me. I just love things to do with original words and ethmology and how the story started and and uh words which unpack a story you know uh are really really nice. I I remember like way back in my engineering days when people would write all these GRE GMATs and TOEFL and all those things there would be these people was trying to increase the vocabulary in a hurry and there were these books that they would read. There's one I remember which had these stories behind some words and I found that very fascinating you know simple words which you never realize that have got nice stories behind them. sabotage the word from sabot which is some Russian shoe which is thrown at a tractor and which made the engine stop and you know that became sabotage whether the story is true or not but that's the origin of the word like there are so many interesting words and then that became something that stayed with me you know this fascination for words and I think I just like to hunt down things so and these days it's quite easy to do that you know you see a word and then you just go down and just Google it and you get the meanings and You see the origins and you and sometimes there's a nice little story behind it and uh you know lovely words like serendipity and kamaban and catamaran and so many things that you find wow there's it unlocks so many things you say take a simple word then it finds nice stories behind it there's a little history there's a little geography there's a little uh literature and it's it's fascinating so I guess uh to some extent my passion is uh words and that led to trying to use them better. So to some extent I started I think my uh writing came later but just my enjoying words came first. Yeah. You know, I someone once, you know, the standard question that goes around is what is your desert island book? And I remember someone asked me that once. My standard answer would have been to look for a Mark Strand or a Mary Oliver or whatever. But actually, the dictionary is a damn good book because it's almost the greatest story book there is because every word has a story behind it and you can just construct histories or history after history just kind of looking at those words. And when you said that, you know, in in these times, of course, it's easy to do. you can just go online. And what do you feel about that kind of tradeoff that back in the day? Yeah. You don't have the internet, you don't have access to all of this stuff. So, you got to like dig and figure this out by yourself and it can be hard work and it can be frustrating. And today everything is easily available. But at the same time, today attention is also scattered and there's so much coming at you. And how do you feel um you know these two kind of um balance each other? you have also worked with so many creative people, mentored many creative people in your firm and etc etc. How do you see that um changing over the years in a sense how we are formed? Yeah. No, it's true that uh uh now because so much information is available so easily. You can just simply just one tab away you get anything that you want. Uh what I see is that some of that knowledge is very very ephemeral. you know you just know it at that moment you and to the extent that you see it you read it and you even post about it you even write something about it uh like you know it you yourself may not know that piece of information a year later or even a few months later so that kind of knowledge is like very very passing I think it's okay if you know if say I'm writing an ad and there's a brief and I read up about it I do the best for it and I know I do a little copy research check out read it all write out something if I forget that It's okay. It's done its job, you know. But if it is something which is which I profess to be something that I know, you know, that project that I know the stuff and I but I don't know it a little later, that's that's a pity. So I I do have leed to respect people who have deep knowledge even though it's about something very small which has been collected over a long period of time. you know the kind of knowledge which uh can uh pass the two three question test you know you know you ask something they'll say okay you ask another question you know it but you go any further it it all falls apart but I think enough of us today know enough to just simply get by you know a drawing room conversation about various topics you know and and seem very scholarly and seem to know a lot and that's quite easy to do and I do it a lot okay uh in my line of work I find that you know if I'm going for a meeting I can just prepare a day before it read a little bit here and there and you know check up some little background see a little bit of what their business is what they're making and some of the people and I can go there and easily con you know convince them that I know a hell of a lot about what they're doing but that's just you know it's it's skin deep knowledge uh and uh I I think that's what is happening a lot now people just have a fair amount of you know just superficial knowledge nothing deep enough and I uh I really respect those who got it much much deeper understanding of stuff. I think that's the uh very quick hit we get. We get you Google something, you find your answer and you're done. You're happy. At least earlier Google used to give you 10 answers. Now they're giving you one answer, you know, right on top. So you're saying that don't even waste your time searching for the best reply or what is here's what we so which is a little scary also in its own way because it's like uh there is an answer earlier there was like maybe no answer you just keep finding out and see which one is fits you the best or which one works for you the best so that's something that I find about uh so much knowledge being so easily available yeah so you know I I read a tweet just today I forgotten by whom so it's not on the tip of my tongue, but I'll link it from the show notes where someone saying that if you want to do a Google search without that AI thing at the top coming up, the the hack he suggested was you put plus because then it'll uh the AI will refuse to say anything about the plus part of it and you'll directly get the results and the other way is you can just say minus AI. So if you do the query and you putus then I haven't tested this but apparently and what you say about you know everybody you know we live in a sort of an opinion economy where people build status on social media by having opinions and this can you know I remember once I snapped out of irritation at someone and this was an extreme view from me but u um I think there is something be behind it which I stand by which is I said that you know if you are giving an opinion you should be able to write a 2,000word essay about Otherwise don't give the opinion and I later realized that I want to hold myself to that standard as well that there are so you know it is okay to be ambiguous and it is okay to not have an opinion on things and I would like to feel that whatever I give an opinion on these days I have thought about it enough to be able to write that essay otherwise you know you don't have to have an opinion but somehow in this age where certainty is valued and you know there is so much posturing that kind of Um yeah so in fact uh very consciously these days I've kind of told myself that I should try and say I don't know more often. I know I used to not do that. Uh like if I know a little bit I used to talk about it but now I keep reminding myself that just say I don't know. Uh it'll save you a lot of time and uh and also probably stop you from being a making a fool of yourself. Uh so and I and it's very nice. It's such a sense of relief you when you just say I don't know and they dropped the topic such like a release like the pressure is gone you don't need to know about I because you said I don't know and I I I said why didn't I discover this earlier I should done it before yeah know a corary to this is what my uh friend and co-host for my YouTube show everything is everything AJ Sha tells me and AJ says that his habit is that whenever someone is talking about something interesting the human response is to pretend that you know and what AJ forces himself to do as a matter of habit is to say I don't know tell me more and I think these are six magic words because uh you know and it's not that people respect him less for saying I don't know tell me more in fact they respect him more exactly because then when he does know something they're going to take him seriously and as credible so let's sort of start at the start of your story and I'll leave it to you where you want to start uh guests of mine have gone into their prehistory and spoken about their grandparents parents and so on and so forth. I'll definitely want to start at least with your childhood, but just just give me a sense of when you are young, what is your sense of um family? What's the mahal at home? Where and how did you grow up? Uh I come from a large family. We have five kids. My dad uh was a meteorologist and uh central government employee. So he was transferred quite a bit being brought up uh studied in various places across the country. So we've been rolling stones to that and uh all five of us have you know the kids we all did pretty well at school and and most of us studied at kandri because of the transferable nature of my dad's job. So I think I myself was in maybe three or four different kies Agra, Coidor, Madras, Puna for my sisters in maybe five of them. So growing up was was always in some kind of a you know um colony or something like that with central government quarters uh like-minded people from various very cosmopolitan beings central government. So there would be Bengales, Punjabis, Tamilians, Keralites. So that that that there was a natural uh mix plus the when you travel around quite a bit, I think you're very sharp singularities of region uh you know are sort of and you all become more more rounded. You know people speak uh two three languages. Hindi is comfortable. But in the middle of all these transfers, I had one longest stint where I stayed at Madras in a large joint family. My father got posted to Kolkata and uh unfortunately he was at Gumdam and there was no central school nearby. There was no school close to where we were staying and it was education was the going to be a little tricky. The nearest one was very far off. uh so we stayed on my grandmother's house and while my dad was in Kolkata and we went back and forth during vacations so that was a different experience for me altogether it was otherwise it has always been the nuclear family with the immediate family so there I was with my grandmother her sons her daughter and their families in a large she my grandmother was the matriarch she she controlled it But there were three sons with their family with their kids. There were three of four or five of us there. And uh there were some kids who were still going to college. So it was a crazy time when we were all there together. It was uh a very defining kind of an experience in my life to kind of be brought up in that mahal with so many kids, so many places. So no and uh not held very accountable. My parents were not there. So we were pretty much had a free reign to do what we did. Nobody knew what the hell was going on, where we were, which tree we were on or what we were doing. School was a long way off, two, three buses away. You know, we take one bus, go change, go another place. I was studying in the IIT campus that time. It took three buses to get there. And once we were out the door, nobody knew what the hell we were up to till we came back. And even my school was in a jungle actually. I mean the IIT campus is a jungle. It was really like as though we were in some enlightened book or something. You know we used to walk through the jungles, go to class and and you know it was it was uh quite quite quite a uh adventure really every day getting to school. Um my parents would be horrified to know that we were hanging you know on a overcrowded bus uh and to get from point A to point B and uh uh but we went through it all and I just when I contrast it with the way we bring up our children these days it is so dramatically different. We're so scared we keep checking where they are what you are where you reached keep me posted uh they've got a phone and you know exactly where they are. absolutely clueless. I could be, you know, you're sending somebody out there and they're going actually to a school, go walking through a jungle. Uh I can't uh imagine something like that uh today. So that was that was a very very different experience growing up with a bunch of cousins. Uh uh had older people who were uh going to college and some others. Uh and all the entire politics of a joint family and uh and in many ways that that those few years have been uh full of memories and things that have affected the rest of your my life too uh more than some of the other times when you were just you know just by yourselves. uh I think that forced interaction has a far more deep impact on people when you when you have a large uh joint family kind of a setup. I'm curious about some of those memories that you say shaped you and I often think about how there's like a shifting bed of memories in our lives that when we are kids like when I'm 20 I might have a particular memory of when I was 12 but when I'm 40 I might have a different memory of when I was 12 because some things have come to the forefront some things have gone back etc etc it's like a you know the shifting space so tell me about you know any memories you remember that still stand uh that are vivid for whatever reason. Yeah. So I'll tell you one from my um from a school time at at KVIT at at Madras only. Okay. So at that time there was this um what was called a Viranam project. Okay. There the water problem was always very very acute in Madras especially in those days. So there was this very ambitious project of kind of uh building large pipeline to bring water from Viranam to Madras. And they had these large pipes, concrete pipes uh I think they were 4T 5 ft in diameter and they were laying them across and they were laying it through the campus uh the IIT campus and I was in fifth sixth standard or something like that. So we were I was a short kid in those days. So we could easily walk through those pipes. Okay. Wow. So those pipes hadn't yet been laid uh fully end to end. So the water hadn't yet in fact I don't even think much came of the project also. Uh so it be it was a bit of an adventure for us. We found that that pipeline was being laid through not through the on uh by the roads but through the jungle there. So as kids we group of four or five of us. We would kind of start walking through those pipes all the way as far as it would go and then every now and then there were there would be little gaps where they hadn't completed. Then we would walk through and and it took us through some small little stream and river and stuff like that and uh getting through all of those things. Okay. And there were deer and there were monkeys and all in the campus there. And there would be the occasional uh couple from the students who had kind of sacrated themselves into some shady corner of the jungle. And we as little kids were going through all of that. So that uh it was such a massive adventure. You know, every single day was very very different. And there was this campus had uh a lot of uh fruit trees. So there were tamarind trees, there were wood apple trees, uh there was mango trees and you know it used to be a big kick for us to be able to go and you know climb those trees, get those fruit whether we like the fruit or not. The woodapple is a extremely sar bit of fruit. Okay. But just the joy, the kick of you know just climbing the tree, getting it and then opening it and eating it you know though it would make our mouth really pungent but it was just such a kick. So uh I I I remember that those trees were I think allotted to certain people by the management of the campus for them to collect the fruit and sell like you know they were concessionire all over. So they and they were called guttakarans in Tamar. Okay. So those guys were uh people who were allowed to take the out the produce of the those trees. So so there was also that hurdle to cross. You had to go and get the stuff you know the jamuns or whatever it was before those guys could come. So on one occasion I remember there was a woodapple tree and we were trying to get those wood apples and then they uh I had climbed up the tree got one down and then the gutaruns had come. Okay, they started screaming and everybody ran helter skelter. We just had these fears in our mind as little kids that they would tie us up. They would you know they would beat us. They would do something else. They would do some you know crazy you know things to us. And so I jumped down the tree and I ran uh past a barbed wire fence which left a scar which is there with me to this day you know. So those silly kind of things but they stay with me. I can still remember uh those fun experiences which at that time felt like we were living out uh uh you know an init blighton or a William or one of those kind of stories and it it made every day quite a trip. Yeah, I'm I'm I'm kind of feeling jealous now. I'm I'm I'm feeling jealous that you knew the names of so many trees which I didn't because I kind of grew up in cities and you never look at those things so closely and by the time you wish you did it's kind of too late to even start paying attention in certain ways I guess tell me about you know what are you reading in those days like what's a culture that you're taking in in terms of the music in terms of the books in terms of like are there books lying around at home what do people listen to how is it many of the guests in your shows I've seen that I think many of them have been avid readers I think and all of them have talked about being surrounded by books and uh right from when they were kids and that is true of me as well like I I I remember for example that uh I was a little kid there in this house in Madras there's a long cupboard full of books there and the books are of various genres you know because one of my uncles studied law so there were some law books and somebody did medicine. So there's some medicine stuff and there were a lot of fiction. There were a lot of woodhouse. Uh there was a lot of perry mason and uh then there was a library we used to go to which was called pastime. I remember that. Uh and circulating libraries which I don't think exists so much these days where you go and you pick up a book and you read it and return it and take another book. there was a membership fee, you know, and I used to be sent by my sisters sometimes to go and get the mills and boons that they would read. So there would be mills and boons and uh at that time I remember I used to just simply because of nothing else to do uh read anything and everything read all kinds of stuff. Developed an early taste for house from the circulating library. I remember kind of reading the entire three investigators series, you know, Alfred Hitchcock presents and uh you finish one, you know, climb up on the terrace on top of the water tank and sit and read it off, then go back in the evening and go get the next one and you know, so then it went on to Alistister Mlean and Desmond Bagley and Agatha Christie and then sneak and read the mills and boons that my sisters used to read, try to find the books with naughty passages. which my uncles used to read. Uh and of course you have to say take the book and go to the bathroom and nobody sees what you're doing. And so it a lot of uh a lot of books were there. Uh and uh so the definitive memory for that is the circulating library and and that thing of walking down about a kilometer to the shop and choosing a book and the choice which later became like which film to watch in a video library but it was like okay which book to take and come and return it and see take the next one. uh uh my dad and also used to read uh a fair amount but a little more serious stuff. He read spiritual stuff. He used to read uh he used to read like the Gita and Jidu Krishna Morti and stuff like that. But he also was uh pract kind of a homeopath uh in his own way. Read a lot of stuff. All the material medicica would be there and all the little other books he would read out uh you know strangely enough medical symptoms and things like that to all of us and we would listen to it which was a very weird kind of memory that I have of him describing people and his symptoms but written quite interestingly. Uh so uh I think when I went on I I studied at BHU. I did my engineering exam and luckily for me I ended up at BHU rather than one of the IITs and uh they had a great central library, a beautiful place, massive place and they had these uh what they called a stacks which is there was this central hall which is a circular place with lot of tables, chairs, a lot of books around it and uh away from the main building there was the stacks which is a large hall with books in shelf after shelf after shelf in various aisles and they had this old fashioned catalog uh you know where you search for the book that you want which uh that catalog system you go open the drawers and see the little cards and find what you want and then search out for the book from the numbers on the shelves and things like that. So there I stumbled on different different kind of writers different things. I started picking up some interest in birds try to find books by Salim Mali and uh see where they are and then so I think it's always a rabbit hole. You see one, take one, you like it, then you do one more of it. Then you stumble on one writer. Then like I just find Graham Green, you like him, then you start reading all of his stuff and then suddenly some AJ Cronin and you read it, then you finish all of the stuff. And so I did a lot of that kind of uh binging of of that zamana uh which today binging is very different and yeah so books have been there a lot of reading has happened but it's been very eclectic not very highbrow I I I very happy reading uh and enjoying and Alistister Mlean I just love the way he describes cold you know he's insanely obsessed with Subzero and bitter cold and so many of his books are actually about either mountain tops or the arctics or something like that and how does one man describe the cold in so many different different ways you know the effects of it whether it's snow or mountains or you know chill or fog or wind or and I used to enjoy his uh fabulous descriptions of weaponry and guns and engineering and equipment and things like that and I said that well that's this is some skill to be able to describe in words something which is uh for someone else to visualize and then I found that that later I tried to do that you know in some ways that okay can I describe something in words with people can figure out what it is I said that's damn difficult it's very very difficult it seems like is very easy but even as just as a little exercise if I have this pen if I want to say what it looks like it's going to be damn tough to kind of actually make someone visualize the pen that I have in my hand then so this kind of Uh even even the pulpest of pulp fiction even the bestsellers I found that when written well uh really got me and who better than woodhouse uh I mean his mastery over the language is like amazing. So it the plots are all pretty much the same uh and he written them over and over again but just the absolute delight uh the way he spun words together is fascinating. Yeah. So that's something about my reading. Yeah. No, you made me very nostalgic with all of these names and I'm just again thinking aloud that you know the nature of going down a rabbit hole was so different then from now like now it's much easier to go down a rabbit hole. You know, you can go to a book, see something immediately find that book or Wikipedia, you can just like there's one game apparently people play and I read this factoid somewhere that if you just go on a random wiki page and you click on the first link, the first Wikipedia link internal link and then you click on the first internal link of that page and so on down the line 96% of the time you will end up with philosophy uh at some point or the other which is interesting and appropo of nothing. But just thinking in terms of rabbit holes, I'm thinking that even though there's a greater choice and exponentially greater choice of rabbit holes that you can enter uh today, a lot of it is just shallow skimming. Whereas back in the day, if you enter a rabbit hole, say you've read one book of you've read Graham Green and then you discover AJ Cronin, you are making the effort to physically go to the shelf, locate the book through the card, this thing, find the book, take it out. You're much more likely to read it. is much less likely to be a skim. You know, you don't have 200 other tabs that you can immediately click on. I feel that u you know, maybe we are just old uncles getting nostalgic, but I I I just feel that there is like I'm in a sense I'm not lamenting a new generation. I'm lamenting a loss in myself, right? I find that I'm skimming too much, you know, like buy rate on Kindle is uh really high. I I'm just buying books all the time. How many of them am I actually reading, you know? So, I wonder if that's u something that's changed. Do you notice a change in yourself of how you consume content? Uh certainly it is uh uh I've actually and I uh it's something that really I'm disappointed in myself that I don't read as much as I used to because it's so much easier to just flick my finger. So I've definitely fallen prey to it and I've tried to tell myself that next time you want to just simply go and aimlessly scroll on Instagram just keep your phone away and pick up a book and uh and just start reading it. Okay. And I used to do it effortlessly earlier but now I think become little lazy mentally and that I think it was uh Frank Lloyd Wright who said the television is like chewing gum for the eyes. Wow. Yeah. And then I I I really realized how beautiful that was. You know, it's like you don't have to think and just sit there so couch pay and they see it and then it's like you're chewing gum. You're watching some stuff going on. Okay. But to that I think this visual medium has become something like that, you know, and it's effortless. You just sit there. It's just coming at you. And uh and I know people talk about attention spans and they're being smaller and people don't do enough and they want it quick and everything else. I'm not so sure that's entirely true. Uh it's just I think it's got to do more with what um maybe those little dopamine hits and you want them more frequently fut uh rather than not you know not want you're investing already 2 hours and just scrolling but in this 2 hours you want to see 200 videos uh you know rather than maybe just one uh and uh there's no doubt in my mind at all that that I 2 hours spent watching one thing will be way more rewarding than uh so many things that we skim through. But uh I think it's chemical you know this this habit uh now of just sitting down reaching for the phone wherever you are whatever you're doing uh it's uh and my wife has told me that I've become an addict. Okay. And I say no I'm not I'm not but uh I think there's way more than a grain of truth there. You know you get up you reach for the phone. You sit down you reach for a phone. If you're if there's a if you're having a conversation and somebody says, "Excuse me for a minute to take a call, you reach for your phone." Uh on the road, I I see it a lot. Uh just one of the things that I do is just keep observing and watching people out of the window and doing some mindless statistics, you know. Okay, let let me see the percentage of people who are passing by who are on their phone. Okay. And it's astonishing if you just simply sit outside a window and just see people of all kinds whether it's a guy you know daily labor coming to work in a construction site or whether people going to office or whether it's bajiwali or whatever whoever is going everybody it's as high as 30 40% of the people who are just walking are on their phone either uh talking to someone or listening to something or watching something if they're sitting it goes up from 30 to maybe 50. Okay. If you go to any waiting room, it's going to be like 60 70%. So it's like insane. It's insane. And and uh and I I think everyone is doing skimming. Everyone's just doing only this kind of skimming. And I I I just feel that what an opportunity cost loss it is. You know like I see my driver for example I have a driver who's uh and the nature of a driver's job is is to spend 80% of the day waiting doing nothing 20% driving okay uh and it's a fabulous opportunity if you look at it right you're just simply sitting there your boss is in an office or at work or doing something else and you do you're not you can you have all the time to self and you have a phone which can give you anything and everything that you want. Okay. Uh you could do a course, you could you could enroll, you could do various things, you could learn up something, you could take any one thing and become a master of it. You could just simply say let me learn French, do some dualingo thing and learn French and in in in a few months you could become uh you know pretty proficient at it. And then you could probably tell your boss one year down the road that I think I'll I'll become a interpreter or a translator or something else. Yeah. But nobody does it. It's it's such a shame. Such a you know the guy is sitting there watching some trash watching stupid forwards seeing WhatsApp you know seeing uh some crazy cheap movies. What a what a humongous national loss it is. you know when that's is lying there and nobody is using it. Nobody is at all. And uh and of course he'll just blame it on uh you know um attention span and people you know a lot of junk and no poor poor content and trash out there. But I mean so this is a choice. We are making a choice. The same place where the trashy stuff is there's also some really great stuff but nobody's choosing it. Nobody's but I think to kind of get deep into things now you have to cross that that uh one or two humps had to spend just enough time with it you know you had to cross that half an hour 1 hour or 2 hours it takes or 1 day 2 days 1 week then once it becomes I think a part of you then you can't stop you know then then you want it and then it comes naturally to you but I think we give up faster we give it up quicker and and I think what is happening say to my driver at a is happening to me at a different uh just in a different scale. Uh you know even I'm watching trash instead of doing or doing stuff that I could be doing. Yeah. So it's uh yeah I think it's worth lamenting about it. M no and and you know it's it's resonant what you say about the large percentage of people who are looking at their phones all the time and I sometimes think that you know in India we speak about the journey of the family from joint family to nuclear families where earlier you run a joint family and then it's a nuclear family two parents two three kids etc etc but I think there's been a further shift where you have those two parents and two kids but each of them is looking into the individual black screen and you actually move from a nuclear family to an atomized family where they're in the physical space the same way that they are and I'm actually going to be bold enough to ask you for your observations on how you've seen Indian society change in this context over the years because one belief that I have is that anyone who spent 20 30 years in advertising is by default a sociologist as well even if they would not use that term for themselves because your whole freaking job depends on understanding what people want and in some cases even shaping them or amplifying them and so on and so forth and through the course of this conversation I'm going to ask you and I'm welcome you also to tell me if something comes to your mind about what you have learned about Indian society in the way that it is changing uh you know through all of these years because literally you have more skin in the game than a sociologist you know you need to freaking get it right for your profit margins and for your work to be successful. So in this regard with families you know both in terms of how we reg look at families or family values or whatever quote unquote and in terms of how have families evolved over these decades sort of what are your observations? No, you're right about the fact that uh you know being in advertising you really really become a social scientist of sorts you know uh and some people some uh clients force you to do it make you do it. I remember in the early days when I was working on labels, it was uh uh mandatory for people to go and kind of spend time doing certain amount of ethnographic kind of study. Uh they were professional themselves had to go and spend some time in it I think uh mandatorily in the village which they had adopted. I remember once when I was working on detergents, you know, the, you know, surfs sur of XL, Ren and all those kind of products, we had to go and do different sizes of towns and go there and see and see what they do. And in one place, I saw something quite interesting. Okay. Where we were I was working on detergent bars, okay? And there's this uh small family in some town. I forget which some small town we had gone to. And then we have to go and see how they do it. I we're also encouraged to see where where do they do the washing, where do they keep the stuff, what do they do, and you know, how do they use it? Do they mix things or blah blah blah. So we talking to this younger daughter-in-law uh and uh sometimes they say that if if they are shy in your presence, you just sit aside and but if they're okay and they're willing to talk, you can also sit and talk to them. So this lady was this woman was talking about her chore of washing clothes. Okay. Uh they used to do it themselves for the whole house she would do the washing. So we asked them one one of the question was how much how many bars you use in a month or something like that. So I was shocked to say that she used she said that we use I use one bar a day. Uh you know I said one bar of detergent to for a day. Then when we when we were talking about it, of course it was a large family, but what I realized was that when she sits and washes clothes there, that's one time that she has to herself. Okay, she's there away from her jabbering mother-in-law or people and other family, other kids or whatever. That's all she's sitting there and washing those clothes there. And you know what? It's like she's doing it and she washes the out of the clothes. So, she's just doing it and she got half an hour, 1 hour or whatever it is to just keep washing them and then it's a therapy, daily therapy to kind of get it out of your system. You get it out and then after some time as you're doing it, you know, you you transition into a happier, better place. You feel more relaxed. you enjoy it and then that somehow that process okay I'm washing the jug that soap and the water going off the dirt going away washing the clothes then they start regretting that oh my wash load is getting over you know because now it's over then I have to go back there and face the music and do the rest of the stuff there these I would never have ever dreamt this if if it didn't actually have the experience of going and seeing and talking to people or whatever it is and then I also kind of realized you know you know how clever ever how ingenious Alec Palumi was to have this Karen Lunell under a waterfall for selling a bar of soap because then that's again the same insight that he had. Yeah, there's a woman there who's got a miserable life. When she goes and have a bath, that's the height of luxury that she's going to have in her day, you know, and that's where she's going to just probably just let go and enjoy. So, so that mundane maybe she doesn't even stand under a shower. She maybe is having her own bucket of water and whatever it is. But if I can make her feel in that time and feel you know that that's the same joy of a young woman in a bikini gambling under a waterfall you know uh so be it you know and it it is true that you know when it's even the most mundane products you discover and you stumble on some very very insightful deep things about uh people and uh uh what's going on in their heads. uh through all my years in advertising actually I if if I just had to pick one or two insights you know it's enough to cover almost everything you know you know and one which I find coming up again and again and again is what James Thurber said a long time back which is the secret life of Walter Mitti is and that I found that to be such a powerful insight that everybody has got this mass massive secret life going on in their heads. Every single person all the time, you know, they're all stuck in ham stuff. Most of them people doing drudgery, you know, things, jobs they don't enjoy. They're all writing resignation letters in their head every day. Okay? uh and they, you know, want to say things to people and everybody believes and has this fascinating kind of visions of what their life could be. And pretty much that simple thing can be used to sell everything from detergent to computers to to it's like people are doing something else but they would rather be doing something else and they do other kind of stuff in their head. And if you just say it and you tell them and you realize and and the very fact that someone says ah the guy gets me you know is a and that's enough for them to kind of like you as a brand as a product. If you just simply resonate with them and say okay the guy gets me that I'm I'm uh it's it's not about those you know cliched stories that you see in ads and you say that how how pathetic are they. Some of them are on to something bigger. you know when there's a fat kid getting out of a helicopter in a charagin or double bull shirt ad or something else I think they they've got their target audience quite well you know understood that okay they're rich people who kind of aspire to this kind of life and for them is a sign of arrival is one logo on a very ugly shirt and uh but if you if you get it right and you you say it in an interesting way so that's how you people to maybe like your brand. But over the years, advertising gives you the opportunity to look at, I think, more categories and more things than most people have. So, you know, if you're an engineer working on internal combustion engines, that's what you do all your life. But for us, that's just one account, you know, one small thing. The next afternoon, we're talking to somebody who's in finance. And the next day, we're talking to somebody who's uh it's about shampoos. The third day, it is something about condoms. the next day it's something else. So that's that's fascinating for us that we see so many so many people and understand so many categories what drives people and if one approaches it with a like a social scientist would I think it can be fascinating but not everybody does sometimes they just cop out and just do the cliche but uh as a career it has certainly got that benefit a couple of questions which are actually separate questions but they're related so I'll just ask them together and you can take them in whatever order you want and one is that would you say that it is broadly the case that the interior lives of men and women are fundamentally different? You know like a an internet meme which really gets to the heart of this is where uh a husband and a wife are lying in bed together and the husband is turned away from her and she is looking at the ceiling and she is thinking I bet he's thinking of another woman and he is thinking of something ridiculously geeky that keeps changing with the meme. It could be someone like why why can I hear Rammit at 2x but Rami only at 2.3x some stupid geeky thing like that but would you say that the interior lives of men and women are different in the sense that the women with the renbar is looking for escape from a certain mundane kind of misery and the man is dreaming of you know hitting a six in the cricket world cup and winning it for India or you know and that's question one and question two is how have those changed through your career there's no doubt that the interior dialogue is very very uh and what's going on in the heads of women are very different. I've been surrounded by women in my life, personal life. Okay. I've got three elder sisters. Okay. I have two daughters. So I and so in my wife in my family there are three women, two ones to three elders. Okay. Similarly with even in my family s girls. So I'm a little more kind of tuned into what's going on in their heads. But even that I realized over a period of time like I had no clue. I had no clue how deep it runs and what's going on in their heads at all. And even what I thought they're thinking of is just the typical male thinking that he is a feminist but he actually doesn't even begin to understand the f of it. Yeah. Uh because this it's so deep it's so visceral for them you know. It's and as some of the more obvious things are uh you know just a woman walking down the road what's going on in her head is completely different from that of a guy you know it's it's it's just just the simple act of from I stay close to a slum okay uh and it's got some pretty unsavory people walking the streets uh but it means nothing at all for me to just go down to the corner shop and get something at any time of the day even at Okay. But it's completely different for a woman, you know. It's it's what's going on is like your mind will be racing about what what the hell is going to happen in that 100 yards between me and the shop there. Uh but that's that's at a more obvious level. But I just think even just the simple way in which they process every single data point is very different from from men. There's just there is no comparison at all. And I think it's a pity that for too long, for far too long, men have thought that they can do it. Their ego thinks that no, I can put myself in the woman's shoes and I can think. I mean, the very fact that till not very long ago, there were men who were still do writing ads for female products thinking that no, I'm brainy enough, I'm intelligent enough, I'm aute enough to be able to do it. I've got research, I've got this, I've got that. Yeah. Uh but I don't think it's uh comes even close. Okay. But what has happened is I think while you know the mental process is very very different the skill sets have uh uh are are different maybe you've become pretty good at knowing how to uh uh produce something or create something or put it down as a story and then you know deal with the director and brief them and things like that and they will bring a certain something to it and you confuse those abilities and those skills for understanding the topic itself or the subject itself you know and I think the moment that gap is disappears which I think has in many ways okay you know like if I saw py kabaria's film and I don't think a man could have ever made it it's not not possible I don't even think they would begin to understand those uh issues which are there absolutely such a beautiful film and and the very fact that people said it's technically not up there so we won't even consider this even send it and that's actually rubbish because I think it's technically absolutely up there you know I think Janu whoever was head of that committee is ridiculous it's ridiculous no it's really ridiculous and and and and I and I know for a fact uh having heard some of pile's interviews and things like that every single thing that was there was a conscious choice it was done the way there for a reason and it was not because of not having a better grasp of technology or how it can can be done or how it should be done. Okay. Uh so I but I think that that perspective that point has of a woman telling her story has to come out way more than it is right now especially in in in things like advertising and all. But on the other hand, what I fear is that advertising as a medium is probably losing out its talent very fast to other places, which maybe in the larger scheme of things is okay. Uh it's fine. Maybe if people take their skills into story writing or into making content or telling making short films or whatever, blogging, writing, anything, it's it's it's okay. We didn't have that many options earlier. it was like advertising or you know maybe if you're lucky get into films or something if you wanted to be in those media there was there very few options right now we have so many many more options which I think is a it's a damn good thing and I certainly believe unequivocally that it's the future is the women yeah and the women need to have more voice they need to do produce more of the stuff I think most more often than not they'll do a better job of it than uh than men If they're allowed to fail a little bit, you know, allow them to make a few mistakes because you kept them away from it for so long. Give them a little time to kind of try out stuff, let it not so maybe it'll stumble, maybe it'll fail, but I think when it comes together, I think it'll be stuff which we would not even have imagined. I don't know if I answered your question at all. No, no. Uh, you you know, I I completely agree with this. And at the risk of being simplistic and at the risk of essentializing, if I am to say ask two questions which I ask you to answer in one word each and the word that comes closest and the two questions are what do men want? What do women want? You know for example to offer candidate answers to perhaps set you off. What do men want? The answer could be status. What do women want? The answer could be autonomy or whatever. uh what is your sense and would this answer have changed through the years or would would the core of it have been uh constant? I think the core is uh uh I think uh like what would your answers be to begin with? I I think for men's I think mostly it's I would say money money I I just found that the men have an obsession with making more money. If you just overhear conversations which I do a lot of, okay, which I think may be borderline unethical but I am a I like to eaves drop uh uh storytellers to be warriors. Yeah. Not uh in a brilliant way but I I do listen I like to listen to little snatches of conversation of people. If I sit on Carter Road for example and see the guys walking and most of them are on their phone nowadays there's you're talking all the time. So even if you're alone, you're talking. If you're sitting with guys, you're talking. The guys are mostly talking about money. They're talking about saying businessman is still kind of making deals. He's talking to clients. Something it's something to do with business, something to do with money or uh it's even the guy uh whatever the social strata, okay, it's know there is an obsession with money, making more of it or not having enough of it. Some for some people is really living under in debt. uh which uh which I think uh I do listen to a lot of the Ricksha drivers and people the panwala and the tapari and things like that and I just realize how much they uh the money is an important topic for them either they borrowed money and they have to give it back and earlier the sums of money we used to hear these people talk about is 10 20 rupees 100 rupees and all but now I hear even these people talking about kurs of 50 lakh 50,000 and one lakh and dak and in But it's a lot of money stuff that they talk about. But if I listen to female women's conversations, it's not much about money at all. I don't I don't see them talking about money at all. And it's quite often about uh I I think emotions you know about mental states of you know of uh uh you know happiness or tension or worry or stress or they are talking about emotional states. I think that is a very broad sweep thing I would say that they're talking about. Uh it it could be petty and about uh something about a colleague or something like that or it could be about uh you know um uh breakups and uh it could be about uh you know stress at home and things like that. I think they talk more about emotions and and they worry and they feel the mental state uh and is uh probably something that comes is more important and is more uppermost in their in their psyche. We we brush it all off aside the men. Okay. And it just becomes about career, money, business. Uh I'm not even sure about status. But a status equals to money. Yeah. I think so. I think in in some ways. Yeah. So that's my simplistic answer to no it's not simplistic at all. I mean um feels deeply true to me. And you know you mentioned the Renbar incident that revelation that it's like escape for the woman who's washing clothes. Do you remember anything similar from your advertising career where you go in with one sort of overall generalized simplistic impression of a particular kind of consumer or a particular kind of person and then there is a light bulb moment where you realize something about them that changes the way that you look at them not necessarily just in uh terms of male female but even otherwise just just moments where a light bulb flashed and you said I didn't know this at all this is yeah I I think it's uh certainly there have been many several of these kind of moments. I think basically what I would I think I can say very confidently is that the consumer is way more intelligent than we give them credit for. Our clients and advertisers want to dumb it down, make it very simple and just say that you know it's keep it very simple, keep it very there's no room for nuance. So just this is what it is. Just tell it as it is and what it is. But I think it's amazing how nuanced they can be and they are in what they get out of a story. Time and time again I I just find that you know uh they can read so much more into a situation uh and into a little scene one expression than we realize. So we spend all our time in just telling them that this is uh twice as effective or half as expensive or it is it does this so much faster and things like that without realizing that we could be telling them way more nuanced stories which will make them will endear you to them. Okay. And uh that's again such a loss you know because we tell such obvious kind of boring stories again and again and again and again in different different different ways. Essentially people like you know if I if I just take uh something like a detergent bar or a whim or something like that it just tells you that I can remove stains from a vessel. I can remove things very effectively. They'll tell you the same story in 100 different ways. They'll just keep updating the format, okay? Of somebody going to somebody's house and cleaning a dirty vessel in their house or whatever it is or dirty toilet or dirty floor or whatever it is. Nothing changes. Today aka Kumar, tomorrow I'll take somebody else. Third Aran Singh, third day I'll take somebody else. You're only updating the format saying nothing new at all. Okay. Whereas if you really found something which touches people at a more emotional level, then you can tell so many more stories. So many more stories which I found for example let's say something like tide is not a brand I work for they have this age-old device of something going across somebody's shirt and leaving a white thing okay so that tells the story story okay I clean shirts I make them white and things like that but when you start putting that device on top of different different story situations it it you you can kind of make a social comment you can talk about politics you can talk about uh corruption you can talk about anything else you can talk x that you can keep it sort of topical, you can tell millions of different different stories, you know, that makes it so much richer. But the moment you stumble on the fact that, hey, I can do that and people like it and enjoy it more. I think it unlocks so many more potential scripts that you can do. And I just think that that is one thing that I think we're so stuck in the functional, we're so stuck in the rational that we just forget the ocean of that's there beyond it, which which which has got so many more stories to say. and those who tapped into it you know like a suffix excel with daga when they just got into something and I can tell little little stories of how you know the dag is there in the story okay but it is what allowed me to do something good okay it then you can it becomes about find telling new stories you know each time finding a nice better more interesting story to say and then people pick up the nuances in that which you never even thought they would you know they they they can say that you know I feel like that you know when or you know there was this ad which prasoon made this beautiful adhira know the Valentine's Day on old husband man so it's like why why should financial advertising be boring you know why should it just be about I'll give you so much interest so much this you know why why can I not unlock so much more uh in it because we think that people can't take uh uh nuanced stories we think that no they they won't get it. Yeah. That we just keep it keep it dumb, keep it simple, keep it stupid. I I I just find that even kids pick up far more nuance than we give them credit for. And and certainly um the women who are the targets of practically every ad, there's so much more going on in their head. So much more. And we're not even touching those things. We're not touching those topics at all which are going on in their heads. And if we just talk about them, we we convert them into some kind of stories. I think they'll love you as a brand much much more. Yeah. a fantastic uh challenge for young women creatives and I think more for young women creatives because they are far likelier to kind of uh uh get there and you know as you were speaking I thought one commercial of yours which does exactly this which you know goes from the rational to the uh emotional core of something is uh the quotad with Ranir on the platform right where the point you're making is that everybody can open an account all you need is an Aadhaar and a PAN card but the way he does it where you know I'll link it from the show notes for all the listeners is This is almost a work of art that he's just walking through the platform and he's talking about how he didn't get accepted by the industry and so and so won't get accepted by her in-laws because she's too plain and so and so won't get accepted because he doesn't have money and etc etc and then he just sits on a bench which is a great equalizing factor because anybody can sit there and then he you know invokes Kotak and uh do you consciously then look for that do you consciously say that okay the rational brain says that the point I want to make about the brand is anyone can open an account and then how do I connect it to something that is at the emotional core of a person. Is that the way the process works? Yeah. No, it's it's it's uh actually there's a lovely story behind uh 811 which was the Kotuk uh account which was the first kind of downloadable bank account so to speak. When it was launched we didn't launch it with this you know in fact we went the other way which is a pretty typical way that is so quick so fast so easy. We used all these IPL broadcasters, Goro Kapoor and all those things to tell that story. It was like it was enjoyed, it was breezy but it didn't make an impact. Okay. uh because we just simply said all the things you can do how easy it is to open the account and you know just it's a matter of minutes and how easy it is to do things with 811 account and all but then it it uh even though a fair amount of money was spent on that campaign and it created some awareness for 811 it was nothing like what happened with the Ranir Singh film. Now Ranir Singh that film itself is a remarkable accident. Okay. Is we had a different story but we had sort of realized that this account is meant for those who are slightly intimidated by the banking system who just feel that these large chrome glass offices these banks accounts I I don't feel like walking in there I can't open an account there and you know they'll judge me and uh uh you know but I don't want that same Yuko bank SBI. I want something better. Okay. But I don't I I feel judged. Okay. And that comes in the way of people actually uh adopting something like banking which is so essential to their lives. So here's an account. Now the the the fact is that now suddenly because of this technology you didn't need to enter a bank nor did you have to kind of have some guy in a tie coming and asking you a question to fill a form and all. you don't feel that you you feel uncomfortable in front of them. So it started with saying that you know I won't be judged then when we looked at this being judged we realized this being judged is a huge thing which we all carry all the time and in all walks of life people are judging you constantly. Yeah. And thought that that is the golden ticket you know that's that's the thing which we can unlock about hey we won't judge you yeah just like that bench doesn't judge you we had a different script which we were going to do originally we had a slightly more elaborate script a bit like one of the uh Shri Chub's kind of scripts of a guy from a small town who's come to a city like Bombay and he's feeling out of place overwhelmed by the city and things like that and he said how do I do it and everything else and then he I need to I I need a bank account I don't know how to do any sees this kota thing and so we had a different script alto together okay and we wanted to use the soundtrack of a maharaba that song but then what happened was uh reanir Singh said that I have a very limited I'm going out of the country I have we have to shoot next week okay uh now there's no way we could have made that film in in a week's M okay and this is what is great about advertising you know it keeps throwing hurdles in your way and sometimes that forces you to innovate and find and get something better out of it you know so then he said we got to do this fast we need it simple we need to do it in a way that we can knock it off now in a day then we scrapped that script and then said okay it's still about uh not being judged then you say how do we do it what do we do we want we want something which is very a very very public kind of a place where people of all walks of life would be then said yeah a railway station uh is a nice place because you have people it's metaphorically it means a lot of things a journey blah blah blah blah blah you have people traveling in AC first class people traveling in unreserved people going coming going coming everywhere and then one thing led to the other said that but those that bench there is the same for everybody maybe there's a shoe polish guy sitting on it and then he gets up and goes the next person sitting there is somebody who's a CEO of a company you never know right so then we had Ranir then so the when we have Ranir then we say how do we use this guy but his story should just be a very small bit of it it has to be like in just looking at a whole bunch of things so we identified a bunch of things people judging you by the way your your weight uh people judging you by the by your religion people judging you by uh you know the way you look or uh you know or if you've uh take on some issues like which were life issues that women don't get a place to stay in. Nobody gives you a paying guest uh accommodation. People don't uh you know or even know it's very difficult for women to rent a flat. So he said can we just make all of this come together in one seamless little commentary about life okay and keep Kotak very subtly in the script. Then the director Rajes Shati he came up with a he said that listen if you're doing this film I don't want to make a set I know the easiest thing for us to do is run want to shoot in my studio we'll put up a set in my studio and shoot but it won't be the real thing I want to shoot in a real station okay I want to shoot at paka proper that you're going to nuts you know we saying how are you going to cordon off a station and how you how the hell are you going to pull it off he says no the last two three platforms of VT are you know little secluded they have only a few trains coming there we and find if you see that we can find one stretch of time where there's no thing we'll cordon the whole thing off nobody will know we'll come in from the other side and we'll shoot the film and the other idea was to do it as a oneshot take you know we just simply gave him a line gave him a whole thing let him say speak and let him choreograph it perfectly let the crossing overs everything just be just right write powerful lines bring all the stories and just just and just he just passes by there's just a quot of branding there and he just simply in the And he says just like Kodak you know we don't judge the bank judges nobody and so what happened with that was when I first ran the script past Ranir he went through it and said but he said acid victim okay one of the characters is an acid victim I said why he said I don't know it feels exploitative it feels he said I'm a little uncomfortable it'll just look but I said no but these are it's a real story you You need to say it. You can't not say it because it happens, right? And uh it's the easiest thing for someone to say that, you know, I'm not going to hire somebody who has a scar on her face in a customerf facing job. Okay. But that's judging. You know, if you want to talk about judging, you got to talk about career issues. So, uh he said, "Are you sure?" He said, "No, absolutely sure. Just just have just go with it." So, uh and he was fabulous. Okay. I I uh I just did not realize how much skill is there in in these guys because they he first of all of course he internalized the whole thing and it's just that one walk everybody had to kind of do the Passovers at exactly the right moments and it's a 60-second film so he had to finish it in 60 seconds including sitting down saying the whole spiel and just leave two seconds for the end slate. The guy was so good that he would first take 59 seconds and then Rajes would say that boss I need it in 57. Okay, he'll say okay and he would do it in 57. I mean that's now we don't realize the skill these people have uh in doing what they do actually and uh but that apart after two takes he came to me and said that no you're right about that as a victim you know it's uh it's very important very powerful so anyway that that story aside we finished the film we released it 811 is for everyone sa swag and all it had such a remarkable effect no impact is that it the uh account openings went through the roof. Okay. because just so many people uh started opening accounts and they also started doing things which they had not done before which is walking into banks which so uh for I anecdotally we heard that there's one somewhere in worldly or something one of near one of these Kohi villages the branch suddenly a lot of fisher women were coming into that branch and saying I want to open an account uh because we there was a fisher woman in among those people there you And then there was also a very nice outdoor campaign which uh we did along with it where he's sitting next to different different people and uh there's really no comparison between the impact of the purely frilly functional ad which you did which is also sweet and fun but it was it it as against the one which impacted people powerfully and made made them think that this is a uh you know then it really led to 811 on becoming so big that it be started becoming a problem. Yeah, amazing story. Again, I'll link it from the show notes so uh everyone can watch it there. Let's go back to biography and let's go back to Walter Mitti in the sense that like I was a constant daydreamer in my childhood and recently I realized to my start that not only have I kept daydreaming but some of the daydreams actually the same which makes me feel like what the it's just lazy I'm just getting easy dopamine I'm guessing you were a daydreamer if you're happy to share do tell me what kind of daydreamer were you and have your daydreams changed over the years do you still daydream? Yeah. So, uh, of course I daydream and, uh, I think daydreaming is, uh, vastly underrated, uh, because people talk about, uh, dreams, which are those night kind of dreams. The fact is night dreams you have no bloody control over, right? You just go to sleep and it just takes over and you see some stuff which is which is just bizarre, which is just uh, and and you probably forget it after you wake woken up. Some people can remember, some people it just simply dissipates and evaporates in the air and you've forgotten it's there. But daydreaming, I think, is so underrated and so powerful because that is something you're doing consciously, right? You're sitting there, you're awake in your senses, you're doing some stuff like maybe just going through a on a bus ride, looking out the window. You're sitting there doing a thing and you're actually thinking about what you would rather do, what you want to do. And that is based on what you can do, what you feel that you can do, what you have not done and what you should be could be doing. Daydreaming is when you actually think of yeah I'll write that book or I will make that movie or I will quit my job and I will start a school or X or Y or Zed or whatever it is. Okay, maybe by when the conductor rings that bell again and you get off at your bus stop, you say forget it, let me go and do my work and you it goes. But at that for that time you're actually seriously just thinking about it. You want to do it. Okay. So it's far closer to being real than those night dreams that everyone talks about. Now the thing about boldity and monger lal and all those kind of things is I think it is it captures that frustration of people trapped in a life that they don't want to be doing you know and they say okay I'll just have a little escapade and just do something else and I I find that okay you with the passage of time you find that one by one some of those daydreams shut down you realize that okay that's gone Too late, too late, too late, too late. Okay, it's gone. But replaced by some other ones which are maybe still doable. Okay, so I I understand that now at 60 some of the things is too late. Okay, I can't do those things now replaced by a few other things. Okay, so I think it's more real. Okay, one of I just feel that it's it's dynamic. It changes and it keeps it real. Some of it is escapist like Okay. uh just because somebody in college when I went for nets when I when I thought I was a promising off spinner he was rude to me and I said screw it I'm not going to play cricket here then I okay I shut down one career and that's gone I can't say I'll be a cricketer today but uh there are still some things I can do maybe I can still learn a musical instrument maybe I can still learn how to write a poem okay uh maybe I can still maybe harbor the idea of making a film or something like that okay or even sing some other things are gone so that's so their dreams have been changing they've been changing from what they are and sometimes it's purely escapist also now I'm cricket okay other things also you have not done now I'm sitting and playing word games on my computer okay but sometime in my head I'm thinking that okay as I'm playing some some uh some you know waffle or one of the word games that I play regularly I'm imagining and a soundtrack or commentary of somebody looking and saying now what word is he going to make now is he going to make this word do you think he's going to find the panggram is he going to get it there oh my god this is surprise he's found this used this word I thought he's going to go for that so you know just some silly stuff but at least you just think that yeah in in my own little way what I'm doing with the word game is maybe just as skillful as Virat Kohli out there and other people talking about it but it's just it's just it's it's a uh fantasy, a different trip, just become happy with with these kind of uh fantasies. I'm intrigued by what you say about making a film. Is that something you want to do? Yes. Yeah, it is. It is. Being in advertising, of course, one has come very close to the medium. You know, you made hundreds and hundreds of films, maybe running into thousands by now. So, you've seen it a lot. Okay. But it's a understandably, it's not the same as a feature film at 30 seconds or 60 seconds, sometimes a little longer. But you kind of understood the medium to some extent and not many many people who were good in advertising have failed miserably in making films. Some people have made not everybody becomes a Ridley Scott where you you have fabulous filmmaker ad filmmaker and a terrific filmmaker too you know uh even someone like Tarim who was outstanding in advertising films has had limited success in films though they are visually spectacular uh but uh it's not it's not an obvious thing that if you can do this you can do that but along the way somewhere I stumbled on storytelling and writing stories and telling things which need uh which have more potential and more scope and uh and being able to kind of see how it can translate as you're writing it into a and then you say that no I instead of passing asking somebody else to do it maybe I should do it myself since I know what it is that's going on in my head but at the same time I also realized that it's uh it's not easy it's damn tough requires tremendous amount of patience tremendous amount of rigor there are times when I doubt if I have that patience. Do I have the patience to uh go through 10 takes and say one more, one more, one more? Do I have the patience to sit and sign off on every single element of that scene, the costumes, the set, the people, uh casting? Do I have the rigor to kind of go through 20 hours of casting tapes to say who who it is? And there are times when I doubt I I I have that much patience. So patience is the thing which I feel is the coming in the way of saying that okay let me make a film or let me do something uh uh but now I'm pretty confident that uh I have stories that there are some which I think will make a very good uh film uh and I think I know how to put it together uh and there was a time when I felt that I should just write it and give it to somebody else who I have faith So like Shivendra is one of those kind of guys. In the early part of my career I did a lot of films ad films with him and he stopped making them now. He's dedicated his life to all of what he does. Similarly there've been some others who I've worked with a lot. Yeah. So uh and I would say that no let me hand it over and let them do what they want with it. I feel like that about certain kinds of stories where I just think that let them run with it now. Maybe they'll bring something to it which I did not think of also which may elevate it which may take it to another level. But there are some which one some of some stories that are there in my head which I feel that I think I understand I know those people those characters that I want. So it is something that is uh uh it is uh I have not given up on okay uh maybe there'll come a stage and say but I hope uh before that happens I at least make one I'm going to use your own words to spur you on in the sense that at one point you spoke about how a key part of the creative process something that you learned in your early days in Mudra is that it's not about having the idea but having to have the idea and similarly I think this here also it is not about having the patience but having to have the patience and the way to uh do this is maybe I'm thinking aloud to give yourself to have a commitment device where you announce to the world that I am making this film and then it's you know you have to do it and then you force yourself to uh you know you make that public commitment and you know because people to me o over the past few decades have given all kinds of reasons to not do something like not enough patience or not enough this or not enough that but when you when you get down to it they always have it right that's that's I uh and thanks for that and and I I know that works and and for example prem paneika he's been telling me right write a book write a book you know even when the idea was not in my head he says when's your book coming I said which book he said the book that you're going to write and he every time he I reach out to him he says when's your book coming Okay. So, uh so I told him no, I'll come. Okay. And then other people also who read my stuff on Twitter and some stories and say that are you putting it together? When is the book coming and stuff like that? So now I started saying that yeah it's it's on its way. Okay. Which earlier I used to say but now I'm saying it's it's okay. It's on its way. Okay. So I think maybe the first step is to just what I've already written package it and put it out there. So I feel that you know I've tested the waters and maybe I can uh check out other types of writing as well. Same with film making because I know that some of the filmmakers I worked with uh they also said that you know maybe you should and uh I just have to overcome this little hump that uh of thinking that I don't have the patience to do it but uh maybe to get on to it. If I may be bold enough to make a suggestion, pick a month, maybe say June 2026, far enough away, and then tell everyone in your office, I'm on leave, I'm going to get it done, announce it to everyone, and then back engineer from there, raising the funds, writing the script, etc., etc., and write an intimate low budget film and uh make it and but I have to see Prem is a very very dear friend of mine and it's very ironic that he should tell you this because for 25 years I've been telling him write a book. But no, no, but hopefully he'll follow his own advice. Also, uh let's uh I want to, you know, dive back into your biography and we just stop dropped at childhood, so I want to continue from there. But let's take a quick commercial break and we'll do that on the other side of the break. Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it everything is everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma amitv ma. The show is called everything is everything. Please do check it out. Welcome back to the scene in the unseen. I'm still chatting with uh Rami who's used to doing 30 secondond commercials, who's used to writing uh you know threads on Twitter and this is uh substantially longer than that. So thank you Ranki for the patience to still be here. U let's go back to your childhood. I'm curious while you're going through all of these kendra where every day is an adventure and you're going through pipes and stealing fruit and uh getting up to all kinds of unmentionable mischief. No doubt. What is what is the evolving story in your head about yourself? Like uh um you know are you thinking of what you want to do in life? Are you thinking in terms of what are the things you're good at? How much do the conventional expectations of parents in that era which is basically engineering, medical or is how much are they playing on you? What what's going on there? Yeah. So I think like like most of my siblings too, I was pretty comfortable in academics. Okay, I was doing reasonably well without much effort. Uh I wasn't dizzy brilliant but I was comfortable. I you know I could I could do quite well without much uh effort and uh at that point of time it was just about doing well and and there was no preferences for any subject one over the other and I think that comes with having absolutely great teachers you know if that choice I don't think there's something within us which makes us feel one subject over the other if there's somebody who helps you like something a lot you know then maybe you really develop a huge interest but I think for the most part I I can say it quite safely that that there aren't too many inspirational teachers in India uh the schooling system being what it is there are a few once in a while here and there okay I remember once in a school in in I think when I was in KV southern command in Punea we had a history teacher who was earlier a curator in a museum so he was able to tell us things which we never knew which is outside of the textbook which was outside of dates and I did a fair amount of my Hindi uh my history in Hindi actually because of the rules of CBSC in those days. Uh so it was just simply wrote you know just mug up something there was no joy in it at all whereas it's such a delightful such an absolutely stunning subject but you need someone to come in and unlock it but for the most part we didn't have those people once in a while we had a good chemistry teacher good physics teacher so at that time you would enjoy those subjects but I think for the most part it just coasting along just doing well enough being in the top four five in the class and and not that it really mattered as much and absolutely gave it no thought to kind of do follow science. Okay, it was something my most of my siblings did except for one and the others uh I just did it and did quite well and and and uh when it came down to being in the when I reached my 11th standard that time it was like anyone who kind of good at academics writes J. So I read J and then my dad he's a scientist himself or rather was a scientist uh being a meteorologist. So physics was his subject and he was able to help me with physics and maths and he was a good teacher. So I liked those subjects and uh uh in those days you could write J after 11th then later they made it 12th and in fact mine was the last batch where you could do it after 11th. Uh so as soon as I join got into 11 they started off on a classes the correspondence thing just uh you know uh and appeared for the exam and with just a little time to go for the exam someone came and uh visitor came home one of my classmates and said what are you fooling around people are really slogging you should work hard and then suddenly you know it was like one month of effort okay just to prepare for the exam And as it turned out, I wrote the exam and I cleared it. Okay. Uh albeit with a four-digit rank, you know, which I think in retrospect was one of the best things that happened to me, you know. Uh and so I remember rank 1,386. And uh you know, there are some numbers that you remember all your life. This is one of them. So and then I also figured out that maybe if I had answered one question more or less it in in the exam I answered one more sum in maths maybe I would have been 600 did two more sums may have been some 400 or something like that because I think it's all you know it very one sum here or there and changes where you are in the ranking if I didn't answer one I may have been some 2,000 or something like that okay uh I could be wrong but that's what I imagine so anyway so that rank uh uh put me out of the put most of the IITs out of reach. Okay, which is the five IT in those days. There used to be the five IT and ITBHU. Okay, that was the six which is now an IT which is now an IIT which now every second institute was an IIT. But but yeah, it was ITBHU in those days. Uh but uh it got more noticed because it was the five IT and ITbhu you know it always stuck out as like extra thumb. So uh so my rank I would have got maybe some naval architecture or agricultural engineering in one of the IITs if I really wanted that extra eye. I was happy to do mechanical engineering and ITbh. So I went there and probably those are five of my most glorious years. Uh I really it was fabulous going to BHU then and uh I went there after 11th. So I saved a year which unfortunately the very next year that advantage was turned to not because they converted it to a 4-year course. So the people who did 12th also ended up doing a 4-year course and all got out of the same time. Uh so actually got into engineering without really knowing whether you have a flare for it, whether you like it or not, whether it's something that you want to do with your life. It we didn't really give it much thought. You were reasonably good at studies. You write the exam you go through and you went for it. Okay. Uh unlike many people who say that they would have probably redo their whole life the same way if they got a second chance. I would probably do everything differently. You know, I don't think I would do anything the way I did it when I did it. So I don't think I may have done engineering. So I did went 5 years there at BHU. It was glorious. uh because of I think in a large part uh to banaras the city itself uh BHU the campus uh its politics apart and everything else apart it was it was uh uh it was a different world altogether and uh the first you know leaves of life with independently with other people uh people from all over the world uh country hostile life uh first exposure to all kind of extracurricular activities uh and it it was a trip okay and it was uh and that all that freedom and independence uh meant that the first year I did terribly okay then I said no pull yourself together and then did better as went along then it became reasonably easy to do okay to do well enough then come final year the only choice really was like are you going to go abroad or stay here. For some reason, I going abroad had no fascination for me. Okay. I didn't feel the need to go abroad. I didn't feel any urge to go and study abroad. I think because I also was not sure I wanted to study some more. Okay. Uh I was not I was pretty good at engineering at whatever subjects you're going to do. Uh some subjects more than the other but not so much in love with it that is what I want to do for two more years. Okay. I didn't feel that by which time I I started liking and was fascinated by advertising. Okay. just as a person who reads magazines not too much television those days it was a print ad there was some really striking good-looking work coming from certain agencies and uh and I said this this looks nice and I had done a fair I was doing a lot of literary activities in college uh you know some little writing some little campus magazine and jam and debate and those kind of stuff and so those the fact that there is a world outside of engineering which is about uh you know some degree of creativity and literary stuff had dawned on me there was there there was something there okay now is that a career I had no idea at those times I had no idea at all so I said okay then uh if I'm not going abroad I'm not going the GMAT way let me write a CAT okay and give it a real serious shot so uh I wrote CAT without really knowing much of what I want to do except that I kind of like advertising. Okay. And uh uh as it turned out I got into all the IM at that time. Okay. And uh uh it's a completely different another little story about how I almost didn't go to I am Ahmedabad but then I ended up going there. It's a nice little story which involves a train journey and getting off halfway. Yeah. So, so I wrote the exam uh and got called for all the interviews and uh went for them and then I got admission in some of the other uh IM which I was not uh and but somehow I just thought I should go to Ahmedabad. Okay. And I had also on campus I got into Lassin and Tubro. I got that uh that was my campus job. Then I said no I'll join L&T. Okay. unless I get into Ahmedabad and uh uh I hadn't yet got the admission letter. Okay. Then it uh when I got it, it was a I was weight listed. Okay. Uh and uh so I said no, let me join L&T. I was in Madras in those days. So I got into the train uh and told my friends who had already reached Bombay that I'm coming there. Okay. And I was in the train going to jo uh with all practical intentions of joining last tub bro. So and when I was on the train I got about uh maybe 6 7 hours into the drive. We got off at one of the earlier Guru or some some such station. Then I hear an announcement on the platform saying that passenger Ramak Krishna on this train is sitting there. Can you please come to the station master's office? Okay. Wow. So then I said what the hell is this? You know because this is the days before there was mobile phone or any way of reaching anybody. If you left you left you got to wait till somebody goes there and then calls you up drunk call that I've reached here or send a telegram or something like that. So I said what's this? that I went there that I I chance of that I by chance I heard the announcement and by chance I had enough time to go there and that guy said that okay there's a message that you have received from your home there that you have got admission in I am Ahmedabad so please return so so what I did was I as it turned out my sister who's quite resourceful know somebody in the railways there she went and she passed on the message and said can you relay this information and as Luck turned out someone heard I I heard it and I came back and there was a bunch of my friends who had come to the station to receive me Bombay. They found that okay this guy has vanished where the L is not uh that's a different story. So anyway, I came back and and and I gave up L&D and then I went to IM. Okay. Uh I took up the admission there and uh at IM I uh fabulous place, crazy architecture and it was it really felt very special to be there to be quite honest. Uh then I also realized that okay here's a bunch of 180 odd people who are all at the top of what wherever they've come from. Okay and they're all going to compete with each other. So even if you're extremely good the chances are you'll end up being 150th or 160th or something like that in this group of people. Uh that's a different story. But uh so but while I was there I realized that yeah while I like advertising where this is taking me is not uh in that part of advertising that I want to be in. It is taking me towards either being an account planning account being maybe an account servicing or maybe in media planning but it's not taking me to what drew me to it in the first place. So uh so that put me in a bit of a quandery. I knew I was I was didn't want to do finance or any of those things. Okay. So I did the bunch of marketing and advertising courses. I did middlingly well at IM but did a whole bunch of other literary stuff and extracurriculars and all the other kind of wizzing and all the kind of that you do there. Enjoyed it immensely. Met some fabulous people there. uh learned more from just the environment than from the classroom. And then I realized that in order to be doing what I want in advertising, I need to have done any of the that I've been doing. I need to have gone to engineering college. I needn't have come here. I could have been a high school dropout for all you know. Yeah. There I met only somebody who I can call a madman. Okay. There was a guy called Nagan Kumar who was a he had done his FPM fellowship program in there and he had just been recruited by uh Mudra in Ahmedabad. Uh Mudra was this suddenly quick fast growing agency there which was then part of the Reliance network. And there was this guy called AG Krishna Morti a very totally the antithesis of an advertising person you know and he was a history guy who was a curator in some museum was then you know ended up somehow getting into advertising and doing work on Vimal in Frank Simo and then uh Amani saying you start the agency. So it it was a small fledgling agency which wanted her to do things a little differently and they had hired Nagan because Nagan is a bit of a he's almost like this Robin Williams character in deep poet in dead poet society okay a dreamer crazy guy with mad dreams and he sold some dreams to AK a Krishna Morti saying that you know we should train creative people we should get different we should not get them the people normally get them. We can get them and we can mold them to make great creative people and do things uh in a very unusual way. And he he was a oddball he was okay uh uh a character out of some mom novel or something you know and large 08 guy wheezing most of the time and deeply read okay used to read crazy amount of stuff very intellectual St. Stephen's English literature that kind of a guy. So he used when Mudra was growing he would go to the competitor's office call somebody interview them in the reception area of their office where they used to work and offer them jobs. You know he was pretty w crazy guy. So anyway, he had this idea of let's have a copy training program where I'll find young people and uh we I'll train them very very differently and then we'll use them to grow the agency. We'll send them to the different different branches of Mudra in those days. So he designed one program in his head of a six-month program which was not in the agency but where take six people keep them in one rarified atmosphere of a flat in Ahmedabad and expose them to all kinds of stuff, books, movies, poetry, give them weird tasks, let them you know it was it was uh pretty weird. uh and uh so I was in my second year when he was doing all of this and I met him then uh he said that why don't you uh apply for this program which was called MCTP which is a mudra copy training program. So I said okay and I did that and then he selected six people okay through that process and uh Balki was one of them okay who's now a filmmaker yeah uh there was a guy from Assam Dubo there was Panka from Delhi Kurya from Kerala and there was a Sunil Gautam from Jalangar okay six people he selected and Uh he said that uh we'll give you a,000 bucks a month, okay? But we'll put you up in a flat and then we'll hire you go as a copyriter to one of our branches. And to and I said that this sounds like fun. Okay. Uh and uh I said I opted out of placement. I said this is what I'm going to do. Okay. And I took it up. And eternal credit to my parents. They didn't say that you know I sent you to this place and I paid for your education to do this. I thought you'll join some fancy place and earn a you know multinat or a city bank or something like that. But here you're saying that you're going to probably be the lowest paid guy in your batch by doing something like this. But then Naga really sold us the dream you know he sold it completely. He says don't worry in the beginning it'll be difficult but if you do well then you'll you'll really do well. You'll make enough money and all that stuff. Okay, which is a halftruth but uh uh anyway the thing is so I joined that program and okay at least I said it's taking me into that part of advertising which I want to do which is the creative side of it that's how I joined Mudra. So he kept us for 6 months in this place and it was uh it was quite a surreal kind of an experience there you know uh and he said that I don't want to pollute you by putting you in the agency atmosphere okay so just keep there he bought a bunch of books and he said read the books and he would make us do stuff like read the book just pick out all the phrases which stuck in your mind the combination of words make a list of them and you tell us the next day which are the words you found why you like those words. Then he would say that watch a movie. Okay, then uh sit down and think of the scenes that were most powerful. Then you analyze that scene, you know, and just say that what made that scene powerful. Okay, then you just try to articulate that and put that down as a principle of communication, you know, articulate what made that scene powerful. Okay? And then use that to kind of write a fictitious ad for something else which uses that as a principle. So all these kind of funny things he made us do which and then he said that go out spend a day outside and come back and write something about it. And so it was it was a bunch of these kind of things which was 6 months. Then he sent each of us off to a different branch. Something he did I think worked or was right or was was uh because all of us did pretty well in in each of the branches that we went to and we stayed around also for long enough in a in a business where people leave very fast. We hung around for quite a bit and uh yeah so that so from Mudra Madras then I came to Mudra Bombay they had a bunch of these financial accounts on the very first day I joined Mudra Bombay my manager said come going for a meeting uh want to come with me uh I'm going to meet uh Anil Amani said very first day you know wow what is went there it was something mundane like proofreading the annual report or something like that. I said this is big time like okay just come from there and the very first day you meet the Amani and then while we were talking to him Mkkesh walks there and he just they have that that is when the day when they were still friendly to each other this is exciting but it was they didn't have any fancy accounts but he did a lot of financial work for for all those big mega accounts used to be you know issues public issues used to come Reliance F- series G series this Reliance petrochemicals all basically for uh public issues. We did a lot of that kind of work. Did some work for God soaps and uh and then my the guy who was my manager in Mudra Madras said that I'm starting an agency uh do you want to come on board? So I went back to Madras and start my first stint of uh entrepreneurship sort of. So I was a co-founder of a agency and it was called fifth estate and I was part of it for about three years there but I also realized that Madras was a little limiting in terms of where it was in advertising and there's only so much you could do there and then I had met the person who was to be my wife and I wanted to come to Bombay and I came to Bombay and tried to kind of do fifth state in Bombay but it wouldn't work. Uh then I joined a small agency called forefront which was a fascinating agency started by this guy called uh Hajay Gupta young upstart guy who's then went on to start capital foods there chinking secret and all those things and he's he's a he's a very very big businessman now but uh he had done some f very good work at forefront with all the retail uh out accounts small accounts uh but very seated the pants very intuitive very clever strategic kind of stuff you know he used to come up with this fun you he did work for things like sheetal and romon and all the kalani ketan and all those kind of stores but clever ideas you know like put all the taxis would have the sheet sticker on them you know he says use one medium use it well everyone will know about it and you know especially the ones which come from airport and stuff very clever kind of intuitive things built built a lot of bunch of small brands. I was at forefront for a while and anyway long story short after some time Balki said he had done really well for himself in Mudra. he became the head of creative at Lintas and he said that stop wasting your time come to Lintas and I uh joined Lintas at uh I was there for five very good years there did some really fun work good stuff cut my teeth on Unilver Hindustan Le I came in saying I didn't want to be on uni liver he said okay then but then after some time he convinced me that that's where the real action is you it's anyone can work on a a fancy account but not many it's not easy to work on detergent it's not easy to work on soaps you know it's different it's uh so I worked on that for did some work which I'm taught me a lot you know bimar and lux and life boy and lux came later but life boy and wheel and did earthy stuff with praakar who we just interviewed on with goinda mad stuff but really understood the business a lot more understood what brands are what is a mass brand you know what is what is how do you you know work on a medium which the whole country would see it which used to happen in those days not so much now in this very very fragmented kind of media that we have now those are simple days you know you put an ad before Buna or Mahawarat and the whole country has seen it you know you just plug it there and next day everyone's seen it it was way before all this multiple segments fragments digital wo today you can spend your whole lifetime doing so much work and nobody's seen it. It so easy to be anonymous right now working very hard and say what the hell are you doing? You're working from morning to night and I don't see any of your that you're doing. Yeah, but somebody somewhere is probably seeing it and you know so it that way it was simpler. Take one ad in the Hindu and everyone in Madras has seen it. You take one ad in Times of India and then statesman in Kolkata everyone has seen it. It was simple times. Uh so yeah so I had a lot of fun working on pretty much under freehand on a bunch of uni liver accounts worked with a lot of clients who went on to become CEOs in the rest of the world later. So uh it was truly that kind of what they called themselves you know a CEO school it was very much the case then when JWT was having trouble with the uni labor accounts they wanted somebody who's knows the business and how can do it and then first time there was there was some kind of a little spotlight on me when I moved from Lintest to JWD and it made a little news that I joined there as head of creative here in Bombay and I was there for about 3 or 4 years then I reached that so-called halfway mark of my career if 58 is seen as retirement and what I found is that if I don't do something that I want now and there were changes that are happening in the agency at that point of time which forced me to take the decision that if I don't do it now I won't do it at all because I didn't much care for being in a large multin which is committed to doing things in a particular way when you have to talk the official talk be careful about what you say and you know not kept on stalls one or two times you know when people called for some quote on some campaign we had done I found that I had said something which I shouldn't have said you know because you know that account is important to us so we may go for it or you know something god knows all kinds of things right and somehow I was finding that I I was not able to be honest with myself and what I was doing and uh I said this time the time to probably quit and start something is now and that's when I started cartwheel of course it it was an opportunity that came first and it became cartwheel later and I've been pretty much doing that now for close to 20 years and uh so that's sort of a nutshell my advertising kind of a journey but I'll kind of pause and see if there's anything you want to pick up on that you know that that's a fabulous uh ported narrative where you uh you know compress so many years uh in just a few minutes I want to double click on some aspects of those but the first thing that strikes me is a mad role of serendipity like if you're uh uh you know J rank was a few hundred places one question more one question less you're in a different place God knows where your part takes you that train journey if you don't step out if you don't happen to hear the announcement god knows where you land up lassen and tub bro perhaps an expert engineer you're uh uh you know perhaps CEO of Lassen and Tubu but I think you'd prefer this uh and so on and equally if uh you know the right people at the right time if you don't meet Naganand Kumar there and if he doesn't inspire you in that way who knows where you go that blows me away I want to take you back to even this the start of this and uh double click on uh you know the BHU days where you said that those were the most glorious years of your life and I want to know more about that because it it almost sounds like you blossomed uh in in in some ways when you use uh that phrase uh glorious years. So tell me more about that what was really happening uh to you as a person and how were you changing how were you growing up? Of course the first part of it of course is that your first taste of independence, freedom, hostile life being on your own. It's the first taste of a different type of uh educational environment, a campus with lots of facilities, lot of things that you can do. It's the first time that you make a gang of people who are together 24 hours. It's not like a school gang, they're there with them or a colony gang, you're there with them that time or whatever. You're there with them 24 hours, right? And it it was a strangely entrepreneurial kind of a place you know BHU which was like the first simple thing like uh each hostel used to have four or five messes okay and the messes each had some 40 50 members to it and the messes were completely run by the students by a manager would be there and run like a business. Okay. So there would be a maharaj with his cooks and they would be given a kitchen and the student there was one of the students who would manage that mess to the extent that they would decide the menu. They would collect the money. They would uh give it to that guy. That guy would give the accounts to this guy and then they would compute what there was called what was a diet charge in those days. And if you wanted it to be a profitering thing, you could actually do it as a profit-making business. But it was mostly run as you know, okay, this is the cost, somebody's doing it for the experience of doing it. And that level of uh uh freedom suddenly and opportunity uh out of nowhere was amazing. You know that you can do something like that. Then there would be somebody who would say that uh you know I'll just make t-shirts and sell in the campus just print something interesting and just you make it you find some supplier you do something you put a slogan you go there walk down the lobbies and sell it to people and of course those were times when ragging was still a thing so seniors would do this and then sell it stuff to the juniors who didn't have a choice but I'm just trying to say that it was a place where suddenly a lot of opportunities just came out of nowhere. Yeah, because you were the academic pressure was not so high which maybe would have been a lot more in one of the IIDs and uh there was in that campus if one wanted to one could have learned flying. There was a flying club there. There was you know there was squash courts there, there were swimming pool there, there were tennis courts of access to uh pot. So depending on your inclination you could do whatever you wanted. So in the very first few months of being there, BHI, I saw people sitting in the common room blowing their minds out with some ganja and also uh saw uh you know somebody else going to take a flying lesson, you know. So it was like you you there's so much to do and you have 5 years to do all this stuff in and it wasn't terribly difficult to kind of just keep pace and get away get with the with the work itself. But it is also the first time you met people from other places and you lived together with them all the time. You hung out with them. So people from Bangalore and Bombay and Kolkata and then they were extracurricular activities the festival you organize it and so then you find some group of people who like that activity. So when one of the people who kind of ragged me when I was a freshy was a slightly intellectual bunch of people who were in third year at that time and they found that okay okay this guy has read a few books he knows some things and they so after that somewhat polite session of ragging they went on to saying what movies do you like and what do you and they were uh the uh they become your friends after they rag you and then they're saying there's a sat movie we're going for you want to come with us and so then introduced me to those those movies so in fact one of those guys is Dh Kapoor if uh who's uh an academic of note in the USA right now who's written some very scholarly books another guy was Panka Chandra who is uh chancellor of uh Gujarat University or something like that so uh so there there's opportunities to kind of blossom and grow and find different things right you meet people and And then you get into maybe doing skits or doing plays and then uh so even though I was not I had this little South Indian accent in the way I spoke Hindi or whatever somebody said that no I think uh you know I'm doing a Hindi play and I'd like you to be in it and I did one or two Hindi plays and so it was opening up of the mind and opportunities to various things that had one had never done before. uh then run running a small little news you know uh magazine which was we used to cyclo style it ourselves you know type it out on that stencil go to the office and cycllo style it and then go and hand it over and sell it and people would pay for it and uh so it was a whole new world to use a cliche you know an opportunity to do things and uh without that so much pressure of being in a high in an academic institute It's pushing you and there was somehow the mahal of Banaras also there was this going out on on your cycles to the city going through this weird place of small gullies finding restaurants to eat at hanging out in the garts uh and then there was by virtue of being in Banaras they were in the campus in the other faculties not the engineering faculty there would be there was a music college where an Rajam was the principal there would be concerts there there were performances in those There's something called Rimpa where you know Pandit Raash Shankar and Alaraka and all used to perform and play and we used to go and see them and for nothing just just go there and they were performing there and we would watch them. It was like incredible these kind of experiences to kind of just have uh happening and uh there was this also this political atmosphere of BHU we were there was electioneering and then we we didn't even know what it meant. Manod Sunha who's now the left governor of Kashmir was the first students union president. He was from uh and I campaigned for him when I was in the first year. We don't even know anything about it but it was like you know muralog campaigning you know and we were all going and and we didn't even know what it was but we were there campaigning and then we uh we would see these nas come and and it was our first brush of what politics at a larger level is at at a microcosm level and uh then realize that it's it's the first time you understand that oh there's something like you know there's a taco lobby Yadaval lobby there's something there and there's these factions and people and boats and people were calculating it and you know all the south Indians were branded together and put I mean were called macalus you know we're all maloo which uh uh we just realized that this this full melting pot that is India and his people and and we also because it was in Banaras even unsavory things used to happen on the side there there would be some marit and someh uh faculty trouble. There was uh while I was there on the campus the university shut thrice because of some unrest and we had to vacate the hosts and leave within 24 hours. It used to be called sinodai. The university shutai. So sadai was something which every student in BH knows and then come back when things are okay. So in our very first year itself it had shutai and then you had to pack and leave within 24 hours. going to mulharay junction trying to find a train and trying to get home somehow you know fend for yourself find a way home so I don't know if these kind of crazy experiences one would have got in a more uh proper institute you know uh but at the same time we got the exactly same B tech which they did and uh as it turned out when finally we wrote CAT you know in that year I realized that BHU has sent had more people who cleared CAT then all the IIDs when I went to Ahmedabad I found that the almost the most number of people came from BHU something happened right there in terms of preparing us for this so yeah so that was the uh that journey which kind of ended at that uh BHU and IM and then Mudra which I told you before and you know all of these in subtle ways that we don't recognize till much later you know where we've studied which city we've lived in. they also shape our thinking and they are you know what differentiates us from others or which makes us see things in a different way and of course there is the BHU experience which as you pointed out sounds very different from any of the other regimented IITs might have been and equally I'm guessing that in IMA itself the kind of um frameworks you would have been exposed to the kind of thinking you would have done maybe the kind of rigor in your homework I I I don't know u you know would be a very different experience from what other copywriters in advertising would be used to. I guess in that sense you would be an outlier among copywriters also in perhaps your systematic approach to thinking about something or just understanding what is a brand and what do they want. Do you feel that there's something to that that all of these you know growing up in these cosmopolitan townships as it were as your dad was traveling and from you know all the cavies that you were at which were like you know again a mic sort of a cosmopolitan microcosm of the country and then the BHU experience and then I am Amedabad and do you think all these shape you in different ways into becoming kind of different in good or maybe even bad ways from your uh peers and colleagues later. No, there's very little doubt about that in the sense that everything kicks in. But what I did realize is that it takes time for it to kick in in a way which is uh productive which is useful. It takes I I feel that there's no short or shortcut to experience and age you know. uh so I feel that you know suppose you hire a guy who's 35 years old who's been doing all kinds of other things who suddenly says I want to be a copywriter okay but I'll start at the bottom it doesn't matter because I really want to do this and I've met such people there are such people who after doing who spend have a proper career doing something else they come there uh I'm pretty sure and I I uh and I've seen it to be true is that uh when they start at the bottom as a copywriter that disadvantage of learning the ropes lasts just a few weeks or months or whatever it is you once you just learn them what it's all about but then that what you have done till you got 35 kicks in you know and it's puts you in a different plane from the other people who have not had that and suddenly it doesn't matter at all that you join late it becomes your advantage It becomes like you you see things in a very very different way and you had life experiences which are completely different and which makes some of the people you're trying to sell stuff to and do things for people you met you know those people you've seen them you know their stories and it's it's very very very different and that experience uh I think only comes from life really so even any amount of a guy reading it from books and things like that theoretically you might pick up some of those things and know that they exist but I I don't think there's any sh uh you know you got to get there and there is one sort of equifality you know you may come from wherever whatever and done whatever it is but once you get to some some years in the business irrespective of your root you I think you reach a stage where uh you're all equally kind of competent with some differences but you you you get the picture so definitely there's no doubt that uh though it seems like seven years of wasted education you know where I could have already started earning and being up there. It starts kicking in in different ways. It it it for in for example uh it made it much easier for me to kind of understand what clients were saying because they have gone through the same kind of system. Their jargon is something you've heard before. You know what they're talking about what they're saying which can also be a disadvantage. It it can be that you're not raw. You know you you kind of heard this before so you'll lose that advantage. But in some cases it it also equipped me like I am especially they throw so much case material at you. It's like every day they give you a pa of papers that you got to have read before you go for class the next day. If you haven't you you just don't know what the hell is happening there. Here throw in into the deep end really. So, and so it kind of equips you for going through lots of material and just it also teaches you to kind of the art of skimming through picking up knowing the essence of it not getting bogged down by data numbers and all otherwise it's like a if you're reading every single number is a speed breaker you know but if you realize that no forget it I'll just get the big picture you know learn read it quickly see what it is get the whole picture so at least I know what it's about these turned out to be quite useful going forward so later when clients brief I mean briefing calling them briefs is a bit of a joke because they don't they just simply dump stuff on you there's some brochure there's something there something else written there whatever it is they just junk they give you some a lot of reading material which has not even been collated so then it turned out to be a useful skill I knew how to do that you know go through lots of stuff and pick up or to kind of just zone out when they're talking about stuff which you know is of not of much consequence you know if you spend too much of your brain power understanding things which are really not going to be of consequence. When you really needed to be sharp, you have already done. So, you learned those little tricks of of just picking up getting the better picture and then and then doing the right thing. So, uh when I did come out of IM and became a copyrighter, I was a bit of a novelty for some time. Oh, I am guy who was a copyriter and all. There was that little, you know, I was a freak uh in that sense. Okay. which also turned out to be at some point of time not entirely a good thing you know because they feel that okay you will be leftrained if if that's the right side I don't know which side the analytic side is yeah they'll say no you won't you won't be the other side they won't give you the benefit of the doubt that you could be or that you could be both okay uh and uh but in the long run. I I felt that that compared to the copywriter who dropped out and was a truck driver and who did all the kind of stuff and everything else who had this life experiences and had that edgginess in when they were young. Uh I felt it all equalized a little later. It's like what he didn't have I had. What he had I didn't have. But it all came together a little later. Uh so I I I do think that uh we all are taught to kind of especially we're in a culture where we put so much premium on people achieving when they're young uh that I think we forget about how much they can contribute or how good they can be when they get a little older and uh and um that's an ongoing problem. uh call it aism or you call it whatever it is. But this not understanding what sheer experience of life brings to the party uh just for something that is young and shiny and new is uh something which I think the world is missing out of it all. So I'll just think aloud here. One thing I've always wondered about and I wonder if uh Indian management schools make a mistake here is that somehow it is a tradition here that you finish your graduation engineering or whatever it is and you straight away do an MBA whereas a tradition at a Harvard, Stanford and then the Ivy League business schools is that often there'll be people in their 30s joining those you've got 10 15 years of experience and I prefer that second model. I preferred a second model because you're coming in with all that life experience already which you've spoken about and then you get the management theories and the rigor and whatever it is and when you come out you are surely way more rounded in a particular way and that's one aspect of it the MBA education itself but the other aspect is that in India we often have this mentality that everything is regimented across a linear path that you do your college you get your postgrad or your MBA or whatever you get into a job you become vice president, you become you go as far as you know the Peter principle takes you and then you retire and you get dementia and you die and it's just one linear path. Whereas um you know elsewhere in the world it isn't really like that. You can take many unconventional routes to get there and perhaps by this custom of people straight away doing an MBA uh it actually precludes the possibility of getting some life experience. What what are your thoughts on this? No, I uh it's it's true that even uh I've found that the people who had some work experience uh could relate to what is going on in the classroom better. That that's uh no two ways about it. And I think that's changing right now. I think people are taking people with uh these days I think they're giving more weightage to those with experience than they did in the past. And I think there's also I think each IM has got a slightly different admission policy of its own. Some people are heavy on fresh people. Some people are heavy on uh uh having 50/50. Some people are so I think each institute is slightly different and that's what makes them different from each other. Uh what I did like about Ahmedabad uh is that uh it was a more diverse mix. Uh it wasn't engineer heavy which uh compared to say Kolkata which was almost fully engineers. It was there were a lot of people from economics, people from commerce, people who had done uh the few people from law, a lot of science and there was of course a whole bunch of engineers and there was a equal 50/50 I think of people with experience and without okay uh maybe maybe a little more towards fresh but that may have changed now. Uh there's no doubt about it that uh it I think you'll be better off if you've done some work before you come there. But what I think is so embedded especially in A inabad I can't talk about other places and they may be equally uh uh good at this is that it's been designed right from its ethos from the way Lu Khan designed the place for interaction. It's even the dorms have been designed in a way that if you come out of your room there is a common space where you will meet somebody who's coming out from their room and there is a place you can sit and chat which is a ledge there. Okay. It has been designed in such a way that there is interaction. There are spaces throughout dotted through the campus where you can just sit and hang around and chat and talk together. You can't go from A to B without meeting people, seeing people outside the classrooms everywhere. There is it's built into the architectural ethos of the place, you know, the way it's been designed. And honestly, I think I the it's not so much what I got in the classroom as from just the overall being there hanging out with these people and then seeing this guy from who's done now we did this 5 year BTech and then we were in a classroom with somebody who done a three-year BCOM or something like that. Okay. And they're beating the out of you in some subjects. You know that it's ego crushing. The first time you do a quiz and you found that you you got a D and somebody who's uh who's not done any quantity work in your life has got an A, you know, then you realize that there's a difference. The the field is very very different here. That that's nice. It's a humbling thing when when uh uh you learn that there's something which these people uh learned in their eco courses and all those things that you didn't get in your classroom. uh which which is valuable. Uh so that that that was fascinating which I think is a nice thing about a course like management which brings people from different streams together and if you you lose it completely what you talked about the linearity I think it would have been continued to be there if a bunch of engineers leave the college and come here and do the same thing again and do it in the same kind of a way and go somewhere else having somebody who's done psychology and and put you in your place because you don't understand something or do something better than you in something I think It's humbling and it's it's useful and that's again something that Naga used to do you know and he used to play the little mind games with us in that training program. He would deliberately uh and he would rope in some other people into the act which if we didn't know he would say that this week no whatever this guy says we're going to say it's a idea okay whatever he come however good it is he going to say a okay you know kind of prepare you for the world how it is okay and then he'll just keep changing the scenario where somebody's you know is flying high sometime and somebody is in the house the next time and things like that and we were his guinea pigs he was playing all kinds of psychological trick on and using us as guinea pigs for his experiments. But in in its own weird way, it uh it all worked. And uh so so and I I really wish that everybody in marketing you know has that kind of an experience sometime in their life. They you know they come and I I very very unimaginative people are in marketing. people who who who don't watch movies, who don't read books, uh, and how are you going to sell stuff? How are you going to make things happen? You you're just going to be get carried away by some stupid 2% stronger, 3% some bigger or whatever it is. You know, there is no and even the choices that you make later with your with your media, your communication, the stories you tell are going to completely lack in imagination. So I I I do feel that uh everybody needs that bit of mad kind of exposure and experience in their lives. Uh either by design or by you know you just say that I'm going to do it. Uh we were talking about mommy some time back. I mean everyone should at least spend one season going and seeing it. Don't do it year after year but do it once in a while for you to understand that there's a world beyond your PowerPoint that there is a other things there are there are more nuances than you realize in the world. Uh you're so blinkered and it lo you lose all focus. I I can't understand how people become corporate slaves so easily achieving and pursuing dreams which are completely utterly meaningless but with such a passion and going nuts about it and driving everybody nuts about it because of some chasing some stupid half% market share or something like that mindlessly. So, you know, I'll I'll double click more on your experiences in the mudra house after this, but first I have two sort of questions that are a digression that I can't help asking. One of them is about design. Like you mentioned, Lu Khan's design architecturally was meant to have you running into people and meant to have you interacting with them and you couldn't get from A to B without there being uh all these serendipitous encounters as it were. You optimizing for serendipity. Similarly, I wonder how you think about the designs of offices and the designs not just in an architectural sense whether it's an open office or it's got cabins or whatever but even the cultural design as it were that you know do you call everyone by their first name and u uh you know is there a certain way you're supposed to dress is it like you know is there enough space for water cooler conversations if not literal water coolers so that's the first of my two questions right I is that something that like what have you picked up from your observations across all these small and big agencies over your time and you know today running your own agency for 20 something years that how important do you think these subtle things are which you may not otherwise notice but which shape culture and shape people no I I think it's very very central to uh people designing organizations you know and the word design itself uh unfortunately is is much misunderstood It's much bigger than it is. You know, people just you either think it's of it's it's actually physical design or graphic design or a logo design or it is, you know, furniture design or a building or something like that. And it's it's much much much more than that. And it took me a long time to understand it. Honestly, it did. Even though I had read some stuff and though I've been educated about it and everything else but to understand it conceptually you know what is uh the concept of design or something that you build around uh it took me a long time to to really understand what it is and it's it's very critical okay it's very very very critical and I think anyone who's a startup right now I I envy them you know because they have a blank slate where they can do that they can build that whole from scratch where it is so seeped and thought in every little element and it it it uh it need can be with like you said it can be with policies it can be with the language it can be the way the office design it can be about even the chairs or whatever you do but it is that slightly intangible thing which makes everything part of the same harmony the same you know orchestra playing different different piece places and it's lacking in most places and uh because we just cut it down to the physical part of it. Like for example, you can have you know a very very very hardcore marketing consultancy or a management consultancy kind of a place which very left brain doing very boring projects and say no no we have to be very creative you know our office needs to nurture creativity so let's have these kind of breakout spaces let's have libraries let's have books let's have bean bags let's have thing and it means squat it may not achieve anything it's it's not a bean bag which makes you think of an idea Right. It's uh it's but it's the people think it's the bean bag which gives you the idea. It doesn't. It it it does nothing at all. It just you can go there and sleep on it and have no idea at all. Yeah. So I I uh it is something that is nothing to do with the space. I remember Feainman talking about it in in one of his books where he talks about again I may get the names of the universities mixed up but where he did a lot of his work was in this mad facility where there were wires running everywhere a bit like your desk and you know there's there's equipment there and and coffee spills here and you know books all over the place and everyone doing some mad people roaming around and the equipment itself is not the latest. It's not the, you know, and then he moves from uh one to the other. Okay. And the other place is like spanking new. It's got fabulous crazy cyclotron, wonderful equipment, and you can do anything that you want. And but it just doesn't have the wibe. It doesn't have the energy. It doesn't have the interaction. It doesn't have that uh you know people bouncing off each other telling things. Then he says the amount of the number of fresh ideas, the new thoughts, the crazy ideas that you had in the earlier place were not there in this place. There's something antiseptic about it. Something very clean and new. Nothing about it. You know, you could have this place where some organizational consultant tells you you need a residential artist and you need somebody to do this and you play this kind of music and all the stuff. It can mean squad. Maybe it'll achieve nothing but it doesn't mean it doesn't have a place. But you do the same thing where some other places things are also in place. It could be magical. So I think there's this this this this delightful chaos which is there in certain places has got it's not entirely a function of just the way it has been designed. It pieces have to fall together for it for for that magic to happen. And that design is a very fragile thing that concept of the design and I think the people who have it most would be the founders. Okay, which is what in some way I'm sure that a Steve Jobs had uh something which certainly in his own way any any guy who starts a film production house or whatever it is will have that kind of a design some kind of a dream okay and some kind of a thing around which he builds layers of layers of what it is the office spaces itself uh I found that suddenly the pandemic you know was like a cat among the pigeons is only gone. No offices, no spaces. We haven't yet managed to get back to our office after the pandemic. Once we started working from home, finding it extremely difficult to get people back. I think it's a worldwide problem. Most people are trying to say how do I get people back? And people are saying no, I don't want to come back. How are you going to drag me back? And you know, it's all kinds of things uh at play here. So then the office space suddenly is out of the equation. So what is it in organizational design which can be there when you're working from home? It's a tricky thing that that has to be maybe process and may maybe it has to do with how you share ideas and how you react to them, how you respond to them. So yeah, my second question, what you you know your lament about do they read books, do they watch movies so often they don't, especially if if they're on a linear path. That resonates a lot because you know I I started thinking about this when a friend of mine who is a CXO in a big company once told me that hey you know when I go out with fellow CXO people in my company and in my industry it's like boring as hell because they don't they can't make conversation about anything except the most cliched things either they'll do shop talk or is Bollywood and cricket at a surface level but they don't read books they don't watch world cinema they don't do this they don't do that what I even talk about and from that point on my observation largely has been that 95% at least 95% of people are just on a groove. They're going through their career. They might be very successful but they're not doing the reading of books or the watching of movies or the ability to have those broader cultural conversations um that um you know enrich our lives and that can that we can learn from and you know one classification which um uh my YouTube co-host AJ once did which I kind of agree with. He said that most people are technicians. They learn the technique of whatever they're doing. They might do it damn well. You could be the best heart surgeon in the world but not know anything outside heart surgery and you're a great technician. And at one level you might say that is all you expect of the guy. But at another level you would say that no you know you got to take that step back and be broader than that. And it's like the classic CLR James quote. What do they of cricket know who only cricket know? You know and you could replace cricket with anything. What do they of X know who only X know. And I wonder how you approach this especially as someone like you who's been a leader of different companies and then started his own that how do you approach this? Is this something that you should consciously select for or is it okay for some people to just be technicians as long as they're awesome at what they do or is it something that can actually be trained like what I'm guessing is Naganand was doing a combination of both when he hires those six people. He's trying to get six people who appear to be broad-minded awesome people in different ways, but then he's also training them to be of this sort. So, what are your thoughts when you look at um you know the workplaces around you? And that whole dilemma of do you select for this, do you train for this? Is this such a big problem? What can we do about it? No, I I I think it can be inculcated. It can be you can be trained for it. I I believe so. uh I think just by exposure by forcing people I think the homogenity is a problem I think we have when we are so hetroenous as a country we why do we choose homogenity you know I I'll just tell you a very live conversation we're having my bunch of BHU friends is thinking of having a reunion next year and we're going to go back to Banaras and spend a few days there okay so when we were in Banaras that time it was like aspirational for us to go to Taj Ganges Okay, it had just been set up there and obviously we just couldn't afford it as students to go there and they would sponsor maybe a couple of prizes in our festival which is you know and with two people at Taj Ganges or something. So somebody had suggested let's go let's now that we can afford it in life okay let's go to Taj Ganes okay then there was a conversation saying that no I don't think is a waste of time it won't it's not banar we can fivestar hotel there is a homogenity right to the fivestar experience whether it's in bonaro whether it's in Bombay or whether it's in Landend is going to be 90% the same thing and I I heard and I I don't know if it's true that all Mckenzie officers worldwide are designed the same way So that because people are transferable. They do assignments. They go to some place else. Somebody from New York comes to Bombay and he if he goes into the Mckenzie office, he should know where the plug is or what it is, how to fit it in, how he gets his access, where the coffee room is and where the thing is and everything else. So they design it the same kind of a thing so that people can just fit in and be efficient from the moment they walk in. Okay, that's a complete like keep doing the same kind of thing that you do again and again again in a homogeneous sort of a way. I think it robs us so much of texture. It's you know and why are we deliberately choosing how is one gated society different from another all of them the same bloody thing there's a gate you come in there you got a swimming pool you got buildings you got some fake landscape place and you do your own kind of thing and have one gym which has the same kind of a thing why why why are you robbing yourself of the opportunity of being in a I'm not saying stay in a ch but but you know look at the texture look at the madness and of the experience there and look at what what this is I mean there are two different extremes Maybe the best thing is somewhere in between somewhere else. So I do think that I I think you should force people to do more things than they are doing and then they'll develop a taste for it and they'll want to do it. Make them watch a movie, make them read a book, make them see something, make them talk about uh things that they have not done before. One of the things that happened in JWT when I went there was uh it was see it's this large huge creative agency I mean uh agency which had lost its creative mojo seen as a you know servicingdriven place strong on planning but weak on creative and so one of the first thing was to slightly improve the creative morale of the place and so we went and we had one little workshop in Ratnagiri and then that workshop we called Chutyagiri and Ratnagiri. Okay. Bunch of people went there and then I just I told everybody that you can come and talk about something anything whatever you want uh to everybody else. You choose what it is about. It has not have anything to do with advertising at all. And I was surprised and shocked by the kind of response and the kind of things we didn't even really know you know somebody is a poet, somebody has written some stuff, somebody was an actor. you never knew somebody doing it and talking about it was so much more and then you're forced to do something then you find something that you'll do okay just so that I can go and talk about it it's like show and tell in school and all I guess oh why do we stop doing it I think it can be there you know we stop doing it somewhere and we stop uh trying it all so to some extent I found that being on social media makes you keep searching for things to post about or write border. So that somehow is a positive pressure. It's nice. It's like I know can I find something which is interesting enough for me to share and then you end up going and looking and doing something that maybe there's a story in this if as long as it's not superficial and you find something genuinely interesting. It can be nice. It can be a good pressure. So I I and I think it's quite possible that that CMO who has seen uh uh you know a masala movie one day and seen a ray movie the next day and seen a international movie the third day and the fourth day you he's sitting in a presentation his mindset will be very different and I it would have opened up something would have unlocked something would have changed for sure and it should be you know and uh we all think we live very stuck up lives I myself have lived a very stuck up life to be quite honest despite all the experiences that I've had which may have seemed which probably I have romanticized them a bit but I also know that I've been a bit of a prude I've been conservative I don't smoke I don't drink okay I I I now I feel that if I had a second chance maybe I would pot maybe I would booze maybe I would have done some crazier things it's not too late yeah but then before you know it it all sets in too much and the it you need more to overcome it. I I probably live life differently, you know, and uh I I think uh having multiple experiences should suit most people uh uh is what I make of it. Yeah. No, I mean um you know before we before this I was uh sharing a me memory with you of uh someone both of us knew Shamin Desai who died too young and it's a beautiful memory that kind of speaks to this where uh I was a young gun in channel V and he was head of promos and I remember one day he just called us into his room uh called us into the promos room and he said okay I'm going to play a movie for you but before that I'm going to talk about it and the film was Kapola's Rumblefish and he spoke about it for half an or gave us a full context and I don't remember if he paused during the film to talk talk about scenes but he certainly did that later and it was a education and the thing is it is not an education in cinema. It was an education in asking why in understanding that behind everything that there is a reason the things are the way that they are. There is a reason and there is a history and I think that applies to everything that we are not in the habit of questioning enough that why should I do it like this you know the the quality of question that takes you from you know saying why is this a midshot instead of a close-up you know why is the camera angle here why did we suddenly cut to this actor even though this actor isn't speaking if you can ask a why there you can then also ask a why about why your brand is doing something why your office is designed in a particular way and I I I think that quality of asking why is not just enough where we just get jaded we take everything for granted like I came across this tweet again I don't remember by whom but I'll post it in the show notes which made this fantastic point that everything around us that appears ordinary and commonplace and banal is a labor of love of someone put their heart and soul and passion into it that's why this table looks the way it does or that's why you know every single book in this whom is kind of a product of that and and and building that mindset is sort of what is important and and what you are saying is that it can be trained and that it's yeah I I think what I'm saying is that we can give our brain or mind or whichever part of our bodies kind of create come up with ideas more fer and we are robbing it if we don't do it if we don't sit and have a conversation with that guy in the chai tapuri, you're never going to know his life. See, one of the reasons for example that stops me from getting into something as serious as writing a novel, okay? Uh where whereas I can, you know, churn out a story in uh in 20 tweets is I feel that how can I even write a novel in India if I don't understand cast. Okay, I can write a small little sweet cute story. Uh, that's fine. I can get away with it. But I'm going to be tested if I have to write 200 pages and I don't want it to be superficial. I can write a maybe a frilly woodous kind of a thing which is just fun. But if I want to write something a little serious, how can I write about a character if I don't understand cast, you know, and I don't. The fact is our lives just keep you in a bubble and you keep moving in that bubble and similar people who have had similar experiences. I have not had the chance to kind of really really understand. I stay a stones throw away from a slum but I don't know uh how their mind works apart from only some externalities that I'm seeing. Okay, I've not had a deep conversation with them. So somewhere in my head is that okay if there is going to be a novel or a movie it's probably going to be about that slum. Okay that's what I feel that's the subject which I have been watching passively for 20 years now but if I get on to it I don't think I can do it unless I speak to at least five people who are living there and asking them and understanding them a lot more. Okay. So if you don't make that effort, if you don't kind of do that, I I I I don't think too much can come out of it. Uh see like Shamin for example, you since you brought up Shamin, I remember we were doing an ad which was just some very typical kind of thing about some love at first sight kind of a thing. Okay. and he showed me a reference. Okay. And he said that he said this is probably some of the most beautiful cinema I've ever seen which is about what is what is unspoken love about you know what is it that someone feels or something. There was a scene from Fisher King, okay, that movie where Robin Williams is this okay? And he is deeply in love with this woman who doesn't even know this guy exists in the world. He's only been seeing her. She just works as a waitress in some small place. She doesn't even know this man exists. So he said, "See this scene." Okay? And it's so profound. In fact, that clip is there on YouTube. We can find it. It's this guy goes every day. He knows he's been watching her, not in a voyeristic stalking kind of a way, but he's been seeing her for so long. He knows which train she gets off and she comes and she walks and she's this extremely simple, plain looking woman, okay? And he goes to Grand Central Station every day just to see her get off the train and just walk through that platform and go out. and he just because he just loves her. The way that scene has been shot is so magical and it must have been an incredibly difficult shoot to pull off. It's it's Grand Central is like VT. I mean so many people walking here, train people coming here, whatever. I don't know how they shot it also. So it's like this guy stands there in his outfit with his funny cap on his head and everyone going about the way. she gets off the uh train. The moment she gets off the train, suddenly there is this little music that's playing and before you know it, in this very seamless sort of a way as he's watching her, everybody on the platform, everybody in the station is dancing. It's gentle ballroom dancing. You know, everyone, everyone, all the passengers, all the people are just dancing. Okay, beautiful dance and the music picks up. It's it's like some lovely performance. Uh, and they're all on a ballroom floor. The world is beautiful. Everyone's dancing. This guy just standing and looking at her and she's just walking through this. She's just walking through this like nothing is different. It's another day. She then she reaches she gets out of the station. She as soon as he goes out of sight, everyone falls out of step goes about and again back to just people commuters going about their way. It is effortless, seamless, the transition from one to the other. But that scene shows uh you know that level of his love for her and that passion and what it means to her to see her more than any cliche could ever be. It's so magical. It's so beautiful. It's so cinematic. It's wonderful really. Now unless people know that there is that way of expressing things you know that you can talk about it in such a beautiful way or you can demonstrate and show it in such a unexpected way. How are they ever going to kind of say sign off if he's a marketing person on anything other than more mundane than a guy just falling off his chair when he sees a beautiful girl and it's just going to remain at some that level right so it's uh okay I have meandered quite this is such a beautiful scene that you described so did did you make the commercial as Shamine might seem to have been yeah we gave it as a reference we didn't make it at that point of time but many many years later I used that in my mind as a reference to do something else which somehow came even in that 811 film that we have described which somewhere in the back of my mind it was that people doing their own thing but there's a guy walking around is observing and telling something about it it was there at the back of my mind uh when even that happened but this ability to kind of take something from somewhere and take it somewhere else and put it in your is is something very useful in our profession I think karim was the guy said that basically creativity is the art of concealing your sources. You know where you plagarize from. It's it's just it's everything is plagarism actually. But it's how do you use it, readapt it or do it in a way which is and people can't it can be blatant plagarism. It can also be so concealed that nobody needs sees it. Yeah. And I I forget who the quote is from but someone really very famous once said good artists borrow great artists steal steel which is they make it their own and which is uh also something to think about. Let's take a quick commercial break. Let's get some food into you and we will continue at the end of it. Thanks. Long before I was a podcaster I was a writer. In fact, chances are that many of you first heard of me because of my blog India uncart which was active between 2003 and 2009 and became somewhat popular at the time. I love the freedom the form gave me and I feel I was shaped by it in many ways. I exercise my writing muscle everyday and was forced to think about many different things because I wrote about many different things. Well, that phase in my life ended for various reasons and now it is time to revive it. only now I'm doing it through a newsletter. I have started the India uncut newsletter at indiaun uncut.substack.com where I will write regularly about whatever catches my fancy. I'll write about some of the themes I cover in this podcast and about much else. So please do head on over to indiaun uncut.substack.com and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign up each new installment that I write will land up in your email inbox. You don't need to go anywhere. So subscribe now for free the India uncut newsletter at indiaun uncut.substack.com. Thank you. Welcome back to the scene in the unseen. I'm still with the infinitely patient Rami. If you have this much patience to sit on my show, you have the patience to make a film. Just you know the thinking of patience reminded me of that. But let's talk about your advertising years. And before we actually move out to your move on to your work uh in Mudra, uh I want to go back to the time that you spent in that house with those six people and uh you referred to a couple of the kind of exercises that would be given to you. But what was that period of time like like you know with five other fertile brains being guided by uh Naganand and um what were the kind of things you did? What did you discover? Uh what was it like? Tell me that about that time. Yeah. So, uh we were on this on the sixth floor, I'm sorry, eighth floor of a building called Chaitanya, which is in uh uh in Ahmedabad, not very far away from where the current headquarters of Mudra is, Mudra House. And our days there were full of surprises. You know it was uh we never knew when Naga would come and when he would leave what task he would give us. That is why he was also doing other things for the company and he filled us in uh in those cracks of his day. Uh so suddenly another and everyone would come and then Naga would then give us some some crazy surprise task. Okay. uh one or two of which I've kind of talked about before. I think what was interesting about those days were it there were days of you know some incredible highs and some very very very langorous lows. Okay. Uh when suddenly he would not be there for days and uh we guys didn't know what to do and hanging around. We had next to no money with us. We were living in a very posh building and uh but we it was really very very spare aesthetic kind of living. We had the services of one cook who would come and make some very very dreary food for us. Every day we ate tomato cucumber sandwiches uh without fail. Uh that's all that we could afford. I was uh by virtue of my MBA the one who kept accounts. So collecting money and uh settling accounts was my responsibility. That was way before we have these apps that do the job that we have today. Uh I still kept the little book which of my accounts then which is like buying vegetables and buying rice and wheat and stocking the kitchen and little borrowings of money from uh between each other and we used to fill the time with whatever tasks that were given to us. Some of it required us to go outdoors you know. So you would say for example that okay each of you go to a different place in the city uh spend the whole day there come back and just write a one page essay on your experiences okay nothing to do with advertising whatsoever just just go observe see if there anything noteworthy interesting you write about it and talk about it the next day you would say that there was this task I told you once before that read a book choose a book and make a list of phrases that caught your eye. Okay? Then take some of those phrases, see why those phrases worked and see if you can craft a headline using that sort of a cadence so that way it's been written or why it why it works. And most of the exercises we did were fictional. It would just be like make up a product, make up something and you'll do something. Uh once in a while he would get some guest speaker to come to us. So he was somebody who was working in Mudra somewhere else. Uh he would get he got a textile designer to want to come and come and talk to us. He had uh some planner come and do something with us. So it was like I mean we never really knew what the next day would bring. And he would also playing it like on the fly like okay I got to do something somebody has come let me expose those guys to her. Then there were some little tests in between and also all those little psychological experiments that he was performing on us. What what I think it did for us was it it kept charging us up with some feeling that we have to go out there and do something special. I mean they've done all this with us and we can't let that down you know we have to go and do something. We have I think that was the big thing that it achieved. It made us feel that we were special because of the way we were selected and the kind of things that they were making us do and it built some sort of self-belief in ourselves in what we were doing. Truth be told in the real world it took us a long time to be able to apply any of the things that we learned. A lot of it is very mundane. The first few uh maybe a year or two we were just doing some writing brochures or writing some instruction manuals and we didn't even get around to writing serious ads. some of us. But I think what that did was when you take some a bunch of people talented in different ways, put them in close proximity in each other's faces all the time, something happens, you know, you you learn something from each other rubs off. We had Bali. He would run off to the terrace where it would be blazing hot, Ahmedabad sun, dry heat and he would sit there in his banyan and pajama and writing endlessly what today we know are screenplays you know just mindlessly there and we always thought he was like what's with this guy I I think it was we just felt like all these little tricks all the little things that are there we can't stop Once we get back to where we are, we have to continue it. To make sure we did that, what he did was for the next 6 months, Naga made it mandatory for us to send a daily report of what did you learn today? Oh, one pager. Okay. And that time we had this uh and I really missed that system, the old system of writing stuff down with a pen on a paper, putting it in an envelope and putting it in a tray and it went to Ahmedabad where he was. Okay. that habit of actually putting it down physically on paper that analog world I I don't know it has a different vibe I can't uh I don't feel it's the same as writing it on a screen but that discipline was oh god it's six it's we have to go home now but I haven't yet thought of what I'm going to write so we had about half an hour of panic of like I got to manufacture something to write today like even if the day had no learnings whatsoever we used to cook up something we just figure out something that okay what did I learn today so what did I learn today then even if I haven't I just to manufacture something but it made had some learning that what do I write today I said oh I just realized that many brand names are slightly palendroic that's why you have kodak and you have you know uh kotak and you have so many things within I think Toyota you know they sound like that so I never actually given it to some mind but I need to come up with something to be able to send but forced me to do some kind of thinking and for and I think those disciplines were interesting interesting because they actually learn uh led to learnings led to real things that one thought of you know and then you uh fabricated some of them but in the process learned something in the process got something out of it. Uh later I realized not everybody was sending it as diligently as I was uh or maybe they even didn't get read at all but it that experience was still something that I cherish. Then end of the day when everyone else had gone back the six of us we had some kind of a bond. We used to sit near those old TLE machines which are now completely obsolete which connected us. There was no Twitter, no tweets, no nothing else. We didn't even have email honestly there not even email and we used on the missions we used to send messages to each other that loud clattering thing. Wow. And uh and we used to share what happened in our offices and what we had. So it was uh it was a very deep bond uh among uh the six of us and uh uh I don't know where Naga went after that. I know that he was doing he was part of some university somewhere in Karnataka. Then someone told me he's in Australia. He was in USA for a while. I believe he's not keeping too well these days but I must check with Bali where he is. But again a little later I think Naga Bali brought him back to Lent to do something similar. But then I realized that see every organization has a time and place in which it passes through a certain zone where something's work. The same thing done at a different time different place doesn't work and in a different type of an organization. So it didn't have that kind of impact what it had when he was there. So uh yeah it was it was a it was just a interesting wild creative drip and made us deeply love uh movies and words and pictures and books and writing. Tell me about your and this was 1987 obviously so you know the well before email and all that and I think this exercise would have been so useful because it doesn't really matter what you're writing what matters is that you are writing and that you have to think of something your brain I I guess through an idle day your brain could just pick on something and say hi so that would have been so great tell me about what those early days in advertising were like because I think you know one of the things with being young and I've experienced it myself in my early days in advertising which was a few months but then the 5 years I spent in television after that is that you feel you're super smart you feel you're the cat's whiskers and you know more people should be applauding your cleverness uh actually you don't know uh you know at least in my case actually you don't really know and you're still figuring stuff out and youthful arrogance can sometimes get in the way of that but useful enthusiasm is also awesome because sometimes you take the initiative and do interesting things which u um uh you know help you learn quickly. So what was it like in those early days? And specifically, what was advertising like? What was it like to work in an agency like Mudmudra in these early days? Because it's a completely different landscape today, right? But in those days, what was it like? Which branch were you sent to work at? Um you know, uh would you look at account executives and servicing people as the enemy and remind them that oh I am also from IMA, so you know, don't be condescending, etc., etc. take me through a bit of the texture of life uh in a routine office. Yeah, see I can talk about my experience at Mudra but I'm pretty sure that it would be a it could be different in different kinds of agencies. Uh and each agencies uh can be very different from the other. I I know from my own experience of being in three or four of them that they are like chock and cheese. They can be very very different. I'm sure that Ogilli was very different from lintes or very different from Thompson would have been very different from some slightly madcap agency like uh uh you know like kers katra had started or enterprise under Mohammad Khan would have been very very different or gray mudra was very different. So Mudra was actually the first sort of TV friendly agency. It was a very print medium earlier advertising. It was writing print ads, writing press ads, beautiful lines. You know, Trikaya Gray was doing some outstanding work. You know, people like Chris and Freddy and all were writing some lovely ads. Uh there were still some for Mohammad Khan and enterprise uh Rajan Ny all some beautifully art directed crafted ads were being produced and I think it was there a lot of uh I think maybe a British style working environment uh maybe slightly American but copy and tough bosses demanding craft lot of rejection and being put through the blocks but Mudra was My friend Mudra was rightly this entrepreneurial sudden guju agency with a lot of spunk and which which was it which broke a lot of rules in those days. it there were some unwritten rules of you know not poaching being you know sticking to your lane and not being aggressive or and uh but Mudra was like all out everything's game like go out and pitch for any business and I learned more business kind of lessons from there than creative lessons in the early days and my boss Ganesh Bala at Madras he uh uh in those days our pitch used to be like uh we had a small video presentation on a VHS about Mudra which would have case histories of you know some of the brands that you handle Rashna Vimmel or something like that BSA and I was cycle brand okay uh Mac one and all which zip zap zoom was an early campaign that I worked on and uh you just put a bunch of case studies hire a TV couldn't even afford a TV yeah and then just cold call go outside a client's office and say that hey I'm just passing by can I come up and pop and make a presentation to you Mudra used to do that kind a gorilla kind of stuff just go pop it and just aggressively post with a TV with a TV. Wow. With a TV with a VHS. So you can't even say that we don't have a TV or we don't have an economy is busy or something like hire a VH VCR and saying go and play it and make a pitch for it and at that time also this advent of sponsored programs had just started which was if you remember the Oscars brought to you by Vimal and those kind of stuff and Alpha Plus and some quiz time and Mudra video tech presence bun you know all so mudra just by virtue of video tech uh was its awareness was very high because people used to see those hands of mudra on uh Bunya and all those shows and you know it was a very familiar name and so people our doors used to open a little more readily for us just a trivia there just just throwing it in here the hands on the mudra video tech mudra logo actually belonged to the kalpa ayar the dancer that she was the model used to do that logo which is now the mudra with Mudra logo. Okay, that's just an aside. Yeah. So, it was to it was this slightly cowboy kind of culture. You went go pitch for business and at that time in all of Mudra I was the only writer in Mudra Madras. I mean each branch had only and there was an art and studio team and it was such a different world from today's world uh a delightfully analog world you know everything artworks were made in the studio. It was a spectator sport. Being in the studio was was you know watching artists at work because each cutpaced artist who was there who assembled those artworks and layouts together they were like skilled you know they so skilled the way they cut the type they ordered the type they put it down c took images and spaced it out and you could uh and the way you order type setting it was a such a craft it's such an art which is now dead today anybody can just go and type out what they want and then format it however they want on the screen in a matter of seconds but in those days early days uh you had to a the fonts were not available to you in a drop- down menu the way you have you used to get a letter set book the type setters used to send you these are the fonts we have fonts were the big currency that time you know released an ad with this fantastic font yeah what font is it and somebody say it's burnhard yeah where do you get this font you know that was their USB that they had access to fonts that nobody else had you know so and then people would actually if they found a nice font in a magazine or something else but you don't have the font then they would photo they would take a picture of the the text of that font and then uh make a whole uh set A to Z in the dark room one in uppercase one in lower case then cut paste and actually handset the entire headline with people skillfully putting it letter for letter and making the headline you know so these are so many skills that were that it made it such a joy to be around just in the uh studio watching these people at work. There used to be this airbrush people uh who used to do retouching of pictures. I mean they were literally actually doing airbrushing with a with a real compressor pumping real air through a real gun not just a tool which kind of looks like that on screen. Yeah. So it was fascinating to see all of that and see so much skill uh being deployed. Uh and so we spent long hours there just making those physical uh layouts which we used to present to clients and what Mudra taught us was to be these you know oneman armies we can do everything. So if it came to it, you know, we wrote the ad, we did a bit of a layout ourselves. We sat in the studio and cut paste it and put an image, put the we learned, we went to the dark the dark room guy into the dark room and learned how to use the enlarger and do stuff. All those things which are totally irrelevant today, not being done at all. Uh so for me Mudra was mostly about just getting that very can do kind of a spirit and uh and going and pitching uninvited. Uh and presentations I started making them much earlier than I would in any other organization. If I had gone to some other place there would have been some three layers of people and a creative director above me and all. But somehow because we were in the early growth stage I started doing things. had virtually been bossless most of my life which I also sometimes regret you know I wish I had some mama Khan kind of a guy who also gave me a lot more inputs so it was a wild journey and made a lot of presentations and the funny thing about advertising is that it's the in the client side pitches and all of the preserve of top management so you would have a young rookie writer presenting to a CEO so it was you know it was crazy even in the corporate life I think it would have been a while before you actually sat across a table with a CEO. You would sit with your you know same peer group, same uh same number on the other side. So it was like okay this little person young upstart sitting and talking and presenting to board of directors and things like that. So that way it was a uh it's tremendous for the confidence you know it makes you do things much earlier though you're paid peanuts you don't earn much you and uh um very little of what you do actually comes out okay but it was just a it was it was a great ride you know just going meeting people doing stuff so that was in Madras then in Madras that time I remember there was one account uh a small account called Sanmar okay which is a financial company and I think that's on some a firm for whom I wrote a first line which got kind of got quite popular. It was just a they they were just offering fixed deposits that's it at a fixed rate. They just you invest your money there and no sophisticated instruments like today there are so many mutual funds this that large cap midcap small cap flexi cap none of that it is just a vanilla fixed deposit put your money there but they had to tell people it's very safe it's a good place so it's a very middle class kind of a thing about people putting their hard-earned money there so we had done a campaign which is just a photographic treatment of people enjoying small little things in life just a walk in the park sitting having watermelon with your kids playing carum watching a street cricket match just just simple stuff like that and the line was life is too wonderful to be spent worrying that was a mouthful of a line but it was that was a line and Sunmar financial services that's it every Sunday we would change the picture keep the same line it became quite popular everyone knew it then there was one it's a great line there was one Tata and one party one couple who got famous as the Sanar Tata party you know because they were on that line and and then years later that they still used to do work with that line. Then the company merged, changed, it went somewhere else. Uh and those are like I told you earlier simple days you know you take an ad in the Hindu and everyone has seen it. Uh you know then you would see it and then someone would call up and say that hey I saw it yesterday it was a nice ad and things like that uncomplicated world. Then uh Mudra Bombay for me was more of a where I shifted from Bangalore I'm sorry from Bombay to from Mias to Bombay for me there more than Mudra it was Bombay it was it was that it was a Bombay experience which was very lifealtering for me changing it was amazing it was it was uh being a paying guest in a in a small in Napency road being the master of my time completely even at Madrat I was staying in my parents house there was some sense of responsibility of come back at this time and things like that, you know. There it was for the first time here. You go do what you want uh enjoy, come back when you want and stay with bachelors, watch see movies, do anything you want and it was it was a fun trip and I was staying as a paying guest in this small place. One room where my uh partner was also a film executive in a different agency. Baj Bhya was staying uh opposite where we were. It was Runga house uh uh the same room who owns famous studio and I think has some cricketing connections. Old palatial place but they had sub each family had sublets of one or two rooms. It was a it was a trip there to stay in South Bombay limited though my income was it was a lovely time. take a bus uh eat at canis have breakfast uh go up to office uh be the first one in the last one out uh you know uh it it was a trippy time and the first time I really experienced Bombay which is so different from every other place I had been to you know Marine Drive seeing the people there then that the then I I just fell in love with Bombay uh with with the people its culture I I used to go down Marine Drive and see there's a rickshaw I mean there's taxi guy there sitting with his wife on that same you know seaside culvert as everybody else and there are people who are probably working at city bank or sitting next to them and each minding their own business doing their own thing no one's judging anybody else I just found it delightful you know it the south can be a judgy place people say who's coming where coming especially in a place slightly conservative place like Madras but here it was like you know even a freak would walk by and nobody would just look and look away. That's all. And I found that you know it was a very welcoming open kind of a place and in fact that became uh the subject of one of my first threads that went viral on Twitter. I just wrote about Bombay you know and what I how I it's I found it so different and so delightful and how I liked it's uh it's mind your own business kind of an attitude and it's very mature and lets people be who they are and so for me the in Bombay it was more than the advertising it was discovering the city and its people and enjoying it and soaking that in uh then going for the occasional concert at NCPA or a movie or catching theater, going for a film festival, uh all those was uh was fun things to do. But in terms of the advertising world itself, it was there are times when I wish that I had spent some time in a place like enterprise or something else where I could have learned some more craft. Yeah. So later on I sort of compensated by trying to be that for the people who joined me later by giving them those inputs which I myself kind of lacked. uh and but there were some very very skillful people to learn film making from at filmmakers people like you know Pelad Shantanoshi uh and those people who are very prominent because you know film was still a sort of a new medium there were enough uh people who were experts in print work but film advertising agency was still trying to come to grips with and that time even someone like Shahin started as a ad filmmaker uh and these guys became like gurus you know you could learn so much from people like Shantanu Shri Shumantra Goshal Namitar all these people you know they knew film and V agency people didn't know uh video tech which was on the third floor a lot of people used to come and edit there even other filmmakers I had filmmakers so as rookie copyriters in Mudra used to come down and just look and hey today I sumantra today I saw uh you know provin had come there had come where Praad came to edit here and stuff like that. It was like a high for us to see them come there, edit there. So, uh I don't think it was as wild. I think the ' 70s were even wilder from what I hear in terms of advertising being there really the flower children and people and the parties and you know people being stoned out of their heads on chopati and things like that. I think it had passed on from there into a slightly more responsible zone. uh but it was uh it was also a time when I think there was more interaction between the agencies people used to meet and ad clubs there were nice talks they used to be there people guests used to come all of that I think has somewhere disappeared I think advertising hadn't got sucked so much into this culture of awards and trying to win awards and competing with each other and uh u and I I have never been much into that rewards game uh which is very big in advertising And uh I do see it's uh why it means so much to the people it means so much to but it somehow never did for me. And uh uh so then yeah so that's that was kind of the early advertising experiences that I had. I mean that period of time the late ' 80s the early '9s that is also when there was this burst of creative advertising agencies as it were like Trikaya and enterprise and I remember uh back in the days a little that I used to follow you'd hear about Christopher de Rosario and Freddy Birdie winning copywriter of the year and the creative stuff they could do and how did you sort of balance the temptation to write fancy long copy like they did and win that kind of a claim but also satisfy y your clients and satisfy the people at your agency. What's going on through your head? Because you are also still at this point a young man, right? You want the validation of your peers. You want some kind of a claim. But how does one balance these competing, you know, uh imperatives like No, I think that's that's a very pertinent question because uh these are choices uh and it depends on your motivations and what drives you. uh and it's it's very easy to do a whole lot of thankless work in advertising. You can spend your whole life doing stuff which is utterly unsatisfying and be successful and gradually rise up the ladder and and and have really nothing much to show for it at all. It's quite easy to do that and if you let it happen if you fossilize then you're finished. So uh now there were some places which were really the powerhouses of that kind of a work and and uh it was uh quite aspirational to do that kind of work. It was it was a big deal to kind of do an ad with a lot of white space you know because your client want to fill it all with something and then there were these agencies who were doing like you know they took a whole page and just put one line on it and you know that kind of stuff. It was like wow what guts what courage and how did they sell it and things like that and so everyone wants to do uh that kind of stuff uh I think there was some genuinely good writing work which was done and I think that's a skill that's uh definitely uh gone to seed there were some fine writers even in the time when I was in madras sports star used to do some beautiful copy driven ads very clever lines and copyriters used to scramble to get a chance to work on and write those kind of lines small little ads but wellcraftrafted nice interesting lines but those were limited agencies doing that kind of print work which was very which one wanted to do in a place like Mudra it I didn't get much of a chance to do that at all I satisfied that much much later when I later on worked on account economic times and got a little chance to write some long copy and write words like uh you know um satisfy that little bit of unfulfilled desire. Uh but we had this a little bit of a TV reputation that we got TV. We understood TV. The others didn't because these people who could do print they uh many of them actually couldn't write for film writing 30 seconds and they couldn't figure out what is how does it work and some of them did and they actually did some fine work later but I also realized that in Mudra it wasn't really the agency which was doing that work. Okay, it was they were getting some very good filmmakers and they were doing it and and Mudra was seen as being very good at film but at least they were smart enough to know that okay just call up a Shantu or call up a Shumatu and ask them to make a film for you tell them give them a oneline brief and let them have some three girls running around in the woods a nice music track playing with sar's flowing and say only Vimal only Vimal it looks good people say it's fantastic and it it looked beautiful people had not seen anything like that and said wow that's fantastic you know but if I look back I see that some of them are actually quite mediocre as scripts you know or some of them but at that time it looked seems fantastic. Uh I was deeply jealous of the work that uh Raymond used to do the complete man lovely print work uh nicely written stuff and then they converted it quite nicely into film as well and some of those took that story forward but then one understood how you know you can develop an idea which is really long-term and stays like something like the complete man even after so many years is still uh people it resonates as uh time went by got a chance to do you know interesting work on a bunch mostly I would say that that time came to me when I was in Lintas uh when suddenly I was working on something like a wheel or a whim or something like that uh you're you're talking to a product which is probably uh um consumed by one fourth of the country you know that that level so many everybody is buying it and everyone is a is a potential customer and how do you kind of talk to them at scale and uh so we were one of the first brands to rope in a proper Bollywood celebrity to do an ad. So that time it was wheel I would remember and for wheel uh it's a absolutely mass product. It's a it's like detergent for the masses. So and at that time Govinda was at his peak you know the whole hero number ones and this and they had all the number one stuff and and he was a toast of town with his mad capness and so we decided that he's the right guy and we had to convince a big burly South African guy who was calling the shots the goinda is the right guy in uni liver so we played a bunch of his songs and he was blown out of the mind by seeing the multiolor outfits and the songs and the kind of steps and the dancing and all But he saw what we were getting at in terms of mass appeal. And so we did this series of ads with him. So we had to get someone like Praad who could handle not just uh the script but also handle a personality like Goinda who's known to be like absolutely in disciplined and you never know when he'll come when he would go how do you rein him in how do you so that was a task in itself and Praad has had fantastic strategies to kind of deal with him and without him we wouldn't have been able to actually make these films going there some nice stories there as well like yeah so I I'll tell you one of them that time govinda was very very very stressed about his receding hairline okay and uh he didn't want to uh was worried that he's losing his hair and we had a script in which it starts in it's in a doiat okay somebody is washing clothes over a doi gart and this guy he's he's romancing one girl who's one was at the at the gut washing clothes and he pops out of the river. Okay. And he that was the first scene of the ad. We just wanted him to be inside and pop out of it. And uh for good measure Pra wanted to put a frog on his head. Okay. Just for for it to be a funny shot. Then uh then there's a kind of romances there. sing and dance and there's a nice little uh track there and the the whole track was set to the musically to the sound of washing you know which is like set to the tune of you know clothes being rinsed and washed and it was a part of the musical beat of the song okay which Raja dozu who is the music director had very beautifully composed a song which is set to the rhythm of people of clothes being washed but Govinda said I will not go anywhere your water because he thought that water is going to uh damage his hair and he said I'm not I don't tr trust any water. So pra said I'll make a tank full of biserary okay so that you don't the bers I'm completely trustworthy you don't have to worry you'll come out of that and the guy said no I'm ref everyone is there ready to shoot the guy say I'm not taking that shot and then uh one by one everyone tried with him then they asked me to go and then then this guy turns out this guy is a deeply superstitious guy okay go in the then he p pulled out from his pocket a bunch of charms that he's carrying then he told me that Actually the truth is not my hair or anything else. Somebody has told me some jotic somebody has told me that don't go near water because you'll have a drowning accident. Okay. Some bizarre story like that. So I can't I'm not going to do this. Then we had to reo the whole thing in such a way that we cheated with the camera angles and everything else where it looks like he's coming out of the water but he's actually not in the water. And then he finally did that shot for us. And uh uh it it turned out to be a very very very successful film, a very cool film and we finished the day one. The day two we had to again he had to come for the next day of the shoot and this guy's notorious for not turning up and there are times when the whole set is waiting and he's gone off somewhere else. Then Pelar told us stories of how during some movie shot when he was supposed to be shooting people they have people stationed with walkie-talkies near his house and he left he's coming he's coming on his way and all someone said no he's he has left he's on his way to the studio turn but he was not there in the studio at all apparently he took his car he went to the airport and he got into a flight he went out of South Africa okay but said I can't take any such chances with him so he had somebody on the front gate somebody at the back gate some someone there and he used to treat him like dirt. Okay. He said don't give these guys bow. Okay. So when he he said let him come to the set whenever he comes when he comes at 2:00 everyone going s and all pretends that he doesn't even seen the guy. You know he just simply says okay short he come you know he says you got to treat them that way to rein them in and only then you'll get the stuff that you want other they take you for granted and take you for a ride. So all these kind of other skills are needed to do an ad and to work with stars and these kind of people and that's sometimes why you hire uh directors. It's not just about how they can shoot a film or tell a story. You know they they know how to handle the stars and their tantrums. Lovely story. I hadn't explored this particular angle how to handle stars in my episode with him but maybe I'll do it some other time. Yeah, a lot of people when they get into a profession like when they get into advertising, copyrightiting for example, uh they might go into it with some kind of glamorous notion of what it will entail and how it will bring them stardom and etc etc. And soon enough when they see the making of the sausage, they are duly disillusioned. In your case, it's evident from the way you're talking that you just fell in love with the whole business of advertising and there was nothing like that for you. But nevertheless, I do wonder that um you know, did as a creative person, did you feel that there were itches that weren't getting scratched? Because you're a storyteller, you're a writer, you love words, and yet there is no immediate gratification in advertising and one out of a 100 things you do may actually come out and be seen by people. So, uh were there other temptations? Were there moments of frustration or self-doubt? No, for sure. For sure. See it can be very frustrating. Uh it can also be a whole lot of extremely thankless work and for thankless clients as well. Uh and uh I think the only thing that saves advertising uh and fakes it for people is that the tasks keep changing in different jobs. you just keep changing your job and then you believe that it is something new and then okay I'll do it this time uh to that extent it's not like say being an accountant or something where you realize that this is it this is what I'm going to be doing all my life it's not going to change so there's that you momentarily we kind of just get uh uh misled by the variety of accounts okay today it's a cycle tomorrow it's a uh soap and day after it's uh it's a hotel or something like that uh but beneath the surface many of them are just the uh same kind of people expecting uh the same ads to do the same kind of thing for them. Uh but uh I I unlike now uh there weren't too many options, you know, there weren't too many options at all uh to kind of branch off into. Uh what some people did was get into ad film making. So I know that some of the slightly more frustrated writers uh saw ad films as the next big thing and then they quickly learned that and went into ad film making. Uh people like Jayendra for example in the south who was started as a copywriter then he started making films. He and his partner PC Shirram the famous cinematographer and uh he successfully transit uh transitioned into making films and that was a temptation you know at maybe to get into film uh and but what happened was in those slightly early days the ad filmmakers also they built some sort of walls around it and and tried to make it look like a more mysterious business than it was and uh and also So what happened was unlike today where all the tools of film making are there on everybody's phone and there on everybody's desktop it was like you're shooting on a film you don't see what you're getting uh there is no video assist also there's only the camera that some only the cameraman is looking through and as a special favor to copyrighter on the set once during the shoot he'll say you want to look through the camera and then he'll let you see through the camera. So it was something and they kept it like that obtuse and obscure and nobody understands what it is and then you were shooting on film which would be sent for processing and then there would be a telesc you you don't even know what you have shot and then they would say no we've shot it's come out well and then they would do some the editing of it and it was we were actually spectators to the process. I think it was only later that more and more that agency people started understanding the process what it is and being able to have a voice at the shoot at at a no I don't think you could do it this way too you could do that uh by which time the filmmakers uh had already kind of hijacked the medium for themselves then I think a whole bunch of people started understanding the medium a lot better and that's when we could then we could realistically think of you know maybe I can branch into that when I can I can possibly become a filmmaker. But then what happens is I think the and there are some people who have done it you know people like writers who became filmmakers like checks and all. If you are the type of a guy who enjoys cracking a problem, if you enjoy kind of getting a brief and solving it and saying that this is what we should do and this is then if you if you get your jollies from that then you miss it if you go on the other side because then you're saying this is the script you have to make a film out of it and then they miss that. Uh there is a little nasha in that also. There's a little power of being able to connect the dots, solve it, being able to go there to the client and make them see something that they couldn't do uh they couldn't see and present the idea to them. And then I think you you get a high from that. You get a high from you see yourself as a problem solver as someone who can see a pattern. Tell them this is how you should you could do this. This is uh and and that becomes quite uh intoxicating you know uh that you have people like a consultant without the consultant salary though uh of being able to solve problems for them. Did you remember an example of a memorable problem you were happy to solve? Uh yeah okay let me uh okay I'll take the thing of color tunes. Okay you remember call tunes they were a big thing. Okay, Reliance uh mobile was one of our early accounts, right? And uh their thing was they were making tons of money by these so-called value added services. Uh like if if you set a caller tune on your phone, right? You were paying some 15 rupees of something per month for that song to be your caller tune. And the funny thing about that product is you never hear it. Yeah, exactly. you set it and it's only the guy who calls you who hears that song. Yeah. And you don't even know what the hell it it is till is and you've forgotten that you set it also and then they someone will say that was a nice song or something like that you know uh uh and then you say oh really I forgot about it. So how do you sell something to someone which is they're not the direct consumers of and want to make uh you know and how do you motivate them to fork out that kind of money to set a call tune and become how do you make them sample understand the product and what it is all about and how do how do you separate out what is a call tune and what's a ringtone because they are different things ringtone is what everyone hears if your phone rings a song plays they'll say okay that's my ringtone and so then we came up with this idea of what about what if we get a bunch bunch of celebrities and we give them a unique number each, okay? And do an outdoor campaign which has just that phone number and just the line which says call me. So we had uh you know people that time uh who five six models we chose and it was just pictures of them and a phone number and it says call me. So uh that way what happens is people get a live demo say oh I do I actually uh get to speak to Bipasha Basu you know there are a number there then dial the number and you hear the call tune and then Bipasha's voice which is pre-recorded says hi I'm Bipasha did you like my call tune so it was a demo which was combined with a smart way of people experiencing understanding what it is and say if you want to set this as your caller tune press one or something else you press one it becomes your caller tune So the whole journey is completed in this one communication. You see the product, you sample the product, you have a taste for it and you can buy it and set it in the same one journey. So it was a kind of a creative solution which was uh uh which the agency came up with and then we did a whole campaign everywhere and then it it got a lot of coverage because it had people like Ria Sen and all who was a hot model at the time with our number and saying call me and all and a bunch of people calling to see what it's all about and so uh so yeah that was just an example of how you know creative can uh sometimes see something which nobody else can and so in some cases even product ideas. See there's a guy called Rory Southerntherland. I don't know whether you follow him. Of course, he's I think the chairman of vice chairman of Ogilli or something right now. One of the fabulous foremost thinkers in advertising today. Delightful insights and about our business. Uh recently he said something which is very very very uh uh interesting. He said that every client, you know, whether or not they want an advertising campaign, you know, should hire an agency because that's the only business which is paid to be creative. See, they they paid on on paper at least to be creative. Okay? None of the other people, your marketing guy is paid to increase market share or to sell or to change, you know, or or stuff like that. Accountant does his job. Nobody else is paid to be creative in the corporate world. Yeah. So he says that you should engage in agency. You should hear their ideas and maybe that will make you think of stuff that about your own business which you never saw through that lens and that could change what you do or what you offer. Yeah. So you should do a campaign whether or not you want a campaign just to give yourself a chance to see stuff like this. And I firmly believe in that because almost every time we get a brief and briefs tend to be pretty Okay. And I've said before and you also just said a little while back, anybody can have an idea. Having an idea doesn't make you creative. It is having to have the idea. And that I can't stress enough, you know, how important, how that is the defining element of what a creative person in our business is. Client has briefed the servicing guy. Servicing guy has come and he's briefed the creative. Servicing guy gets back home. He goes for a movie. His job is done. Next day he has to go to meet the client. It's only the poor writer who has to somehow have something to share the next day. Even the client has switched off. He's gone and would learn something else. He just expects to come into that room and there'll be a guy there who an idea. So it is that having to have the idea that really is about is the pressure that we have and we are masochists because we chose that route. So sometimes when people think that I can also be a writer yeah I can also be you know and everyone has this notion that they are creative everyone thinks that they're creative and it's like I can also write a script okay but the real rub is when you have to do it when when you know that you have to do it and you'll be judged on it. Yeah. Otherwise, it's very common. You know, you meet somebody and say, "Hey, I know I had an idea for something." And they'll tell you one ad idea. Random people, you know, your uncle, your aunt, your neighbor, I had this idea for a soap. I had this. Everyone thinks that they're a copyriter. Yeah. But, uh, nobody else has actually that pressure of having to stand up the next day and tell your idea to a bunch of people who are going to judge you. Yeah. And so, and I think that's that is our making and uh and our undoing as well. uh we chose that life you know uh and but it's also a time to push back when people judge you or when people say I can do better then you can say that you do it you know and it's it's not so easy once you have to sit down and do it under that uh pressure okay I rambled on no no this is uh rambling is the very soul of the show and you you ramble beautifully so this is famous quote attributed to John Vanaker half the money I spend and advertising is wasted. The trouble is I don't know which half. And this is something I've often wondered about through the years, perhaps even more acute now, but certainly something that would always have been true. And I, you know, when I think of this side by side with the problem of what happens when a company gets big, then it seems that there are many dangers in involved in that because what will happen when a company gets big is that it can get atrophied. It can get set in certain ways. Something can become conventional wisdom which may no longer be true but simply because it's conventional wisdom it is a path of least resistance and therefore uh uh that's the way things are just simply done and you never actually know like yeah maybe like you know the uh brand ad with kotak and people are suddenly signing up I'm guessing an occasion like that when you really get to know in real time that it's working is an outlier most of the time you kind of don't know for a big agency and you worked in two huge ones in terms of lintars and JWT the tendency would be take the safe path don't mess around too much etc etc so what has been your uh kind of experience with that because one temptation for you as a person within a team is that if you have a sense of what the client wants give him what will make him happy rather than give him what you feel will be best for the product if that happens to be a little hutk and the problem with a bigger agency always also can be that it is so set in its ways that it is hard to kind of shift out of that and do something innovative. I mean obviously the plus side of that is that when you have an agency like Lint is doing um you know something like Uni Lever you know there's there's all that institutional memory of what is a right way to advertise a soap or a detergent and that is invaluable but there is also the danger that much as big companies in other fields just atrophy they are disrupted they can't keep up they become irrelevant the same thing can happen to an advertising agency so how does one really know like where is the cutting edge are we there is this really really working uh what what have been you know your struggles through these kind of issues. So uh you started with that famous quote of course and uh about 50% is wasted in today's world I think it's more like 75%. I would I wouldn't be surprised at all because if I see the stuff around me which I'm seeing I can't for the life of me understand how any of that is helping any client at all. Okay. So much of it on the face of it looks like a waste and uh uh and I I really fear that the number is quite high now. Uh especially in the uh mass media uh digital marketers will claim that that their money is being spent a lot more efficiently and very in a very targeted way. But I have some doubts about that as well. It's a it's a real palpable fear about doing work which goes unnoticed you know and Bill Bernbach who's probably said the most memorable things and most attute things about advertising ever he said that the first job is to get noticed everything else is academic you know so if if you're not noticed is not rest of the discussion is not even valid no point at all talking about it so that's a very very high risk that you uh face on a daily basis of just being unnoticed of people not caring for what you have to say. And that's uh despite how common sensical this is, it is surprising how less people who are signing off on advertising realize this. They're so obsessed with the fact that I put some uh chips of rose in my soap and I want to say it that if you don't say it you're wasting my money and it's very difficult for him to say that if I say it I'm wasting your money because who cares right if you just put some something something and you tell them right now it's if you're seeing an ad and there's a product window which comes in between it tells you the what we call very uh unflatteringly the freight section of the of an ad. Uh it is that it is freight you know it is uh and people kind of mentally switch off unless it's done so beautifully and is integrated so smoothly that you don't realize it. That's why the great demo videos uh which which don't make you feel that you're watching a demo work so which are so brilliant. That's why I think Apple is very good at advertising because a lot of Apple advertising is actually just demoing the product. They just demo it in such a beautiful storytelling kind of a way that you don't even realize that you've just witnessed a demo. But if you're so obsessed with saying what you have to say, uh you're almost guaranteed that nobody's going to listen to it at all. It is very difficult to a carry so many people with you to produce a piece of work. Now in in our line of work more than the other there are some 10 it's a long chain right some writer has an idea he goes to his superior his superior could either see it or not see it he could kill it then and there it's gone or if then it goes they go to in a large agency they go to a group head and the group head takes it to the creative director sits with the servicing team or the manager and then they they take it to the client and the client then take it to some senior people there. There are so many ways along the way where it can be shot down and it does very often it does. And what happens is only the safest stuff which goes all the way up because there's no grounds to reject it on apart from the fact that it's boring. There's nothing really that you can reject it on and it goes as the plan B throughout you know okay plan A. They'll they'll say okay we'll keep this as plan B. So the plan A, plan A, plan B, the plan B goes all the way to the top, then it'll be sheld and plan B will become plan A and you'll have a piece of which goes out. So this is what happens very very very frequently. Yeah. So one way of fighting against it is saying that there is no plan B. This is it. I have faith in it. I believe it. It works. Go for it. And they say that people don't buy your ideas. They buy your conviction. That's true. It's in this business. It's true if you're able to build enough of a reputation and trust that and it's a people business still you know you know so there is that and uh there is that element of even now at some of the clients would say what do you suggest if they're at a crossroads they don't know what to do what do you say so that's where if if you have been uh giving good advice right through and you're sure and your conviction is solid that is enough you know then other stuff is academic you just simply say just take my word for it do it but that's that doesn't happen uh all too frequently you know mostly it doesn't happen it would uh people will just go for the slightly safer option I found that in some agencies now I feel free to kind of give names I used to not do that earlier but that's one joy of being an independent agency you can say what you want see like I found starkly different for example in lintas I could it was like a writer goes and uh or creative you know I mean it's not say writer uh and talk to the client directly and the client is bought so you're done you know there no no inbetweens nothing else it's just a one-on-one and you sell your stuff I found it startlingly different here when it was like have one option and then can we see two more and we can't go with one option we need three you know and what happens is that fine take three options But when you're asked okay so which one do you suggest? Will you stick your neck out and say a but very often people don't even have that kind of confidence you know or play it safe and say you know all are good that's why we brought them to you we can sh we can research we can find out what do you think can second guess and so this is a game of conviction you know you got to be damn sure of what you if you're convinced and if you have conviction you can sell a good idea. Uh so it's it's uh it's the risk of producing benal uh unnoticed easily missable advertising is very very high and unless someone sticks their neck out it's going to happen more and more and more uh and I think some of the work that you see I think almost all of it will be because of someone sticking their neck out and saying yes either the clients end or the and I there are plenty of fabulous clients some of them who push you back and say this is boring you know which is which is rare but there are people there are definitely lots of excellent clients who have a reputation for doing good work in their own way they've got their own brand like you know I can't be my brand can't have this kind of work yeah I I do good work and uh and they can you can put them on any brand and they'll they'll sign off on good work so there is risk there is uh but actually doing uh safe advertising is the riskiest thing you can do. It's it's uh I think doing so-called risky advertising is much safer. Yeah. Especially when change is the only thing that is certain you have to change otherwise you're a couple of questions about a couple of structural questions about advertising and the first one is something that you alluded to earlier in the conversation about how everything is getting fragmented and this is something that is actually happening across different domains that the mainstream is crumbling audiences are um you know getting more and more fragmented more and more niche overall it's a huge net positive for us as consumers that I can get exactly the kind of entertainment I want the kind of music I want, the kind of products I want. Uh, it's incredibly empowering. It's empowering for creators as well that they can find their niche and no longer have to scale to be profitable. But for an advertiser, I can only think that it must be a freaking nightmare because you can no longer reach people at scale like you just used to. Like that age is gone. Like you correctly said, you put a commercial before KBC or before SASB Kabi Bahuti and you know that X number of people will watch you. You can no longer do that. The landscape is shifting so fast that nobody, no client, no advertiser can actually have an accurate sense of how things stand right now and also you as an advertiser might be faced with a dham sunker that when you think about how to spend your client's money properly for promoting a particular brand at a particular time the ideal option might be that ar just go to that Instagram influencer when your personal self-interest as a as a agency or a creative shop is key or let's do a print campaign. So how have you dealt with these sort of changing sands and how do you see them? Does anyone know what is really happening? Yeah. Now this is probably the most important question in today's scenario. Uh okay when when you say advertiser you probably you were alluding to the agency but advertiser is the client as far as the way we use the client. Yeah. So uh so what has happened is I think it's it's really put a lot of pressure on the agency. The advertiser in many ways is sort of feeling a sense of power in this time not feeling powerless. They are confused. Okay. But they have a lot of options what and they are getting quite excited by it because many of these are measurable. Okay. And they uh they're all very very very datadriven kind of a thing. There are people coming making pictures that you know all things like addressable TV and that you know the same program watched in two neighboring houses could be showing different ads because the TV is uh uh addressable that they can different profiles of people. So this one shows uh a premium product that one shows a mass product. So all those kind of things are available today. people can fragment even on an IPL you could be on the gojpuri feed and not be on the English feed and you could choose so many things so the options are limitless today okay and which is making in a way the client feel very excited that I have many many many more options okay uh and and there is and they get a lot of data also about how it's who's seeing it and what it is and what blah blah blah blah I think the agencies are feeling a little powerless because uh to some extent they have been sort of cut out of the equation. Earlier in the good old days media was part of the agency. There was just one agency making shitloads of money on agency commission not on what we were doing and they would you know media and creative and servicing used to sit together and we knew what was happening in the media world. the the people in the creative agency knew because the media planner was sitting in the same meeting and they were in the same building uh as you then somewhere they separated out media agency is separate creative agencies separate so then we lost that connection to media it became a specialization which separate meeting they had with media when they would talk all the numbers and figures and blah blah blah blah blah they only talk creative with us uh and they also lost out because they didn't know what the creative guy is thinking and what uh uh what she wants to do, how she thinks it can be done. So uh now in the process today we are in a situation where the that overall custodianship of the brand or whatever which used to reside in the agency has gone to the client and the client is feeling like the master and lord of all the agencies that uh she is uh supervising. So I as a creative agency, I have a digital agency, I have a performance marketing agency, I have a social media agency, I have somebody doing content creation, I can call an influencer agency and so many things, so many meetings, so many places, so many things. So it's a it's a a trip where are lots of lots of little pieces and unfortunately we are not familiar with those pieces. So we've lost touch with those pieces and cut out of that conversation also which is not a good thing because when the creative people are cut out of it's uh the medium is the message in many many many ways right and we've uh often don't have a control over it it's like the plans are being made in isolation I I want a 10-second I want a 6second brake bumper or something like that you know give me three key visuals it's it's completely changed it's like somebody already decided what you want to do and your job is only just to kind of do those things and give it to them. Uh and I I just feel that there's a need to kind of revert to that earlier way in which you sit together and work it out, get a better sense of the picture. It's difficult in this time and age. It's already fragmented so much. Putting the pieces together is not going to be easy till maybe it'll be a slightly slow process even if it does. So like recently we just did a campaign pota. So it's got these enigmatic visuals all over the uh city right now. But uh the campaign has to break together. If the same agency has to do all the bits of work, it would not be done in time at all. So even as the main campaign is being shot, there are digital agencies, social media influencers have been reached, somebody else has been reached. Everyone is working on little bits and pieces of it. Some of it we will see along with the customer for the first time. We have not seen it ourselves. So that's that's how it is and that's the and also we are hardwired to kind of do uh high quality over a period of time whereas now it is like quick and fast and dirty and cheap. So it's and we are not equipped to do that well enough and we are judged on that you know so it's it's a very dicey kind of a situation right now. So navigating through this and trying to find a way of being because already the digital spend has gone past the 50/50 stage. It's already gone to 65 and things like that. You know, it's it's quite high and the traditional media is down to over 35% or something and growing slower than the digital side of things which are growing so fast. You know what what what you just described the process you just described where 50 agencies are doing 50 different small things and the danger here is you can get all the small things right but the big things wrong because there's no one doing the higher order thinking. Okay. My second big structural question about advertising is actually to me uh even more serious than this from where I'm sitting because it seems absolutely ex existential. The question uh that I am asking is not is advertising changing but will advertising be dead? And let me tell you where I'm coming from. When I look at the creator economy, one thing that I've seen firsthand and experience firsthand is how more and more creators are connecting directly with their audiences. So let's say I want to write in the 1990s, you know, I write an article, I give it to Times of India. Times of India aggregates many such articles from writers. It uses that to aggregate eyeballs. It sells the eyeballs to advertisers. Advertisers pay them. A tiny chunk of it goes out to the creators. And what I'm thinking here is that what has happened and is you know gathering force a pace uh is a move where creators are connecting directly with their audiences. You no longer need the times of India in the picture, the mainstream house. You no longer need the advertiser that earlier like why did advertising come up? because it was sort of a mechanism so that creators can actually get paid by those whose attention uh they have captured. Today we are in a world where people like me can make all their money from the audience directly as indeed I am and many many others are. So the question is why do we need the middleman? Why do we need the mainstream aggregator beyond the point? Why do we even need an advertiser? And then the question that comes up is that if you live in a frictionless world where creators are connecting directly with their audiences who are happy to pay and microp payments are more and more becoming frictionless and easy. Then what are brands to do? Because brands need advertising and it is not as if advertising came about because brands need to get out there. Advertising came about to fit that particular gap. If the gap no longer exists, what happens? So what are your thoughts about this? Well, it is a threat. It is uh it would be foolish to say that there is no threat at all because we are facing it on a day-to-day basis. We are seeing it happen like last Diwali for example I believe that uh over 500 crores was spent on influencer marketing alone. Okay. Uh bigger than any other chunk. Okay. In in that part of the equation agencies don't even figure sometimes. Yeah. But I'll tell you why I'm optimistic that you can't cut them out of it altogether. There may be pain in the short term but I don't think uh uh it'll be permanent but the agencies can't sit back. They have to do something to fight back and get what they have to do and that they will only do with some fabulous examples of things that have hit it out of the park. But because one thing that always works is a live palpable example. like we are tired of clients showing us you know but Nike did this you know they just do it every now and is you know put in our faces but you need those examples to pull everything else up you know to say that okay this is how it can be done and I want something like that yes it's true that now you can easily bypass the agency ecosystem and get stuff done very easily and it's being done so today already already if you the bulk of the work that you're seeing some of a lot of the noticeable work is not being done by the names that you heard of from before. They're either some in-house agencies or people who have just done it on a project or people uh even people like AIB and all who kind of do some stuff for a client uh or there is uh a project taken up by a uh uh not a retainer, not an ongoing agency but just some just as a one-off project. So everything is already happening. Nothing stops. A client would pick up the phone and talk directly for example to some you know Danish say to somebody and say that yeah do something for me and you know you can cut someone out of the process completely and it is happening also okay people are doing it as well I think the real problem is only it is in what you alluded to a little earlier which is some being greater than some of the parts you know uh and unless we uh if all the things don't sing together and if there's somebody who not who who can't see that happening or put it together. Uh it's going to be chaos. It's going to be a whole cacophony of little bits which are not adding up to anything at all. Right now there's a lot of checkbox ticking going on. We need to do influencer marketing check done. Uh we need to do some kind of a father's day post done. Mother's Day post done. Valentine's Day done. You know something? Oh the earth day let's do it. You know all these kind of silly things that people keep doing adding little little bits. See, unless there is one specific tone of voice and style in which all of that is being done, it's not going to amount to anything. Somebody needs to still set that tone. Okay? And and it's only people with certain capability can do that and who are able to do it well enough. Will AI be able to do it in a little while? I think maybe yes. If if they learn it well enough, they can. But there is one somebody needs to be able to curate this whole thing even if you're not doing it yourself. And that's where I think the role of the agencies will probably remain uh is that you still need somebody to do the big idea which others will run with in their own little little ways. If everyone is running helter skelter doing their own little bits it'll add up to nothing and very soon the client will see it's not doing anything for them that the allure of the brand is has diminished but it'll take them a little longer to learn because they are all drunk on data right now. Honestly, they're just seeing so much data. They're drunk. Uh just see that so many people say these are the click-through rates, this is the percentage, this is the cost per lead, this is the cost per thousand. There's so many numbers that they see and they're they born and brought up with these numbers that they're just only trying to say how can I make these numbers better. Nobody's trying to see how can I can I do something which is completely none of this stuff which will by doing that the numbers will automatically become hugely better not by tweaking this little bells and whistles of what I can do you know attention is falling in the seventh second so can I do something there no that that's but right now they're so drunk on that analytical power of of what uh data allows you to do that's we are going through that and I think there's no way other than to go through it and come out of And but in this process it's quite possible that I that's the way I think it'll go is that the agency system the way we knew it may may uh slowly be obsolete or you know they may not need these big teams of advert know agencies with their conventional legacy structures they say that if I can get one or two bright people on the top who can give me good advice and supervise what I'm doing for uh what I want and that's enough for me. So that that that could well happen. I mean my question wasn't so much about advertising agencies dying or not dying. It was about advertising itself. Yeah. Because you know I I I uh get that to get the big picture right you do need someone doing higher order thinking and I actually agree with you there that the at some point it'll come back to a a notion that the agency is important whether it is in the current state or not but you need someone doing that higher order thinking and taking charge of that. My question is more about advertising itself that when like say I am one creator I am reaching my audiences directly and monetizing it. I do have ads on my show but I never go looking for them. People once in a while will come up to me and I say okay what the hell but it's free for me in the sense that it's just free money. I don't I I don't spend a single pista looking for ads. Uh my revenues are from elsewhere. And there they will eventually be a million other creators like me who are doing exactly the same thing. Then where does the advertiser go? like where are you advertising if there is no need for it itself that that's that's something I think about no fair fair I I I understand this I think this is also kind of similar to the uh argument that came up some time back is that is the role of a CMO uh valid any longer what are they doing uh with with uh the so-called product manager in the new startup culture uh doing all of these things you know uh and and it's for them the performance is just simply how do I put everything into the product itself and the product experience itself and uh and I'm already digital so people I just have to see that I'm discoverable and people see it and then uh it it works I don't need anybody else that's that's that's where it ends so that's there is there is uh some truth to it uh and it may be true for uh some level of business and I think beyond a certain scale beyond a certain size there's still many famous big large brands which hardly advertise which have never advertised which which may never advertise for example if there's a very big large see demart may never feel that I need a demart campaign I don't need people are experiencing it coming seeing it buying it they know the value what they're getting and everything else they could very well say I don't need advertising at all yeah which is there's some truth to it there is is possibly true but there is also Alo the fact that advertising is not always meant for getting the business that you're getting right now. It is also insurance. It is uh it is for the bad times. It's not for the good times only. See like even today you'll be I'm surprised the number of people who are still with Vodafone. Why the hell are you still on Vodafone phone? Including me. Including me. Yeah. because we've seen the product and the service sucking and getting worse by the day. There are times when you go down to 2G also, right? But we are still there because somewhere I think it's also because of what the brand meant to us in all the years that they did such the fabulous work that they did that they made you really feel good and we were head and shoulders in imagery over the other the nearest competitor. everything else felt like not even close in because the how they've made you feel about the brand. So it's one it's about advertising for the very big people is also insurance. It's also for when times are not great and that's when people will stay by you that you know there is this loyalty and you know people will uh hang on with you and they'll feel good about you. It is also uh it's also about being able to charge your premium. It's also about you know if they feel good about you that you can you can charge an extra buck or two bucks or 10 bucks or 100 bucks or thousand bucks depending on what your product is. Uh so uh so that's it's very difficult to quantify or explain any of that but that's that's one factor and there are many other things which which are actually very uh intangible things is you want to join you people want to work for a company that people know. Yeah. You want to say hey I work for that. Hey, I saw the ad. A nice place. That's a nice place to work. You may be working in the most amazing place which is terrific. They're taking lovely care of you and everything else, but nobody knows what the hell it is. You go and talk to somebody. Okay. You know, but some other Oh, nice. That's nice. Oh, good. Wow. You know, so there there are so many other benefits which people don't get. So I per say I I I I think in the small selfstarter uh gig kind of a world it's quite conceivable that it's you don't need advertising at all the product is your advertising the experience is your advertising and that's it but I I don't I still feel that at least in the conceivable future the larger players will need will need something and will now they uh No my point wasn't that they won't need advertising. My point is where will they do it? So if because the crumbling of the mainstream means that you know instead of three big channels you have a million small channels and the million small channels are creators making money directly from the consumers. Yeah. So that that's I think that's a given but what will happen is that there will be some other large platform which doesn't exist today which will come up you know like for example uh in the final of the just concluded champions trophy Ko had this idea of halftime okay that's the latest advertising slogan so there were halftime was there throughout in all the the games okay half halftime hal time halftime And in the final in the halftime they had the coke studio show which was halime okay now that's that was uh big play it was for them they spent the bought a lot of TV time same which we are seeing happen with say super bowl and things like that like the IPL has become that thing in India today so it has become you will always need one marquee kind of a thing which people who want to say that I from somebody uh needs to be seen at the same time by everybody. Yeah. And uh will it completely disappear? I doubt because I think there will always be some big thing. There has to be something. Yeah. And people uh have started watching stuff on their uh streaming channels where there are no ads. But then there will be one Christopher Nolan will give you an experience which you can only get if you go to the theater. And then you'll say that in in that theater when I go there I'll have a some show or some ad which only you can come there and see. So it'll always be a cat and m a cat and mouse somebody something some something big will come up some innovation technology scale size. Uh so I I don't as long as we are inventive I I think there'll always be a medium there will be some medium which will come up from the uncertain future. Let's shift back to the tangible past because it it has happened. It has more or less been processed. Uh we ended with you uh you know uh at first Lintas and then JWT experiencing these really big agencies um you know the creative head of both places. Tell me about what prompted you to make the move towards entrepreneurship and starting car cartwheel because then it becomes a whole new ball game in the sense that you no longer have the supporting infrastructure of a big agency but instead have to be the one building it from scratch and wearing many different hats where you you you were really the creative person leading a team but now you are uh the CEO, you are the HR head, you are you know until you get your team in place you are everything. So you know what prompted you to uh take this leap into the unknown and what were the early days like? What were the lessons? So the immediate trigger was actually a sort of a revamp that was happening in JWT worldwide. Okay. Uh where they felt that they got to rediscover their creative mojo. They got to do stuff. There was a new brand identity, new people, new everywhere. Uh there was a new CEO in India. And so with the with new management they want changes as well. Okay. So they wanted new blood and new faces and things like that. So even though I was relatively new in JWT when that happened uh not died in the wool Thompsonian like some other people were I was still part of the slightly uh been being there for 3 years kind of a thing when when all of that happened. So as part of that uh worldwide pressure to kind of get the most creative people and things like that. Likewise even in here they wanted to get more people in. So that was first source uh sense of you know disenchantment or being a little discom uncomfortable. Okay. But already what I had had was beginning to feel while I was there as well and this could have happened anywhere. It has just happened that I think it is just also where I was in my head at that time in my life is that uh there are some things that I want to do which I'm now getting a little tired of trying to convince somebody else to do. You know I've got some thoughts, some ideas. I have to carry somebody else with me. I have to convince some general manager or somebody else that this is worth doing. Yeah. Uh that there are some there there is not already people are playing with different forms of content. There's 20 years back already some other forms of content were coming up people doing short films can brands do branded content and is there some other opportunity which now is part for the course everyone was doing and I just felt that you need some place to kind of do these things and it's very difficult to make those changes uh and make it understood in in so I think when these two things sort of came together when there was changes happening globally which uh and you were not on the right side of that and also uh getting tired of kind of doing things which you your heart was not in. I was attending for example creative director meetings held at an Asia level where people were discussing things like how can we win more awards at Khan. Okay. Seriously like you know you get all the top creative people to one place and they all sit and say how can we win more awards? It's simply horrible. No it's serious. It's serious and and everyone I think all many agencies do this kind of a thing. Okay. And it but the discussion is even more horrible than the the thought of it itself which is like you know it it's like hacks you know ideas of how to do it. You got like for example on what kind of quality of paper you should mount the print head on so that it has the maximum impact when the judges see it you know or how do we kind of make sure that it's all about people having it's the same thing with the Oscars at a much much much bigger scale. Uh you mentioned uh Anora a little while back. I've read something very interesting recently is the production house of Anora. What's it called? Pine or something. I forget it. Or the name Tide. Uh so they uh spent about $9 million or something making Anora and $16 million in promoting it. Okay. And the marketing around it. But all calculated and that's how they do. They take a fantastic product. They were the people behind Parasite as well. you know just you have a great product but spend much more than that to make sure that it receives the acclaim that it deserves. So which includes kind of making so many copies and uh having make sure people see it, the judges see it, the jury sees it. It's it's a science. Okay, the art comes first and then the science takes over. Wow. So even here for example, it's like you do a great piece of work, it doesn't end there. Then you have to make sure that all the people who are in the jury see it enough number of times because on the day of their judging they're going to see 500 pieces of work in a day. So they have only a few seconds with each you know see it and it's just momentary yes no you put a yes no yes no kind of a thing and they go to the next short list and then a short sofa. So anything that has been seen four five times before them has got a better chance. So you should maximize the chance. So what are the forums in which how can we showcase and how do we make sure that this piece of work gets to be seen three four times before them when people go to ridiculous lengths to make that happen you know including publishing a book of all your best work and distributing it to all the creative directors who are going to be on the jury all kinds of things it depends on how far you want to go and how important that metal is to you so uh but when I was participating in such discussions I said this is what I want to do is this is what I'm going to be doing you know I don't I don't feel like it in the first is I'm not I was not even sold on the idea of doing something to win an award. Yeah. And uh because there is enough opportunity to do a very satisfying piece of work which is actually genuinely right for the brand and what you want to do you know see some of the great work that has been done will win for itself you know by itself. But yeah you still have to play a few uh games that's okay play them but it can't you can't make it the sole purpose of your life. If you're not serving only the brand, you're hurting the brand. So it's it's just so bizarre to me. Yeah. No, it's it's it's it's just barely the you know the whole scam advertising controversies and you know work which is not real work just put out on some back street behind your agency and then photographed and shared and you know what lengths people will go to to make it happen. But I don't know we live in a world where these things happen. And I was reading a headline in yesterday's paper that athletes are deliberately making themselves disabled so that they can participate in the parolympics. Jesus. So they they to the extent of self amputation so that they they can be in the paralympic team and win a win. So so we we live in strange times. So anyway, so those were also happening and I said and I was expected to do it. So I would be kind of cheating the company also if I'm sitting in that position and not following not doing what they want which is their given agenda. Yeah. So that is also one of the uh more things that motivated me. So I took a little took a break and then again that serendipity that you talk about an ex-client of mine who was a client Sanjay bal he had moved to Reliance. He was looking for someone to do a campaign and he said I'll give you one brief. So I did a brief and he says that now you have to present this to Anil Amani and the rest of the gang. You presented it. It went off very well. They said that's great. Then then before you know I said will you be our agency? Then I said I don't have a team. Then I said here you'll be our agency but you have to build this team. So then it it just then it fell into place that I was forced to build an agency. And now I have the other problem. I was forced to build an agency. I grew rapidly with that client. Then the client dumped me after some years for different reasons. And then I was left with the team had no business and then I had to rebuild once again you know and get back and then then kota came into the picture other clients came into the picture so there are these are the challenges of kind of being entrepreneur but for me there was serendipity there was these factors which made me want to start off on my own the fact that I wanted to do slightly different things which uh I did when I started cartwheel we said we'll also be about doing other things other than pure advertising we said we'll do different forms forms of advertising, not just the 30 secondond and the print ad. We did some experimental innovative things in digital media. Uh we set off into features and we started doing that. Now for various reasons that fell apart. Okay. But it was a learning. It was an experience and uh now none of those things I could have done where somebody would have to allow me to do those things. Yeah, I could just do it. Let's do this. Let's do that. So that there was that and yeah I don't know maybe 15 20 years down the road to some extent I've even cartwheel has become a place which follows its own rules and there'll be somebody who saying I want to do something different so that's that's circle of life and what seems excruciatingly difficult and people may not appreciate is that being an entrepreneur is a completely different skill from everything you were doing before so u you know what were your early learnings what were the challenges like there must have been some very tough times you know under a lot of pressure. Yeah. So the first thing is that you realize how quickly people were only respecting the chair you sat on and not who you were. So uh immediately something stopped, you know, like invitations to events and being there and being called for this and for that would stop. People would stop calling you for a business code and things like that. You're just if you're off the map, you're off the grid. Yeah. So those those are early things that happen. Then of course when you things you take for granted like having resources that you have a library you have books you have an editing you have some people to do some people run around research all of that is gone right you have to do all the stuff yourself you're doing a research then you had to yeah you're the office boy you're the chai boy you have to do that that's the stuff that most people who start up talk about that that's those those are quite real things and then also you start you discover that people won't join you so easily as you thought they were actually joining you for the firm not for you and you mistakenly thought that they were coming because you were there but you want to carry out you want a large agency on your bio data that's why you're coming so there there are certain people who will not come like you don't want to unheard of agency as an time where you spent so there's also a chance that you will only attract those kind of people who are also for some reasons in their own life at some spot where they are looking for something different so you collect a bunch of stragglers actually who are willing to be join this for various individual personal reasons and then you all get together and then suddenly something starts happening but you have to put it all together you had to piece it together and uh then you realize you don't have systems you don't have an accountant you don't know how to file taxes uh then you your CEO tells you how to do that then you you build someone you to this day I'm not even sure that I'm doing everything right you know even though it's been so given how complicated Indian tax systems are, I think no one knows if they're doing everything right. Yeah. So the had learned some things the hard way. Uh learned that once in an early years there was a IT guy actually asking for a bribe and we didn't read the signals. Okay. And we were in all our self-righteousness said no we've done nothing is perfectly okay and we didn't read. All he was trying to say is meet me outside and uh you know give me something. We didn't read the signal. We didn't know how to read it. Yeah. And uh that guy jacked us and then we didn't get our refunds for 3 years. You know it set us back a lot of uh very heavily took us a lot of time to recover from that. So all this kind of stuff which is nothing to do with creative whatsoever you suddenly have to deal with. So to but it's uh in its own way I think there is something a little heady about knowing all these bits of the business and then over a period of time uh it's being able to predict that this will happen and then proactively work and sort it out and and do things and not feel that that's the less important part of the business that creative is where it's at. you know it's not it's it's everything is is important and uh you can't if you're just purely creative you're just there for the ride you know so like there were and I used to be jealous of you know there were some people in an agency would join and they would be recruited just for winning awards okay so they would get the juiciest accounts to work on the best brand briefs the best things that you can have the most fun on there's the most highly paid creatives there so it's like win-w win-win for them. You know, you you get the best thing, you get the most money, you do the best work, and then Yeah. But what are they giving up for it? Being like part of management, but they they chose not to be. But if you're on this side, if you're in in it for the uh you know, in a responsible way as being part of the management and you want to do it, then you end up uh you know, doing all the grunt work. you do all the stuff, you carry the load, you make the presentations, you do the stuff, you know, and don't get the glory. So, uh all all these things uh uh do happen in in the agency ecosystem. Let let's do a thought experiment. Let's imagine that at the time that you are in HDA and you are at this Asia meeting where they are saying let's win all the awards. Uh the world splits into two parallel universes. One of them brings you here and you're sitting opposite me and chatting with me. In the other one, for whatever reason, you decide, hey, let let me stay on. I'll play the game. I'll also do the good work, but I'll rise up the system. I'll be creative director Asia. I'll be this. I'll be that. Whatever the top of the career is, and you are kind of still there. So my two questions is that in these two parallel universes, my uh guess is that in this particular one where you've actually landed up, you are both a a better creative person because you've seen the other side of the process as well and b a better human being because you've learned the humility that comes from failing at a million small things while running a business. Would you agree with that? Yeah, 100%. 100%. Because see when you don't have skin in the game, no decisions are squat here. They mean nothing. See if I was a national creative director or something JWT or whatever made the wrong decision or something else. Okay. Yeah. At what might happen is with a really bad decision I may lose my job or something but but uh it can be masked and I can go someplace else. There was a time when people just playing musical chairs among the agencies, you know, but when you have skin in the game, okay, that's when every decision is like, you know, uh is is worth its weight in uh uh in gold. You know, you have to really have to do the right thing and then the satisfaction is immeasurable of of having done the right thing. But it's also you're carrying the you you're you're carrying that burden like if if I quit from JWT tomorrow I'm not worried about the careers of all the other people who are there. It's whoever comes next is his problem or her problem. It's not my problem. here today if I decide for whatever reasons that cartwheels I can't do that because I'm I have a team of people and I feel compelled and I feel that their futures are linked with mine and their present is also linked with mine and what is going to happen will they all find jobs will they find missing how do I take care of it sometimes it's a very very very big burden to carry it keeps you awake at night it it it's something that you can't just walk away from you know it's now I'm watching these highly pulpy Jack Reacher uh uh thing. Even I used to read a lot of that stuff also because you need some absolutely dull uh mundane stuff also just kind of uh to uh detox. So I I I just watch this video for fun. Okay. So that that guy is this guy who just walks goes with a toothbrush. No home, no house, no address. is just simply you can just walk away from any situation you know you just simply anything and so that you're you feel fancy free in your head and and you're not pinned down by anything when I first came to Bombay that's what I wanted to be you know I I didn't want to take a company flat I didn't want to take any perks which which inextricably tie them tie me down or take a loan which I am paying back or anything like that I just wanted to be in a position where any day if I feel like I want to do something else I should be able to go away and do something like that. Yeah. But uh now I'm in a very different position from that you know like every decision right now impacts directly a whole bunch of people and uh you I can't you walk away as a family person. You can't walk away as an employer. You can't walk away as a as a agency to the client. You can't walk away. You know the client will say hey where are you going? You know we need you to be around. So all these things are also there. So uh it's a is it a good burden or a tough burden or a big burden? I mean it's it is all these things. I mean a burden is a burden. It's it's and so I'm just wondering here's another thought experiment. Supposing someone were to supposing a situation were to arise that somebody values the work that you've done in building the team that you built and just hires all of them and says that okay if they leave they have a job that is there. Would you be happy at that and take the chance to walk away yourself? Am I am I? Because because I I also feel that see I think there comes a time in almost every time when you're not the best thing for the organization also. M and if you recognize it and you realize it, you know, for the longevity of the organization, it sometimes needs a recognition of the fact that somebody else needs to do this now, you know, and uh I've done my bit and I'll probably be doing the same bits again or not doing enough or not taking it in where it needs to go and somebody else has to do it and they will probably do it better. And I believe I believe so that uh there for a long time you know it best. Then there are time when you start becoming the problem yourself. Uh and you could uh actually be doing a greater good by letting somebody else take over. So if I if there is such an option I would I would not uh write it off. I don't think my ego would come in the way of saying that no it's my baby I only have to see it through or things like that. I I genuinely think that uh uh uh if that's taken care of, I I'd feel I might even feel good about it at some at some level that yeah be in good hands and I I can do my other other thing and there are other things uh to be done um which so far I've just been sort of part-time and doing stuff like that but some of these things like you told me during the like need a commitment and you need a a undivided attention to kind of get that done. Gentle listeners, I'm trying to convince Rami to make a film. Uh no, you know, I I think I mean this is completely unsolicited, so forgive me if I'm uh overstepping, but I just feel that people always land on their feet and uh you might be overthinking the responsibility bit. People always land on their feet, especially if they're good people, and I'm guessing all of your people if they work with you are good people. Well, they always land on their feet and they would also want the best for you. So, you got to do what your heart desires in the long run. Maybe you know fix a time. 6 more months gives them enough time to land on their feet. But anyway, that is getting uh desperately gloomy and we shall instead get extremely cheerful. Uh which is the mood that your tries put me in. So, so tell me about this boss that you you are not of the age where you go on Twitter and become a superstar the way you have. So, how did all this happen? Yeah. So I I I have to thank uh old Twitter, I won't say present Twitter for giving me a second lease of creativity. Uh it's uh it all happened I think again quite by chance and it was not by uh design. I didn't see it as a medium for me to be doing any of this kind of stuff. It's uh uh I was relatively late to Twitter. I think that I was not among the first set of people. If I was then I would probably have a million followers, you know, because those people were very few of those kind of people in those days I know who did what it is. But I came in a little later. That's that's a around which year? It's now been maybe 14 15 years. Yeah. Maybe maybe something something like that. I don't know exactly. So I where it started off was I think uh one uh is that someday I just started writing. I didn't even know that there's a thing called a thread. Okay, I just saw a few people do it and then I then I saw that oh there's a plus sign there. I do it there. I can write another and another people can see it all together. And I had written something about this that Bombay experience that I told you about. I wrote one thread which which somehow captured the imagination of a lot of people and people said yeah man that's right you know I think people have got these a lot of uh uh you know city patriotism and you know chauvinism and and whatever parochialism or whatever it is but there's a lot of fondness for Mumbai itself and someone found the words to say what they were feeling and this whole thing about this something about the city which doesn't judge which lets you be which lets you do your whole thing welcomes people here build their fortunes do what they want to do uh and and that got uh a lot of traction. Okay. So they said, "Hey, not bad. Yeah, this is something this is uh not a bad place to write." Okay. Then a little later in I used to take my daughter for some classes and I used to hang around kill time for about a couple of hours while she finishes her class and I come and I take a go go go back home. So I used to hang around in a Starbucks. Then I started just chuma just writing about people around me. Yeah. So I did a few Starbucks threads. Okay. Just things and interesting characters who came you know that wedding fixer there those appointments happening there. There's some guy doing a ppm for a film ad film shoot here and there's somebody there watching a streaming film and just simply describing those things and what it is in a slightly light-hearted way. And people loved it you know they enjoyed it and they said this is nice. when you know the next Starbucks story coming and things like that. These were not even stories yet, okay? These are just narratives, just simply kind of observational stuff, stream of consciousness or whatever it is you may call it. Just just putting stuff out. So I did a bunch of those and then then I also kind of uh made a lot of friends. That's the next thing that happened. I met a lot of interesting people who started interacting with me and chatting with me. I found some nice accounts. I saw some nice stuff that people were doing. And then I I'm a bit of a you know puzzle buff and stuff like that. I like to do crosswords and stuff like that. So then once I think I don't know which one's the first one but I did uh you know when I when you're doing a anagram it obsesses you you know you know so if you're not if you don't crack it you keep thinking about it you know you're all the time kind of thinking that oh what was what was it? So even if you're not you stopped solving the cross what you're doing other work you just see it. So then I just thought what if what if there's some someone who just who the moment they see a word they see the anagrams you know and just in a slightly sixth sense kind of a style I read one of a kid who says I see anagrams so they don't see the words they only see the anagrams of it you know so I just did just for fun I just wrote did a series of things you know that guy sees a word pressed by Tyrion and he says Britney Spears you know like he just sees the anagram another word that that became wildly popular. Okay. And then suddenly people were saying that hey he's the guy who did the anagram series and all. there was a bunch of Scrabble buffs who got in touch with me and said can you be a guest on a Scrabble group for a while and you know and so that was one more thing that happened and then I uh I don't know when I did my first uh actual story but anyway I did my I did once I just did a whole some sort of a story and just out of kicks you know people finish the stories with Finn you know people like it is a posh thing to Finn in the end I said why should I be so posh I'll just say ante which is like that's all in Telugu which is my mother talk so I and I put the story out and somehow that became a little bit of a signature you know that I'll end my stories with an ante okay and uh then they're saying ni is very good then do one more and then then I think the pandemic happened I think so in the pandemic I did a lot of this stuff I mean I think a lot of people started doing stuff which because of the lockdown writing stuff putting things out and uh uh luckily for me I I was able to kind of keep the business going through the pandemic. My clients didn't desert me and I started doing some a series of a fictitious famous adman and uh just an old school kind of an admin who's found his mojo again because of uh various circumstances and and then he's comes back into currency. So it and again that people started following the chronicles of that famous adman and that was a bit of fun to do and then then I think it was uh a sort of an experiment when is the next I I somewhere along the line I called it a Tory okay then people started uh liking that then uh I said that I'm I'm getting people more people following people like to read it for me it's time pass I have time to read Right. And it gave me an avenue to write. Okay. And I was missing that. I was missing something where I could craft words when I could write stuff. And somehow this the rigor and the rule and the and the framework of tweets worked for me. As an advertising guy, I'm used to working with restrictions, you know, rather than everything being open 30 seconds, 10 seconds, say it in 10 words, say it in five words, say it in this, you know, don't put more than seven words in a holding and things like that. So I enjoyed started liking that then it to myself it just my it just started refining it as a craft you know just writing it. I don't like I didn't like the idea of starting something and it the sentence not finishing and going into the next tweet. There a little bit of window dressing and cleaning I wanted to do. It started becoming a bit of a game interesting thing for me also. How can I say it within something have a nice little ending to each one. So each one feels like at least there's something to that like a paragraph. It's less than a paragraph more than a sentence. Uh and gives you something to go forward to. So I started enjoying that a bit you know just just structuring it putting it together. And then it so happened that some of my early stuff had surprise endings had twists then that people started saying oh Henry and things like that and all and Jeffrey Archer and all this stuff unflatter you know very very flattering but uh I I take it with a pinch of salt but it was fun. I mean it at least people seeing and enjoying it and uh it gave me something to write something to work on. So I was in one flurry of productivity. I was able to do it quite frequently and uh yeah just one thing led to the other. It became a thing and uh it it developed a sort of a fan following and people looking forward to the next one and uh so that's how the story started and I started falling in love with the format the medium. I thought it was it had some advantages over a short story or a book or a novel uh uh in its own way. it doesn't have some of the advantages the others have but there was one particular thing which I kind of liked is that is that uh uh which I thought you know there when you reading a book it's a physical thing you know how close you are to the end you know as you're reading it you know where the when the end is coming oh it's 10 pages away 20 pages away I'm halfway through and things like that even when you're reading a short story in a book sometimes people choose from the index the shorter stories start at the short stories then go to the longer ones and I I do that I'm just confessed yeah I do that a lot I start with the shorter ones and I know I'm reading a five-page story okay but I what I found about this is that people are just reading seeing next next they don't know when it's going to end at any point of time you can pull the rug out of their leg and say story is over so I just found that a little interesting about the Tory as a format I can keep writing and they still think there's a long way to go and I say just give them a ending and finish it You know that was a little interesting thing that I thought I could do. That's why I never numbered my tweets 23 by 37 then know okay 37 only 13 more to go. So I just just thought I keep it like that and just close it whenever I just found an ending and just closed it. So these are little little things that I did and then it just became a thing. That's that's the story in brief. No, I love the craft. I love the craft because you know every form leads to its own kind of content which people optimize for and as far as I know in my knowledge you are the first person to optimize for this and even though they are threads you are actually working under a constraint because each tweet allows only so many characters and each tweet is almost self-contained like not self-contained self-contained in terms of the story but it it's like you know back in the day you would have the half an hour TV series and it would end just at that moment where you know it feels this one has ended, but you're anticipating the next one. And you do it so well in terms of craft. And while you make it seem seamless and effortless as if you're just sitting on Twitter and doing it on your phone, I I'm I'm guessing that you spend a lot of time thinking about the craft and do it beforehand and you know, structure it out. Is that how it goes? Yeah, definitely it is. Uh the early stories were pretty much did it did them impromptu, did them live. Okay. And uh which was a bit of a high. Okay. There's there's a rush also. It's a rush because you know that there are people on the other end waiting for the next one to come. Okay. And uh but it's also doesn't leave you time to perfect it to rough or chisel out the edges and things like that. And uh it and then you also don't know when you're going to be interrupted. Something you're doing it you know uh doing something else somebody comes a call comes you have to return to something you can't leave the story halfway through and things like that. But so in the beginning I was actually doing it live then but I felt that when I was rereading it it could be better. It could be nicer. It could be written a little uh differently. And uh that's when I sort of made a small investment in an app. Okay app it's called the one I use. It's just a Twitter thread app but where I could uh you know write it offline but it gives you the format and everything in tweets and the breakups and things like that and you can chisel it away and then then I actually found out that I spend more time editing it than writing it. Yeah. Put the whole thing out and then just craft craft craft craft craft craft. I just did find that there is uh you know like some writers like uh was it Kings Martin Amos somebody who says but you know it has to sound good you know so I sort of read it mentally to myself and it should feel nice when you're reading it it should feel good so I used to do that a lot and then just take away extra words uh then I learned redundancies of words because of this I found that most of the that can go most of the can go there There are so many adjectives which can go uh and it all becomes more muscular when you take them out and it becomes tighter. But I also like some some stuff which literally people would frown on. I I like alliteration. Many people say that is a cheap form of writing but I I like it. I enjoy it. I use it. I don't mind puns at all. Uh I use them when I can. Then I found that you know I can do some little little parodies of some famous stories. I don't uh just because uh there's some way you can probably contextualize them and write them again and also just play a little game with people to see if they can guess where it came from. So somewhere there's a happy prince which which I have parodyied. I've done a last leaf kind of a parody somewhere with some rubber band story and things like that. So I've done little little things taking famous stories and doing some stuff with them. Then I realized that there are some people who only go with a plot. They go the plot and say wow what a twist and thanks a great fantastic story and stuff like that. There are some people who enjoy the craft. Some people who enjoy the words. Some people who say that yeah there is more to this. There are layers and you know and some people and those are very rewarding when people see the things that you have done and you know that and pay attention say wow well done then that it feels good. Even if just of two or three people who kind of comment on it or say something like that, you realize it's not bad. I know people have uh seen it and appreciated and got what you've tried to do. Once or twice there are some things which are done which probably nobody gets why I've done it but it's okay that's fine. Uh so then it just I think it was also this little compared to a published set of stories or whatever where you don't get instant feedback. I think this thing is a bit of a dopamine rush also when people comment immediately. you see it and comment and there's also a low sometimes you think it's fantastic and it it gets a ton of response that also happens you know people I know you put and it doesn't get the traction you think or people don't get it then there were games people started playing they saying I guess the ending or I knew where it's going and so all of these little little things that happened so it became sort of a uh you have an audience and so you're performing for them I mean that's an understatement and Um I uh in the sense of having an audience uh uh you absolutely stand out for me. In fact I noticed you on Twitter. I mean uh gentle listeners a little bit of nugget. Uh the last time before this this is the second time in my life I'm meeting Ramy. The last time was in 1990 when I was 16 and he was I think around 25. Yeah. And uh yeah forget the circumstances but we briefly I think discussed football and he remembers me as being a super thin geek. So there is some evidence to that effect now at least one eyewitness and hopefully our next meeting won't take another 35 years. Couple of final questions to wind up. Uh my penultimate question is that when I think of the question, what is a life well-lived? Right? I think that when I was younger, I would have answered it in a very different way to how I would answer it today. And my answer would have been completely wrong. In fact, it makes me cringe. It would all have been based on achieving this and achieving that and writing this book and making that film and winning that award and all those shallow things which can become toxic in and of themselves if you just go for that and and obviously with age one changes and uh uh you know my metric for a life well-lived is more in the happiness I take from the small things and you know uh those goals that one might have. What was your journey in defining a good life for you? H yeah I need to give it a little thought but I can say that there are moments when I feel good when I meet someone who have brushed again sometime in my career somewhere some place something and they uh have nice things to say about that encounter and they and say that it made a difference to them and uh they have remember uh some things fondly. Okay. And uh uh that has happened to a certain extent that uh I see people much much later in lives and then they say something that I did something or said something which uh ended up being very significant in shaping some decisions they took or where they went or what they did or or or made them feel good about a time when they were not feeling so good or whatever. I don't know. So these things have happened and that makes me feel good you know that I have it's I seem to have touched a bunch of lives uh of people who worked with me or I've worked with on or come uh studied with or whatever it is and there's something positive or good that's come out of it in their lives. Okay. I know that's happened to me separately with other uh quite a bit but uh though I've not done it kind of consciously uh I I think that if if you've managed to kind of do that at some scale is very satisfying even if it's not at scale even if you've done it for two or three people it it does feel good. I uh I somehow had the knack of almost every time in my life getting away from a business or a job or something else just when I was at the verge of probably making money out of it and it it's like you have stayed around would have made a killing here if you done this if you stayed on here you know after that corporate salary started going through the roof after you did this this happened if you stayed on there you would have got this you know this massive esops year and things like that. And uh while you know I did obviously somewhere in the back of my mind I thought I'll be uh I'll make shitloads of money being an entrepreneur and making things like that but it was not a driving force and it didn't come about that way either and uh and I probably have missed one or two buses as far as trying to make money out of this is concerned. So, so it is not money, okay? It's it's it's not uh it is not that metric at all. And uh there's no uh sag about it at all because actually it doesn't it's I have enough and I'm very lucky to have a family that's very happy with what we have uh uh and not you know uh wishing there was more or anything like that. And it's a line right in our life. We just keep drawing a line. Everyone decides what that line is in everything that we do or we don't do like okay I don't uh I'm not given to using uh you know cursing or smoking or drinking or something like that but that's a line that I have drawn somebody else can draw the line somewhere else but even the guy who does everything has drawn the line somewhere at some place right so it's it's uh uh most of the lines I've drawn I'm happy where I've drawn them some of them. I I wish I had been a little more flexible and enjoyed life a little more. uh you know uh I sometime I wish I had a life like Anthony Baldin's you know do the wild thing do thing go travel see experience everything eat octopi what do what it is but I don't know I was hardwired or something like that genetically I some lines I drew and uh some of them even now I wish I maybe I still have time to push some of those lines away but for the most part I think if uh you if you feel that most of the lines you've drawn you drew in the place then I think it's it's it's it's you can feel good about yourself you know uh and uh yeah that's wonderful uh final question for me and my listeners recommend books films music that you absolutely love and want to share with the world I I have very frequently recommended uh the f uh the children's books of Dr. views. Okay. Uh I did read later that you know some of them were actually his wife's ideas which he repackaged but that doesn't diminish the books for me there. I I just think that uh uh I I just love that uh uh his craft uh both uh with words and with his drawings. I think that bit of madness, that silliness, that simplicity, that childlike quality is fabulous. And uh to me I think somehow keeping that silliness alive I think is fantastic. That's why I like those who've kept that alive you know uh I I I like Rald Dahal for that reason. I like uh you know the ability to kind of keep that imagination so wild and open uh for so long. I like a lot of Rald Dal. I don't read a lot of very heavy fiction uh or or uh but there are some books which stayed with me for a very long time which haunted me. I read grapes of Roth when I was in college and I know that I walked around in a cloud for a long time. It it it affected me you know in a slightly profound kind of a way. Uh I I think it's uh it's a book that I I to date I haven't seen the movie because I just want to kind of keep that experience. People have said it's one of the greatest movies made and I want to keep that experience. If I do it I was already done. So I'm just still haven't done it. I want to do that. Yeah. It's a fabulous uh book and is is a writer again who who I read on binge binge mode. I started with one and then I read almost all of Steinbeck one after the other. Then in in kind of popular fiction, I love John Lar. I I just I I I really like uh the way he kind of elevates uh spy fiction to a level that approaches literature, you know. I like it a lot. I I like the characters, the pace and the and the and the very deep set of uh emotions he deals with, you know. I I I I like him a lot. movies recently and I mentioned this to you in the break. I think perfect days just blew me away. I I just loved it and I concur with the observation that you made that it is made by a person who's of a certain age who's reached and seen seeing life differently and uh I think um I would urge anyone who can to see that film. It's it's magnificent. I love old Hindi film music. I I I just think that that era I don't know 50s to 70s or maybe even 40s to 70s I even go even further back I think it was effortlessly brilliant one of your episodes I think you had two guests who were talking about that era of music I can't remember the names Mahanti and Jan Singh brill and I I I I really I don't I think that was such a golden time I I think it's right up there with the time all the great artists in Paris hung out together and created all the great paintings. It's it's phenomenal to think that set of uh writers, singers, musicians and directors lived at the same time and produced that body of work that they did. Any one of those are you know those are absolutely stunning. I I I don't know if we'll ever have that level of music again. Chanulal Mishra Pandit is is I just like listening to him a lot. I like uh uh Hindustani semi-class kind of music. It's uh his toumories are fantastic. There's a Banaras connection. I love the way he kind of has a fierce pride in Banaras uh which you find in many of the musicians who come from there and uh and uh uh uh music I I I'm not a very religious person. I'm not even sure I'm entirely uh theistic. I uh but I I if there's anything which sort of makes me feel spiritual, it's probably music. You know, there's some and and it would probably be some forms of classical music which which put me in that zone. And though I'm from the south, somehow I relate to Hindustani music uh uh a lot. There are some Kabir songs and by various performers which which really move me a lot. Wonderful Ramy. Thank you. This was such a pleasure. Thank you so much for mine and Ahmed. Thanks. Yeah, such a joy. If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. You can follow Rami on Twitter. And you must follow Rami on Twitter because he's one of the reasons why it's worth following people on Twitter. You can follow him on Twitter at Ramkid D or Ramid. You can follow me at Amitwarma amitb a r. You can browse past episodes of the scene and the unseen at seen ununseene.in and every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of the scene and the unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You can go over to sceneunseene.in/support in/support and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you.