================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: zqrxCx7KKLY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zqrxCx7KKLY
TITLE: The Common Thread of All Technology: Monitoring the Situation, Ep.1
CHANNEL: a16z
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-27
DURATION: 59m 19s
VIEWS: 3,424
LIKES: 0
COMMENTS: 3
TAGS: a16z, andreessen horowitz

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Announcing our new show, Monitoring the Situation, hosted by a16z General Partners Erik Torenberg and Katherine Boyle, with guest Eddie Lazzarin, CTO of a16z crypto. 

In this first episode, we ask how American Dynamism, consumer, games, and crypto all fit together, from Palmer/Oculus to Marc Andreessen’s Techno-Optimist Manifesto, while also exploring crypto × AD values, parenting in the AI era, and how internet subcultures shape the news.

Timecodes: 
0:00  The Coherence of a16z’s Investments
2:23  The Techno-Optimist Manifesto & Founder’s Journey
4:12  Toys, Games, and Innovation
6:11  American Dynamism Meets Crypto
9:36  Philosophical Alignment of Founders
11:56  The Uniquely American Startup Culture
13:48  AI, Healthcare, and the Wisdom of Crowds
20:27  ADHD, Autism, and the Incentives of Diagnosis
26:58  Rethinking Education: Alpha School & Learning Models
34:46  Parenting, Family Structures, and Modern Challenges
41:41 Internet Culture, Fragmentation, and Social Platforms
52:04 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 12,508

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
We're excited to do our first episode of of Katherine and I's new podcast series with A16Z where we run through the the stories of the internet. Eddie, thank you for being our our our first guest. I thought an appropriate topic to to to sort of begin as as we have you from from the crypto team. I'm I'm trying to do more of these mashup episodes with people from from different teams. Is one thing we see a little bit uh Katherine is some people say, "Oh, how is A6 andZ coherent in that they, you know, really are leaning into the American Dynamism brand with art our deco and and all of our investments?" But also on the other side, I see all these consumer investments. How does that make any sense? Um, more more seriously, how should one one think about sort of the the variety of what we do and and how it is coherent and cohesive um to do, you know, something as serious as as American Dynamism, but to also do, you know, consumer internet for for example. >> Yeah. Well, I always get the question or someone put on the internet maybe a week ago like h how do games like how does games have anything to do >> uh with American dynamism? And I always answer that question with one word which is Palmer. uh because Andreal would not have happened if not for Oculus. Oculus would not have happened if not for Palmer's obsession uh with gaming, right? Like there there's there's there's there's so much continuity in the world of tech that I sometimes think people um silo things almost almost like because you know we silo things, right? Like we're we're very different worlds. We have very different types of expertise in terms of what we're looking for as investors. But sort of the continuity of what is building and what is technology, it spans all sorts of realms. Um and and frankly it spans every industry. It spans every realm of human life that to to say oh well like games have nothing in common or crypto has nothing in common or these people have nothing in common. >> It's it's all one boiling boiling mass. It's like uh it's all interconnected. I mean I was like GPUs still internally use all the logic of showing things on a screen. You know you buy like a GPU for a data center. It still has little ports on the back to connect a monitor to it. They'll never be used. Right? Like it's all it's all inter it's all deeply intertwined. Every piece of technological progress can be reapplied somewhere else. That's the whole beauty of software. That's the whole beauty of computing. Like I I so I I don't even understand the question, Eric. I put it I don't even understand the question. >> Well, and I and I always say, Eric, I've been I've been begging you and telling you we have to have the Techno Optimist Manifesto on the front page of our website, right? Because it's like to me that is the coherent thesis of what all building is. It's it it's the thesis of of every t like every founders's journey, right? Like the founders's journey is pretty universal across every sector. Um it's sort of a universal story arc in terms of what they experience even if they're building in different realms. Um, I think the sort of Adams and Bits sort of playful uh battles between our founders is is actually more of, you know, it's sort of like a a humorous thing versus one that's really grounded in philosophy because at the same time everyone's going through the same thing of building and no one can predict like you can have you can be directionally correct on where you believe the future is headed, but no one can make predictions that you know no one would have ever looked at Palmer in his you know in his uh his his uh motor home living outside his parents house when he was trying to build Ocul and say he's going to remake American defense. Like not I don't even think Palmer would have said that about himself, right? So there's something about the the hero's journey and the building journey that is is very universal that brings all of these categories together where where tech is is should be aligned on these things and shouldn't necessarily have infighting or think of these categories as very different. Um, and I know Eddie, we're going to get into like where are the sort of unique kind of I don't know philosophical overlaps between American dynamism and crypto, which I actually think there are there are many kind of similar personality profiles of of the founders that are attracted to these categories. Um, but I think, you know, if people question how can you do it all or what is the unifying force between all of these categories, it's like go back and read Mark's Techno Optimist Manifesto, right? because that that to me um exemplifies how all of these things are are really on the same hero's journey. >> Yeah. I think you know to uh to riff on Chris Dixon's great line uh what is you know everything great looks like a or starts looking like a toy. It's like um toys or games can inspire so much be beyond that can sort of be a playground to experiment with new new technologies that can then you know um sort of be the inspiration for for for something way bigger or or or or very different. Um, and and to your point, it's it's all a boiling pot. But I also think the toys or games or or platforms themselves are underrated just as is. I remember, you know, Teal's famous line, we wanted flying cars, we got 140 characters. Turns out 140 characters is, you know, way more impactful than than than flying cars or or so these these toys or games or or products are underrated ju just on their on their own merits separate from them being inspiration for for other other things. >> I I actually have a great story, a very timely story about this. We were just in Washington DC um with Mark and and a senator who I won't name was was you know in the meeting and was talking about what could be very valuable for the defense world and he was talking about um basically in Ukraine just how this like just in time manufacturing then feeds into building things in the trenches very quickly and basically doing this this iteration live with with people who are then using the products you know changing the products every every few days and his his his sort of question was why can't we do this inside the defense indust industrial base and Mark actually responded to him and he said well you know we do this with toys like this is how we build hardware toys of course we can do this with hardware in America because this is how any type of toy is built any type of hardware is built like you you iterate very rapidly and you iterate uh you know in the you can iterate in the field it's only in defense where we don't do this right because there there's infrastructure that makes it impossible for us to do this but it is very possible and we do it in consumerland and so I thought that was like a very interesting thing you know you could kind of see the light bulbs going off like oh we American dynamism actually does exist in various categories and you can bring some of those learnings from consumer land into defense land and it will be incredibly impactful and clearly that's what the Ukrainians do. >> Yeah, it to let's segue to sort of uh the cryptorican dynamism interplay. Eddie, I remember we were at a retreat a few years ago and and someone smartly asked, hey, um you know, how do we think about on the one hand we're trying to strengthen American power and strengthen the dollar and you know, strengthen our influence. um you know globally and on the other hand crypto um you know seems like it could be a threat to that to some degree. How do we sort of think about how American dynamism and crypto are are interlin or or from a philosophical or practical level? >> Yeah. So the the the the trick here is that like American whatever right is kind of hiding what values are underneath it. Right? I think of crypto as freedom promoting technology. Right now in the case in the horrible case and I don't think that's the case today where America becomes not freedom promoting right then you could see I guess you could see crypto as a hedge and that's kind of what Satoshi meant you know when he was talking about the banking system failing right and he wanted to create this technological option I think of him as trying to create in software a way to represent those same values that was in some sense immune to whatever the states happened to be doing at the Uh so I don't think that they're are necessarily replacements. I think that they're compliments, right? They're trying to get at the same underlying value system, the same concepts about freedom to move capital, property rights for individuals, the ability of uh you know capital to flow freely, payments to flow freely uh for people to be able to own things. Uh just two different mechanisms for uh putting them in place. And I don't think that they're replacements by any means. like there will be states for the foreseeable future, there will be the internet for the foreseeable future. You know, how do you want them to actually represent these things? I think they can be incredibly complimentary, right? They can uh you know, if if if you think about there's another spin on it kind of connecting to what we were talking about now is experimentation. Being able to experiment with the means of ownership and the means of uh the the the means of morphing and moving around capital. uh that's hard to do because you have to do it in the construct of the state and the state has uh you know certain degrees of freedom that it can take right it has to be very very careful and very protective of these things for totally good reasons. If you can allow those types of experiments to happen in a totally open- source and visible way out in the public for everybody to scrutinize uh in a way that doesn't give anyone outside the state asymmetric power, then you allow for those exact types of experiments, right? I mean, another way to put it is, you know, does the state really want someone outside the state to have all the power and to like make all these experiments? I don't think it does. I think that what the state would like to see if the state is freedom promoting and in America it certainly is. I think the state would like to see people doing these experiments in a way that's totally visible and legible, right? And that's exactly what crypto does. So I see there being profound conceptual overlaps. Like we haven't even talked about like privacy. We haven't even talked about like uh you know ways that consumers can be actually protected. I have a whole riff on how the po point of crypto of crypto is actually to protect consumers from software developers, right? And that's that's really what it is. But anyway, >> I mean, the the things that I've anecdotally seen the connection on, and again, I'm not a crypto person. I I consider myself kind of a normie, but things that I've picked up on over over 10 years of investing is is really like philosophical alignment between the types of founders who start crypto companies and the types of founders who start American Dynamism companies. So much so that some founders that we have backed, I will not out them without their permission, but some founders that we have backed that are now, you know, leading unicorn companies in American dynamism were toying with the idea, do I want to start something in crypto or do I want to start something in American dynamism? And people would say like that's crazy, right? Like one's like hardware, one's, you know, like like these are completely different things. But from a philosophical level, the conversations we were having about what does America need, like what are the biggest problems for our generation? like these people are very aligned at what the problems are >> 100%. >> And and I think that that's probably where there's the most alignment, right? Like you can come to to different results. Like I always say like Bali and I have a ton in common. We come to completely different ends on on where we end up in many cases, but we have a ton in common on what we agree is the problem, right? And so I think in some ways there's there's like a unifying sort of philosophical connection between the people who operate in these in these ecosystems. And then the the other thing that I always point out that's an anecdote too is like the first time that like I've you know like the sovereign individual and sort of like the canonical books that like you know led to people really investigating is as a category all of those people that that introduced those books to me like 10 years ago when I first moved to the valley. Those people are like all American dynamism hardware early SpaceX investors, early Palunteer, right? like they these these people have a lot in common philosophically and you know when when you look at sort of the you know even just the way I describe myself like as an American dynamist like I always describe myself as a federalist like someone who is in in deep favor of >> I thought you said you're a normie >> I'm federalist rather yeah right but like I believe in federalism that's why I live in Florida like I believe in the federalist experiment right I think that's something that's like underd discussed about what makes America extraordinary and unique and sort of the the the where is decentralization most prominent in the tech community. It is in the crypto world, right? Like that's that's where you actually use words and it's very much aligned to I would say a a strain of, you know, political philosophy that really focuses on sort of the federalist experiment as the unique part of America, not necessarily the, you know, the other parts that that people always point to as like makes America great. So in some ways I think like there's there's a ton of alignment between how the people view um why it's so necessary to build for America in a startup versus why it's you know why you know anyone could go into government they could go into other means to serve their country. Um but I think there's a lot of philosophical alignment from like why you need American dynamism companies and why decentralization is important in tech. Yeah, I totally agree with that. And I I put the bluntest the most blunt point I can put on it is that it's incredibly obvious that crypto is American culturally. Like the crypto ethos is a uniquely American cultural phenomenon. >> I didn't know if we were allowed to claim it. Um I'm glad you do. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean there's a lot of things that people don't appreciate are really American that feel like they're uh the global now, but >> as is the startup. The startup is an American concept. Totally. founder is an American concept, right? Like why do we call them founders? Like you know it we don't use the French term. We don't use entrepreneur. You know we're it is a very American thing what we do. Not what I do but what what the people we support do. >> It is interesting how um ironic that China got sort of an early lead on some of this open source a AI stuff and and going back to you know Katherine's mention of of some of the meetings in in DC. One of the things, you know, senators were asking Mark is um just about the USChina um sort of AI race and and what we should do and and Mark has this phrase which is um you know, are we going to win by being more like them or or more like us, more like our our values and leaning into what what made us so great. And I I I found that a really uh compelling phrasing and it is just interesting as we're at a time where sort of AI policy is is is is going to be, you know, litigated and then set as as in terms of how we compete. Maybe let's uh use that as a segue into uh into the the stories of the day. There's been a lot of uh stories of the week. There's been a lot in healthcare uh this week. We had Dr. Bacharia on the the day of the uh autism announcement. Uh you we were joking that uh the administration has previously been so friendly to Silicon Valley startups, but now with uh this work in reducing autism, you know, it seems like a grave threat. Um no, on the surface, Catherine, what what uh what struck you about some of the the the health related news of the week? One of the things that I've been reflecting on a lot um and again I know we're going to talk about Eddie has a new arrival to his family. Um I'm gonna have my third um child >> um just here um in a few months. Um but there there's something about like the way that this generation p like understands medicine that I actually think comes from like the internet is your doctor now, right? Like and and and maybe 10 years ago there was a lot of fear around that. Uh there was a lot of oh you can't trust the internet, you can't trust um you know information sources that are not you know reviewed by government and aren't aren't passed down by experts. And I think we're just living in this like completely different reality um where the people who are having children now who are sort of entering their their 30s, their 40s um and and really vocal around a lot of these topics grew up at an age of just completely distributed information particularly around things like medicine. Um, and they follow the wisdom of crowds. They've been pitched. I I I just posted about sort of the this the history of Oxycontton, right? Where it's like there was a whole decade where they were preparing class action action lawsuits against Purdue Pharma before 2013 when FDA, you know, took the the drug off the market and it had been on the market for 20 years as sort of this miracle drug. And so I think what you're seeing from this generation um isn't like skepticism of experts. It's it's like it's not how it's portrayed. Like, you know, the New York Times had this this big expose maybe a week ago where they were like, "You can't trust these these sort of internet quacks, right?" And it's like like Gwennneth Pra has been selling us weird stuff for like 15 years. And like it it's like it's so part of our DNA now that you can't call it quackery. You can't you kind of have to call it like wisdom of crowds. And I've you know I have a lot of doctor friends. a lot of people I, you know, grew up with who are in the medical community. And the way that these doctors practice medicine now is they realize that you're not just practicing it in >> the the, you know, the the the doctor's office, like you're competing with all of these different information sources, all of these different backgrounds. People are a lot more open with their questions. I'm having my third child. I joke it's my chat GPT baby because I upload every single medical diagnostic, every blood report, everything to chat GPT and it gives me a ton of data that the doctors don't have time to give me. I share it with my doctors. They think it's cool. It's like we're just in this totally different generation where people are a lot more open-minded. they expect things to swing faster than the Purdue Pharma case, which was a 20 year, you know, it was a 20-year issue where it went from this is a miracle drug to this is terrible for you. And I just have expectations of speed. >> Yeah. My my wife has been the same like she's a total expert on all this stuff. I would frame it as and like I I really channeling this through the lens of like seeing my wife really spend so much time on this is like it's just a higher information standard. It's a higher epistemic standard. It's not just skeptical of experts. It's maybe resisting the idea to accept like un unchallenged what the first expert you talked to said. Right? That that's how I'm seeing it. We we see doctors and but we come to we always come to the doctor now informed by a bunch of research and that's also not taking for granted even what Chad GBT says to be honest. I'll send the same thing to Chad GBT anthropic and Grock at the same time. force them to fight against each other and then end up with just kind of a list of interesting sources that I put in front of the doctor, right? Like that's like that's that that's the that's the feedback loop now. And I think that's far better. Of course, it's so funny when people say LMS make mistakes. Like yeah, of course they make mistakes, but so do human doctors. So what's the, you know, so what's the answer, right? The answer is obviously a more rigorous standard of information, more information sources, uncorrelated channels of information, right? How do you do that? How do you do more information processing? Well, computers and the internet, right? And and AI models. It's like it's all it's actually not that complicated a way to see the world. It shouldn't be so miraculous to see it this way like yet it is. Right. >> Totally. Well, and it's it's so funny. I was I was having this exact conversation with my phabotamist at LabCore. Like I I'm like how often do you see people come in and talk to you about like what they've uploaded to chat GPT? He's like all the time. He's like this is like one of the number one use cases like of you know like he did say use cases right he's like a normal he was like yeah like no one just goes to the doctor no one just comes here and then gives their results to the doctor and has them read them out like everyone is putting them into chat GBT everyone is having some sort of additional analysis and it's been like it's been eye opening for people and this is and in some ways I feel like we should feel really good that like America is adopting um you know like like adopting like questioning wanting more information like this is a good thing. In some ways, I feel like, you know, when when people were always talking about MD, it was like that. Yeah, maybe that was like 1.0, but like here we are now and people really want more information. >> Yeah. What people are worried about, I think, is when they imagine that someone just uh picks the cheapest, lowest IQ LLM and then accepts the first thing that it says uncritical. Right. That's what people imagine and that's what they're worried about. >> Yeah. >> Uh but that's that's the same thing if you go to a terrible doctor who you just happen to get. It's it's kind of the same effect to be honest. Like I totally I'll I'll make this as short as possible, but a few years ago I was kind of worried about my cholesterol and I had a new GP, my old GP retired and this this candidate GP they put in front of me. First thing she says when she sees my chole cholesterol, she says, "Uh, oh, I think uh you know, you should probably eat fewer eggs, which is like a totally based on a discredited like 60-year-old study on rabbits." It's like completely wrong the way to think about serum cholesterol and dietary cholesterol. And she was in her 30s. This doctor was in her 30s. I was just like, "What? Where did you get this?" And I pulled up chat GPD and I was like, "See how this is like not a thing." And she was just shocked, mind-blowing. You know, I don't think all doctors are like this. I don't think people should assume that all doctors are incompetent by any means. But, uh, but the point is that we have more tools at our disposal. So, totally agree with that, Katherine. >> Totally. I um the uh autism rates have significantly increased the past couple of decades. I want to segue this to ADHD in in a second, but do we have a pet conspiracy theory on on why um or is it just purely a diagnosis um thing? >> Well, I mean I want to get to the the ADHD like I actually think let's move to ADHD because I think that one >> one I'm more familiar with it. I'm not going to say personally but like more familiar with the data, right? I have sons, so I'm like preparing myself for the inevitable ADHD diagnosis. Um, and that's like even a weird thing to say, right? I have, you know, a four a four and a half-year-old and a 2 and a halfyear-old. And just looking at their energy levels, I always joke like I have to run them before they go to school. Um, because if I don't get the energy out like like a dog before they go to school, like something something will happen in school and it will be oh. And and I can already kind of see and and I don't blame again, I don't blame teachers for this. I don't blame doctors. These are more like systematic issues. Like if you if you have an energetic boy, it's mostly boys, right? Like I think that the New York Times expose that came out a couple months ago um basically said that 17% or no 23% of all 17year-old boys have been given an ADHD diagnosis. So that's that's one in four boys in America. There's something wrong with them, right? Um and you can say, okay, there's clearly something wrong with all these boys. Or you can say, okay, we're we're we're medicating boyhood. But what is it about you know what is it about why like why is it incentivized that doctors give them this diagnosis and why is it you know something that that I think teachers in some ways I I don't want to say encourage but but it is sort of this strange thing where if you have a child who is very energetic in a prek they they sort of say well take you know next time at their fouryear-old checkup maybe talk to them about some of these behavioral things right and like now my son is like an angel he's like grown up like a little bit and they're like oh he's doing green school right but for like a here we were like, "Oh, he clearly clearly is just a high energy boy." Um, and the the incentive systems around a lot of these things are like if you go to the doctor, parents one, want these ADHD, you know, want want these diagnoses. And the reason they parents want them is because it gives you extra time. It gives you extra resources. You can then opt your kid out of certain things in school. It makes school more manageable for high energy boys. The reasons the school wants it is because they get more dollars from the state if they have special needs students across a variety of different special needs. Everyone knows this that the schools will tell you this, right? So, it's like it is better if they have a student who needs additional attention or in in their words or needs something special for them to get the diagnosis from the doctor. Again, the diagnosis is not something that anyone stigmatizes anymore and then the school can get more dollars from the state. But what that means is that both parents and teachers are incentivized for a number of different reasons. Especially if you're like, "Wow, like my kid's about to take the ACT and I want them to have an extra hour so that they can perform higher than the other, you know, 25% of of children who have this diagnosis." So like there's a systematic reasons why people are actually asking for the diagnosis. And you know what what I've joked with both of you all is it takes like a very disagreeable, sadly principled mother to be like, "No, like I'm not getting my hyper energetic boy a diagnosis for life and I'm definitely like not going to put him on drugs because I I I realize the incentive system that's set up and and it's funny like again like a couple years ago if you talked about this you were an absolute quack and then this piece comes out in the New York Times you know in April and it's like oh yeah actually the medical community kind of agrees that like this ADHD like aderall pill mill thing might be a huge problem and so I I think there's something about you know if you if you look at Purdue Pharma if you look at ADHD and you look at sort our generation's experience with the medical community. You know, it's like it it is this like consistent experience of all the incentives of of large systems that go beyond individuals are pushing you to one thing and years later you might find out as Eric has found out you didn't need rolin, >> right? >> You're just an energetic guy. >> Yeah. Yeah. Same. And there's no downside to a diagnosis. That's the thing. You have total optionality on whether you want to take the medication. you have no inven like we can identify the pathologies in students. We want to help students. >> We have tools to help them >> and so and there's no downside to identifying them uh misidentifying them. So let's just generously hand these out, right? like like I I I I see it I see nothing but good intention totally >> in these things and >> you know I was the same we were talking about this before I also had an ADHD diagnosis when I I forget how old eight or nine years old whatever in in retrospect I think it was totally nonsense right like I I mean whatever not for everybody necessarily but in my case I think it was it was nonsense and it was just u it was just that my behavior was not kind of fitting within what they believed was the proper mold and they wanted to help fix me, right? Like that's like how they thought of it. I hated RIlin. I tried Conser, Rin, Dexadrin or, you know, uh I mean all all the stuff. Vance, I tried I tried them all. Hated them all. Um turns out that just a little bit of like guilt and discipline was what what you really what you honestly needed. >> Yeah. Yeah. In my case, in my case at least. But uh I see uh but but more specifically connecting to that and and to some degree the autism although I'm not as you know I don't have as much personal experience with that uh the one of the issues is the diagnostic criteria can shift right as people want to identify these cases see very little downside in identifying them they may broaden right in an effort to precisify the diagnostic criteria they may broaden it and I've heard that as a plausible explanation among ADHD and autism cases. Uh part of explaining the rise, right? It can be rising or it can just be that you're moving down the curve of diminishing marginal precision and identifying more and more and more cases with the hope that you can with very little cost treat the issue. >> And so that alone can explain what appears to be an increase in prevalence. >> Yeah. I I I I they sort of told me I had ADHD because I wouldn't focus in school and just did whatever I wanted. But that that's because I just hated school. I could actually focus on things I was super interested in. And um I think it's interesting segue to alpha school which is getting a lot of attention right now. And I know Eddie uh in just having newborn, you're you're thinking about future future schooling. And obviously Katherine, you've thought quite a bit about it. Alpha School is interesting because one of their main KPIs is do kids love school? And my school was I don't know about you guys, but my mine was like a prison. like I didn't have any inspiring teachers in elementary school or middle school like it was so boring. Um and so it's exciting to see kind of different different models and I have you know parent friends who are starting to homeschool their kids and just think about kind of alternative. Um Eddie, how have you been thinking about it? >> I mean I feel like there's three branches now, right? There's three possible ways. There's the traditional school system and by that I mean both public and private schools, right? I just mean like conventional school system. there's this somewhat growing alternative school system. I think Alpha School is a really cool example that I'd love to learn a lot more about. I saw this fantastic interview on Next a couple weeks ago about it. >> And then the third is like something that I've heard people talk about, but maybe doesn't exist yet. Maybe that actually just gets end up merging into branch 2, which is like the AI tutor world, right? Where like every kid gets a Socrates, right? Like that's that that that like that line. I think they're all so so interesting. But what has really leapt out to me uh about like the alpha school and even the Socrates option is it turns out there's with all this great development in software, we can put an infinite treadmill in front of kids about things that they can learn, right? at a a lowcost infinite treadmill where they can just train and learn whatever they want to arbitrary depth and designing something that is rigorous enough and gives them strong enough feedback and kind of encourages them to really maximize that. That seems like the educational challenge of the 21st century to me. You couldn't do that before, right? You couldn't do that 30 years ago when you had to put them in a space with like specific teachers who have specific strengths and have to get specific, you know, expensive books and stuff. Now it's just like an unbounded road ahead. I'm very very excited about the prospect of being able to give kind of arbitrary depth to whatever interesting challenging topic is available to my to my son. >> And and what's interesting about our children versus how we grew up is that arbitrary depth couldn't be nurtured when we were kids around random things, right? Like you would have to go to the public library and see if there's a book on septic tank installation, which my son was into about 6 months ago. like deeply into septic tanks. Um, now he's into garbage disposals. There is no book in the public library that has that on garbage disposals and how they work. >> Absolutely not. Of course not. >> But there are hundreds of YouTube videos, right? Like on how to install your own garbage disposal, how does it work? Like like diagrams like all the things that he's interested in as a kid who's obsessed with garbage disposals. That's so cool. So, so in some ways it's like our kids play comes before they go to school and their play is so hyper specialized and their entertainment is so hyper specialized and if you're like a very hands-on parent and your kids's like I want to learn about septic tanks like you you help them learn about that in a way that like parents before like unless you knew a lot about septic tanks or had a friend in that business how are you going to educate your kid on how that works. So and and and some people may react to say like what's the point of your kid learning about septic tanks, right? Or like garbage disposal, right? And the thing is, it's so obvious to me that if you really learn a lot about how a garbage disposal works, like you really like get into the we like you see a one cut in half and a diagram and you see the pipes and you kind of learn about like there's so many approximate or adjacent things to that that end up generalizing. >> Yeah. I promise you that a kid who becomes an expert in it, just how a garbage dispossess works, a little kid, >> they they're so primed to learn about like other mechanical systems, other hydraulic systems, like the manufacturer of of of like bespoke appliances. Like there's so many cool things next to that. I just think of when I was a kid and I was learning those types of things as much as I could and which is not nearly as much as you could now. And you end up just applying reapplying reapplying that knowledge. Like the compounding nature of knowledge is maybe its most interesting part. If you can really allow a kid to lean as deep as possible into that into that thing, just go as deep as you conceivably can. Uh I I I I think the benefits are unbelievable. So I I'm I'm excited to find how to do that for my kid, you know? I I don't know yet. I'm really excited about alpha school and weird stuff like that. I do wonder though, like maybe to put the other spin on it, how much of that is a selection effect, right? like the incredible results of Alpha School. I actually believe them completely. Like I totally believe these positive results. I just wonder to what extent those results are crazy ass parents who did a ton of work and have like infinite resource at their disposal to jam them into this obscure school. Like these are obviously not normal families that are doing it, right? So I I I I want to ensure I mean I'll exploit every tool at my disposal obviously for my kid but I'm I'm also think about like you know what are the kinds of things that we can learn and apply to all all kids. >> Totally. Totally. And the other thing that's really interesting is like you know I I am not I I'm very sympathetic to the homeschooling movement. Um I'm not a homeschooler for obvious reasons. Uh but you can like do a lot of the homeschool stuff on the weekend. Um, and one of the things that I've become much more sympathetic to now that I have, you know, kids who are exhibiting their own passions and sort of own personalities, like there is probably something good about being a a slightly weird kid in a school, you know, like I remember that experience of being like kind of bored or slightly weird and being in a normal school around normal people. And that was like a very good thing. Like I look back on I'm like that was probably very good for me. And it's probably very good for for like you know there's there's one school of thought which is you have a a bright kid or a weird kid or someone who's really interested in something and you put them in alpha school and like let them go down the rabbit hole which again I think that's awesome but then there's the other thing like boredom is actually good. Like a lot of our life is pretty boring. Like it is important to learn how to work in big systems. Like it is important to kind of realize that like not everyone's going to like entertain your weird rabbit hole. And so there is something about like getting that lesson early and having that sort of I'm bored. I I hate school. I'm going to figure out how to make it interesting for me that like could be very valuable for kids as well. So I'm always like on the fence like I feel like you can kind of dabble in different things and like you know on the weekends teach one thing during the week teach another um and the outcomes are probably going to be the same no matter what. >> It's good that there's choice, right? Like there's it's good that there's a lot of choice now so the parents can who know their kid >> can be like oh like clearly my kid's going to thrive in a >> individualized personalized environment or actually I have this kid who like is you know the the ham of the group and like loves being in school and like put them in school. It'll be great. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think a a hybrid is interesting. There's certainly a lot to be learned for navigating social hierarchies and you know all these different types of people. I' I'd I'd say maybe there's in my case maybe diminishing returns um after after learning those those skills. I think >> those skills, Eric, you did. >> Yeah, exactly. One thing that's interesting in about Alpha School that I'll say is um they customized the lesson plans based on what the kid is interested in. So, as a kid, I was obsessed with basketball, but and I didn't like school. I I would I remember writing a note to my math teacher being like, "What's the point of math?" Like, "Help me understand why I need to learn math because this just doesn't seem like relevant to my life." and they they just didn't give a compelling answer. But you could imagine a world where it's like, okay, you love basketball, you you want to be a GM of this team, like figure out the salary cap or like figure out like what players based on other players based on statistical, you know, analysis. Like there's just so many ways they could have made it super relevant to to to my interest. >> 100%. I love that. >> Totally. Eddie, I want to hear how how fatherhood has has been. Uh I always I always feel like the first few months of you know becoming a new mom or dad you have like all these like weird insights that are partially driven by sleep deprivation and then partially driven by just new important experiences that happen in your life. So I'd love to hear the highle takeaways as they're fresh. >> Yeah, that's a great question. So much has crossed my mind. Uh it is it is it is crazy. I mean I I would say the most the thing that has struck me I'm only a month in, right? So like am I a father? I don't even know if I'm a father, right? Like I I I like this little guy who's around, but like am I a dad? Like I'm not I'm no different, >> right? So I'll say that. But >> I am struck by how obvious it is, how totally helpless they are, right? They are like functionally blind, deaf, like they're like a little ball of like nothing, right? It's ridiculous. It really It really uh struck This is such a dorky thing to have observed, so I almost regret. But but the um it's just it's so obvious how uh human intelligence uh is the reason why they are allowed to be so pathetic when they're born, right? Because we're so capable of extremely specialized caregiving. >> Yeah. >> That they would never have survived without it. So like their helplessness is kind of the mirror of our capability and we should like take that we should like really lean into that. like that is what human beings are to some degree specialized for. >> Mhm. >> I I I feel that so intensely. Uh I also feel like incredible uh empathy for people who don't have like who don't have maternity or paternity leave or uh don't have resources to put it cuz my god, if I had to like I I took a couple weeks off and my wife is on maternity leave still and it's it's great. Without that it would be incredibly difficult and it it makes it very obvious to me how why um in some sense like fertility is declining because the opportunity cost of this suffering is massive right it's a massive cost now it's totally worth it I know the hackne need thing you hear from parents like all the time like it's horrible also it's great do it you know like that's like that's like the thing you always hear right I heard the same thing I'm going to repeat exactly that same thing uh but uh but it it it it highlights for me that you know the more opportunity you have and the more things that you could be doing which is just obviously the case in light of progress like general technological progress the more you're kind of giving up uh when you do it and I think people find that choice in advance very daunting and very scary now I would encourage them to take the leap but I understand why it's daunting when you hear all these stories it's very that's very fresh in my mind >> totally totally and that's that's one of the I I always point to like the um you know the rise of cheap airfare um and sort of international travel also becoming sort of like a widespread middle class phenomena, right? Like it's it's not like you have to be uh you know like when we were growing up if if you knew someone who went to Europe, you were like seriously like how how did you do that, right? like it was a very luxurious elite thing to do and I think you know when you look at sort of the the sort of that is like a you know if you if you're fortunate enough to to go to university like you know you can travel abroad anywhere right like universities like you know make that like make that a possibility where it's like life has become so much more interesting as you said opportunity costs across a wide degree of sets um where the you you are having to think through okay like you might have the most interesting life you might get to go to brunch right I don't get to go to brunch anymore more, but you might get to go to brunch and like that might be an enjoyable thing you do every Saturday. So, like that that is that is definitely I think a huge part of it. Um the other thing that that I'll point out like my my experience of um I'm fortunate enough to have my my mother live with us um and she has been a godsend in holding these babies um as they cry um for for those of us who you know who who are are working and that sort of thing. And it's like >> there used to be sort of a familial unit that took care. I mean like it's very it's only been like the last you know like the the nuclear >> family. That is so apparent to me. >> Yes. >> Yeah. >> Um especially if you don't have it. You're like how do how do two people do this? It's like well it used to be a tribe and then like only until the nuclear family postwar did we really move to suburbs and separate sort of multigenerational family units from each other where then you have you know one mother doing this all alone which of course was the big complaint um was loneliness in the 50s and 60s of these housewives right? like even though they didn't work, it was just this extreme loneliness that had never really existed because you were constantly surrounded by siblings, family, multigenerations and that sort of thing. So there is something about that aspect too where if you're in a city it's it's almost impossible to have that experience of having a multigenerational family. >> There are so many trivial questions that come to mind, right, when you have a baby, right? Like especially the first one, so many like is this normal? Is this weird? How do I fix this problem? That comes up so much. It's so obvious to me how many of those questions, which once you kind of get the answer, it's easy kind of you figure it out pretty fast. But so many of those things would be obvious if you're growing up around a family where there's a lot of children already and a lot of people who had been caretakers of children and they would you would just have absorbed it either through osmosis or through a benign observation by mom or dad or grandma or grandpa, right? They just would have said like, "Oh yeah, yeah, we just do this thing >> and there just be nothing." Whereas now like you have I'm sure you have many parents like through totally understandable neurosis worry about the most trivial thing and like go to the doctor and it becomes this like entire rigomearroll right whereas we forget like that little thing that was lost the the the the benefit of just the family around many there's many little things that are lost. It's interesting because there's sort of a leftwing and a right-wing critique of the nuclear family these days. And the rightwing critique I or from the right is I think similar to what we just said of like hey it used to be you had much more support and we've sort of lost that support and we need that support. And from the left it's kind of like it's the opposite. It's like don't you dare assume that people need two parents at home to you know to to raise a kid or don't you dare assume that not everybody's gay or bisexual or polyamorous or or so like don't assume that this is the the the default. Um and so it it leads to just you know the nuclear family being uh critiqued from from all sides for for almost opposite reasons. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think I think there is I would hope there's large scale agreement that that people need people need help. >> But someone that that if you if you see someone um in your life who who is having a baby, help them. They need help >> no matter who it comes from or or what what form. um it is it is definitely not something to be to be done alone in a in a vacuum. Um whether it's friends, whether it's family, um or or kind of any form. >> So, I want to segue to another topic I wanted to talk about. You know, we um and it's related to the Charlie Kirk and assassination and we we released an episode um that that Katherine did on on Barry Weiss's podcast, Honestly, which was a beautiful sort of, you know, u you know, commentary on the assassination and Charlie's martyrdom. And we had the the funeral the other day, which is one of the most moving things I I' I've ever seen. And Eddie, we were talking offline and you talked a little bit about how sort of the the reactions to to the assassination as it sort of played out on the internet sort of demonstrated a bit of a gap between sort of Zoomer culture, internet culture, and uh and sort of, you know, the the rest of the population. Why don't you sort of um share that reflection? Well, something that really stuck out to me was how I think there's a there's a there's a pervasive well, there was a belief maybe that as the internet became mainstream, internet culture would become mainstream, right? And that in some sense like culture and internet that the line between so-called internet culture and mainstream culture would dissolve, right? Because of its mainstreaming. And there's a lot of truth to that, right? A lot of people are kind of uh parts of the normal mimemetic and cultural millu is internet based. But I was really struck by how what I considered because I'm kind of like I mean I'm like a normie here in these kinds of settings, Eric. Like on a on a podcast I'm a little bit I'm a specialized but whatever. But like in real life, you know, in real life, I have like a a Discord of a bunch of my friends for like I've been running for like eight years and I play video games and you know my brother >> and I met on the internet. >> Yeah. No, no, I know it's crazy. Uh you know >> person it's uncanny. Yeah, that's true. But you know there's there's like this whole universe that I've been in and like most of my friends are in, right? and like even like crypto culture like part of why my crypto network in the Bay Area started like very online and what whatever. But um I was struck by how when they shared a lot of the memes and references that this shooter was engaging in and sort of the kind of culture he was in, it was a culture I'm very familiar with, right? Just like Discord, gamer online, Zoomer culture, like there's many concentric circles. I'm not as so much in furry culture, you know, but but like it's adjacent to cultures that I'm in. So all the refer even like the hell divers 500 kg bomb like arrow sequence is like something my friends and I know, right? Like uh it was obvious to me and when I saw a lot of people on my Facebook like people I hardly check my Facebook, my big big blue Facebook, I saw so many people speculating about the meaning of these things, right? And they were so off. they were just unbelievably off. Uh it was like they were scrutinizing like an alien culture. And it really struck me that although there have been elements of internet culture that have mainstreamed. We've we have managed to create isolated pockets that will just permanently remain separated. And I I it's like maybe try let me try to put a really fine point in this one thing is because the internet is so open by default you know anyone can make an account anywhere. I think there's this assumption that it's all accessible, right? And therefore should permeate, right? But we have managed to create new gradients, new selection methods to create isolated little corners of the internet. Like gamer culture, you can't learn those things unless you play games, right? Like you have to play a bunch of video games and know a bunch of people play video games to be a part of that. we've still despite things being more connected than ever, there are still these distant branches and rabbit holes. And it just got me really thinking about like the diversity of online culture and what leads to the proliferation of many diverse online cultures and their mutual unintelligibility. >> I I love that you brought this up, Eddie, because I had a conversation with a with my best friend um Normie um throwing that out. I I am a creature of the internet. Um clearly, but um but but I was having a conversation with her at one point last week and I I explicitly remember saying to her, "Your Insta is not my ex." >> Like we were in totally different worlds like like what she was saying uh from from her takes on things on Instagram last week was >> wild wildly different than what I had seen on X. Right. And I think there's there's something about I actually think X is sort of a unifying platform from all of the different pockets that you talked about because if you're if you're a power user of X, a lot of the early data that was coming out um on anything I I mean not just not just Charlie Kirk's assassination, but but on on anything get to X early. People really do the investigative work early. Last week I was saying, you know, it's it it probably like I don't know if the FBI or if intelligence agencies actually have people. I mean, there's that whole meme of like the, you know, the the show that was just taken off the air because maybe for a variety of reasons, but that whole meme of like people looking at the internet and saying like is what's going on here? What are these kids talking about? Right? But like there is probably some truth to the fact that it's so siloed from what like just real world law enforcement or real world government officials like the worlds they live in that the information gets to them late. there's an information lapse like you really want to know what's going on on anything uh whether it's you know a a a tragic event or even the election right like I think you know I I talked to a lot of people about the election 2024 and I said like it you know the the the meme X is not real life like no no X was the only place if you were spending time on X knew exactly what was going to happen >> I feel really strongly about I I I check I check so many sources I mean Reddit for many years I even check blue sky occasionally Instagram, Facebook, like I I I'm all, you know, and I will honestly I can say with total conviction that although there's of course a lot of like misinformation on X as there would be on any rich and complex and highly engaged system >> as is there misinformation in your PTA group, right? Like the PTA share misinformation all the time. If you want to find like the ground truth and you do the leg work and you kind of like follow the right people and you kind of go through and really like look for it, the answer is probably on X in a way that is unlike other places. And I really struggle with that. I wondered whether that's like a cultural thing like it has to do with the type of people on it, right? It's its roots as a journalistic, you know, outlet and so on or is it something technological, right? Does it have to do with the fact that it's an open graph? Quote tweets and sort of like correcting people is a part of the norm in a way that is just totally not on Facebook or on Instagram. You know, they even lack that technical capability, right? Is it the in so in other words, is it like the product features that lead to this sort of dialogical conflict that often ends up with the truth or is it just the people? I I don't know really, but it's an interesting thing. I there there is something about I I I think it also could be generational. Um and I haven't really thought through this fully, but I I said something on on X like a couple weeks ago that that resonated with people, which was that I I feel like there's this elder millennial cohort that is really really good at translating across the entire living existence of humanity right now, right? Like we remember what the world was like before the internet. Um you know, and that's like 1980 to 1986. like we have deep memories of landlines, of like car phones, right? Like we we remember the 80s, but we also remember the 90s, right? Like there there's there's something about like we we remember the shifts, but we're also like we're not digital natives, but but we grew up with the internet. Um and so we we understand the pace of change and there's something about like I I look at like, you know, AOC is kind of part of maybe maybe she's a little on the cusp of this cohort, but like JD Vance is on this cohort. Um, you know, a lot of sort of our political leadership, I think, is going to come from this cohort that remembers, but like also is very fluent. Like I'd say, like we have the first poster and chief and and and the vice president, right? So, it's like there's something about um X that maybe captures a generation that's like really good at amalgamating across different platforms, right? Like you you spend a lot of time on Discord, like you know, there are a lot of people who also spend time on Facebook and Insta who are on X, right? So they're able to like So there's something about it being like a truly not like just the global town square but like it's a translation layer. And then the other thing that I that I often tell people because they're like like people will say horrible things back to you um after you post. Does it bother you? And I'm like no it's actually great because it gives you a theory of mind for people you otherwise would not have a theory of mind for. And I think there's something about sort of the pseudo anonymous accounts on X >> that actually do a really good job of giving you a full picture. >> I agree so strongly with that. I agree so strongly with in fact it's that has that exactly is has been my big argument for why it matters that you're engaging with real people on certain networks not on all networks like on Tik Tok for example I don't think it matters whether the content was specific if it's just for entertainment was specifically produced totally by a machine like it could be literally produced by Tik Tok itself through a data center >> and like it wouldn't matter because it's for entertainment alone but because of the dialogical components of X how you're really trying to develop like a sense of what people think and you you're getting push back and the add-ons are fighting you. It's actually kind of important that they're people uh in a way that doesn't that you know it's it's not exactly like a poll. You know, no one would pretend that your comment section is a scientific poll, right? But you are getting you you're you're you're completing you're filling out your theory of how others may view or interpret such a thing. And it matters that they're people different social networks. I think it will matter whether they're largely human or not. Uh or but anyway, yeah, totally agree with that. >> And this is my argument too why why more people should post because it it becomes a personal thing if it's like your idea and then a nons are engaging with you, right? Like it's like it becomes you you it like resonates more where you're like, oh, I hadn't really thought about how that would be insulting to this group or I hadn't really thought about how you know half the country would perceive this thing that I thought was innocuous. So like there is something there too where it's like you learn a ton. you get the feedback loop if you're posting. Whereas if you're just looking at other people's, which is also fun, you're you're you're lurking, but it doesn't resonate the same way with your kind of core and kind of allow it to evolve. >> Every tweet is a focus group on some idea in in a way. And just another I remember this funny u anecdote where Yan Lun got so frustrated at X that he started posting on LinkedIn. He would respond to people on LinkedIn and someone quote tweeted him and was like, "Come to X and fight me like a man, you coward." That's this is where uh the actual arena is. >> Who's the arena? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. One thing that's interesting is more broadly is you know the internet has become even just since co more fragmented and more sort of intellectually diverse like um you know um I remember you know Mike Salana was complaining um or was sort of you know observing the sort of activism on Instagram around BLM and he's like Instagram is the butt app. Why why are you bringing the you know in Twitter the word app? like if you have ideas how go here what is the point Instagram but I just around BLM around Ukraine remember you know sort of when when Mark had the current thing discourse there was a lot of sort of legible unification like descent was on the group chat descent was private and it didn't seem to be this like public place for disscent in the same way that you know things like October 7th things like the Charlie Kirk assassination these are current things but but in a much more diver like the response to it is not unified across AC across the for it. And I I wonder, yeah, is that a response to just social media fragmenting in a different way, whereas like Blue Sky is seen as way more, you know, legitimate than Gab ever was or or sort of, you know, Parlor or something. Um or if it's just these these issues are uh you know, something the vibe shift is I don't know to to Eddie's question if it's technological or if it's um actual shift. >> Well, I I don't think I mean although there I mean I don't think what makes blue sky blue sky is technological really. I think that has a lot to do with uh like it's interesting. I I always thought that like the AT protocol the underlying like protocol uh was interesting was interesting. The effort was to be a more decentralized open sort of censorship resistant uh network. I think what makes blue sky blue sky today has to do with the people who sort of seeded it in its early days, right? and then and then later uh the people who kind of exodist to it uh in reaction to like different you know things on X and so on and it's interesting how how important that is right the seeding culture >> ends up leading to the downstream culture it's sort of you know it's a yeah >> one just quick comment one old Curtis art idea is he would say hey Jeff Bezos can take over the Washington Post Washington Post's not going to change you can take over the New York Times it's not going to change you can take over X it's not going to change and I think the last few years have disproved in a number of way that idea in a number of ways but Elon taking a Rex actually did change the whole sort of makeup of the of of the platform and so it just requires an owner who's willing to willing to do do what it takes. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> You could also make the argument um as a former posty um that Jeff Bezos taking over the Washington Post and infusing it with limitless capital actually did change the Washington Post. >> Sure. >> Like it changed in the opposite direction of where people would have thought. Right. But it's like if if you have a struggling like part of the reason I left the Washington Post was because it was about to go into bankruptcy >> and if you have a business that's actually you know forced to to rethink its its views based on competitive dynamics and where the market wants it to go. if if you know if one of the richest people in the world buys it um and infuses it with cash and doesn't have a strong opinion of where it's going like you could make the argument that part of the reason why the Washington Post you know why it took so long for it to sort of I would argue now normalizing right like normalizing to where it's its readership was when I was there which is still left of center but not nearly what it was and >> you know democracy dies in darkness land there's there's an argument that the actual like infusion of cash was actually the thing that radicalized >> um that I most people don't talk about when they talk about sort of these media properties and and sort of the the growth of them. >> Yeah, this is kind of an incomplete thought and related to what Katherine's saying, but but is that uh every network when it's developed has sort of selection pressures for the participants in those networks, right? Like if it's a highly politically polarized group, then to to get a lot of engagement, you need to kind of play to that gradient, right? Because there's those type of people around it. uh certainly unlimited money that has comes with a few strings attached allows things to develop one way on the other hand as Elon did scrapping 80% of the staff and you know ripping out a lot of the prior uh discourse guiding apparatus which he allegedly did that certainly changes things uh but perhaps even more importantly for in Elon's case there was this shift where certain people felt more comfortable returning certain people wanted to exit it and so then the makeup of the graph changing led to different types of behavior because you're catering to a slightly evolving audience, right? The ways that the graphs evolve is uh maybe very complex. So I don't think that it's simply that like they can't be changed or are trivial to change. I think it's kind of the the the type of influence all uh is important in determining how they can change. >> Totally. >> Yeah. Can I go back to something you said about the group chat, >> please? >> Like I' I've slightly mourned the death of the group chat. >> Um, as as a person who looks back fondly on those years and the friends we made, I like some ways it's probably how some people view summer camp. Um, >> was the group chat era. >> Um, it's it it is definitely a good thing that the group chats are no longer siloed, are no longer necessary. Like I, you know, I do think a lot of the the real interesting conversations have moved to X and that is a good thing, but there's also something about I don't know there there was something special about that moment that I think all of us will always miss. >> Well, there's peace time social networks and wartime social networks. >> Yes. >> Yeah. >> Yes. Unclear which time we're in right now, but >> Yeah. Yeah. I was going to say I'm not sure. >> One other comment I want to make is um you know, you were talking about the Washington Post finally normalizing. It's been interesting how sort of the the media class, the political class has has become so much more uh extreme than the class it purports to than the people reports to represent. And I think that's another sort of it's going back to Eddie's point about the opportunity cost as it relates to parenting. There's also the opportunity cost as it relates to go the opportunity cost of going into media or going into politics has just become so much higher that in order for people to want to do that they have to be irrational. I you know they have to have some irrationality. um you know and which is usually a form of act sometimes it's form of principle and and um you know nobility but other times it's a form of sort of you know uh chronic status seeking v via some sort of activism not to be too cynical but um Eddie thank you for being our first guest uh we're excited to to continue the series >> my pleasure >> thanks so much Eddie