================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: PS76GPJAKq0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PS76GPJAKq0
TITLE: Big Beautiful Bill, Elon/Trump, Dollar Down Big, Harvard's Money Problems, Figma IPO
CHANNEL: All-In Podcast
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-04
DURATION: 1h 25m 11s
VIEWS: 538,368
LIKES: 8,944
COMMENTS: 1,355
TAGS: chamath, david sacks, david friedberg, jason calacanis, all in podcast, tech, news, politics, big tech, antitrust

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
(0:00) Bestie intros
(2:58) Big Beautiful Bill: Senate revision, AI regulation moratorium killed
(14:10) Clean energy subsidies phased out: What this means for energy production in the US
(25:12) Elon/Trump; US fiscal picture post-BBB
(43:26) US dollar down over 10% in 2025
(53:51) Harvard's money problems: bleeding $1B/year in fight against Trump, potential investigation over bond offerings
(1:09:13) Figma IPO, Grammarly acquires Superhuman, future of SaaS in the age of AI

Get The Besties All-In Tequila:
https://tequila.allin.com

Join us at All-In Summit:
https://allin.com/summit

Follow the besties: 
https://x.com/chamath
https://x.com/Jason
https://x.com/DavidSacks
https://x.com/friedberg

Follow on X:
https://x.com/theallinpod

Follow on Instagram:
https://www.instagram.com/theallinpod

Follow on TikTok:
https://www.tiktok.com/@theallinpod

Follow on LinkedIn: 
https://www.linkedin.com/company/allinpod

Intro Music Credit:
https://rb.gy/tppkzl
https://x.com/yung_spielburg

Intro 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 31,417

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
All right, welcome to the show All right, welcome to the show everybody. Number one podcast in the everybody. Number one podcast in the world and uh man going to be really world and uh man going to be really exciting come September, September 7th exciting come September, September 7th Days at 9th, the All-In Summit in its Days at 9th, the All-In Summit in its fourth year this week. Um doing fourth year this week. Um doing Freedberg's job for him because he's Freedberg's job for him because he's been a little bit busy. Lockdown been a little bit busy. Lockdown is in uh looks like Jason, what are you is in uh looks like Jason, what are you in? Why are you doing this? Cut. Nick in? Why are you doing this? Cut. Nick beep. beep. beep. Every year you pre-announce a bunch of Every year you pre-announce a bunch of people who don't show up. It's literally people who don't show up. It's literally you literally pick people who don't. I you literally pick people who don't. I got Elon to come three out of three got Elon to come three out of three years. I have gotten a couple of years. I have gotten a couple of trillion dollars in market cap for your trillion dollars in market cap for your freeberg. Um and more to come. Don't freeberg. Um and more to come. Don't worry about it. worry about it. Don't worry about it. This year is going to be better than This year is going to be better than ever. Better than ever. ever. Better than ever. Allin.com/summit. Allin.com/summit. Allin.com/summit. And And And lots of exciting news around the tequila lots of exciting news around the tequila boys. Freeird. Did you see MSN covered boys. Freeird. Did you see MSN covered me sending a case of the tequila to me sending a case of the tequila to Bezos? I didn't see that. What do we do now? What do we do now? Let your winners ride. Let your winners ride. We open source it to the fans and We open source it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. We've uh been crushed with orders. We've uh been crushed with orders. Apologies if we're taking a little bit Apologies if we're taking a little bit of time with customer support. Uh, but of time with customer support. Uh, but you can go to tequila.allin.com. you can go to tequila.allin.com. Deliveries begin in late summer, right Deliveries begin in late summer, right around the time I think of the uh, around the time I think of the uh, summit. Greenberg and I were in Las summit. Greenberg and I were in Las Vegas this past weekend. It was a blast Vegas this past weekend. It was a blast as always. We had a really good time. We as always. We had a really good time. We had 20 of our besties or so with us. No, had 20 of our besties or so with us. No, great. Great time. It was great. Good great. Great time. It was great. Good time. I wish I could have been there, time. I wish I could have been there, but I was on the Snake River doing a but I was on the Snake River doing a little invite. I was in What were you little invite. I was in What were you talking about? I was getting lobbyed talking about? I was getting lobbyed like cancel your family trip whitewater like cancel your family trip whitewater rafting to come to Vegas. I was like rafting to come to Vegas. I was like yeah I don't remember inviting you free yeah I don't remember inviting you free bird. Do you remember? bird. Do you remember? Trust me people when you go to Vegas you Trust me people when you go to Vegas you want Jal. Jayl was a good time in Vegas want Jal. Jayl was a good time in Vegas but I didn't but I didn't got a lot of invites but I Nick pull up got a lot of invites but I Nick pull up the picture. I was on the Snake River the picture. I was on the Snake River there. I was doing my white water there. I was doing my white water rafting trip and so if you're ever rafting trip and so if you're ever interested in um doing a fun trip with interested in um doing a fun trip with your family you can do these two three your family you can do these two three night occasions. Yeah. No, I'm not. You night occasions. Yeah. No, I'm not. You camp on the side. You eat mid food. camp on the side. You eat mid food. Yeah. You don't shower for three days Yeah. You don't shower for three days and you four days. But yeah, there's the and you four days. But yeah, there's the view from the Snake River. It was view from the Snake River. It was absolutely stunning. absolutely stunning. absolutely stunning. And uh yeah, we Is that where is Snake And uh yeah, we Is that where is Snake River? Is that also where like Snake River? Is that also where like Snake River Farms comes from? You know, the River Farms comes from? You know, the high quality meat? Yes, I'm sure it is. high quality meat? Yes, I'm sure it is. Uh Idaho Uh Idaho Uh Idaho border. Yeah, Idaho border. So that is border. Yeah, Idaho border. So that is Yeah, that's that's where Snake River Yeah, that's that's where Snake River Farms is. Not as good as Long Hill Wagu, Farms is. Not as good as Long Hill Wagu, but you know. Yeah. I mean, listen, but you know. Yeah. I mean, listen, these are that's like two elite steak these are that's like two elite steak producers. Get the Koulette, aka the producers. Get the Koulette, aka the pana. All right, listen. The uh BBB has pana. All right, listen. The uh BBB has passed the Senate. Let's get into this passed the Senate. Let's get into this docket, but there was a bit of drama in docket, but there was a bit of drama in the House after an allnight session and the House after an allnight session and over 24 hours of deliberation. Senate over 24 hours of deliberation. Senate passed the big beautiful bill on passed the big beautiful bill on Tuesday. Tuesday. Tuesday. Friend of the pod JD Vance cast the Friend of the pod JD Vance cast the tiebreaking vote after a 50/50 deadlock. tiebreaking vote after a 50/50 deadlock. Three Republicans voted no and uh Trump Three Republicans voted no and uh Trump won over Senator Ron Johnson. On this won over Senator Ron Johnson. On this very podcast, he said he would be a no very podcast, he said he would be a no unless more spending was cut. There were unless more spending was cut. There were significant changes to the bill. We'll significant changes to the bill. We'll get into that in a minute. And so, it's get into that in a minute. And so, it's got to pass the House again before Trump got to pass the House again before Trump can sign into law. Lots of drama. Trump can sign into law. Lots of drama. Trump set the deadline for July 4th, which is set the deadline for July 4th, which is Friday when you're listening to this. Friday when you're listening to this. And it will, in all likelihood, get And it will, in all likelihood, get there. According to Poly Market, there there. According to Poly Market, there is a 96% chance the bill will pass by is a 96% chance the bill will pass by Thursday and a 97% chance it'll pass by Thursday and a 97% chance it'll pass by Friday, July 4th, Independence Day, the Friday, July 4th, Independence Day, the day we publish. So, it looks like it's day we publish. So, it looks like it's pretty much a lock. Some uh big changes pretty much a lock. Some uh big changes in the Senate. Biggest change, the in the Senate. Biggest change, the 10-year AI regulation moratorium, which 10-year AI regulation moratorium, which we're going to talk about for states was we're going to talk about for states was removed. Ted Cruz tried to negotiate removed. Ted Cruz tried to negotiate cutting it to 5 years. Suggestion I made cutting it to 5 years. Suggestion I made 10 years was a little bit too long for 10 years was a little bit too long for folks, but that didn't work. According folks, but that didn't work. According to an NGO called National Conference of to an NGO called National Conference of State Legislatores, over a thousand State Legislatores, over a thousand bills related to AI have been filed by bills related to AI have been filed by state lawmakers in 2025. So expect a lot state lawmakers in 2025. So expect a lot of state-by-state AI regulation. I think of state-by-state AI regulation. I think this is a good place to stop. We don't this is a good place to stop. We don't have Saxs here to talk about AI have Saxs here to talk about AI regulation, but he talked about it the regulation, but he talked about it the last time. Fraberg, your thoughts on last time. Fraberg, your thoughts on states. You know, we talked about state states. You know, we talked about state rights here in relation to abortion, rights here in relation to abortion, guns, gun regulations, cannabis, many guns, gun regulations, cannabis, many different, you know, debates over who different, you know, debates over who should get to decide for the country. should get to decide for the country. Where do you stand on this one? Should Where do you stand on this one? Should states have a voice in how AI is states have a voice in how AI is deployed in their, you know, borders, deployed in their, you know, borders, uh, within their borders, or should the uh, within their borders, or should the federal government take this, and if so, federal government take this, and if so, for how many years? Because that seemed for how many years? Because that seemed to be a sticking point. to be a sticking point. Look, I I'm a big believer in the Look, I I'm a big believer in the construct of our federated republic in construct of our federated republic in the United States where states can the United States where states can operate with as much kind of discretion operate with as much kind of discretion as they choose to with the laws that as they choose to with the laws that they pass and how they intend to govern. they pass and how they intend to govern. There are however things that affect There are however things that affect more than the state. We have interstate more than the state. We have interstate commerce. We have international commerce. We have international commerce. We have the open internet. And commerce. We have the open internet. And we have a lot of other systems at play we have a lot of other systems at play here that extend beyond the boundaries here that extend beyond the boundaries of a state. And the way that AI tools of a state. And the way that AI tools and AI systems and AI services and AI and AI systems and AI services and AI related jobs are being deployed and related jobs are being deployed and activated. I do think it's critical that activated. I do think it's critical that we treat AI regulation at a national we treat AI regulation at a national level, at a federal level. To date, level, at a federal level. To date, there have been, I believe, 70 state there have been, I believe, 70 state laws or statutes passed thus far in the laws or statutes passed thus far in the United States with, I think, over a United States with, I think, over a thousand having been proposed to date, thousand having been proposed to date, if the numbers are right. And having a if the numbers are right. And having a patchwork of regulations on, for patchwork of regulations on, for example, model development or telling example, model development or telling software companies what software they software companies what software they can deploy would make it practically can deploy would make it practically impossible for internet service impossible for internet service providers like a Google or an OpenAI to providers like a Google or an OpenAI to service customers across state service customers across state boundaries boundaries boundaries in a way that is actually going to meet in a way that is actually going to meet the needs of the customer. This is a the needs of the customer. This is a huge detriment to consumers and a huge huge detriment to consumers and a huge detriment to the job market if we end up detriment to the job market if we end up creating a patchwork of regulations on creating a patchwork of regulations on AI this early. One of the things that I AI this early. One of the things that I would point out is that much of the would point out is that much of the early legislation like for example what early legislation like for example what we saw in California, if you read that we saw in California, if you read that legislation that did not get signed by legislation that did not get signed by Gavin Newsome in California, there was a Gavin Newsome in California, there was a definition on model parameters being a a definition on model parameters being a a boundary condition for whether or not boundary condition for whether or not something would go through a regulatory something would go through a regulatory review process. That was such a naive review process. That was such a naive assertion that early in the phase of AI assertion that early in the phase of AI technology development. And think about technology development. And think about the implication was okay well everything the implication was okay well everything is LLMs but there's other models like is LLMs but there's other models like vision action models that are going to vision action models that are going to be used in robotics models that might be be used in robotics models that might be used in predicting and driving physical used in predicting and driving physical systems like in systems like in self-driving cars for example. So the self-driving cars for example. So the way that the regulation gets written way that the regulation gets written will often be done in a naive context in will often be done in a naive context in a limited fashion by regulators that a limited fashion by regulators that don't fully understand the breadth of don't fully understand the breadth of the technology that's coming our way. the technology that's coming our way. And I do think that it needs to be kind And I do think that it needs to be kind of leveled up and allowed to operate at of leveled up and allowed to operate at a federal level. So I think it is a federal level. So I think it is absolutely critical not just for absolutely critical not just for technology companies, not just for the technology companies, not just for the industry, but for the opportunity for industry, but for the opportunity for job creation, for improving the economy, job creation, for improving the economy, for driving GDP and productivity growth for driving GDP and productivity growth that we get something passed that forces that we get something passed that forces AI regulation to be done at a federal AI regulation to be done at a federal level. Even though I generally agree level. Even though I generally agree that states should be able to that states should be able to self-govern, this just has too much of a self-govern, this just has too much of a interstate and global interaction. That interstate and global interaction. That was the biggest disappointment for me in was the biggest disappointment for me in the negotiation that's gone on with this the negotiation that's gone on with this bill is that of all the things that I bill is that of all the things that I thought were going to be passed that I thought were going to be passed that I thought were maybe not ideal, getting thought were maybe not ideal, getting this AI federal preeemption in that bill this AI federal preeemption in that bill was probably the best thing, the top of was probably the best thing, the top of the list for me in terms of critically the list for me in terms of critically important for the US economy. Yeah, important for the US economy. Yeah, Chimat, your thoughts here? Obviously, Chimat, your thoughts here? Obviously, abortion is like an interesting one to abortion is like an interesting one to look at because that went to the states look at because that went to the states in furtherance of Freeberg's, in furtherance of Freeberg's, you know, position here. You have just you know, position here. You have just many different rules and regulations many different rules and regulations between Texas, Oklahoma, whatever it is. between Texas, Oklahoma, whatever it is. Everybody's got a different view. It's Everybody's got a different view. It's chaotic and we don't have a singular chaotic and we don't have a singular point of view on it. Therefore, women in point of view on it. Therefore, women in one state have very different rules than one state have very different rules than in another state. So, where did you fall in another state. So, where did you fall on this one? Federal legislation or is on this one? Federal legislation or is it just going to take more time to it just going to take more time to figure this out? I mean, that that's figure this out? I mean, that that's another I guess angle here. Yeah, this another I guess angle here. Yeah, this is nothing like abortion. Okay. Abortion is nothing like abortion. Okay. Abortion is an individual issue between a woman, is an individual issue between a woman, her doctor, her partner, her doctor, her partner, her god. her god. her god. And so And so And so a state being able to have rules a state being able to have rules and then allowing that woman to choose and then allowing that woman to choose which state she can go to is quite which state she can go to is quite reasonable because I think that it reasonable because I think that it acknowledges that there's no acknowledges that there's no oneizefits-all. oneizefits-all. oneizefits-all. So that is clearly a state issue. So that is clearly a state issue. But the reality is that AI is of But the reality is that AI is of national security importance. national security importance. It is the tip of the spear of our It is the tip of the spear of our ability to have technological supremacy. ability to have technological supremacy. That is how we have economic supremacy. That is how we have economic supremacy. And so not governing it at the federal And so not governing it at the federal level, I think, is a mistake. And it level, I think, is a mistake. And it makes as much sense for states to makes as much sense for states to legislate AI as it would make sense for legislate AI as it would make sense for states states states to have competitive to have competitive armies. It doesn't make sense. There are armies. It doesn't make sense. There are certain things that are just so certain things that are just so fundamentally primary to American fundamentally primary to American supremacy and safety and security that supremacy and safety and security that it needs to be regulated at the federal it needs to be regulated at the federal level and I think AI needs to be at the level and I think AI needs to be at the top of that list. So I was disappointed top of that list. So I was disappointed that we weren't able to see the forest that we weren't able to see the forest from the trees here. Now I'm sensitive from the trees here. Now I'm sensitive to part of the reasons why to part of the reasons why many of the states have very specific many of the states have very specific issues around child safety that they issues around child safety that they mentioned in Tennessee. There was a lot mentioned in Tennessee. There was a lot about copyright ownership related to about copyright ownership related to musicians and their content. I get all musicians and their content. I get all of that. Those are legitimate things of that. Those are legitimate things that need to get ironed out, but I think that need to get ironed out, but I think that it could have been done in a that it could have been done in a federal framework. Not having it, I federal framework. Not having it, I think the risk is that if you have 50 think the risk is that if you have 50 different sets of regulation, and it different sets of regulation, and it won't even just be 50, as Freebick said, won't even just be 50, as Freebick said, it's going to be, you know, all kinds of it's going to be, you know, all kinds of pet organizations that pop up in all of pet organizations that pop up in all of these states. What happens? I think what these states. What happens? I think what it does is it slows down startups and it does is it slows down startups and smaller companies who won't have the smaller companies who won't have the economic heft to fight these regulations economic heft to fight these regulations or to work with them or to figure it out or to work with them or to figure it out and it'll advantage a handful of and it'll advantage a handful of incumbents. And the problem with that is incumbents. And the problem with that is that our incumbents aren't yet mature that our incumbents aren't yet mature and this industry is still developing. and this industry is still developing. So I think this is um this is one of the So I think this is um this is one of the unfortunate parts of what is otherwise a unfortunate parts of what is otherwise a a pretty reasonable bill. a pretty reasonable bill. Well, you uh can look at gambling, I Well, you uh can look at gambling, I guess, and cannabis legislation. These guess, and cannabis legislation. These are things that Americans largely want are things that Americans largely want to do, and they are fighting their way to do, and they are fighting their way state by state. And at some point, we state by state. And at some point, we may have a federal regulation about may have a federal regulation about online gambling, right? Uh right now, online gambling, right? Uh right now, it's a patchwork. Same thing with it's a patchwork. Same thing with cannabis, psychedelics, all a patchwork cannabis, psychedelics, all a patchwork of different states. Why do you lump of different states. Why do you lump together things that are about together things that are about individual rights with AI, which I I individual rights with AI, which I I don't think is about don't think is I don't think is about that. People might look at the rights of that. People might look at the rights of rights holders, cars, these AI things rights holders, cars, these AI things are going to hit people on an individual are going to hit people on an individual level. So I I think when you bring this level. So I I think when you bring this up this topic, there are people who feel up this topic, there are people who feel this is an individual sovereignty issue, this is an individual sovereignty issue, right? But you know there are other right? But you know there are other issues of individual sovereignty like issues of individual sovereignty like the ability to take drugs and there's the ability to take drugs and there's still federal mandates that come through still federal mandates that come through the FDA. You know, you're not allowed to the FDA. You know, you're not allowed to short circuit or circumvent that short circuit or circumvent that framework at a state-by-st state level. framework at a state-by-st state level. Yeah, that that actually is at the core Yeah, that that actually is at the core of the cannabis debate is would they of the cannabis debate is would they enforce the federal laws on cannabis and enforce the federal laws on cannabis and they haven't, right? So that was I'm they haven't, right? So that was I'm talking about more as it relates to AI. talking about more as it relates to AI. Sure. You know, Sure. You know, because AI means everything. I think because AI means everything. I think that's what makes this issue very that's what makes this issue very difficult. AI is going to affect difficult. AI is going to affect everything, right? So probably the everything, right? So probably the people who want to slow this down and people who want to slow this down and have the states do it are saying let the have the states do it are saying let the states have their say on these granular states have their say on these granular issues. I'm not saying this is my issues. I'm not saying this is my position, but I think that's what I'm position, but I think that's what I'm reading into their position. Hey, this reading into their position. Hey, this is going to affect different states in is going to affect different states in different ways. Let them figure it out. different ways. Let them figure it out. Take some time and then we'll build Take some time and then we'll build towards a a framework nationally, which towards a a framework nationally, which I think is what happened with the I think is what happened with the internet in section 230 as well. internet in section 230 as well. Although I don't know the entire history Although I don't know the entire history of it, we did come up with an idea that of it, we did come up with an idea that hey, the federal government makes it hey, the federal government makes it common carrier to, you know, anybody can common carrier to, you know, anybody can post anything on a website and then, you post anything on a website and then, you know, you can request to take it down. know, you can request to take it down. That was federal legislation. those That was federal legislation. those things could have been held also on a things could have been held also on a individual basis and then what would individual basis and then what would have happened for the internet you would have happened for the internet you would have to have AOL or Geocities have a have to have AOL or Geocities have a different patchwork like you're saying different patchwork like you're saying in regulations. So I'm guessing the in regulations. So I'm guessing the states probably do want to have a say on states probably do want to have a say on self-driving that one specifically and I self-driving that one specifically and I don't know if they're wrong. What do you don't know if they're wrong. What do you think on self-driving? Should it be think on self-driving? Should it be federal? I mean that's like an federal? I mean that's like an interesting lens to look at it through. interesting lens to look at it through. I don't know the details well enough. It I don't know the details well enough. It seems to me that self-driving touches seems to me that self-driving touches both the states and the federal. Sure. both the states and the federal. Sure. Federal highways and local roads. Yeah. Federal highways and local roads. Yeah. So, but just from first principles, you So, but just from first principles, you know, there's self-driving cars now in know, there's self-driving cars now in Palo Alto going up to the city from Palo Alto going up to the city from Whimo, you got Austin, you got three Whimo, you got Austin, you got three different providers. Should this should different providers. Should this should the city, the state have a say in that? the city, the state have a say in that? Kind of feels like they should. Yeah. Kind of feels like they should. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. So, I mean, I think that I Sure. Yeah. So, I mean, I think that I don't I don't think a city has any idea don't I don't think a city has any idea how to regulate a model. No, that's how to regulate a model. No, that's where it's obvious. The other side like where it's obvious. The other side like how would they ever even know? And how would they ever even know? And another piece that's in flux and has another piece that's in flux and has been changing is energy policy, solar, been changing is energy policy, solar, EV credits, and uh maybe even EV credits, and uh maybe even disincentives, disincentives, disincentives, the $7,500 credit for buying cars, and the $7,500 credit for buying cars, and then also a carbon credits and a fee of then also a carbon credits and a fee of $250 for everybody who owns an EV every $250 for everybody who owns an EV every year. Freeberg, maybe you could talk a year. Freeberg, maybe you could talk a little bit about this part of the debate little bit about this part of the debate because we've been spending and hitting because we've been spending and hitting incredible goals as a country in getting incredible goals as a country in getting more renewables, more energy online, but more renewables, more energy online, but that comes at a cost, right? And so that that comes at a cost, right? And so that is a big part of the debate here. And is a big part of the debate here. And that obviously is something that impacts that obviously is something that impacts Elon, and we'll get to him in a moment, Elon, and we'll get to him in a moment, but that impacts Elon and Trump's but that impacts Elon and Trump's relationship in a major way. relationship in a major way. The old school motivation and incentive The old school motivation and incentive for what people would call green energy for what people would call green energy or green tech was to decarbonize or green tech was to decarbonize electricity production and develop and electricity production and develop and deploy at scale these new technologies deploy at scale these new technologies at the time like wind and solar as an at the time like wind and solar as an alternative to carbon based technologies alternative to carbon based technologies that put carbon dioxide in the that put carbon dioxide in the atmosphere like oil and coal and gas. atmosphere like oil and coal and gas. So, the IRA, the Inflation Reduction So, the IRA, the Inflation Reduction Act, created tremendous government Act, created tremendous government incentives for building solar and wind incentives for building solar and wind farms to create electricity in the farms to create electricity in the United States. United States. United States. This proposal that's been going back and This proposal that's been going back and forth in this bill and some of the forth in this bill and some of the debate that's triggered many folks debate that's triggered many folks online to denounce the bill takes away online to denounce the bill takes away those incentives, takes away those those incentives, takes away those credits, takes away the EV tax credit credits, takes away the EV tax credit starting in September, as an example. starting in September, as an example. Why can't they do these in digestible Why can't they do these in digestible chunks? It should be no more than 300 chunks? It should be no more than 300 pages per bill, no more than x number of pages per bill, no more than x number of issues and break. Good conversation to issues and break. Good conversation to have. Good conversation to have another have. Good conversation to have another time, but we should talk to people on time, but we should talk to people on Congress. But there's a very specific Congress. But there's a very specific reason why because of the uh the log jam reason why because of the uh the log jam that happens with the filibuster. So, it that happens with the filibuster. So, it makes it impossible to get things done makes it impossible to get things done in that traditional context. So what's in that traditional context. So what's happened in the last couple years is you happened in the last couple years is you end up with these massive massive mega end up with these massive massive mega bills where they jam everything into one bills where they jam everything into one bill that they can pass with 50 votes bill that they can pass with 50 votes and then 51 votes they make these last and then 51 votes they make these last minute changes and then it all gets dark minute changes and then it all gets dark there's there's no rigorous debate there's there's no rigorous debate there's no transparency into what's there's no transparency into what's going on and why and so the second going on and why and so the second argument away from the green stuff is argument away from the green stuff is the more modern stuff which I've made the more modern stuff which I've made and I know Chimath agrees with me on and I know Chimath agrees with me on this which is we have to increase this which is we have to increase electricity production in this country electricity production in this country the current plan has been to move from 1 the current plan has been to move from 1 to two terowatts by 2040. Meanwhile, to two terowatts by 2040. Meanwhile, China's moving from 3 to 8. And China is China's moving from 3 to 8. And China is adding an entire United States and adding an entire United States and electricity production capacity every 18 electricity production capacity every 18 months right now. They are so far ahead months right now. They are so far ahead of us. And ultimately, electricity of us. And ultimately, electricity production is what drops the price for production is what drops the price for things and increases jobs, increases things and increases jobs, increases GDP, increases your ability to make GDP, increases your ability to make stuff. And so the more electricity stuff. And so the more electricity production comes online, the more we production comes online, the more we will be able to be sufficient in an AI will be able to be sufficient in an AI point. Now the secretary of energy uh point. Now the secretary of energy uh secretary Wright gave an interview and secretary Wright gave an interview and he said we have more than enough he said we have more than enough capacity with uh gas, oil and coal and capacity with uh gas, oil and coal and nuclear. And so his argument at this nuclear. And so his argument at this point is that we don't need to subsidize point is that we don't need to subsidize solar and wind where the government pays solar and wind where the government pays for these programs and private equity for these programs and private equity investors can make money on them. This investors can make money on them. This is a big part of the argument he's is a big part of the argument he's making. I'm not making it. But he's making. I'm not making it. But he's saying this will drive traditional saying this will drive traditional energy investments in traditional energy investments in traditional systems that we can scale up quickly to systems that we can scale up quickly to meet our energy production goals. Now, I meet our energy production goals. Now, I will say from my point of view, I'm not will say from my point of view, I'm not a huge fan of being dependent on a huge fan of being dependent on government subsidized energy at all. So, government subsidized energy at all. So, if the government is having to play a if the government is having to play a role in funding stuff, there's something role in funding stuff, there's something really questionable in terms of our really questionable in terms of our sustainability on that energy production sustainability on that energy production source over time. Will it actually be source over time. Will it actually be able to make more of it? Because what able to make more of it? Because what you want is not just to make a bunch of you want is not just to make a bunch of energy in the next six years or 12 energy in the next six years or 12 years. You want to make sure that you've years. You want to make sure that you've got an engine for creating new energy got an engine for creating new energy production on a continuous basis. So we production on a continuous basis. So we climb nonlinearly the energy production climb nonlinearly the energy production curve. That's what we need to do. And I curve. That's what we need to do. And I hope that one of the key outputs of hope that one of the key outputs of this, which a lot of people are really this, which a lot of people are really unhappy about the the loss of the demand unhappy about the the loss of the demand for solar and wind because of the loss for solar and wind because of the loss of the government uh programs here. But of the government uh programs here. But what I'm hopeful for is it creates a what I'm hopeful for is it creates a natural market force for nuclear and natural market force for nuclear and that we actually see a better that we actually see a better proliferation in nuclear which Secretary proliferation in nuclear which Secretary Wright has said and President Trump Wright has said and President Trump signed these EOS a couple weeks ago to signed these EOS a couple weeks ago to reduce the regulatory burden on nuclear reduce the regulatory burden on nuclear and increase the ability for nuclear to and increase the ability for nuclear to proliferate much more quickly than has proliferate much more quickly than has been the case historically. So I while a been the case historically. So I while a lot of people are saying hey this is lot of people are saying hey this is going to take away all this energy going to take away all this energy production capacity that's coming online production capacity that's coming online in the next few years or supposed to. in the next few years or supposed to. The counterargument is we're going to The counterargument is we're going to create a natural market force because create a natural market force because the energy demand will still be there. the energy demand will still be there. So someone's going to show up and say, So someone's going to show up and say, "Hey, I want to make electricity because "Hey, I want to make electricity because there's so much demand for it." And there's so much demand for it." And maybe they say, "Hey, let's try this new maybe they say, "Hey, let's try this new nuclear dereg system and see if we can nuclear dereg system and see if we can get it to work." And so I don't know, get it to work." And so I don't know, the jury is absolutely out. We have not the jury is absolutely out. We have not seen this energy proliferation begin in seen this energy proliferation begin in this country. But I do think one of the this country. But I do think one of the potential benefits of removing those potential benefits of removing those clean energy tax credits is that we clean energy tax credits is that we actually see natural market forces drive actually see natural market forces drive demand for a more naturally sustainable, demand for a more naturally sustainable, scalable energy production source. Your scalable energy production source. Your thoughts? I announced this a few weeks thoughts? I announced this a few weeks ago, but I dipped my toe into real ago, but I dipped my toe into real estate. I've never done real estate estate. I've never done real estate before, but just outside of Phoenix, before, but just outside of Phoenix, we're building a 1 gawatt data center. we're building a 1 gawatt data center. That's a $25 billion total investment That's a $25 billion total investment cycle of which we'll be into it for 2 or cycle of which we'll be into it for 2 or 3 billion of equity when it's probably 3 billion of equity when it's probably all said and done. all said and done. What I can tell you is the reason why What I can tell you is the reason why you can underwrite that deal or why I you can underwrite that deal or why I was able to underwrite the deal was was able to underwrite the deal was it's located downstream of a nuclear it's located downstream of a nuclear reactor and so there's effectively reactor and so there's effectively infinite energy that we can tap but we infinite energy that we can tap but we still need gas and a bunch of other still need gas and a bunch of other things. The problem is that, you know, things. The problem is that, you know, if we put in an order right now, we if we put in an order right now, we can't get an A gas turbine can't get an A gas turbine viable and turned on until 2030. It's viable and turned on until 2030. It's not a technology issue. It's purely a not a technology issue. It's purely a supply chain issue. So, I think what our supply chain issue. So, I think what our energy policy needs to make sure we energy policy needs to make sure we contemplate is that many of the things contemplate is that many of the things that we are debating are no longer that we are debating are no longer issues of production, but they're issues issues of production, but they're issues of supply, transmission, and of supply, transmission, and distribution. And as long as we can make distribution. And as long as we can make sure that sure that sure that we we we allow energy to be made wherever and allow energy to be made wherever and whenever possible and then stored whenever possible and then stored however possible will be on the forward however possible will be on the forward foot. The big risk is that if we foot. The big risk is that if we don't have that ability and then all of don't have that ability and then all of a sudden we have these incredible a sudden we have these incredible achievements in technology in robotics achievements in technology in robotics and we don't have the electricity to and we don't have the electricity to power them. That's the big risk. As long power them. That's the big risk. As long as we can fix that, I still worry that as we can fix that, I still worry that with nuclear, the issue won't be the with nuclear, the issue won't be the federal regulations. I think that it's federal regulations. I think that it's good that the president cleaned it up. good that the president cleaned it up. The real problem is going to be the The real problem is going to be the local and state regulators and how local and state regulators and how quickly they're willing to turn these quickly they're willing to turn these on. And the reality is that, you know, on. And the reality is that, you know, these are 10-year projects. And so even these are 10-year projects. And so even if you say go from today, the earliest if you say go from today, the earliest these things can be turned on really in these things can be turned on really in 2032, 2033. That's far too late. And 2032, 2033. That's far too late. And that's a lot of risk too, Chimath, that's a lot of risk too, Chimath, because what if you get blocked at the because what if you get blocked at the last minute? This is where solar and last minute? This is where solar and other projects, you know, we're big as other projects, you know, we're big as well. I'll tell you a story. In 2020, well. I'll tell you a story. In 2020, right before the pandemic, right before the pandemic, I I don't even know if I should say the I I don't even know if I should say the name of the company, but I almost went name of the company, but I almost went after a coal company to buy it. And I after a coal company to buy it. And I had been obsessed with this company for had been obsessed with this company for a year. And it was cheap. It fell on a year. And it was cheap. It fell on hard times. It was like a billion two, a hard times. It was like a billion two, a billion three. And my team went up in billion three. And my team went up in arms. They were like, "Oh my god, it's arms. They were like, "Oh my god, it's so dirty. you can't own a coal company so dirty. you can't own a coal company and it was such a huge miss on my part. and it was such a huge miss on my part. I should have just bought the bloody I should have just bought the bloody thing. Then we went into co then you thing. Then we went into co then you know everything went upside down and lo know everything went upside down and lo and behold that company's like and behold that company's like quintupled since then. So I'm a fan of quintupled since then. So I'm a fan of all forms of energy production. I think all forms of energy production. I think the marginal cost of energy has to go to the marginal cost of energy has to go to zero which means that any single way you zero which means that any single way you can get your hands on electricity can get your hands on electricity production production production is a winning trade over the next 20 is a winning trade over the next 20 years in the United States. This is I years in the United States. This is I was trying to wrap my head around people was trying to wrap my head around people saying, "Oh, we shouldn't buy all these saying, "Oh, we shouldn't buy all these solar panels out of China because China solar panels out of China because China is making them so cheaply and our trade is making them so cheaply and our trade imbalance, etc." And I was like, "Well, imbalance, etc." And I was like, "Well, wait a second. What's more important? wait a second. What's more important? The trade imbalance and giving China The trade imbalance and giving China some money for solar panels. We're some money for solar panels. We're getting more solar panels to Arizona, getting more solar panels to Arizona, you know, to Utah." Look, let's take the you know, to Utah." Look, let's take the subsidies off the table. Ultimately, you subsidies off the table. Ultimately, you don't want any of these markets don't want any of these markets subsidized. The reality is it is faster subsidized. The reality is it is faster and more efficient to put solar panels and more efficient to put solar panels up and start generating electricity. up and start generating electricity. It's just that it's like 17 months from It's just that it's like 17 months from start to finish. 17 months. So that's start to finish. 17 months. So that's probably in my opinion the single most probably in my opinion the single most valuable underwriting feature of solar valuable underwriting feature of solar which is you put a dollar in, you can which is you put a dollar in, you can start generating revenue in 17 months start generating revenue in 17 months from that dollar going in. That's very from that dollar going in. That's very different than when you're putting a different than when you're putting a dollar in and you're not going to see it dollar in and you're not going to see it back for a decade plus. That's scary. back for a decade plus. That's scary. And so you need to generate a rate of And so you need to generate a rate of return that justifies a 10 or 15 year return that justifies a 10 or 15 year investment cycle. investment cycle. investment cycle. And that's hard to do because there's a And that's hard to do because there's a lot of volatility in the world and lot of volatility in the world and things can go, you know, down as well as things can go, you know, down as well as up. So I don't know. My my perspective up. So I don't know. My my perspective is get rid of all the subsidies at this is get rid of all the subsidies at this point. Create a clean slate, but don't point. Create a clean slate, but don't do anything to hinder the production of do anything to hinder the production of electricity because we need literally as electricity because we need literally as much of it as we can get our hands on. much of it as we can get our hands on. And then we need to find a way of And then we need to find a way of storing it in a safe way and then we're storing it in a safe way and then we're off to the races. And the battery off to the races. And the battery technology freeberg is just keeps making technology freeberg is just keeps making great incremental process pro progress great incremental process pro progress in terms of cost you know just going in terms of cost you know just going down what 15%. Jason I have a question down what 15%. Jason I have a question for you. Yeah. How many days a year do for you. Yeah. How many days a year do you think California you think California is in an energy deficit? How many days a is in an energy deficit? How many days a year is California in an energy deficit? year is California in an energy deficit? Doesn't have enough energy. It would be Doesn't have enough energy. It would be during the summer months. You know where during the summer months. You know where electricity prices go crazy where they electricity prices go crazy where they have to find all kinds of ways of have to find all kinds of ways of generating massive amounts of base load. generating massive amounts of base load. How many like a third of the time 100? How many like a third of the time 100? Five. That's it. Wow. So we've really Five. That's it. Wow. So we've really made progress. We you know in California made progress. We you know in California our grid is on average about between 45 our grid is on average about between 45 and 50% utilized. This is for PG&amp; I and 50% utilized. This is for PG&amp; I don't know what it's like for SoCal don't know what it's like for SoCal Edison. Yeah. Down south. The point I'm Edison. Yeah. Down south. The point I'm trying to make is that in normal market trying to make is that in normal market conditions for residential, we have conditions for residential, we have tremendous amounts of power and for most tremendous amounts of power and for most needs, we have tremendous supply. needs, we have tremendous supply. So things can be pretty good. The So things can be pretty good. The problem is all of the stuff downstream problem is all of the stuff downstream from the making of it. And if we don't from the making of it. And if we don't clean that up, we're going to create clean that up, we're going to create these artificial constraints that will these artificial constraints that will come back to bite us when we really need come back to bite us when we really need the power to do something very exciting. the power to do something very exciting. Yeah. All right. Uh, let's move on to Yeah. All right. Uh, let's move on to Elon and Trump's relationship. Everybody Elon and Trump's relationship. Everybody wants to hear our take on what's going wants to hear our take on what's going on between Elon and Trump in relation to on between Elon and Trump in relation to this bill. We took a pass on it last this bill. We took a pass on it last time, uh, but we'll take a swing at it time, uh, but we'll take a swing at it now. Uh, obviously there's been a bit of now. Uh, obviously there's been a bit of back and forth between, uh, two of our back and forth between, uh, two of our friends, friends of the show, both Elon friends, friends of the show, both Elon and uh, Trump are Are you friends with and uh, Trump are Are you friends with Trump, Jacob? Well, I'm I'm speaking on Trump, Jacob? Well, I'm I'm speaking on behalf of the show. Um, I have never met behalf of the show. Um, I have never met Trump in person, but I did interview him Trump in person, but I did interview him on behalf of me and sex. But on behalf on behalf of me and sex. But on behalf of the show, listen, you guys are all of the show, listen, you guys are all team Trump team Trump team Trump and sex. Yeah. Well, you're team Trump, and sex. Yeah. Well, you're team Trump, too. Elon has I'm not I'm not I've never too. Elon has I'm not I'm not I've never met the guy. You've never met in the met the guy. You've never met in the White House. You took pictures in the White House. You took pictures in the White House. Never met the guy. Never White House. Never met the guy. Never met him. Never met in person. Okay. met him. Never met in person. Okay. Spent time in the White House, but Spent time in the White House, but didn't meet him. Okay, no problem. Yeah. didn't meet him. Okay, no problem. Yeah. Anyway, Elon has come out hard against Anyway, Elon has come out hard against this bill. He tweeted, "It is obvious this bill. He tweeted, "It is obvious with the insane spending of this bill, with the insane spending of this bill, which increases the debt ceiling by a which increases the debt ceiling by a record $5 trillion, that we live in a record $5 trillion, that we live in a one party country, the Porky Pig Party. one party country, the Porky Pig Party. Time for a new political party that Time for a new political party that actually cares about the people." This actually cares about the people." This escalated a bit, but this isn't as bad escalated a bit, but this isn't as bad as the first time around. When um asked as the first time around. When um asked if he would deport Elon, Trump said, "I if he would deport Elon, Trump said, "I don't know. We'll have to take a look." don't know. We'll have to take a look." And said he might stick Doge on Elon And said he might stick Doge on Elon since he gets a lot of subsidies. since he gets a lot of subsidies. Freeberg, we skipped talking about it Freeberg, we skipped talking about it because it was uh I think a bit chaotic because it was uh I think a bit chaotic last time, but this time I think maybe last time, but this time I think maybe we'll chime in a bit. Things aren't as we'll chime in a bit. Things aren't as hot right now and the bill is going to hot right now and the bill is going to get through. So, let's take a swing at get through. So, let's take a swing at it. What are your thoughts, Freeberg, on it. What are your thoughts, Freeberg, on the kfluffle, the Donny Brook, the the kfluffle, the Donny Brook, the bruhaha between Elon and President bruhaha between Elon and President Trump? There's a lot of people that are Trump? There's a lot of people that are making accurate declarations that making accurate declarations that federal spending needs to be reduced, federal spending needs to be reduced, the deficit needs to be shrunk. we are the deficit needs to be shrunk. we are in a debt death spiral and they are in a debt death spiral and they are absolutely correct. So I don't think absolutely correct. So I don't think that Elon is off the reservation when he that Elon is off the reservation when he makes those comments and he's talked makes those comments and he's talked about this continuously and he dedicated about this continuously and he dedicated months of his life to operating Doge and months of his life to operating Doge and trying to bring to light some of the trying to bring to light some of the extraordinary operating inefficiencies extraordinary operating inefficiencies in the federal government that should be in the federal government that should be addressed. And I think you know we'll addressed. And I think you know we'll see what happens. jury still out. For see what happens. jury still out. For those actions to get permanent, they I those actions to get permanent, they I believe need to mandate them in a believe need to mandate them in a appropriations bill. And the White House appropriations bill. And the White House has publicly declared that they are has publicly declared that they are going to move forward with an going to move forward with an appropriations bill to try and cement appropriations bill to try and cement some of the Doge actions. So I'm some of the Doge actions. So I'm hopeful, but I think Elon's right with hopeful, but I think Elon's right with respect to the spending. I will provide respect to the spending. I will provide the voice I have heard publicly stated the voice I have heard publicly stated from the alternative view from the White from the alternative view from the White House, which is this is not the bill to House, which is this is not the bill to do that because it mostly focuses on do that because it mostly focuses on these mandatory spending programs and these mandatory spending programs and they are addressing cost savings to some they are addressing cost savings to some degree in these mandatory spending degree in these mandatory spending programs while keeping the tax rates programs while keeping the tax rates where they are or reducing tax rates in where they are or reducing tax rates in some cases which the expectation is will some cases which the expectation is will stimulate GDP growth. So the White House stimulate GDP growth. So the White House view is also a view that you could look view is also a view that you could look at and say economically I could see a at and say economically I could see a path here that does make sense. You're path here that does make sense. You're reducing spending only on mandatory reducing spending only on mandatory programs. You're going to come back with programs. You're going to come back with an appropriations bill to address an appropriations bill to address discretionary spending. And then the discretionary spending. And then the final kind of action that the White final kind of action that the White House might take which we've heard about House might take which we've heard about separately is empoundment that at the separately is empoundment that at the end of the fiscal year they may come end of the fiscal year they may come back and say all the money that we saved back and say all the money that we saved by not spending it we can actually by not spending it we can actually recover through empoundment. And the CBO recover through empoundment. And the CBO has not accounted for tariff revenue. has not accounted for tariff revenue. And just looking at the recent deal done And just looking at the recent deal done with Vietnam, Vietnam's about $130 with Vietnam, Vietnam's about $130 billion a year of uh imports to the billion a year of uh imports to the United States. And they did a deal that United States. And they did a deal that they announced two days ago with a 20% they announced two days ago with a 20% tariff on Vietnam, which you know, if tariff on Vietnam, which you know, if Vietnam's import volume does not Vietnam's import volume does not increase, is about 26 billion a year of increase, is about 26 billion a year of incremental revenue for the federal incremental revenue for the federal government. So there's an argument that government. So there's an argument that Bessant and Lutnik and others are making Bessant and Lutnik and others are making that you guys have failed to recognize that you guys have failed to recognize that we've got a few other things we that we've got a few other things we have up our sleeve that we're going to have up our sleeve that we're going to do. We're going to do empoundment. We're do. We're going to do empoundment. We're going to do this appropriations bill. going to do this appropriations bill. We've got more revenue coming in. Net We've got more revenue coming in. Net net, we will get the deficit down to net, we will get the deficit down to where we need to be. In fact, Scott where we need to be. In fact, Scott Besson was on TV saying over and over, Besson was on TV saying over and over, "We're going to get the deficit below 3% "We're going to get the deficit below 3% of GDP," which is the key target here. of GDP," which is the key target here. But the immediate reaction to this bill, But the immediate reaction to this bill, I think that Elon is having is the same I think that Elon is having is the same that I've had and it is the same that that I've had and it is the same that Senator Johnson had and is the same that Senator Johnson had and is the same that many others have had, which is what the many others have had, which is what the f are we doing? We are in a fiscal f are we doing? We are in a fiscal emergency in this country and we're not emergency in this country and we're not addressing it. So, I think both points addressing it. So, I think both points of view can be valid and both sides can of view can be valid and both sides can have a good kind of argument for why the have a good kind of argument for why the bill should be passed and why the bill bill should be passed and why the bill shouldn't be passed. The White House has shouldn't be passed. The White House has declared that this is the only way declared that this is the only way they're going to get some of the they're going to get some of the programs done that they believe they programs done that they believe they need to get done for national security need to get done for national security like the ICE border stuff. And these are like the ICE border stuff. And these are things that they believe they need to things that they believe they need to get done. But a lot of folks are looking get done. But a lot of folks are looking at the numbers and saying this just at the numbers and saying this just isn't enough and you're now increasing isn't enough and you're now increasing the deficit by cutting taxes. One of the the deficit by cutting taxes. One of the things the CBO does not do though is things the CBO does not do though is they don't have a strong model and they don't have a strong model and there's a ton of economic debate on this there's a ton of economic debate on this point which is how did tax cuts point which is how did tax cuts stimulate GDP growth and job creation stimulate GDP growth and job creation and income growth for people with jobs. and income growth for people with jobs. The one argument is when you cut taxes The one argument is when you cut taxes more dollars flow into the economy more more dollars flow into the economy more jobs are created. More businesses are jobs are created. More businesses are created but GDP grows. Income for other created but GDP grows. Income for other people grows. The alternative argument people grows. The alternative argument is it's a tax cut for the rich. What are is it's a tax cut for the rich. What are you doing? they're going to put that you doing? they're going to put that money in their pocket. It's only going money in their pocket. It's only going to benefit themselves. So that's I think to benefit themselves. So that's I think a key crux in the argument that you'll a key crux in the argument that you'll never get to a resolution on. The one never get to a resolution on. The one side will use that one argument and the side will use that one argument and the other side will use the other argument. other side will use the other argument. So look, I mean with respect to Elon and So look, I mean with respect to Elon and Trump, I will say one thing very Trump, I will say one thing very importantly. I don't think MAGA can importantly. I don't think MAGA can exist successfully without the tech exist successfully without the tech alignment. I don't think tech can exist alignment. I don't think tech can exist without MAGA because of the government without MAGA because of the government alignment and the importance of the alignment and the importance of the government allowing these new government allowing these new technologies like AI to come to market technologies like AI to come to market and to proliferate. I don't think that and to proliferate. I don't think that these two can exist in isolation and in these two can exist in isolation and in conflict with one another. Elon is the conflict with one another. Elon is the deacto king of tech. He is the person deacto king of tech. He is the person that is saying look if I'm in conflict that is saying look if I'm in conflict with Trump tech is in conflict with with Trump tech is in conflict with Trump or that at least that is the Trump or that at least that is the perception on the MAGA side. And I think perception on the MAGA side. And I think that that is very risky for both sides that that is very risky for both sides to allow a conflict to kind of endure. to allow a conflict to kind of endure. And I do think that both sides have And I do think that both sides have heads that are going to be cooler that heads that are going to be cooler that will prevail here. And I do think that will prevail here. And I do think that these two are going to recognize the these two are going to recognize the importance of being codependent, if you importance of being codependent, if you will in being able to progress their will in being able to progress their respective agendas. Chimath, your respective agendas. Chimath, your thoughts on the Kurfluffle thoughts on the Kurfluffle seem to be winding down and maybe seem to be winding down and maybe reaching some sort of endgame. It feels reaching some sort of endgame. It feels like we're in some sort of an endgame like we're in some sort of an endgame here. And if there is one, what is it? here. And if there is one, what is it? I mean, I think it's just important to I mean, I think it's just important to recognize that on the one side you have recognize that on the one side you have the most powerful person in the world the most powerful person in the world and on the other side you have the most and on the other side you have the most important powerful entrepreneur and important powerful entrepreneur and richest man in the world. And when you richest man in the world. And when you have people that are that accomplished, have people that are that accomplished, it's not as if you're going to get along it's not as if you're going to get along 100% of the time. So I think a lot of 100% of the time. So I think a lot of the breathlessness around all of this the breathlessness around all of this stuff is overblown. I think the reality stuff is overblown. I think the reality is that when push comes to shove, I is that when push comes to shove, I think that they agree on more things think that they agree on more things than they probably disagree. than they probably disagree. And I think when everybody realizes that And I think when everybody realizes that the alternative is essentially the alternative is essentially some insane form of socialism and some insane form of socialism and redistribution, I think the alliance will hold I think the alliance will hold and that they'll find some common and that they'll find some common ground. Jason, what do you think? Well, ground. Jason, what do you think? Well, I think you're right. These two I think you're right. These two individuals are used to speaking their individuals are used to speaking their mind and they're both really good at mind and they're both really good at social media and then there's no better social media and then there's no better media cycle than covering the two of media cycle than covering the two of them battling it out and trading barbs. them battling it out and trading barbs. But I think what Elon did this cycle was But I think what Elon did this cycle was really interesting. He started a really interesting. He started a preference stack preference stack preference stack for Trump and that cascade, preference for Trump and that cascade, preference cascade, preference stack, however you cascade, preference stack, however you want to phrase it, you know, I think want to phrase it, you know, I think played a large role, if not the role in played a large role, if not the role in getting Trump elected. People can debate getting Trump elected. People can debate that. I don't know that you can that. I don't know that you can perfectly know what that $250 million perfectly know what that $250 million and all that effort he put in, you know, and all that effort he put in, you know, what that did in terms of Trump's what that did in terms of Trump's chances. Trump probably would have won chances. Trump probably would have won anyway versus Kamla, but maybe not. anyway versus Kamla, but maybe not. Putting that aside, the platform Elon Putting that aside, the platform Elon has refined during this political cycle has refined during this political cycle is one that resonates and I think it's a is one that resonates and I think it's a really good idea for him to maybe if really good idea for him to maybe if he's going to be involved in politics, he's going to be involved in politics, pull that string and just crisply define pull that string and just crisply define it. And I was thinking about it over the it. And I was thinking about it over the last couple days and I think it hits last couple days and I think it hits into four basic groups. Balance budget into four basic groups. Balance budget and government efficiency. That's kind and government efficiency. That's kind of one. fiscal responsibility, of one. fiscal responsibility, sustainable energy, which obviously he's sustainable energy, which obviously he's been passionate about, and he's the been passionate about, and he's the leader in solar, batteries, EVs, and leader in solar, batteries, EVs, and then manufacturing in the United States, then manufacturing in the United States, which he also is the leader in, and which he also is the leader in, and pronatalism, and just, you know, the uh pronatalism, and just, you know, the uh the population crisis. He he really the population crisis. He he really cares about those four issues. So what I cares about those four issues. So what I think he should do is take that America think he should do is take that America pack and instead of making it like just pack and instead of making it like just pro MAGA, he should just clearly define pro MAGA, he should just clearly define what it is that he believes. Small set what it is that he believes. Small set of issues and then he should go and back of issues and then he should go and back the people who are running to to be in the people who are running to to be in Congress and senators and just say, Congress and senators and just say, "Hey, here is what I would like you to "Hey, here is what I would like you to be in favor of." And do what Norquist be in favor of." And do what Norquist did with his no new taxes pledge. Do did with his no new taxes pledge. Do some sort of pledge like that. I don't some sort of pledge like that. I don't know if it needs to be a new party, but know if it needs to be a new party, but just really crisply define what matters just really crisply define what matters to him. If he's going to be involved in to him. If he's going to be involved in politics, then get people to agree on politics, then get people to agree on it. And if he wants to give them it. And if he wants to give them donations, as is his right, as is his donations, as is his right, as is his pack's right, to raise money, he could pack's right, to raise money, he could represent, I think, a very world represent, I think, a very world positive view. Sustainable energy, just positive view. Sustainable energy, just incredible execution, and a really incredible execution, and a really efficient government. He should efficient government. He should technical excellence, technical technical excellence, technical excellence, excellence at large. And excellence, excellence at large. And America, just go for it. and and and it America, just go for it. and and and it doesn't have to be personal against doesn't have to be personal against Trump. One of the big problems with Trump. One of the big problems with Trump is he he has a bunch of sick Trump is he he has a bunch of sick offense around him and the more you kind offense around him and the more you kind of appease him and just blindly follow of appease him and just blindly follow him, I think the closer you the him, I think the closer you the perception is that's the closer you get perception is that's the closer you get to him. I don't know that that's true. I to him. I don't know that that's true. I think he likes debating stuff. So, I think he likes debating stuff. So, I think he should embrace the people who think he should embrace the people who debate it with him and then those people debate it with him and then those people should just crisply say, "Here's what I should just crisply say, "Here's what I stand for and I'm putting my money stand for and I'm putting my money behind it. I hope we're in alignment, behind it. I hope we're in alignment, but I'm going to stay in my lane and I'm but I'm going to stay in my lane and I'm going to prioritize what matters to me. going to prioritize what matters to me. And Elon's priorities are exceptionally And Elon's priorities are exceptionally sharp and well-defined, and he should sharp and well-defined, and he should pursue them. Yeah. Jury's out on where pursue them. Yeah. Jury's out on where this ends up and the broader picture. this ends up and the broader picture. You guys will get annoyed because I've You guys will get annoyed because I've talked about Ray Dalio so much, but I talked about Ray Dalio so much, but I think he's done an amazing job in the think he's done an amazing job in the last 5 years basically explaining last 5 years basically explaining everything we've seen from global everything we've seen from global conflict to the internal conflict, the conflict to the internal conflict, the rise of socialism in the US and the rise of socialism in the US and the relationship to the debt and deficit relationship to the debt and deficit cycle. He just posted on Twitter cycle. He just posted on Twitter yesterday that he went to DC to discuss yesterday that he went to DC to discuss the budget deficit with senior people on the budget deficit with senior people on both sides of the aisle. and he said, both sides of the aisle. and he said, "It's clear to me that we are unlikely "It's clear to me that we are unlikely to change the debt trajectory we're on to change the debt trajectory we're on and avoid the painful consequences." And and avoid the painful consequences." And he talked a lot about this concept of he talked a lot about this concept of absolutist politics. And this is the absolutist politics. And this is the same reaction I've had every time I've same reaction I've had every time I've gone to DC and we've met with members of gone to DC and we've met with members of Congress. And if you guys remember from Congress. And if you guys remember from the beginning, I said Doge isn't going the beginning, I said Doge isn't going to be it. As much as Elon can identify to be it. As much as Elon can identify and resolve to a better way of operating and resolve to a better way of operating the federal government's agencies, you the federal government's agencies, you cannot change the spending without a cannot change the spending without a change in statute from Congress. You change in statute from Congress. You have to get Congress to act. And every have to get Congress to act. And every time I met with members of Congress, time I met with members of Congress, their incentive is to keep the money their incentive is to keep the money flowing to their districts. That's what flowing to their districts. That's what they focus on. And every year their they focus on. And every year their districts want more in different districts want more in different contexts, in different forms, through contexts, in different forms, through different programs. And that's what different programs. And that's what their job is. Their job is to go to DC their job is. Their job is to go to DC to represent their state's interest or to represent their state's interest or their local district's interests and say their local district's interests and say we need to make sure that we're taken we need to make sure that we're taken care of as the money flows. And as a care of as the money flows. And as a result, everything keeps getting bigger result, everything keeps getting bigger and bigger and spiraling away. At the and bigger and spiraling away. At the end of the day, the way we economically end of the day, the way we economically save America, if we even have a shot save America, if we even have a shot without money printing, which a lot of without money printing, which a lot of people like Bology and Dalio and others people like Bology and Dalio and others are now indicating is what's going to are now indicating is what's going to happen is we're going to end up happen is we're going to end up inflating away or printing away all of inflating away or printing away all of the debt that we've taken on, is to get the debt that we've taken on, is to get to a 33, which Bessant has highlighted to a 33, which Bessant has highlighted is also his goal. 3% federal deficit to is also his goal. 3% federal deficit to GDP, 3% GDP growth, and 3% inflation. GDP, 3% GDP growth, and 3% inflation. And just to give you a sense of where And just to give you a sense of where those numbers sit today, the current those numbers sit today, the current estimate is 6% deficit to GDP, 2.4% estimate is 6% deficit to GDP, 2.4% inflation. So we've actually got a inflation. So we've actually got a little bit of room to run on inflation. little bit of room to run on inflation. And GDP growth this year of 1.4%. And GDP growth this year of 1.4%. So will the tax cuts in this bill So will the tax cuts in this bill increase GDP growth? Will AI increase increase GDP growth? Will AI increase GDP growth? The jury is out. Will the GDP growth? The jury is out. Will the tariff revenue reduce the deficit more tariff revenue reduce the deficit more than the CPO is estimating? And the than the CPO is estimating? And the increased GDP growth reduce the deficit? increased GDP growth reduce the deficit? The jury is still out. And what will The jury is still out. And what will happen with inflation? And if the Fed happen with inflation? And if the Fed cuts rates, you're going to see cuts rates, you're going to see inflation climb a little bit more. Maybe inflation climb a little bit more. Maybe the tariffs effect on inflation will the tariffs effect on inflation will still come through. Some folks have said still come through. Some folks have said that hasn't hit yet, but it will come that hasn't hit yet, but it will come later this year. Will we exceed 3%. later this year. Will we exceed 3%. Inflation TBD. So, the jury is still Inflation TBD. So, the jury is still very much out on whether these actions very much out on whether these actions that are being taken, which Bessant has that are being taken, which Bessant has declared is going to get us to that 333 declared is going to get us to that 333 number. But then a lot of folks who are number. But then a lot of folks who are looking at this with a cold stare with looking at this with a cold stare with like no political influence with no like no political influence with no political political political intention not representing a party not intention not representing a party not representing an administration like Ray representing an administration like Ray Dalio are saying what the there is no Dalio are saying what the there is no way we're going to get there. Bology I way we're going to get there. Bology I think you know pointed out in his tweet think you know pointed out in his tweet his point is actually a very good point his point is actually a very good point which is our debt is not just the which is our debt is not just the federal debt but there's other debt that federal debt but there's other debt that we're not even accounting for. consumer we're not even accounting for. consumer debt. I've said this in the past. debt. I've said this in the past. There's there's actually corporate debt. There's there's actually corporate debt. Yeah. The business debt, consumer debt. Yeah. The business debt, consumer debt. There's also state and local debt. And There's also state and local debt. And then the one key number that we never then the one key number that we never talk about is the unaccounted for talk about is the unaccounted for liabilities in public pension funds, liabilities in public pension funds, which is on the order of trillions of which is on the order of trillions of dollars more. So when you add all of dollars more. So when you add all of this up, someone's going to pay the this up, someone's going to pay the bills on all that debt or we're going to bills on all that debt or we're going to have to inflate away that debt by have to inflate away that debt by printing money. And at some point, the printing money. And at some point, the trains left the station. A lot of people trains left the station. A lot of people are saying, "We're done. there's no way are saying, "We're done. there's no way out of this. So, you know, the Elon out of this. So, you know, the Elon Trump battle is like an interesting kind Trump battle is like an interesting kind of side kurfuffle, but it's not really of side kurfuffle, but it's not really the big story here. The big story is the the big story here. The big story is the trains left the station. You know, I trains left the station. You know, I think if we're if we look at this as the think if we're if we look at this as the first year that tech really got actively first year that tech really got actively involved in politics. Obviously, Peter involved in politics. Obviously, Peter Teal has been at this for a little bit Teal has been at this for a little bit longer in his support of JD Vance, the longer in his support of JD Vance, the vice president. I'm looking at this as vice president. I'm looking at this as like maybe this is year one that Gen X like maybe this is year one that Gen X is truly engaged in making a difference is truly engaged in making a difference in Washington and setting an agenda. in Washington and setting an agenda. That agenda, you know, has 25 years That agenda, you know, has 25 years ahead of it if everybody remains this ahead of it if everybody remains this engaged, whether it's people like Sachs engaged, whether it's people like Sachs or TL or Elon or countless other people. or TL or Elon or countless other people. You know, what is JD Vance's position on You know, what is JD Vance's position on this when he runs for president in four this when he runs for president in four years? What will these other individuals years? What will these other individuals Dean Phillips who've had on the program Dean Phillips who've had on the program if he decides to run? I think this is, if he decides to run? I think this is, you know, we're maybe 5% into the impact you know, we're maybe 5% into the impact this could be having and already this could be having and already Adam and Freeberg, I always give you a Adam and Freeberg, I always give you a lot of credit for this. Two years ago lot of credit for this. Two years ago when you said you started bringing this when you said you started bringing this up incessantly on the program and to the up incessantly on the program and to the point at which it was during it was point at which it was during co I started doing this. Yeah. It during co I started doing this. Yeah. It was three years ago and um you know like was three years ago and um you know like Yeah. I mean you're to your you're Yeah. I mean you're to your you're admitting you've been annoying for three admitting you've been annoying for three or four years. I think actually it's or four years. I think actually it's it's the it's the sand that might make it's the it's the sand that might make the uh pearl and the oyster. We need to the uh pearl and the oyster. We need to address this. It's become a top issue of address this. It's become a top issue of our time. That's actually success. The our time. That's actually success. The fact that this issue is now the issue of fact that this issue is now the issue of our time, our budget, our fiscal our time, our budget, our fiscal responsibility, austerity, that's responsibility, austerity, that's actually a really good thing. And yeah, actually a really good thing. And yeah, maybe it doesn't get manifested in this maybe it doesn't get manifested in this bill, but maybe it will get manifested bill, but maybe it will get manifested in JD Vance's, you know, presidential in JD Vance's, you know, presidential run or Dean Phillips or the both of them run or Dean Phillips or the both of them will be discussing it in three and a will be discussing it in three and a half years or three years when they're half years or three years when they're on the presidential trail. So that could on the presidential trail. So that could be actually the early sign of success be actually the early sign of success for this. I'm an optimist. for this. I'm an optimist. Good luck. Good luck. Good luck. Cap that it's over. Yeah. I mean, we sit Cap that it's over. Yeah. I mean, we sit here and we parked on this topic dozens here and we parked on this topic dozens of times. We keep talking about, oh, we of times. We keep talking about, oh, we need to do this, we need to do that. But need to do this, we need to do that. But at at the end of the day, when the bills at at the end of the day, when the bills get passed, when Congress takes action, get passed, when Congress takes action, you get to see where their head's really you get to see where their head's really at. And I do think that this bill has at. And I do think that this bill has indicated that the administration has a indicated that the administration has a set of incentives, which is they want to set of incentives, which is they want to get the actions done that they promised get the actions done that they promised they would on the campaign trail, and they would on the campaign trail, and then Congress has a lot of incentives to then Congress has a lot of incentives to keep the money flowing. And I think keep the money flowing. And I think we've seen that in this negotiation to we've seen that in this negotiation to get this bill done. And I'm not faulting get this bill done. And I'm not faulting anyone for it. Congress is looking out anyone for it. Congress is looking out for the interests of the people that for the interests of the people that they represent and the White House is they represent and the White House is looking out for the people that voted looking out for the people that voted for them and they said this is what for them and they said this is what we're going to do and we have a mandate we're going to do and we have a mandate and now they're getting it done. And and now they're getting it done. And that's just the way it is. But this is that's just the way it is. But this is the key part of the whole storyline the key part of the whole storyline which is at some point once the spending which is at some point once the spending levels get too high and the country the levels get too high and the country the individuals and the businesses become individuals and the businesses become too dependent on that spending y which too dependent on that spending y which is effectively what happens at the end is effectively what happens at the end of every empire. You can't back out. you of every empire. You can't back out. you can't stop spending and everyone just can't stop spending and everyone just votes themselves the dollars. So, it's a votes themselves the dollars. So, it's a it's a scary moment and I've said it it's a scary moment and I've said it before, I do think that the GDP growth before, I do think that the GDP growth is the one path that's left to resolve is the one path that's left to resolve this. I don't think we're going to just this. I don't think we're going to just cut spending. And so, we need to kind of cut spending. And so, we need to kind of be really thoughtful about making sure be really thoughtful about making sure we don't hamper GDP growth, particularly we don't hamper GDP growth, particularly as it relates to AI, which is going to as it relates to AI, which is going to unlock a lot of new industry, a lot of unlock a lot of new industry, a lot of new growth, a lot of new opportunity for new growth, a lot of new opportunity for jobs. And uh this is why I worry a lot jobs. And uh this is why I worry a lot about this patchwork of regulation in about this patchwork of regulation in states making it really difficult for AI states making it really difficult for AI to you only need five more people like to you only need five more people like Rand Paul and Tillis right if you get a Rand Paul and Tillis right if you get a couple more of those chimoth this could couple more of those chimoth this could be a completely different discussion if be a completely different discussion if you want to pivot to the next topic I you want to pivot to the next topic I mean one way to look at this is how the mean one way to look at this is how the dollar is trading so the US dollar is dollar is trading so the US dollar is now down 11% this year and that's now down 11% this year and that's against every single major currency here against every single major currency here it is so the dollar was down over 10% it is so the dollar was down over 10% through the first half of 2025. This is through the first half of 2025. This is the worst start in over 50 years. Uh the worst start in over 50 years. Uh take a look at this chart and you can take a look at this chart and you can see it. It's kind of shocking. Keep in see it. It's kind of shocking. Keep in mind the dollar jumped 7% after Trump mind the dollar jumped 7% after Trump was elected. It kind of peaked in mid was elected. It kind of peaked in mid January. So if you take the pre-election January. So if you take the pre-election dollar index number 103, it's down 6% dollar index number 103, it's down 6% since then. Not record-breaking, but since then. Not record-breaking, but significant. And obviously economists significant. And obviously economists are saying tariffs are saying tariffs and global trade are a big piece of and global trade are a big piece of this. And as we just discussed and we'll this. And as we just discussed and we'll keep discussing the US debt load at $37 keep discussing the US debt load at $37 trillion. trillion. trillion. It's more expensive for Americans to It's more expensive for Americans to travel abroad and it's less attractive travel abroad and it's less attractive maybe to invest in the US. Let me just maybe to invest in the US. Let me just follow up on the point I just made. But follow up on the point I just made. But this is where where the the you know the this is where where the the you know the what do they say? The chicken comes to what do they say? The chicken comes to roost. Chickens come home to roost. roost. Chickens come home to roost. Yeah. The chickens have come home to the Yeah. The chickens have come home to the rubber meets the road. Yeah. This is rubber meets the road. Yeah. This is where you start to see the inflationary where you start to see the inflationary effects of the spending and the effects of the spending and the spiraling debt is things get more spiraling debt is things get more expensive and your earning power doesn't expensive and your earning power doesn't increase commensurate with the higher increase commensurate with the higher expenses. So, so what will happen is expenses. So, so what will happen is you'll see here the US today imports you'll see here the US today imports four to5 trillion a year. So that's 4 four to5 trillion a year. So that's 4 to5 trillion that US consumers and to5 trillion that US consumers and businesses are buying from abroad and businesses are buying from abroad and then we import into the US and use those then we import into the US and use those products and services. So the cost of products and services. So the cost of all that just went up by 11%. as the all that just went up by 11%. as the dollar declined in value against the dollar declined in value against the average of all these currencies. And average of all these currencies. And that's outside of increase in prices that's outside of increase in prices that may arise because of the tariff that may arise because of the tariff effect where folks may say, "Hey, let's effect where folks may say, "Hey, let's charge more for tariffs." Whether it's charge more for tariffs." Whether it's the cost of tariffs or the cost of the the cost of tariffs or the cost of the debt, the dollars that you have to spend debt, the dollars that you have to spend now just went up by 11% to buy the same now just went up by 11% to buy the same thing. And if that compounds and that thing. And if that compounds and that continues and your earnings are not continues and your earnings are not growing and your assets are not growing growing and your assets are not growing commensurate with that, that's where commensurate with that, that's where dollar devaluation happens and where dollar devaluation happens and where asset devaluation, income devaluation, asset devaluation, income devaluation, and that's where again we open up the and that's where again we open up the door to a thing like socialism where door to a thing like socialism where people are like it's now twice as people are like it's now twice as expensive to buy my groceries. It's expensive to buy my groceries. It's twice as expensive to pay my rent and twice as expensive to pay my rent and I'm not making any more money. Man, I I'm not making any more money. Man, I need a solution. We got to get together need a solution. We got to get together and get the government to make and get the government to make everything free. And that's why I'm so everything free. And that's why I'm so convinced that there's a rise in convinced that there's a rise in socialism in this country. Because in socialism in this country. Because in this sort of an inflationary environment this sort of an inflationary environment like we're seeing so far this year, you like we're seeing so far this year, you don't see it in the dollar inflation don't see it in the dollar inflation numbers. You see it in the dollar numbers. You see it in the dollar currency numbers. You're going to say, currency numbers. You're going to say, "Man, I I need an alternative." That's "Man, I I need an alternative." That's why the paradox to that is free stuff is why the paradox to that is free stuff is not free. It means increased spending, not free. It means increased spending, which means you're stalling the plane which means you're stalling the plane even more. So, exactly. Any thoughts even more. So, exactly. Any thoughts here on the dollar? I think the dollar here on the dollar? I think the dollar has devalued 50% in the last 35 or 40 has devalued 50% in the last 35 or 40 years. So, years. So, years. So, I think it's somewhat useful to look at I think it's somewhat useful to look at any single couple of months in time. But any single couple of months in time. But this has been a one-way trade for a very this has been a one-way trade for a very long time. long time. long time. And it's probably important to And it's probably important to understand why that is. And I think it understand why that is. And I think it generally has to do with the fact that generally has to do with the fact that the United States finances a lot of the United States finances a lot of growth and that has been the right growth and that has been the right decision. decision. decision. So unless you see a complete collapse in So unless you see a complete collapse in the currency, I suspect that this decay the currency, I suspect that this decay continues to happen. So the question is, continues to happen. So the question is, is it a bad thing? And the answer is it is it a bad thing? And the answer is it depends because if asset prices increase depends because if asset prices increase faster than the dollar devalues, you're faster than the dollar devalues, you're still ahead. You may not be ahead as still ahead. You may not be ahead as much, but you're still ahead. And if you much, but you're still ahead. And if you look at asset prices in the United look at asset prices in the United States relative to asset prices any States relative to asset prices any place else in the world, it is the place else in the world, it is the flight to quality, which is to say that flight to quality, which is to say that it is the thing that everybody wants to it is the thing that everybody wants to own. And you see that in the equity own. And you see that in the equity markets, you see it in real estate, you markets, you see it in real estate, you see it in hard assets. So, I don't know. see it in hard assets. So, I don't know. I think that it's part of the fact that I think that it's part of the fact that until we run surpluses and or completely until we run surpluses and or completely eliminate the debt, there will always be eliminate the debt, there will always be a reason to be somewhat short the a reason to be somewhat short the dollar. But the reality is that a lot of dollar. But the reality is that a lot of people still want to own these assets people still want to own these assets more than they want to own any other more than they want to own any other asset. And those assets are dollar asset. And those assets are dollar denominated. And so as long as that denominated. And so as long as that continues to hold continues to hold in the push and pull, it'll be a slow in the push and pull, it'll be a slow bleed, but it's probably manageable. bleed, but it's probably manageable. And that's just sort of like the And that's just sort of like the mathematical trend of it all. So I don't mathematical trend of it all. So I don't know, unless there's some like know, unless there's some like cataclysmic collapse in asset prices, I cataclysmic collapse in asset prices, I think that this is just a thing that you think that this is just a thing that you have to deal with. It's sort of like the have to deal with. It's sort of like the carry of it all. And it happens. There's carry of it all. And it happens. There's all kinds of other trades where you sort all kinds of other trades where you sort of pay a carry, and that's okay. Is of pay a carry, and that's okay. Is there a relationship you can explain to there a relationship you can explain to the audience between the stock market the audience between the stock market ripping and the dollar devaluing? Well, ripping and the dollar devaluing? Well, I think the reality is that, you know, I think the reality is that, you know, if you think about a country that all of if you think about a country that all of a sudden has to pay a sudden has to pay a tariff. So, let's take the Vietnamese a tariff. So, let's take the Vietnamese example that Freeberg said. Let's just example that Freeberg said. Let's just say that they had to prepay one year of say that they had to prepay one year of it just to make the math simple so you it just to make the math simple so you can understand. They have to come up can understand. They have to come up with 23 odd billion dollars I think is with 23 odd billion dollars I think is what Freeberg the number that you said what Freeberg the number that you said or something like that. So yeah, like 26 or something like that. So yeah, like 26 billion on 130. Yeah. How do you do billion on 130. Yeah. How do you do that? Well, the first thing that you're that? Well, the first thing that you're going to do is you're going to sell going to do is you're going to sell dollar denominated assets that you dollar denominated assets that you already own and you're going to generate already own and you're going to generate those US dollars and then you're going those US dollars and then you're going to send it to the United States to send it to the United States Treasury. So you may be selling bonds. Treasury. So you may be selling bonds. So you would think, okay, well that's So you would think, okay, well that's not really good for asset prices. Okay. not really good for asset prices. Okay. But then what you quickly realize is But then what you quickly realize is that all of that is far outweighed by that all of that is far outweighed by the fact that all the rest of the stuff the fact that all the rest of the stuff that you own, whether it's gold that you own, whether it's gold denominated or whether it's in local denominated or whether it's in local currency denominated, you want to currency denominated, you want to actually go and buy these dollars actually go and buy these dollars because you want assets that are safe in because you want assets that are safe in turbulence and volatility. And so would turbulence and volatility. And so would you rather belong the Vietnamese dong or you rather belong the Vietnamese dong or the Vietnamese equity markets? To a the Vietnamese equity markets? To a degree, yes. But if you have obligations degree, yes. But if you have obligations that the Vietnamese government needs to that the Vietnamese government needs to fund, their central bank is probably fund, their central bank is probably deciding that they need to be long US deciding that they need to be long US bonds and fixed income. And other people bonds and fixed income. And other people who hold assets in that country are who hold assets in that country are probably going to be, you know, on a probably going to be, you know, on a weighted basis adding exposure to the weighted basis adding exposure to the United States while all of this stuff is United States while all of this stuff is happening. Why? Because you're seeing happening. Why? Because you're seeing the balance sheet of of America the balance sheet of of America burgeoning and growing. 23 billion from burgeoning and growing. 23 billion from Vietnam, tens of billions over here, Vietnam, tens of billions over here, tens of billions over there. It all adds tens of billions over there. It all adds up. So again, I I think that this is up. So again, I I think that this is like a very complicated multivariate like a very complicated multivariate problem, but the net takeaway is that problem, but the net takeaway is that the dollar devaluation is not something the dollar devaluation is not something that's new. It is a phenomenon that has that's new. It is a phenomenon that has existed through market cycles for 50 existed through market cycles for 50 plus years. It's a decay that has plus years. It's a decay that has happened and will continue to happen. So happened and will continue to happen. So I think the way that I think about it is I think the way that I think about it is there's a drag, but can the drag be there's a drag, but can the drag be overcome by the increase in asset values overcome by the increase in asset values of the hard assets that are dollar of the hard assets that are dollar denominated? And the answer is yes and denominated? And the answer is yes and meaningfully so. And so as long as meaningfully so. And so as long as that's the case, I think you're going to that's the case, I think you're going to continue to have a bid for equities. If continue to have a bid for equities. If all of a sudden the MAG7 decided to all of a sudden the MAG7 decided to delist and not be American companies and delist and not be American companies and all of a sudden showed up in the CAC 50 all of a sudden showed up in the CAC 50 in France, yeah, we'd be in big trouble. in France, yeah, we'd be in big trouble. But I don't think that's going to But I don't think that's going to happen. And so as long as you know happen. And so as long as you know there's American ingenuity and American there's American ingenuity and American supremacy, again, which goes back to the supremacy, again, which goes back to the other thing, which is we can't kill other thing, which is we can't kill these golden geese, nor should we kill these golden geese, nor should we kill the emerging and growing golden goose, the emerging and growing golden goose, which is AI. And as long as those things which is AI. And as long as those things are the same, there will be a constant are the same, there will be a constant bid for American assets. And that will bid for American assets. And that will keep the enterprise of America going for keep the enterprise of America going for far longer than most people would guess. far longer than most people would guess. up to a point, but pull up pull up this up to a point, but pull up pull up this chart that I said. This is the Yeah, I chart that I said. This is the Yeah, I think that this is why Buffett sort of think that this is why Buffett sort of speaks about this in these extremely speaks about this in these extremely long arcs that you're always ultimately long arcs that you're always ultimately going to be on the wrong side of the going to be on the wrong side of the trade betting against the United States. trade betting against the United States. And it's probably important to then say, And it's probably important to then say, well, what would a boundary condition well, what would a boundary condition be? I don't think the boundary condition be? I don't think the boundary condition is the dollar. I actually don't think is the dollar. I actually don't think the boundary condition is the debt. I the boundary condition is the debt. I think the boundary condition is if think the boundary condition is if something were to happen with the something were to happen with the quality of the human capital inside of quality of the human capital inside of the United States and its inability to the United States and its inability to innovate, then we're probably in innovate, then we're probably in trouble. But even that story will take trouble. But even that story will take 50 to 100 years to play out. I just 50 to 100 years to play out. I just think for most of our lifetimes, think for most of our lifetimes, this is a safe trade because it's a this is a safe trade because it's a winning trade. winning trade. winning trade. Free. Well, I mean, it's winning if you Free. Well, I mean, it's winning if you can put up with the currency dropping can put up with the currency dropping 11% in six months. And if you pull up 11% in six months. And if you pull up this chart and and I get it, Jimoth, I I this chart and and I get it, Jimoth, I I agree. But I mean, look, businesses are agree. But I mean, look, businesses are booming in India. Businesses are booming booming in India. Businesses are booming in China. Businesses are booming in in China. Businesses are booming in other countries now in the way that other countries now in the way that businesses used to boom strictly in the businesses used to boom strictly in the US. There are other markets that seem to US. There are other markets that seem to be having their day. And you can see be having their day. And you can see this number, which I think is a really this number, which I think is a really striking number. In the last 10 years, striking number. In the last 10 years, US treasuries held by foreign holders US treasuries held by foreign holders has declined from 34%. This is a good%. has declined from 34%. This is a good%. I mean, it's good in one context. You're I mean, it's good in one context. You're But my point is people, foreign But my point is people, foreign countries and foreign businesses and countries and foreign businesses and foreign investors aren't holding US foreign investors aren't holding US treasuries as much as nothing bad. treasuries as much as nothing bad. There's nothing bad about this chart. There's nothing bad about this chart. This is only a good thing. This chart This is only a good thing. This chart shows that people don't want to hold US shows that people don't want to hold US treasuries. No, this chart shows that treasuries. No, this chart shows that foreign governments and central banks foreign governments and central banks have less and less influence on the have less and less influence on the direction of American fiscal and direction of American fiscal and monetary policy. Better. That's better. monetary policy. Better. That's better. So, who's going to buy our debt? So, who's going to buy our debt? It turns out that when you're the It turns out that when you're the largest economy and you're growing, largest economy and you're growing, there's a lot of internal people that there's a lot of internal people that that will do it, that will do it, right? So, I mean, that's a key point right? So, I mean, that's a key point here, which is means that the debt's here, which is means that the debt's going to get more expensive if there's a going to get more expensive if there's a smaller market. That's not necessarily smaller market. That's not necessarily true either. Okay. Well, one thing's true either. Okay. Well, one thing's true is that we're investing a lot of true is that we're investing a lot of money and there's a lot of dry powder. money and there's a lot of dry powder. the amount of money being invested into the amount of money being invested into data centers and AI and the amount of data centers and AI and the amount of cash that's moving into investment cash that's moving into investment specifically in our borders that has to specifically in our borders that has to be accreative, right? Yeah. The amount be accreative, right? Yeah. The amount of cash in money market funds probably of cash in money market funds probably exceeds the sum total of all of the exceeds the sum total of all of the equity markets around the world. That's equity markets around the world. That's insane. Well, and it's like and now insane. Well, and it's like and now people are talking about building 10, people are talking about building 10, 20, 30 billion worth of data centers 20, 30 billion worth of data centers and, you know, nuclear power plants and, you know, nuclear power plants again. So, there's something going on again. So, there's something going on here with American exceptionalism. here with American exceptionalism. Speaking of American exceptionalism, Speaking of American exceptionalism, Harvard is uh still battling it out with Harvard is uh still battling it out with Trump and their $50 billion endowment is Trump and their $50 billion endowment is uh being questioned uh being questioned and it actually relates in many ways to and it actually relates in many ways to what we're seeing in private companies what we're seeing in private companies tech and VC. It's going to take a little tech and VC. It's going to take a little bit of a securous route to get there. bit of a securous route to get there. Since Trump has been inaugurated, Since Trump has been inaugurated, Harvard borrowed 1.2 billion due to Harvard borrowed 1.2 billion due to uncertainty around their federal uncertainty around their federal funding. Remember, Trump administration funding. Remember, Trump administration canceled over $2 billion worth of canceled over $2 billion worth of research grants to Harvard. Earlier this research grants to Harvard. Earlier this week, the administration formally week, the administration formally accused Harvard of tolerating accused Harvard of tolerating anti-semitism on campus. The White House anti-semitism on campus. The White House said it will file a civil rights lawsuit said it will file a civil rights lawsuit via the DOJ ASAP unless Harvard comes via the DOJ ASAP unless Harvard comes into compliance and does a deal with into compliance and does a deal with Trump. Here's what they're looking for. Trump. Here's what they're looking for. Trump White House cancelling DEI Trump White House cancelling DEI initiatives, third party oversight of initiatives, third party oversight of admissions, mandatory actions to combat admissions, mandatory actions to combat anti-semitism. Harvard has declined to anti-semitism. Harvard has declined to do a deal so far. And uh you right might do a deal so far. And uh you right might remember House Representative Elise remember House Representative Elise Stefonic. She asked the FCC two weeks Stefonic. She asked the FCC two weeks ago to investigate Harvard's financial ago to investigate Harvard's financial disclosures. So she got into the disclosures. So she got into the disclosures when they set up that $1 disclosures when they set up that $1 whatever billion dollar line of uh whatever billion dollar line of uh credit and loan. They did a bond deal. I credit and loan. They did a bond deal. I think they issued like $750 million of think they issued like $750 million of bonds. Yeah. So those 750 million bond bonds. Yeah. So those 750 million bond offering on April 9th was sent out and 6 offering on April 9th was sent out and 6 days later they sent out a supplemental days later they sent out a supplemental disclosure with more information about disclosure with more information about the White House civil rights the White House civil rights investigation which he claims Jason dire investigation which he claims Jason dire financial picture Harvard's cooked and I financial picture Harvard's cooked and I think this is really good for America think this is really good for America explain it turns out and there's been a explain it turns out and there's been a lot of people that's posted about this lot of people that's posted about this on X but there continues to be rampant on X but there continues to be rampant Title 9 violations with respect to Title 9 violations with respect to admissions I think creme admissions I think creme Nick, you can probably find it. I think Nick, you can probably find it. I think he published one that Colia was he published one that Colia was continuing to discriminate against Asian continuing to discriminate against Asian students. Harvard's original case was students. Harvard's original case was against Asian students. There was a against Asian students. There was a bunch of woke stuff at other Ivy League bunch of woke stuff at other Ivy League schools like UPEN. There's all this schools like UPEN. There's all this rampant anti-semitism. It all needs to rampant anti-semitism. It all needs to get fixed. And so I think that if you get fixed. And so I think that if you get a deal done, Harvard will have to get a deal done, Harvard will have to capitulate. I think President Trump capitulate. I think President Trump holds all the leverage in all the cards holds all the leverage in all the cards and there's nothing mathematically that and there's nothing mathematically that Harvard can do. They can stall for Harvard can do. They can stall for probably another year and a half, but at probably another year and a half, but at some point they will not have the budget some point they will not have the budget to sustain themselves and they're going to sustain themselves and they're going to get into a huge world of hurt. What to get into a huge world of hurt. What they will have to do in order to finance they will have to do in order to finance their budget in probably 18 months is their budget in probably 18 months is start to actively sell their private start to actively sell their private equity portfolio which by the way from equity portfolio which by the way from 2019 to this year almost doubled from 20 2019 to this year almost doubled from 20 to 40%. So an insane asset allocation to 40%. So an insane asset allocation frankly an asset misallocation at the frankly an asset misallocation at the top of the market to the most illquid top of the market to the most illquid asset class. And when people sniff this asset class. And when people sniff this out, what they're going to do is Harvard out, what they're going to do is Harvard was able to sell a billion dollars was able to sell a billion dollars recently of private equity stuff in recently of private equity stuff in managers that they didn't want to managers that they didn't want to support anymore at a 7% discount. support anymore at a 7% discount. There is no smart money on the street There is no smart money on the street that's going to look at any private that's going to look at any private equity portfolio from Harvard without equity portfolio from Harvard without asking for 20 25 30 35 40% discount asking for 20 25 30 35 40% discount because your back will be totally because your back will be totally against the wall. And if you don't ask against the wall. And if you don't ask for that, you're just a bad businessman. for that, you're just a bad businessman. So, if you put all of these things So, if you put all of these things together, they're going to need to together, they're going to need to reestablish federal funding. But in reestablish federal funding. But in order to do it, I think the president's order to do it, I think the president's been very, very clear. And for whatever been very, very clear. And for whatever reason, they've refused to want to reason, they've refused to want to address these issues. But the Ivy address these issues. But the Ivy League, there's just something League, there's just something fundamentally broken. Well, and fundamentally broken. Well, and Freeberg, Freeberg, Freeberg, the Wall Street Journal, reported on the Wall Street Journal, reported on Wednesday that Harvard would face a Wednesday that Harvard would face a billion dollar budget shortfall every billion dollar budget shortfall every year if Trump followed through on his year if Trump followed through on his funding cuts and tax hikes. He was also funding cuts and tax hikes. He was also uh saber rattling that he would get rid uh saber rattling that he would get rid of their nonprofit status or maybe of their nonprofit status or maybe change how the endowments worked. A lot change how the endowments worked. A lot of uh tools I think that he could deploy of uh tools I think that he could deploy here and uh excise tax by the way in the here and uh excise tax by the way in the BBB that taxes foundation assets. I BBB that taxes foundation assets. I don't know what the final language was don't know what the final language was but there is a there was a version that but there is a there was a version that I saw where excise tax on foundations I saw where excise tax on foundations was upwards of 8% a year. I don't know was upwards of 8% a year. I don't know if that was the final version, but if that was the final version, but that's an enormous amount. Let's just that's an enormous amount. Let's just say it's half that. Let's just say it's say it's half that. Let's just say it's 4%. But if you're paying 4% tax on your 4%. But if you're paying 4% tax on your endowment every year, it all of a sudden endowment every year, it all of a sudden starts to add up, that's like, you know, starts to add up, that's like, you know, for Harvard, like 2.5 extra billion for Harvard, like 2.5 extra billion dollars a year that they have to pay. dollars a year that they have to pay. And uh Freeberg reportedly Harvard is at And uh Freeberg reportedly Harvard is at the table and in discussions with the the table and in discussions with the White House after a couple of months of White House after a couple of months of defiance. What's your take on this? Is defiance. What's your take on this? Is this an important priority for America this an important priority for America and for the Trump administration? Is it and for the Trump administration? Is it a sideshow? What are your thoughts on a sideshow? What are your thoughts on the larger ramifications of this? Let me the larger ramifications of this? Let me just suspend the brand and history and just suspend the brand and history and legacy of Harvard for a second. Sure. legacy of Harvard for a second. Sure. And just talk about these And just talk about these call them prestigious higher education call them prestigious higher education institutions. What are the two primary institutions. What are the two primary functions of these institutions? The functions of these institutions? The first is to educate students and the first is to educate students and the second is to conduct research or to second is to conduct research or to create facilities for research. Remember create facilities for research. Remember these institutions do not direct these institutions do not direct research. They recruit and enable research. They recruit and enable researchers who apply for grants to get researchers who apply for grants to get funding to do their research and then funding to do their research and then they educate kids. I think the internet they educate kids. I think the internet was the first leg on the stool to break was the first leg on the stool to break higher education. higher education. higher education. The internet democratized access to The internet democratized access to information and knowledge. You can watch information and knowledge. You can watch MIT graduate courses. All of the core MIT graduate courses. All of the core kind of educational content that is kind of educational content that is delivered in prestigious delivered in prestigious higher education institutions has been higher education institutions has been largely democratized and is broadly largely democratized and is broadly available for free on the internet. available for free on the internet. That's an incredible transition that's That's an incredible transition that's happened for humanity, for society, for happened for humanity, for society, for the world. AI is the next leg of the the world. AI is the next leg of the stool to break. And I think that AI may stool to break. And I think that AI may actually break education. It may break actually break education. It may break higher education and then eventually it higher education and then eventually it may make its way all the way down to may make its way all the way down to childhood. In terms of rethinking from childhood. In terms of rethinking from first principles, how do we educate? How first principles, how do we educate? How is an individual getting educated and is an individual getting educated and what are the other benefits they get what are the other benefits they get from an educational system besides just from an educational system besides just core domain knowledge? There's also core domain knowledge? There's also socialization and experience with socialization and experience with project-based work. But I think that AI project-based work. But I think that AI fundamentally rewrites the ability for fundamentally rewrites the ability for an individual to get a good quality an individual to get a good quality education. And we could see kids in education. And we could see kids in Africa and kids in South Asia getting Africa and kids in South Asia getting the equivalent of a Harvard graduate the equivalent of a Harvard graduate school degree at a cost of zero through school degree at a cost of zero through personalized tutoring enabled through AI personalized tutoring enabled through AI and the ubiquitous access to knowledge and the ubiquitous access to knowledge and information. So that core function and information. So that core function of the university I think is broken and of the university I think is broken and they're now starting to reconcile what they're now starting to reconcile what that actually means for the long-term that actually means for the long-term viability of all of these higher viability of all of these higher educational institutions in the United educational institutions in the United States. The research function I think is States. The research function I think is also being rewritten around the world in also being rewritten around the world in Europe and in China and in Asia. There Europe and in China and in Asia. There are independent research institutions are independent research institutions that get research funding that can show that get research funding that can show up and say, "Hey, this institution is up and say, "Hey, this institution is just being used to run research. It just being used to run research. It doesn't necessarily need to be within an doesn't necessarily need to be within an educational framework. It can be an educational framework. It can be an independent research institution that independent research institution that focuses on either a topic or a domain. focuses on either a topic or a domain. So, I do think we're going to see more So, I do think we're going to see more and more independent research funding and more independent research funding happening with the grants that come out happening with the grants that come out from the federal government, from from the federal government, from nonprofits, from endowments and nonprofits, from endowments and foundations that fund research. So, I foundations that fund research. So, I think that there's a real reckoning think that there's a real reckoning underway. It's almost like these guys underway. It's almost like these guys have created a monopoly. They've have created a monopoly. They've accumulated this capital which allows accumulated this capital which allows them to build these great buildings, them to build these great buildings, attract these great researchers, and attract these great researchers, and then get the research funding to fund then get the research funding to fund those researchers and then use that to those researchers and then use that to raise more capital in their endowment raise more capital in their endowment and build the next building and keep and build the next building and keep this thing growing. And I think that this thing growing. And I think that that's breaking. I have one question for that's breaking. I have one question for you. I like where you're going with you. I like where you're going with this, but there's one hole that I would this, but there's one hole that I would like you to address, which is I don't like you to address, which is I don't think any of that is nearly as valuable think any of that is nearly as valuable to most of the kids applying or the to most of the kids applying or the parents forcing the kids to apply as it parents forcing the kids to apply as it is brand and then the cycle that is brand and then the cycle that employers put back. So that how do you employers put back. So that how do you fix that loop? fix that loop? Yeah. Well, I get it. like you can Yeah. Well, I get it. like you can YouTube your way to something and you YouTube your way to something and you can AI your way to something but at the can AI your way to something but at the end of the day Goldman Sachs loves to end of the day Goldman Sachs loves to recruit from Harvard and that's a really recruit from Harvard and that's a really big deal because that's a wonderful big deal because that's a wonderful company. I think the Teal Fellows company. I think the Teal Fellows program has highlighted that you don't program has highlighted that you don't get exceptional performance by get exceptional performance by exclusively going to people that have exclusively going to people that have higher education degrees from higher education degrees from prestigious institutions. The Teal prestigious institutions. The Teal Fellows program, which for those who Fellows program, which for those who don't know, offered significant funding don't know, offered significant funding uh to kids that are coming out of high uh to kids that are coming out of high school, 18-y olds. And I think the Teal school, 18-y olds. And I think the Teal Fellows, Jason, you probably know better Fellows, Jason, you probably know better than I do what they've created, right? than I do what they've created, right? Like, yeah, a lot of startups and No, Like, yeah, a lot of startups and No, but like amazing startups like But how but like amazing startups like But how do you deal with 500 million kids do you deal with 500 million kids graduating a year globally with no with graduating a year globally with no with no brand differentiation? I think that's no brand differentiation? I think that's an important question. So, how did Teal an important question. So, how did Teal Fellows do it? And how do you hire Fellows do it? And how do you hire Chimoth? You just did a program for 8090 Chimoth? You just did a program for 8090 to to find people, right? Yeah. Well, to to find people, right? Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean, we we did a coding yeah. I mean, we we did a coding challenge. challenge. challenge. I guess I I guess what I'm saying is I guess I I guess what I'm saying is though that Well, so what's the though that Well, so what's the alternative to that coding challenge? I alternative to that coding challenge? I mean, yeah. No, no. The best way to mean, yeah. No, no. The best way to determine Fredber to answer your determine Fredber to answer your question, the best way to determine if a question, the best way to determine if a person can do a job if you don't want to person can do a job if you don't want to outsource it to a a logo like Harvard or outsource it to a a logo like Harvard or Stanford, which are have worked in the Stanford, which are have worked in the past, is to watch them do the job. That past, is to watch them do the job. That is the number one day to do it. And the is the number one day to do it. And the way to do that is to hire them for way to do that is to hire them for projects and or do internships. And that projects and or do internships. And that means you have to invest in what's means you have to invest in what's called professional development. And called professional development. And that slows companies down. So the hack that slows companies down. So the hack is to just pick a logo. But I for is to just pick a logo. But I for example in our venture firm created a example in our venture firm created a training program for associates and we training program for associates and we invested in that and we hire three at a invested in that and we hire three at a time and two of them make it on time and two of them make it on typically sometimes just one who hit our typically sometimes just one who hit our notes and the other ones move on. Uh and notes and the other ones move on. Uh and so I I think you have to invest in your so I I think you have to invest in your own professional development in your own professional development in your organization and the organizations that organization and the organizations that do that then succeed and have a massive do that then succeed and have a massive competitive advantage because they have competitive advantage because they have their own training program and way to their own training program and way to evaluate talent. That's one way. Doing a evaluate talent. That's one way. Doing a a codathon and scoring people is another a codathon and scoring people is another way. Having an AI interviewer is another way. Having an AI interviewer is another way. So you can interview 10,000 kids way. So you can interview 10,000 kids instead of interview the 50 that you instead of interview the 50 that you chose out of Harvard because Harvard is chose out of Harvard because Harvard is your first filter. So the real question, your first filter. So the real question, Chimath, is like what are the mechanisms Chimath, is like what are the mechanisms by which employers are going to create by which employers are going to create new filtering systems? And I think that new filtering systems? And I think that there's a lot that we just we just kind there's a lot that we just we just kind of went through three examples, but I of went through three examples, but I don't know if the brand holds over time. don't know if the brand holds over time. Well, here's the thing that what you're Well, here's the thing that what you're saying doesn't address. There are just a saying doesn't address. There are just a lot of kids that aren't ready to bloom lot of kids that aren't ready to bloom when they're 18 or 19 or 20 or 21. when they're 18 or 19 or 20 or 21. And I'm not sure that, you know, I'll And I'm not sure that, you know, I'll just take myself as an example. I was a just take myself as an example. I was a marginal performer in university, marginal performer in university, but I had co-op. I did well in co-op but I had co-op. I did well in co-op jobs. Those co-op jobs were because jobs. Those co-op jobs were because these employers only wanted to recruit these employers only wanted to recruit from the University of Wateroo. Now, if from the University of Wateroo. Now, if I had to compete with 50,000 kids, I'm I had to compete with 50,000 kids, I'm pretty sure I would not have gotten it pretty sure I would not have gotten it cuz I was a bit of a layout. But then, cuz I was a bit of a layout. But then, you know, when I got into the you know, when I got into the professional working world after a professional working world after a couple of years, everything just kind of couple of years, everything just kind of clicked. So I think the the problem that clicked. So I think the the problem that we'll have is in the absence of brand we'll have is in the absence of brand it's just going to be very difficult to it's just going to be very difficult to differentiate oneself and filter people differentiate oneself and filter people and I think that what Jason says becomes and I think that what Jason says becomes the huge problem which is then the the huge problem which is then the burden of professional development for burden of professional development for all these young kids is extremely heavy. all these young kids is extremely heavy. So I think that the idea of all of this So I think that the idea of all of this tooling is good and it's necessary but I tooling is good and it's necessary but I think it's insufficient. there's think it's insufficient. there's something else that we need because I something else that we need because I think that being able to differentiate think that being able to differentiate yourself in a coding challenge is not yourself in a coding challenge is not the future either. It's for a very very the future either. It's for a very very narrow class of person. Look, project narrow class of person. Look, project based work, social adjustment there based work, social adjustment there there there are clearly other really there there are clearly other really important skills and development cycles important skills and development cycles that are needed for people. It's not that are needed for people. It's not just dumping knowledge into your brain. just dumping knowledge into your brain. This isn't like the matrix where you can This isn't like the matrix where you can just turn on the knowledge and and gain just turn on the knowledge and and gain it. And so I do agree. I think that it. And so I do agree. I think that there are other systems by which that there are other systems by which that will happen and those systems will will will happen and those systems will will will output filters. I'm just not sure will output filters. I'm just not sure it's the same system that we've used for it's the same system that we've used for the last 250 years. It's not I think the last 250 years. It's not I think that's the the really interesting part that's the the really interesting part of the discussion we've got to Freeberg of the discussion we've got to Freeberg is that we had an incredible system of a is that we had an incredible system of a series of layered I you know iconography series of layered I you know iconography that indicated hey you get 10 people that indicated hey you get 10 people from this group 100 from this group and from this group 100 from this group and you slot them in and hey your company's you slot them in and hey your company's going to operate and then parents don't going to operate and then parents don't have to worry the students don't have to have to worry the students don't have to worry nor do the companies in this new worry nor do the companies in this new world the companies have an opportunity world the companies have an opportunity by creating professional development and by creating professional development and you know what the people who couldn't you know what the people who couldn't get into Harvard because they didn't get into Harvard because they didn't have the connections, they weren't have the connections, they weren't legacy or they didn't have the legacy or they didn't have the wherewithal to pay for SAT tutors or wherewithal to pay for SAT tutors or whatever that it took to hack whatever that it took to hack your way in and have a legacy family your way in and have a legacy family member or whatever racist policies they member or whatever racist policies they had and didn't let Asian people in had and didn't let Asian people in because they didn't have the right because they didn't have the right personalities. All that nonsense goes personalities. All that nonsense goes away and that actually benefits their away and that actually benefits their grades were too good. grades were their grades were too good. Right. Exactly. Their performance was Right. Exactly. Their performance was too high. In all fairness, you did too high. In all fairness, you did wrong. It's like the dumb It's like the wrong. It's like the dumb It's like the dumbest thing I've ever heard. But dumbest thing I've ever heard. But here's the good news, anybody can build here's the good news, anybody can build a project in the world and refine their a project in the world and refine their skills right now based on all the skills right now based on all the information that's on the internet. And information that's on the internet. And you and I, Chimath, are part of that you and I, Chimath, are part of that group of people. We made our own luck. group of people. We made our own luck. We made our own projects. We had some We made our own projects. We had some level of grit and and autonomy and level of grit and and autonomy and self-reliance to do that. Uh and I you self-reliance to do that. Uh and I you know the feedback I got from our know the feedback I got from our previous discussion about this is previous discussion about this is everybody talking about how poor people everybody talking about how poor people as a group can never ever strive and as a group can never ever strive and never build anything. The truth is it's never build anything. The truth is it's the easiest it's ever been to build a the easiest it's ever been to build a company to build a project and to be company to build a project and to be independent as a creator of a product or independent as a creator of a product or service in the world. It's the easiest service in the world. It's the easiest it's ever been. It requires the least it's ever been. It requires the least capital and the least amount of time. capital and the least amount of time. So, we're selling a narrative to people So, we're selling a narrative to people that they're helpless when in fact they that they're helpless when in fact they are super super empowered. The only are super super empowered. The only thing you can't do is put yourself into thing you can't do is put yourself into $200,000 in debt because you'll never $200,000 in debt because you'll never get out of it. Mhm. get out of it. Mhm. I actually think this is a huge I actually think this is a huge beautiful opportunity to reset the beautiful opportunity to reset the system. But it it's not going to be like system. But it it's not going to be like going to, you know, a supermarket and going to, you know, a supermarket and picking the brands you want and then picking the brands you want and then filling positions. You're going to have filling positions. You're going to have to be self-reliant for all the students to be self-reliant for all the students out there. And that's what Peter Teal out there. And that's what Peter Teal got right. You got to give a shout out got right. You got to give a shout out to Peter Teal here. I think Freeberg he to Peter Teal here. I think Freeberg he when he did the teal fellowship the way when he did the teal fellowship the way they picked people was their they had a they picked people was their they had a mission to accomplish something in the mission to accomplish something in the world and they were making progress world and they were making progress towards it. That's actually the criteria towards it. That's actually the criteria they used. Did you have enough inner they used. Did you have enough inner resolve to actually pick a mission and resolve to actually pick a mission and did you actually do anything to steer did you actually do anything to steer yourself towards it? And when you make yourself towards it? And when you make it a competitive, you know, sort of it a competitive, you know, sort of program like that, they just picked the program like that, they just picked the people who picked the most interesting people who picked the most interesting missions and had made the most progress. missions and had made the most progress. But there's definitely going to be a But there's definitely going to be a hole left in society if these degrees do hole left in society if these degrees do not correlate with performance and not correlate with performance and reality. All right. On Tuesday, reality. All right. On Tuesday, Grammarly, I'm a huge fan of that Grammarly, I'm a huge fan of that product, acquired Superhuman. Uh that's product, acquired Superhuman. Uh that's that amazing superfast AI email tool that amazing superfast AI email tool from Raul of which I was the first from Raul of which I was the first investor in. Uh superhuman had raised investor in. Uh superhuman had raised 114 million was valued at $825 million 114 million was valued at $825 million during peak zerp according to Reuters. during peak zerp according to Reuters. Superhum has annual revenue of $35 Superhum has annual revenue of $35 million and Grammarly seems to be million and Grammarly seems to be building a little bit of a suite of AI building a little bit of a suite of AI workplace tools. They bought KOD was not workplace tools. They bought KOD was not an investor in but I am a huge fan of an investor in but I am a huge fan of that product as well. It's similar to that product as well. It's similar to notion, another product I'm a huge fan notion, another product I'm a huge fan of. They bought KOD back in December. of. They bought KOD back in December. And then on top of that, Figma filed And then on top of that, Figma filed their S1 Q1 revenues, 228 million. their S1 Q1 revenues, 228 million. Remember, they were going to get bought Remember, they were going to get bought by Adobe before before it got stopped. by Adobe before before it got stopped. And uh they have 13 million monthly And uh they have 13 million monthly active users, a billion and a half in active users, a billion and a half in cash, no debt, and uh turns out CEO cash, no debt, and uh turns out CEO Dylan Field has 75% voting power. So Dylan Field has 75% voting power. So he's in founder mode. Very nice. And he's in founder mode. Very nice. And also a teal fellow. really interesting also a teal fellow. really interesting cat. I've had him on uh my other pod. cat. I've had him on uh my other pod. Figma is going to try to raise 1.5 Figma is going to try to raise 1.5 billion in their IPO. That would match billion in their IPO. That would match Coreweave. That was the biggest tech IPO Coreweave. That was the biggest tech IPO of the year so far. And we are on a of the year so far. And we are on a heater. Circle went public that was up heater. Circle went public that was up 7x uh from its IPO peak. And Chime went 7x uh from its IPO peak. And Chime went public slightly higher than its IPO public slightly higher than its IPO price. You had E Toro. Uh Hinge Health price. You had E Toro. Uh Hinge Health also went public. Wealthfront which I also went public. Wealthfront which I was an angel investor in. They just was an angel investor in. They just filed to go public. Yum yum. and uh filed to go public. Yum yum. and uh bunch of M&amp;A transactions. We talked bunch of M&amp;A transactions. We talked about Door Dash made two purchases. Sam about Door Dash made two purchases. Sam Alman bought two companies at OpenAI Alman bought two companies at OpenAI and uh tons of M&amp;A happening at the same and uh tons of M&amp;A happening at the same time. According to Poly Market, 52% time. According to Poly Market, 52% chance of a rate cut in September, 46% chance of a rate cut in September, 46% chance of no change. So, we're chance of no change. So, we're definitely not getting an increase definitely not getting an increase according to the sharp money. And I according to the sharp money. And I think Pal said he would have cut if think Pal said he would have cut if there weren't the tariff, there weren't the tariff, you know, curveball thrown into the you know, curveball thrown into the system, which is, I think, what most of system, which is, I think, what most of us thought. And Chimath, you talked us thought. And Chimath, you talked about all this sideline cash sitting about all this sideline cash sitting there in money market accounts. Markets there in money market accounts. Markets at an all-time high. Uber blew past 88, at an all-time high. Uber blew past 88, so I should be retired right now. What so I should be retired right now. What are your thoughts on M&amp;A IPOs? Feels are your thoughts on M&amp;A IPOs? Feels like, man, we've got a like, man, we've got a really frisky hot market right now. Does really frisky hot market right now. Does it make you nervous or does it feel like it make you nervous or does it feel like this is where we should have been all this is where we should have been all along and that Biden maybe was putting a along and that Biden maybe was putting a headwind against all this? Yeah. So, headwind against all this? Yeah. So, here's the crux of the issue. I think here's the crux of the issue. I think this is the intersection of a lot of this is the intersection of a lot of really interesting things happening really interesting things happening right now. You have Meta giving right now. You have Meta giving individual human beings 300 to$500 individual human beings 300 to$500 million packages like their NBA first million packages like their NBA first team allstars. team allstars. team allstars. Open AAI, their revenue numbers just Open AAI, their revenue numbers just leaked. They're forecasting 13 billion leaked. They're forecasting 13 billion in 25 2025, spiking to 125 billion in in 25 2025, spiking to 125 billion in 2029. You have Anthropic, 2029. You have Anthropic, their revenue by 2027 is their revenue by 2027 is forecasted to be about 35 billion. So forecasted to be about 35 billion. So what does all of this tell you? what does all of this tell you? To be honest, it's telling me that To be honest, it's telling me that the state of software is a little the state of software is a little unclear. unclear. unclear. Meaning, Meaning, Meaning, I actually believe the open AI and I actually believe the open AI and anthropic numbers. I understand why anthropic numbers. I understand why Facebook is now spending as if there's Facebook is now spending as if there's an existential risk. And I think the an existential risk. And I think the existential risk is that these models existential risk is that these models could be so foundational to how social could be so foundational to how social experiences and work are done that it experiences and work are done that it starts to absorb a lot of other stuff. starts to absorb a lot of other stuff. So the question is how do other tools So the question is how do other tools fit into a workflow when these things fit into a workflow when these things become so central to how people both become so central to how people both enjoy their free time as well as spend enjoy their free time as well as spend their productive time. And I think when their productive time. And I think when you look at that, you look at that, you look at Figma, what I would say is you look at Figma, what I would say is on the surface in the absence of these on the surface in the absence of these AI businesses, I would say, man, what a AI businesses, I would say, man, what a gang busters business. Growing by 40 gang busters business. Growing by 40 something% a year at this scale. They're something% a year at this scale. They're adjusted. I think operating margins are adjusted. I think operating margins are 18%. I don't like adjusted because it's 18%. I don't like adjusted because it's adjusted for stockbased comp. I don't adjusted for stockbased comp. I don't know what it is when you add that back know what it is when you add that back in. But the point is it's a phenomenal in. But the point is it's a phenomenal business. The question that I think the business. The question that I think the institutional investor will have is what institutional investor will have is what am I buying? am I buying? And does this revenue growth And does this revenue growth sit adjacent sit adjacent sit adjacent to core model revenue growth? Because to core model revenue growth? Because the big question that we have yet to the big question that we have yet to answer and this is not a Figma specific answer and this is not a Figma specific issue. It is an industry-wide issue is issue. It is an industry-wide issue is how much do these foundational models how much do these foundational models absorb into what they do for what you absorb into what they do for what you pay them? And I don't think we know the pay them? And I don't think we know the answer to that yet. So if all of these answer to that yet. So if all of these things just become excellent coding things just become excellent coding tools, then all of this highle software tools, then all of this highle software is free and clear, right? It's it's it's is free and clear, right? It's it's it's in the safe zone. But I think the in the safe zone. But I think the problem is we don't know that that's the problem is we don't know that that's the case, you know? And so I think in the case, you know? And so I think in the IPO, what you're probably going to see IPO, what you're probably going to see is people approach this company the same is people approach this company the same way that they approach all non-core AI way that they approach all non-core AI IPOs, IPOs, IPOs, which is that it's a business that you which is that it's a business that you love to own for a year or two, but if love to own for a year or two, but if there's a depression in valuation, it's there's a depression in valuation, it's because people cannot underwrite years because people cannot underwrite years three, four, and five. M uh Freeberg, do three, four, and five. M uh Freeberg, do you believe that the Star Trek you believe that the Star Trek communicator just doubleclick on your communicator just doubleclick on your pendant, ask the computer to do pendant, ask the computer to do something means there's one piece of something means there's one piece of software in the world that does software in the world that does everything and all this long tale of everything and all this long tale of business software just goes away? And if business software just goes away? And if so, on what timeline? so, on what timeline? No. Okay. Yeah. I mean, this speaks to No. Okay. Yeah. I mean, this speaks to revenue quality, revenue stability. I revenue quality, revenue stability. I think you used the term how brittle is think you used the term how brittle is it Chimath? What are your thoughts on it Chimath? What are your thoughts on Chimath's angle here of that unknown? Chimath's angle here of that unknown? Where would you fall either way? Are we Where would you fall either way? Are we going to have a suite of products or going to have a suite of products or does it Yeah, I mean more narrow. Well, does it Yeah, I mean more narrow. Well, it depends for what application. I think it depends for what application. I think Figma's done a classic like land and Figma's done a classic like land and expand in terms of who they initially go expand in terms of who they initially go after and then what the suite of tools after and then what the suite of tools that they offer does. By expanding that, that they offer does. By expanding that, they now can offer a bunch of different they now can offer a bunch of different people within an organization a set of people within an organization a set of tools to help them all collaboratively tools to help them all collaboratively develop products and services. And you develop products and services. And you can see that in some of the numbers. can see that in some of the numbers. Revenue growth is on the order of 40 Revenue growth is on the order of 40 some odd percent. They ran a 43% some odd percent. They ran a 43% operating cash flow margin in Q1. So in operating cash flow margin in Q1. So in Q1 of this year, Figma generated $95 Q1 of this year, Figma generated $95 million of free cash flow. They've got million of free cash flow. They've got net revenue retention of like 130%. So net revenue retention of like 130%. So this land and expand is proven out and this land and expand is proven out and there's real durability it looks like to there's real durability it looks like to this business for now. But to Chimat's this business for now. But to Chimat's point like what does three to four years point like what does three to four years from now look like? Does this get from now look like? Does this get absorbed into chat GPT? You could say absorbed into chat GPT? You could say that about any software at any point in that about any software at any point in time. I think the thing that makes this time. I think the thing that makes this AI era different is that that AI era different is that that transformative shift can happen transformative shift can happen overnight where suddenly someone else overnight where suddenly someone else launches a service it completely obvious launches a service it completely obvious because of what AI can do. But I think because of what AI can do. But I think Figma's done a great job staying ahead Figma's done a great job staying ahead of the curve. the free money I think of the curve. the free money I think trade instead of having to bet up or trade instead of having to bet up or down Jason on AI, I would if I could get down Jason on AI, I would if I could get like $50 or $100 million of Figma, I like $50 or $100 million of Figma, I would probably long it and I would short would probably long it and I would short an equivalent quantum of Adobe and I an equivalent quantum of Adobe and I would just book the spread. And I think would just book the spread. And I think you make a ton of money that way. That's you make a ton of money that way. That's a safer trade because, you know, even if a safer trade because, you know, even if the AI model thing comes around the the AI model thing comes around the corner, we don't see it, the person corner, we don't see it, the person who's going to take a retrade on who's going to take a retrade on valuation faster than Figma will be valuation faster than Figma will be Adobe. And so you'll be hedged and Adobe. And so you'll be hedged and you'll probably make money that way. We you'll probably make money that way. We look at something in terms of not just look at something in terms of not just the quality of revenue in our investment the quality of revenue in our investment firm. We look at the durability of it. firm. We look at the durability of it. Like can this exist two, three, four Like can this exist two, three, four years from now and is the value acrewing years from now and is the value acrewing so much to the user that the amount so much to the user that the amount they're paying they just never think I they're paying they just never think I should swap this out. I should replace should swap this out. I should replace it. Right? And and the revenue it. Right? And and the revenue durability of your iPhone is a good durability of your iPhone is a good example of it. Despite people not example of it. Despite people not renewing your your phone every year, you renewing your your phone every year, you still can't think. There's no better still can't think. There's no better option than an iPhone right now. Even my option than an iPhone right now. Even my Google Pixel 9 fold, as great as it is, Google Pixel 9 fold, as great as it is, it just feels like that revenue is still it just feels like that revenue is still durable. I wonder when it becomes less durable. I wonder when it becomes less durable. Can I push back on this? I durable. Can I push back on this? I think that the I think the question that think that the I think the question that it brings up is not whether the it brings up is not whether the individual person can whip out a card individual person can whip out a card and pay for it in four years. It's and pay for it in four years. It's whether that individual person actually whether that individual person actually exists. exists. exists. And so the with that amount of money to And so the with that amount of money to spend. No, no, no, no, no. Meaning like spend. No, no, no, no, no. Meaning like we don't know what the layoff cycle and we don't know what the layoff cycle and the pattern of layoffs inside of the pattern of layoffs inside of companies may be with AI. Meaning if we companies may be with AI. Meaning if we all become more generalized all become more generalized skilled workers skilled workers skilled workers and there may be many many many more and there may be many many many more companies companies companies then the odds are more likely that you then the odds are more likely that you provision highly skilled vertically provision highly skilled vertically specific work to a set of agents. Yes. specific work to a set of agents. Yes. If that's true, then the tools that If that's true, then the tools that created incredible durability created incredible durability when the organizational chart of a when the organizational chart of a company supported vertical company supported vertical specialization specialization specialization won't exist when instead you'd have won't exist when instead you'd have horizontal horizontal horizontal capabilities that you work across. An capabilities that you work across. An example, I think that that's the big example, I think that that's the big question that AI will will bring to question that AI will will bring to bear. And again, it's not going to be bear. And again, it's not going to be overnight, but that's where people will overnight, but that's where people will frontr run those trades and the market frontr run those trades and the market specifically if they sniff this out. specifically if they sniff this out. We'll want to price that 24 and 36 We'll want to price that 24 and 36 months forward and say this is what the months forward and say this is what the end state looks like. A way to sort of end state looks like. A way to sort of for people to understand that is imagine for people to understand that is imagine you outsource HR and you don't have a you outsource HR and you don't have a sixperson HR company like you talked sixperson HR company like you talked about two years ago and then you don't about two years ago and then you don't need HR software, right? So your point need HR software, right? So your point each group has a set of SAS software and each group has a set of SAS software and tools it uses. If that group goes away tools it uses. If that group goes away because it's just abstracted into the AI because it's just abstracted into the AI machine outsourced it there's nobody to machine outsourced it there's nobody to buy it in the organization. There's buy it in the organization. There's nobody going to the CFO saying I need nobody going to the CFO saying I need this HR software. I need this project this HR software. I need this project management software. I think it's a management software. I think it's a really interesting point and the way as really interesting point and the way as you for a founder Freeberg to avoid this you for a founder Freeberg to avoid this is to have you know a product that is to have you know a product that services many different needs for those services many different needs for those customers or that organization. I think customers or that organization. I think that's why I like these tools like KOD that's why I like these tools like KOD and notion is they kind of infect many and notion is they kind of infect many different departments in the different departments in the organization. Right? This has been an organization. Right? This has been an amazing summer episode of the All-In amazing summer episode of the All-In podcast. We weren't going to do it this podcast. We weren't going to do it this week, but we said, you know what, we week, but we said, you know what, we wanted to talk about a couple of issues wanted to talk about a couple of issues for we wanted to see each other and uh for we wanted to see each other and uh it's the slowest news week of the year, it's the slowest news week of the year, but we wanted to get together and hash but we wanted to get together and hash out some of these issues. Anybody got out some of these issues. Anybody got big plans for the weekend and any uh big plans for the weekend and any uh recommendations for people? I did some recommendations for people? I did some books to read. You guys got any shows or books to read. You guys got any shows or books you're reading right now? Any any books you're reading right now? Any any albums you're listening to? Any things albums you're listening to? Any things you're obsessed with? I'm reading uh you're obsessed with? I'm reading uh Modern Poker Theory by Michael Asavvito. Modern Poker Theory by Michael Asavvito. Oh, really? This goes into GTO and that Oh, really? This goes into GTO and that kind of stuff. Yeah, fabulous book. Any kind of stuff. Yeah, fabulous book. Any What's your big takeaway thus far? Do What's your big takeaway thus far? Do you have something that's you you wrote you have something that's you you wrote a note about or you highlighted? No, I a note about or you highlighted? No, I mean like I'm I'm I'm just tuning up my mean like I'm I'm I'm just tuning up my game. Always tuning up my game. Oh, game. Always tuning up my game. Oh, you're doing a little tuni tune. Well, I you're doing a little tuni tune. Well, I mean, I I hope is that because we have mean, I I hope is that because we have something going on in November. something going on in November. You want to do Well, we can't talk about You want to do Well, we can't talk about that. Well, I don't know if this if this that. Well, I don't know if this if this poker thing happens, maybe we can't play poker thing happens, maybe we can't play poker anymore in America. I don't know. poker anymore in America. I don't know. Oh, yeah. The big We didn't mention Oh, yeah. The big We didn't mention this, but the big bill says I don't this, but the big bill says I don't know. Maybe you can't be gambling. We know. Maybe you can't be gambling. We need We didn't talk about it, but man, need We didn't talk about it, but man, that's a reason to get up in arms about that's a reason to get up in arms about this bill. If it gets rid of the poker this bill. If it gets rid of the poker ledger, what do we do with the ledge? ledger, what do we do with the ledge? No, the ledger. And the ledger will No, the ledger. And the ledger will survive. Actually, actually, this survive. Actually, actually, this reinforces the value of the ledger reinforces the value of the ledger because you'll just run the ledger because you'll just run the ledger infinitely. You may have to have an infinitely. You may have to have an infinite ledge. Never settle. Never infinite ledge. Never settle. Never settle. I was thinking my proposal for settle. I was thinking my proposal for the ledge was if you're under a 100red the ledge was if you're under a 100red dimes, you roll. If you're over a 100 dimes, you roll. If you're over a 100 dimes, you clear, you know, like each dimes, you clear, you know, like each year at the end of the year because it's year at the end of the year because it's just not worth the You know what I'm just not worth the You know what I'm saying? It's not worth the the tax saying? It's not worth the the tax implications. Well, we may have to implications. Well, we may have to create like an offshore blocker, fund it create like an offshore blocker, fund it with stable coins. I mean, the whole with stable coins. I mean, the whole thing is going to really complicated. thing is going to really complicated. Our lawyers and accountants are going to Our lawyers and accountants are going to have a field day with this just so we have a field day with this just so we can flip coins and play bomb pots. can flip coins and play bomb pots. Freeberg, you watching any shows or Freeberg, you watching any shows or movies? Maybe you could um maybe you movies? Maybe you could um maybe you could give us one of your great deep could give us one of your great deep pulls for a science fiction film that pulls for a science fiction film that people should watch this weekend if they people should watch this weekend if they want to get some joy. Maybe Silent want to get some joy. Maybe Silent Running. You like Silent Running? Run. Running. You like Silent Running? Run. Logan's Run. Silent Running. Those are Logan's Run. Silent Running. Those are good cho7. good cho7. good cho7. Yeah. and and I think I watched the Bob Yeah. and and I think I watched the Bob Dylan flick on the flight to Italy. Oh, Dylan flick on the flight to Italy. Oh, shout out to Timothy Shalame. What a shout out to Timothy Shalame. What a great film. I mean, he Okay, I have to great film. I mean, he Okay, I have to be honest with you. I was be I have to be honest with you. I was not a super fan of Bob Dylan's music not a super fan of Bob Dylan's music before. Yeah. But then I was like, wow, before. Yeah. But then I was like, wow, the body of work is really impressive. the body of work is really impressive. Let me give you two and sorry and Joan Let me give you two and sorry and Joan Bayz Bayz Bayz and their their music together. and their their music together. Incredible. I mean, let me give you I Incredible. I mean, let me give you I was a little short on Joan Bayas too and was a little short on Joan Bayas too and I was like this was a mistake. I'm just I was like this was a mistake. I'm just going to give you three albums to listen going to give you three albums to listen to. Blood on the tracks. I want you to to. Blood on the tracks. I want you to listen to Blood on the Tracks. Then I listen to Blood on the Tracks. Then I want you to listen to uh Infidels want you to listen to uh Infidels another which is like his best of the8s. another which is like his best of the8s. Infidels and Blood on the Tracks. Those Infidels and Blood on the Tracks. Those are two in and Empire Burlesque a third are two in and Empire Burlesque a third one. Empire Burlesque and Infidels from one. Empire Burlesque and Infidels from the 80s. This is Dylan at the like the 80s. This is Dylan at the like really interesting height of creativity. really interesting height of creativity. And then blood on the tracks post his And then blood on the tracks post his 60s7s folk rock stuff and that 60s7s folk rock stuff and that transition. People consider blood on the transition. People consider blood on the tracks the seminal album. I will also tracks the seminal album. I will also give you a deep pull of street legal give you a deep pull of street legal with an incredible track changing of the with an incredible track changing of the guard. This you'll love Chimath because guard. This you'll love Chimath because you also like the war on drugs. War on you also like the war on drugs. War on drugs very influenced by that era. So drugs very influenced by that era. So you got blood on the track street legal you got blood on the track street legal infidels and empire burles. Those are infidels and empire burles. Those are Jal's Dylan choices. I hate drugs. War Jal's Dylan choices. I hate drugs. War on drugs. Dylan do drugs? I mean, it was on drugs. Dylan do drugs? I mean, it was famous that he I think he was on speed famous that he I think he was on speed for a little bit in the 70s reportedly for a little bit in the 70s reportedly and that's where he had a lot of and that's where he had a lot of productive days. Um, but I think he uh productive days. Um, but I think he uh introduced the Beatles to LSD was the introduced the Beatles to LSD was the rumor. Freeberg, your thoughts on my rumor. Freeberg, your thoughts on my Dylan selections or do you have one of Dylan selections or do you have one of your own? your own? your own? I'll leave it to you, Jal. You got any I'll leave it to you, Jal. You got any uh movies or something? uh movies or something? I did recently rewatch The Arrival by I did recently rewatch The Arrival by Denny Villain Nov. How do you pronounce Denny Villain Nov. How do you pronounce his last name? Villain. Vill. Oh, he's his last name? Villain. Vill. Oh, he's doing the new Bond. That's going to be doing the new Bond. That's going to be the new Bond. All right, everybody. We the new Bond. All right, everybody. We will see you next time on the world's will see you next time on the world's number one podcast. Saxy Poo will be number one podcast. Saxy Poo will be back. back. back. Love you, besties. Love you, boys. Love you, besties. Love you, boys. We'll let your winners ride. We'll let your winners ride. Rainman David and we open sourced it to the fans and and we open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love they've just gone crazy with it. Love you, queen of kin. you, queen of kin. Besties are gone. Besties are gone. That is my dog taking your driveways. Oh man, my appetiter will meet. You Oh man, my appetiter will meet. You should all just get a room and just have should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all just one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual useless. It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release tension that they just need to release somehow. somehow. somehow. beak. Wet your feet. Your feet. beak. Wet your feet. Your feet. We need to get merch. I'm going all in.