================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: vD3_r7p7yvg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vD3_r7p7yvg
TITLE: Liverpool strike late again + Kane downs Chelsea
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-18
DURATION: 57m 11s
VIEWS: 7,314
LIKES: 146
COMMENTS: 32
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo, Charlie Eccleshare, Colin Millar and Duncan Alexander assemble to pore over Tuesday and Wednesday's pretty tasty Matchday 1 Champions League ties.

Another late Liverpool goal? You don't say! We begin with Wednesday night at Anfield and the dramatic 3-2 win over Atletico, before turning attention to Chelsea's self-inflicted wounds in their 3-1 defeat by a superb Harry Kane-led Bayern Munich.

There's reflections on the wins for Tottenham and Arsenal on Tuesday night - and the rest of the action including the sacking of Bruno Lage at Benfica which seems to be opening the door for the return of a rather famous manager...

There was chaos in Turin, PSG purring, Trent limping off and headers aplenty elsewhere across the 12 matches we've seen so far - with no doubt more entertainment to come tonight.

We've got Carabao Cup fun - including Swansea's remarkable comeback against Ange's Forest - before a look ahead to the Premier League weekend that awaits!

Remember, we're back on Frida
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,503

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally Football Show today. Champions League returns. We take stock on the Sharks as the big sides get out the blocks. Simeone's Anfield Payne. Bayern with Harry Kane. Lloyd Kelly for the old lady again. And a historic Carabag Cup performance that may bring Mininovation at Benfica. Plus, what Angus Forest did next, what Amarim's cooking up for this weekend, a song for Mowki, and more in this totally football show. Thursday the 18th of September. Listen, thank you so much for joining us. Here in the studio, we've got Colin Miller. Hey, Colin. Hey, James. Lovely to see you. Duncan Alexander's in. Hello. And back from the tennis kit, Charlie. Hello. What have you enjoyed most so far, Colin? It's been a week of comebacks, hasn't it? I mean um from Carabag Benfica they were 2-0 down after 15 minutes. They went 3-2 that the crazy Juventus British Dortmund game two goals in the last minute after being 4-2 down and Bodto Glimp came from 22 2-0 down against Slavia Prague to draw and then obviously the Carabal Cup as well getting in the action with Nottingham Forest blowing their two goal lead at Swansea two last minute goals. Who's their manager? Ah an is back. An is back. Um but yeah, I mean it's I think I think this week as well in the Champions League those matches were really throughout the tournament have been really well matched. I think a lot of those teams have in similar sort of seedings and similar levels and I think that's made it a lot more entertaining as well. Do you think it was seated the draw? I think the way do this and this is actually quite curious isn't it? It seems to be that the the stronger the team the more difficult the run of matches seems to be. I don't know if that's I don't know how their seating system works for how those games are drawn out, but I remember I remember last year when for the opening game you talking about No, but for the for the entire draw and so Chelsea world champions have got by popular consent the toughest draw of all. Yeah. And um it was I don't know if they've done this uh for this season but for last season it was Celtic who were in the lowest seated um pot had the statistically the easiest. PSG had the hardest. Um, and now obviously they went on to win the tournament, but they had finished um, sort of mid-table and they had just got in. I mean, we we simply don't know because now the draw process is uh, khaka or someone will press a button and the fixtures emerge. The the sadness is that we had Pedro Pinto with the other day. If anyone could have told us it would be he was mashing a button in the background, but I don't know what it was doing. So, we we'll never know. We'll never know. Charlie, what have you enjoyed so far? Well, I um I made the decision to stick with Liverpool Atletico last night. Yeah. Despite saying to Charlie when he asked me what game I'd be watching, I said, "Well, I'm going to start with Liverpool, but if it's uncompetitive quite quickly, I might switch over." And I was, you know, I was this close to ch if they got a third, I was out of there. I was done. But I stuck with it and I'm glad I did cuz it was very entertaining. Very entertaining. He kind of snuck up on us that I I stay watching Bay and Chelsea and and so was aware of but not caught up in events. No, it was Anfield, right? Yeah, I was similar to to Charlie. I I was flumxed. I was like, Liverpool 2 up. What's you know, this isn't their DNA. How are they going to score a last minute winner in this game? But fortunately, they did. Quickly check on some of the headlines from what's been a busy few days. Bayern beat Chelsea 3-1. Bayern have now won their opening Champions League match for the last 22 years. Incredible statistic. They're in a good moment. Yeah. In the 21st century, Chelsea defeated, but other English sides fared better. Spurs were 1-0il winners against Varal thanks to a crazy own goal from the yellow submarines keeper Luis Jr. after four minutes. Arsenal had a comfortable 2-0 win away to Athletic while Liverpool beat Atletico witnessed by Charlie, although it took yet another late winner to do it. This one courtesy of Van Djk in the 92nd minute after Adlet had come back from 2-0 down. So far then it's Premier League 3 L nil this week but we do have Newcastle Barcelona still to come. Elsewhere Paris Sanjgeran thumped Atlanta 4n. Real Madrid beat Marles 2-1 but lost Trent to a hamstring injury and Danny Carvajal to a red card for headbutting and in were two nil winners at Ajax. Game of the round so far or certainly second half of the round was Tuesday's clash between Juventus and Barisha Dortmund. The first half was goalless. The second was the joint highest scoring in the history of the competition. U who were trailing 4-2 in the 94th minute somehow then scoring twice to snatch a point. And while all that was going on also on Tuesday was Benfica Carabag in which Benfica went 2-0 up then forgot how to play football ended up losing 3-2 and that is why Benfica are now looking for a new manager and it may be you know who. Finally, shout out to the Champions League debutons, Papathos of Cyprus and Water Park fame, who drew nil nil at Olympiaos, Bodo Stroke Glimp of the Arctic Circle, who came from 2-0 down to draw 2-2 at Slavia Prague. And the Belgians, Unon Sanjilwa, who went and won 31 at PSV oo in a spicy low countries derby. Benelux mania. Yeah. The records say Liverpool 3, Atletico Madrid 2, and Wednesday night's clash at Anfield Charlie. Is it me or are these late winners getting to be a habit? Yes. Yeah. I mean, the obvious question is whether you know this is going to be, well, if they're winning games we're not playing amazingly, then how good are they going to be when they click and they're going to win by five every week or is it well, they've got to get found out eventually. But it's a good habit to have, isn't it? It's definitely a good habit to have. It's not a good habit to need, but it's a good ability to have. Well, that's it that I think how we look back at it will depend on what happens next because if they do suddenly get some bad results, we'll say, "Well, yeah, I did always think that you can't. It's unsustainable." And if they don't, we'll say, "Yep, they were just waiting for their new players to click and now they have. Look how amazing. They were winning in second gear." Yeah, exactly. So, so Sunday, Salah's penalty against Burnley meant that they became the first team in Premier League history to score winning goals in the final 10 minutes of four consecutive matches. And after having a quite bizarre a 2-0 lead very early on against Atletico Madrid, they they needed a similar get out of jail card of Viran Dijk in the 92nd minute. This was slightly different from some of their games like Bournemouth for instance where they kind of look crazily exposed and you know thought Bournemouth were very good value for those two goals. Bournemouth are really and Bournemouth are really good. This game I kind of think 3-2 flattered Atéico a bit. On another night, Liverpool might have just won this like 4-1 or something and we'd be having a different conversation. Like they weren't despite conceding two goals, I didn't think they were quite as vulnerable defensively. So, it wasn't a brave comeback from Atletico. I mean, it was in that they stayed in the game, dangerous lead and all that. Yeah. But they didn't do loads more than stay in the game and then pinch a couple of They sort of half chances. They themselves could have had a late equalizer court. Yeah, that that was a probably a better chance certainly than um than the equalizer. It was 7-1 on opt to define big chances, which is how you should view all games. Uh for me, that yeah, that kind of passes the eye test. But I think there's a lot of misconceptions about Atletico Madrid outside of Spain and that they are now much more defensively vulnerable, I think, and you could see that in this game. They still have that competitive edge to them and they love these occasions. But my issue with this Atletico Madrid team is partly beyond their control in that within domestic football, they are so far behind the pool of Barcelona and Real Madrid, relatively speaking, yet they're so far ahead financially of all other 17 teams in that league that they almost have this perpetual season of finishing third of getting to the round of 16 in the Champions League or maybe the quarterfinals and then dropping out. And it just seems to be like they're stuck in this identity crisis whereby they don't really know should we evolve, can we evolve? They're trying to spend a lot of money to do so. But for me, they're standing still. So, it's games like this which are really interesting. And maybe that's why we saw at the end of the match Diego Simeone becoming so so emotional with the fans, which is we don't actually really see that a lot. seemed emotional with the players and what's happening on the pitch. But for him to have been clearly so distracted by what was going on behind him uh was quite striking I thought and maybe spoke to just how how much this game meant even maybe not in the grand scheme of how their season will pan out but in terms of what what they are and what they're trying to be. Yeah, that's interesting. I mean clearly something did really wind him up that was said from behind him. An early birth for you Mr. Simeone. I've read a lot in the last uh last few hours about Marco Marcos Lorenz's dog Anfield on the back of his uh continuing his excellent form. That's four goals in. Is it a good day name for a dog? Well, I think the only problem would be as a dog owner, you sometimes say your dog's name out loud and then something for it to look at. So, you might say, you know, dog's name squirrel. If you said Anfield and then cat, then people might think you're referring to the early Twitter um Anfield cat phenomenon. So yeah, that is a danger, but I think it's a good name. Okay. And it was another good performance from from him, although Charlie, as you say, perhaps the score line flattered them a little bit. The game also featured the first start for the most expensive player in the history of British football, aka Alexander Each. How did he look? Kind of as you'd expect. I mean, a bit rusty. There were some good touches. There was a lovely link up um with Vitz which again like that's the sort of thing if those two can develop an understanding and click then yeah that's going to be pretty lethal you would have thought. Uh yeah he lasted what about an hour. Uh which I I kind of felt this game was almost an investment to get him ready for uh the Mside Derby on Saturday. Derby on Saturday and Verts Florian Verts. Yeah. again. I mean, like some really nice touches floating around the pitch really hard um to dispossess and yeah, you do feel I mean he he very nearly scored as well. I think it was his best game so far. Um created five five goal scoring chances and just he he looked more connected with Salah as well the first time. So I think it was Salah's best game as well of the season so far. Yeah, I mean Salah missed a sitter as well. Yeah, thump the post. Hit the post which would have made it 3-1 and sort of killed it. What was looking particularly good the Atletico Madrid kit Colin, where's that album? They look like a handball team or something. Yeah. Yeah. Uh and and it's in these games you sort of see these kits coming up maybe you don't see quite as much in domestic. I I liked it. I Did you like it? Yeah, I I quite like it. I think I like unusual away kits. Um they they stand out. I mean, I think if I had won that match, that kit would instantly become iconic for a lot of their fans. I think don't like a central badge with a with a brand logo sealed to the side. It's very 2005 Mike era, but I I don't know. I I I don't I don't mind it too much. Um but yeah, I mean I think as as I said earlier, I think one of the interesting things for this is for these games in general is obviously Liverpool got that last minute winner in the four year round that how much does that mean for Liverpool because they're as with all these Premier League teams I think they're going to at least get into the playoff phase of this league phase and there's eight games in which to do that. So, how much do these individual results matter in terms of performances? And not not so much in terms of performances. I mean, and obviously you can carry that momentum into the Premier League, but in terms of the the final outcome in in the league phase is that I think Liverpool will finish top. I think Atletico will probably be in the playoffs anyway. So, unlike a tournament, say like a World Cup where if you lose your first game, you're in real trouble. You've got essentially you need five wins. I think that's the general estimate. Five wins and then maybe a draw. So, you got eight chances to do it. Yeah. Anyway, I mean the the the sad reality is that for a club like Liverpool, the main advantage what you want to do is what they did last season. Get your top eight players secured early and then you can rest players for the final two in January when all the players are knackered. Like that's kind of what those adding those extra games has sort that's one of the things that's created. Everyone points out PSG came 15th in the league last year and won the trophy, but then Barcelona, Arsenal, and Inter the other semi-finalist came second, third, and fourth. So, you know, I think the league table was a pretty good indicator of strength last season. We shall see what impact Wednesday's exertions have on Liverpool this weekend when they take on Everton, a fixture we'll touch on more a little bit later on. Meanwhile, of the Premier League sides, Chelsea had maybe the toughest assignment, the world champions, were away at FC Bayern where they got beat 31. Two of the buying goals coming from Harry Kane who had a bit of a I guess they call it a Meister Classer playing so deep now. Know he's so good at it. That bit towards the end where he turns um I think it was Chaloba maybe and then just runs like half the pitch not especially quickly but he's so strong as a runner that he he just covers the ground. He eventually ended up fouling Enzo Fernandez, but uh yeah, just incredible. Obviously, on top of the amazing finishing ability that he has and lovely assist for his third goal from Oh, hang on. Chelsea's Malagustoa. Chelsea didn't help themselves in what was a difficult fixture. Yeah, but I think I think those are linked, right, in the sense that Kane was was was dropping so deep and Chelsea's buildup play was getting disrupted so much because I don't think they really knew where the Bayern players were. Obviously, there was a high press as well. I think it is worth sort of talking a little bit more about Harry Kane because Jamal Mussi is sort of long-term injured. he's kind of filled in into that creative void as well. And uh Seb Sebastian Stafford blur wrote a really good piece on this in the Athletic um about how Kane's role has evolved at Bayern and how he's really fitting into this Vincent company system. And I think Bayern are one of those teams, especially under company, you're not really quite sure what to make of them because nobody really seems to have them down as a as a tournament favorite even though you've got Kane, you've got obviously players like Miala who's out, but um Michael Oisa was fantastic. I kind of think when you're comparing as well is looking great for Yeah. And when you comp when you compare those two starting 11s, I think Bayern is clearly above Chelsea. I think a level above Chelsea's. Yeah. I think a lot of the the sort of tone around the coverage of this match was like, well, you know, Chelsea are going to be disappointed to have lost this game and, you know, maybe it shows they're a little bit naive in this stage, but I just think Bayern have better players. I think that's the reality of this. So many savier players as well, you know, for the Champions League. you there's something about you like buying at home especially you do I don't know they have this way of sort of of making your life quite difficult I know Chelsea actually did great a decent number of chances but buy just looked that bit more experienced October fest they're all you know everyone's merry yeah it's their time of the year that's why they keep winning their opening game sort of out of respect for you know cultural norms they are the most September team of all time I think co Palmer once again with Chelsea's goal after his strike on the weekend. What a what a goal it was, too. Lovely. And he had another one disallowed. If you watch when he runs forward with the ball, his scanning, as they call it, is just he like the way he turns his head is it's almost like an owl. Um a skillful owl. But yeah, it was a lovely finish. What do you think? When he scored what was a consolation goal at that point, he still did the kind of, you know, trademark celebration. Very, it was. Yeah, it was almost like he may I guess it is, but then the karma of it then being disapp but for the fans. Yeah, I wasn't doing it much. Chelsea have another big away game coming up on Saturday when they visit Old Trafford. Bless take on Man United. Yeah. Again, we'll touch on that when we do Premier League things later on. Column, you were about to Yeah. Yeah. No, I just I just think with Chelsea obviously talk about Cole Palmer and star player and how much of an impact he makes and you saw that last night. I think Liam Dilap's injury has really changed the way they play because they don't cuz Joel Pedro who Maresca said prefers playing deeper in a number 10 role. He's now their number nine. So essentially what they have is he's dropping deep. So they've nobody to stretch in opposition defense and create then that space behind them. And I think you could sort of see that a little bit last night that they're just they've so many attacking players who have a similar mold but they don't have a dilap replacement. And obviously the guy who could have been that Nicholas Jackson was Nicholas Jackson. Nicholas Jackson came on. What's the problem? Oh yeah was playing for Bayern Spurs one nil winners against Vale. Lucas Bergval after his stellar performance of the weekend again uh with a big impact here but not quite as big an impact as the Val goalkeeper. It really was. My goodness. I've ever seen I think in the champ at that level of football. Describe it for anyone who didn't see this Duncan. So Berg Val crosses the ball on the ground and the keeper dives out sort of facing the ball and then sort of I don't know just like scoops it into his own net basically. the sort of thing you might do when you're playing football with a kid and then and they sort of have a, you know, a really tame shot or with a mascot or something and you kind of like gently throw it in and then I was like, "Hey, they've scored in." Yeah, exactly. It was really bizarre after that. And I was watching the the the game in Cherim, but it didn't seem like a huge amount happened in that match. No, it didn't. I mean, I having made a good decision on Wednesday made a bad one on Tuesday. Oh, you watch this. So, Spurs had it, I think, just a combined two shots on target in in the match, but they did get a fourth clean sheet in five matches. So, yeah, I mean, it's been a real um shift obviously, as we expected, Thomas Frank coming in replacing an um yeah, I mean, again, it's a bit like Liverpool that I think there are kind of some bubbling concerns that their attack hasn't really clicked. So, I guess it's kind of the opposite of Liverpool. Um, but defensively they do look really secure and you know if the attack does click then we'll be talking about these great foundations that have been laid. I think my sense with with Frank Spurs is that um, you know, I think they they will have home games where they struggle. We saw that against Bournemouth. Um, I think they're going to be so much better as we saw against City against kind of stronger teams that attack them. So Brighton at the weekend could be a good one. Well, yeah. Yeah, I mean I guess it dep Yeah, it depends what sort of how Brighton approached that game. Um, but yes, but I think Spurs Yeah, it's definitely hasn't quite clicked in an attacking sense, but it's the right way to do it, isn't it? I mean, sort out the issues and then build the attacking patterns as you go on. I think that's Arsenal also looking good. Two-nil winners away to Athletic Club Deilba. Squad depth. Squad depth, strength off the bench. Colin. Yeah, Gabriel Martinelli and Leandro Trosard um came on and made instant impacts in this game. I I didn't think this was Arsenal's best performance. It was a very similar type of display um as their league game at Anfield quite recently and that they didn't really seem to have much to any attacking ambition whatsoever, but they just wanted to nullify the game quiet in the crowd. And I actually thought Athletic Club played pretty well. Certainly for the first 20 30 minutes they were they were in the ascendancy but this kind of a little bit like the Spurs game there weren't many clearcut opportunities in this but yeah the subs make a difference and you could see that with Arsenal's massive investment this summer they haven't really lost any players um that would have would have sort of been involved in that starting 11 so they have a lot of different options now and I think that that again this this is a game that last season they probably wouldn't have been able to do that right they wouldn't have had bring on Raheem Sterling or Kieran Tierney or something. So yeah, it's that that's exactly it was exactly for this sort of situation that they made although signing. So they had actually viable options to bring off the bench. Martin Nelli a player who not a new arrival and one indeed whose star is a little bit faded of late. So this is a a big goal for him. Yeah, it is. But I mean he's one of those players who's I've always felt this you know Martinelli is the kind of player who you know back in the day Arsenal had Silvan Wiltor who was a kind of great 12th man. you wouldn't have necessarily wanted him starting. And I think Martin Elliott could have a I think he'll become a lot more popular almost the less he plays, you know, when you're coming on. And I felt the same with someone like Giru who kind of his crime was that he was playing every week, which he shouldn't have been. He should have been this like amazing impact guy. The more popular the less he plays, but you know what I mean? Like you become a cameo merchant. Yeah. and Martinelli as well. He has I think the Champions League, he scored a few of these types of goals which you never really see him scoring in the Premier League because teams don't play that kind of high line against Arsenal in the Premier League, but he scored one at the Burnaba and Sevilla away and then this was a great finish. He had to score that goal or a great goal because um Maduke was right there and you can see him shooting going thinking this better going fair enough. And yeah, I say a great finish. It was actually one of those where it's it's it's he does enough, but he kind of flumxs as the keeper cuz it's almost straight at him. It's so close to him and he kind of dives over it. Speaking of Madeki, by the way, we were asking on Sunday what song Arsenal fans could sing for their new right-wing star, their new star on the right flank. Listener Ollie Holmes gets in touch to say the nonaweki chant surely has to be to the tune of Michael Jackson's smooth criminal. Annie, are you okay? Medi, there was I can't remember the tune, but there was a new MEO chant last night. Well, and it wasn't that. It wasn't as good as that. Well done, listen to Ollie Holmes. Tuesday, couple of fascinating matches in the Champions League phase. We'll talk about Juve Dortmund very shortly, but Benfica's 3-2 defeat at home to Carabag was the first ever victory by an Azabjani club in the Champions League. How about that? Carabag the champions of a bjan coming from 2-0 down to win this. It was also the last game in charge of Benfica for Bruno L. She was sacked pretty much on the spot and word then circulated that Jose Mourinho could be set for a sensational return to the Stadia Doo 25 years after his brief spell in charge of that club at the very beginning of his managerial career. Now, back then, we talked about this a little bit in a uh totally extra about Mourinho's Porto, which topically enough we did the other day. Back then, he only lasted nine games due to a change of president. There were elections. The guy who came in had already promised the role to somebody else, and Mourinho wasn't a name at the time. So uh he went kind of a I wouldn't say I mean there's there's a similar vibe to what's going on now because they've got an election coming up next month. Ric Costa who's currently the president is pushing for Mourinho but a gentleman know a gentleman named Jeia Norona Lopez or probably Jean Nope uh who is also up for the presidency wants to bring rumored Amarim in from Manchester United and why wouldn't you uh where are we at with I think everybody wants to see Jose back and because they've got Chelsea next month I think the expectation is that it will Mourinho obviously he had a fairly abrupt exit um from Fenerbache um last month and he's available and I think I think that would be a good fit you know to go back to Benfica all these years later obviously he went on to have his legacy with Porto initially which is what most people kind of initially associated him with but I think it would be great it's great for football to have Mourinho present at at some level um I think it's it's good for the narrative um it's good for the uh it's good for the news industry as well And but also one one of the things I I would want to say about this this game is that Benfica sacking Bruno Laga after this Carabag's manager is uh Gorbin Gorbonof who's been in charge for 17 years and he has a track record of developing not developing these players but bringing in guys from really humble backgrounds lower divisions in other countries sort of developing them into a team. They sell them on for big fees and then they almost universally flop at other clubs. Even for this game, right, two of the goal scorers, Camilo Duran and Leandro Andrj were signed from Portugal second division. So these were guys who picked pretty much from nowhere and they've made an impact and they were they were the entertainers in the qualification phase. They scored 15 goals in six games. Obviously scored three goals at Benfica which is no mean feat. So it's a it's a really interesting club Carabag and not just for what they're doing on the field but for what's going on off it as well. So for those who don't know Carabag currently playing Baku which is the Azarbaian capital but they're not they're not from there. They're essentially a a refugee club who in 1993 with the war between Azarbaian and Armenia over the disputed territory. They are from Agdam which was in that territory and because of the the fighting they essentially had to flee that town. and it became a ghost town and they've played in Baku since and then they had their kind of they're funded and they became the dominant club in the country but there's now plans after the sort of the recent phase of hostilities in that area that Azarian are now looking to move that club back in to a dam into the original stadium which is politically obviously quite contentious and what's going on but carabag to be on the stage they are in a sporting sense that for Azaraijan I as a country that club is incredibly important for what they project because not just that they're the best team and that they're from Azarbaijan but from they're from that area and that there seem to be a very very well-run club who have been certainly a kind of league phase of Europa League usually but but but it's sort of sporadically in this competition now I went to I covered a game a home game of Carabag in Baku many years ago and it was actually when they were playing it was for previous employee They were playing Arsenal and it was the time you remember that was the season where the finals in Baku as well but they played Carabag in the group stages and Mkhitaryan couldn't play as an Armenian they couldn't guarantee his safety. I mean it was kind of extraordinary situation the fact that a final was in a place where a player who could potentially get there and did get there but I do remember speaking to people and you know saying is is that right you know that feels cuz it's hard to imagine that level of security concern they were everyone was like yeah there is absolutely no way that he can play this game but it was an amazing stadium and an amazing atmosphere um but they ended up losing that game Carabag but also even just for a kind of club I mean we say Eastern Europe maybe even even further away. But for Eastern European clubs to be succeeding in this stage is is an increasingly rare thing and it's probably is a good thing for football as an industry to have clubs from that part of the continent who are actually able to compete at this stage and aren't just sort of there and losing every game. Good thing for travel as an industry as well. Uh it just struck me that um it was Benfica who caused Jose Mourinho's untimely exit as Fernabashi boss because they beat the Turkish side in the playoff and and Mourinho was dispatched straight afterwards and now could take over the club which had knocked him out which were pleased James Hornosel who in the big Champions League preview on the Athletic was lamenting Fernabash's exit and Benfica going through saying they've denied us eight Jose Marinia pregame press conferences, eight Jose Mourinho postgame press conferences, and all the narrative and content that could have been there. Do we definitely still want all that? I mean, we're not we haven't reached saturation point with him. Watch his Benfica play. Not so much. But but you want all the stuff around it still. Yeah. I mean, do you not? I don't know. It just feels like one of those things where if enough people say, "Oh, but you can't deny he's still box office." That you kind of have to believe that. And it's like still I don't know. Oh, I just don't know how much there is to learn about, you know, like I I love Mourinho. I covered him when he was Spurs manager because obviously covering Spurs when he was there. Yeah. And like it was pretty bleak at points, wasn't it? Yeah. And I mean it like he was great to cover like it was entertaining, but that was still like we're talking 5 years ago. Um I I guess now, you know, from the distance we're at, you get kind of bite-sized chunks and may maybe that is still good. I don't know. It just feels like one of those things we we kind of are told and have to accept. And I'm just not sure the reality is maybe that entertaining anymore. I hear you. I had a different perspective when he was Roma boss, but when I read about him potentially being moving back to taking over at Benfica, my heart leapt a little. Anyway, we'll see. We'll see what happens. Maybe we'll have news on that tomorrow, aka Friday, when we do our specialty extra. Meanwhile, Tuesday, as I mentioned, game of the round or second half of the round, Juuve four, Dortmund four. So, Juuve had had a 4-3 with Inter at the weekend and then they have this game here, which is only the second game in Champions League history to produce eight second half goals. First half, was anybody else watching this? No. No. Yeah, first half I don't think any of you saw the first half. Nothing would, you know, suggest that you'd made a a bad call on that. But the second half began in a really blistering fashion. Dortmund under Niko Kovac are to be fair a much better coach side, a much better organized side than than Juve are right now. And they really started to look to kind of turn the screw on the old lady. They took the lead. U managed to equalize very rapidly. Dortmund then retook the lead even more rapidly and you kind of had this back and forth. However, about 75 minutes in, Lloyd Kelly was, I think, a bit harshly a judge to have handled and a penalty was given and Dortmund were now 42 up and it really looked like that was that bit of a sting for the old lady in her return to the competition. But a couple of players who come on, Jean Mario uh on the right flank and above all Duan Vliovic, Duan Blavic's relationship with Juventus has been kind of hot and mostly cold for I think three seasons now. But what he did in this match was extraordinary. He's always on the point of leaving. The club are always trying to look looking to move him move move him on. And I guess that'll be the end of this season that'll happen or maybe at Christmas because this is the last year of his contract. But he it's rare you see a player drag his team across the line quite as much as Lavic did here. He scored two goals, set up another, but was just so angry, so so full of passion and so clinical in his finishing that we ended up with this amazing situation. Juuve Juve 4-2 down in the 94th minute and then drawing 4-4 a couple of minutes later. Final goal coming from Lloyd Kelly who'd started the scoring in the uh in the 4-3 against in at the weekend. Madness. We should also shout out for Kenan Yieldis who scored a brilliant goal at the weekend and had another one here. But spectacular goals. Lot of spectacular goals. Dortmund absolutely gutted. I mean a point away to Juves. Not a bad result, but they look destroyed. That was as well cuz when they were up 4-2 and just from the highlights, it looked reasonably comfortable and their defender, I'm not sure who it was, gives the ball away. kind of playing out a bit unnecessarily. You know, again, a sign it looked like if they felt very comfortable, almost felt the game was done. They got punished in the most kind of brutal way and then uh a couple of minutes later as well. But it was 4-2 and I think the fourth minute of stoppage jumped into that game. It does feel like this happens to Dortmund a lot. Like I mean that must I mean they you know they they they're on the brink of these great results in Europe and somehow contrived to throw it all away that I think that must play in in your mind a little bit as a player. Um but yeah maybe less characteristic is Juventus who just seemed to be incredibly entertaining and like a lot of very a lot of flare and a lot of attack-minded players on the pitch and strange because they've had attack minded players. Yodildis was there last season, but incredibly entertaining was the last thing you said about them. And and to be fair, Eagle Tudor coming in didn't really make me think they were going to move the needle much on that, but can't argue with the kind of score lines they're having. That was, by the way, if you're curious, the latest that a team has ever come back from two goals down in a Champions League match. Yeah. And also, I'm fascinated with Lloyd Kelly's career. And, you know, he only scored three goals in 141 games for Bournemouth. Obviously then went to Newcastle briefly before Juve, but that's two and two and that was the latest goal Juuve have ever scored in regulation time in the Champions League which for a club with their history he's um yeah he's interesting. I guess though that's slightly misleading in some ways because there have probably been teams who've trailed by two goals on aggregate and managed to turn those round. Like I'm sure Real must have done that even if on the night they weren't. Do you know what I mean? I do know what you mean, but I'm not sure if it would have been that late though to score goals in the 94th and 96th minute. Maybe kind of unusual. Inter by the way, who were on the wrong end of that 4-3 uh last Saturday in Cydia, they kind of got their season a little bit back on track. They'd had two consecutive defeats. They went to Amsterdam to play Ajax and won 2-0 with two identical so identical were the goals. I was busy watching the Bayern Chelsea game and I was convinced I was watching a replay because they were both out swinging corners from Haken Scholanogloo who was also in brilliant form last Saturday and two headers from Marcus Tam. I think we might be in a golden season for headed goals. Ah, I just there's been a lot so far including these two. So I think yeah does feel like in general defenders aren't as well coached at heading the ball out because of the other sort of focus and playing playing out with your feet obviously but it does feel like that is an area that teams are maybe exploiting a little bit more. Long balls and headers is the future. Weren't we always told as well that with the AR and things that you can't get away with so much pushing because you're being scrutinized. So maybe there's an element of that too. Perhaps so. Perhaps so. Anyway, so the other near resurre from city hour Atlanta who went to the European champions Paris Sanjan and didn't last very long. What three minutes in PSG? Yeah, Marinos uh tied up in open play inside the box and with a poachers finish and through I mean PSG could have won this game seven or eight nil. They really they really could have the the chances they were creating and missing were were extraordinary. But it does speak to the freedom that they have in that team that Marinos was there. Obviously Mendes uh with a goal inside the box and Khakei missed one or two really good chances with his runs inside the box. So essentially you've just got all these positional switches and incredible fluidity and you don't want to say a team are favorites for the tournament because it's a competition. It's a knockout a lot of things can happen but the way in which they play without some without Dembele without D for this game too they're just they that just doesn't really seem to impact them at all at the moment. and the goal from Kafkillia. Oh yeah, that was that was just describe it Conor because he he's so Kavichelia it's if you don't even really need to describe the goal to know what it's like with him because he's he's a player he'll pick up the ball, he'll drive inside, he'll take on defenders, he'll he have that sort of physicality to ride the challenge and then to unleash a shot from outside the box that is virtually unsavable because it's hit with so so much power and so little backlift. He's just I think I think that is the sort of player that any club would want in their team. A winger who's obviously got all the talent, all the creativity, but has that sort of that other side to his game too, that competitiveness. And I just think he obviously he had the impact with Napoli, but now they have it with PSG and what they did last season. It's just, you know, I I just love him as a player. I mean, just to Colin's point about they could have won it 10-0, they had uh 10 big chances. I'm I'm into that metric there which is more than four teams did in the entire league stage last season and any five fewer than Milan managed in eight games. So while you're pondering on that consider too the fact that unanil who were the kind of Cinderella team have lost last season in the Belgian Jupa Pro League. Is it Jupa Pro League Colin? Yeah. Yeah it is. Yeah. They won the title for the first time in their 90y year history. Is that right? last season or the first time in 90 something years in a long time. Listener then qualified for the Champions League and went to Pierce Einhovven and beat them 3-1. Canadian striker Promised David scoring their first ever Champions League goal. He's not related to Jonathan David also of Canada but people who are related include two other scorers Kevin Mallister Alexis's brother and Ruben Van Boml who's son of Mark for PSV. Ruben van Balmo by the way um obviously son of Mark he his he's he's the maternal grandson of Bert Van Marwick the guy who manager for he coached him in the World Cup final and he I I mean I I've sort of had this game on in the background for him to be on the losing team. He was so clearly the man of the match. He was absolutely brilliant and I hadn't really been aware of him before. He'd been at a at Almore um and his but his goals and assists back this up and all the sort of data behind it suggested this guy is like actually a really really talented player but in this match he was absolutely fantastic let down quite a lot by terrible finishing elsewhere within this of the of the round possibly the season in fact comes in in this yeah let down by bad finishing um and were were clinical um and again because they're the sister club of Brighton you this isn't overly surprising that they've got really smart recruitment and they tend to pick these players out of kind of obscure leagues and end up doing really well for obviously promised David who um was signed from Estonian football last last summer and he was aged 23 so he wasn't like a 17-year-old so and he's he's scored 27 goals last year obviously now a full Canada international so yeah I mean they're a really interesting club um and yeah for this for this game it's it it's good to see them having again this platform because had this league phase not been expanded we maybe wouldn't have seen their games as And yeah, I just I think this is a really interesting game and a lot a lot of good players. And for anyone wondering whether Kevin Mallister is named after Kevin Mallister, he is. What's Ruben Van Bumble's game then? He's less sort of because his dad obviously was this like terrifying enforcer, but that's less his vibe. Yeah. So he's he's like this this this winger, but from what from what from the I haven't seen too much of the divisi, but he is a really direct. He takes players on. He's got really accurate cross and he's a really powerful shot to him as well, but he's just again we we were speaking about Carver Skellyy earlier. It kind of reminds me of him and and his gameplay and couldn't really contrast more with his dad who as you said he didn't get sent off in the Euro under€21 euros this summer. He did. So, you know, the DNA is in there. We shouldn't conclude our Champions League chat without mentioning Real Madrid. Colin, 60 seconds on what they did against Marseilles. Uh yeah, it went one nil down the way uh shot for Marseilles. Tell me if you by the way three years earlier George his dad of course um scored for PSG in the cup winners cup at Real Madrid um but yeah Real Madrid came back in Khina Bb scored twice he's got 50 goals for the club in just over a year which is pretty remarkable considering both penalties both penalties the second of which was incredibly contentious to the point I mean it was it was a handball decision the the initial shot by Venicius was blocked by the defender and then the ball sort of landed in the CF area and ricocheted off the arm of the defender who's fell off breaking his fall Um, so again, I just don't really understand how how that could be given. But yeah, this this match had 41 shots across the entire game, which is very um which is very much a Roberto Deserby type match. And we saw quite a lot of Brighton where he would have taken his teams away Arsenal, Liverpool, Chelsea played really open, really expansively, taking the game to them. That's exactly what happened here. Um, but yeah, probably a little bit more finding out about Madrid under Jabono. Venicius didn't start this game. Mbappe did and I think a lot of the talk now is how Mbappe has sort of made that position his own. He's now the central striker. He's the main guy at Madrid and um yeah I mean obviously they've had a strong start to the season and they've won all their games domestically too. So hamstring win Tren Hamstring they also got a red card. Did you mention that red card? I I didn't know. Sanni Carvajal um had a had a slight I wouldn't say I wouldn't really say uncharacteristic moment of madness um in in leaning his head slightly aggressively into the goalkeeper and uh yeah was deservely shown a straight red and yeah Trent could miss the return um to Anfield at the I think that's the start of end of October start of November but it's estimated he could be 68 weeks out so it could be um touch and go but that's obviously a blow for Madrid going forward absolutely Bruce Springsteen 41 shots. Is it a Bruce Ring? American Skin Brackets. 41 shots. Yeah. About someone who was uh shot by police 41 times. Makes you think. Le car Wednesday the third round got underway. Actually Tuesday, sorry. Tuesday the third round got underway and there was some remarkable results here too. And Postlu's Nottingham Forest went to Championship side Swansea City. They went 2-0 up. They were still leading 2-1 after 93 minutes, but they ended up losing 32. 32. Yikes. Which given an at the weekend said, "You'll see you'll see my team properly on Wednesday." That's unfortunate. It is. Elsewhere, last round's giant killers. Grimby, you recall the League 2 side who defeated Manchester United. Well, they won again, now beating championship outfit Sheffield Wednesday 1 nil. Yaz Kabia with the only goal. That's his sixth of the season. The Mariners of League 2, as I mentioned, through to the last 16. Well done to them. The all Premier League affair between Brenford and Aston Villa saw the villains score their first goal of the season finally courtesy of Harvey Elliot. However, Aaron Hickeyy's delicious volley saw Brenford pull level after which Villa lost 42 on penalties. Their difficult start to the season continues. Palace also needed penalties. Meanwhile, to see off Milwall in a rematch of that very nasty uh FA Cup clash back in March, you recall saw Jean Philipe Mateta off and a half his ear off as as well. Penalties it went to after the 1-1 draw and Palace won 4-2 on the spot kicks. The remaining 12 third round ties will be taking place next week. With that in mind, let's move on to what awaits this weekend in the Premier League. It's round five already bookended by two huge matches. Saturday lunchtime, things get going with Liverpool against Everton. And then Sunday 4:30, Arsenal Man City brings the curtain down on the round. In between Burnley hosting Nottingham Forest, Brighton facing Spurs. There's another derby for West Ham because the last two have gone so well. This time it's against Crystal Palace who are still unbeaten. Wolves are taking on leads, a six-pointer. Then there's Man United Chelsea at 5:30 on Saturday which is the most drawn fixture in Premier League history. And at 8:00 on Saturday, another of those late ones, Fulham Brenford. Yeah. Sunday, two games at 2:00, Sunderland against Villa and Bournemouth Newcastle. And then that Arsenal Man City game. What about the derby then at Anfield Saturday lunchtime? Everton haven't won at Anfield with fans in attendance since 1999. David Moyes has never won at Anfield. He's had 20 attempts there as a Premier League manager. What are his chances this time? Well, to Charlie's point earlier, this I think this is the moment we see where the Liverpool starts the season is, you know, second gear cruising or, you know, there are issues. Everson have been really good. Jack Greish has been transformative. They've actually as per the athletics alternative Premier League table out every Thursday. Everton have led for longer this season than Liverpool in games. Oh, this week's alternative table is which team has led for longest? Yeah, led longest this season and a bit of last season as well if you want to look at that. But yeah, Bournemouth lead the Premier League. Um but yeah, Everton I think are fifth and Liverpool's seventh. So, I mean, as you'd expect, the team that scores a lot of late winners, but um yeah, I think maybe people haven't really I don't think ever been on TV much yet, so probably haven't watched um but they they they're attacking play. I mean, it's classic Moyes. They're tight at the back, but then he's now got players up front who can keep the ball and and make stuff happen. So, I'm yeah, looking forward to this. I mean, I guess one, you know, Colin was talking about earlier how consequential Liverpool winning or drawing that game is. I wonder if one consequence of the fact that what looked like it could have been a sort of 3-0 after half an hour cruise can rest everyone and sort of start thinking about Everton, the fact that they did actually have to keep going until you know the 95th minute whenever they scored their winner. Whether that has an effect given it is quite a tight turnaround from Wednesday night to the early Saturday game. I mean that's what Everton will be hoping for obviously the slot, pun intended, that Jurgen Klopp used to have a lot used to despise. Yeah. So true. So true. Yeah. that psychological almost draining. Yeah, exactly. It wasn't. And it's the fifth game in a row that they've had that. Well, maybe you have the boost to morale of being able to of knowing overcome the odds, is it? Yeah. I mean, we could obviously argue both sides of the fact after the match. But yeah, I do think that Everton will have had a week to prepare this game and you know, David Moyes, he's he'll have a have a plan for this. And we we we know how this game is going to go. I think when you looked at Liverpool's game against um Burnley last week, it was quite intuitive and that a team who didn't really have much interest in attacking them but had a really low deep block and how much Liverpool struggled with that really and that could be I don't think everyone will go to that extent but they'll have better options in the final third as Duncan said. So it'll be interesting to see how how this game balances out. You'll imagine it will be quite low scoring and and it will be quite nip and tuck, but everyone will will probably enjoy that and relish it and they'll be looking at, you know, if the game does go into the final 15 or 20 minutes and still in the balance, they're they might have a little bit more energy to to maybe get a result. Arsenal Man City is the 4:30 Sunday game, but we'll we'll talk about that in Friday's show after Man City play Napoli. Man United meanwhile are up against Chelsea who similarly haven't won at Old Trafford since May 2013 when Sir Alex Ferguson was still United manager and the Chelsea boss was Rafa Bonitz. Rafa Bonitez. Will Chelsea fancy their chances of a rare win at Old Trafford this weekend. They got to be one of the only teams that hasn't won at Old Trafford in the post Ferguson era. That is extraordinary. I mean they're on this run of four straightaway games. This is their third or fourth in a row. Third or fourth in a row. Chelsea. Yeah, but I found yesterday even though um from what I saw it looked like, you know, they created chances and things like that, but I do just find them off. They they often just do look quite unconvincing away that they I don't know, they have their moments, but they can't really string it together. So, I mean, yeah, you'd think this is an opportunity. United how much they'll benefit from having a week off. The same applies with the Liverpool game. Obviously, it's slightly later on the Saturday, but Chelsea had had their had their game in Germany. Had to had to travel back and again are maybe not demoralized after the result, but they're they're not exactly going into this on a high note. And I think Charlie's right. I've seen quite a bit of Chelsea this season. And it just there's just something missing, isn't there? There's not there's not uh in the sense that they're clearly a good team. They've clearly got good players, but they just don't strike me as a team who are going to challenge for the Premier League or the Champions League this year. And then you kind of think, so what what will constitute a successful season? Because there does need to be an improvement on last year. And I look at some of the players that they've seen. Difficult given that they became world champion, Galactic Champion. There's a lot of narrative around this game, but I do think that that Manchester United obviously they need a result, right? Rub needs a result. What's he been cooking up on the training pitch this week? That's what we want to know. What formation who can say could be anything. Does does he even need a result? Can he not just lose this and and stare in despair at the floor and still retain his position? I think from from a from a United point of view, this this is genuinely quite a difficult opening run of fixtures. Okay. So, I think there is that sort of leeway. They're not going to rush to get rid of him because they don't have a replacement lined up for a start. And I don't think there's any real desire within the club. I think the fan base is a bit different, but if they were to win this game, I'm not sure they will, but if they were to win this game, it could provide somewhat of a spark with the fact that they don't have the the midweek games anymore that they could go on a little bit of run form, but because they don't have the cup matches, it makes all the league games that much more important because they won't have that. It is. Yeah. Not even care about cup is kind of crazy. I mean, they're playing so few games, right? Yeah. Whether that's a benefit, I mean, you'd assume it would be overall, but yeah, that like Colin says, that does create a slightly different dynamic in the challenge. Man United Chelsea Saturday tea time. What else catches your eye from the round? For example, could Villa's miserable start get worse Sunday lunchtime when they travel to Sunderland who've won both their home games so far? What about West Ham and Graham Potter? Will will West Ham's home game with Crystal Palace again, as one wag observed this week. see West Ham fans staying to the end to avoid the rush. We shall see. And what about Burnley Nottingham Forest after that Swansea City collapse? What next for an Posa Cogley? You've also got Brighton, Spurs, Fulham, Brenford, and Wolves leads Lead's manager Daniel Farer has had seven Premier League matches against teams whose name names start with W. He's lost all of them. No W's. Criy, it's the worst 100% losing record by a manager against teams beginning with the same letter in the competition ever. I think that came from my former colleagues at Optune. I'd like to distance myself that in in the business that's known as we need 10 facts for this game. We've got nine. I can't find the 10. But that will be the most quoted tweet uh stat you'll see from that. Lots of people will be Yeah. Yeah, I mean I I think this is a whole other conversation, but I think there's a a lack of discernment when it comes to stats and data a lot of the time that you kind of hear something and then repeat it because it sounds like a big number or something and then you're like does that mean anything like like what are we learning from that thing you've told me or is that just a coincidental thing that's happened dates when done well brilliant but I just think bit more critical thinking well we'll see this one then maybe you'll reconsider your position Charlie but on the games though Brighton Spurs that fixture was 3-2 last season, 4-2 the season before. So, and last season Spurs were 2-0 up at Halime. Um, so and the other season at the But this is a different Spurs. It is a different Spurs. Yeah, but that's been a good one. They've been to Man City without conceding. They've been to West Ham without conceding. Can they do that at the AMX? You're right as well. You said before, this in theory anyway should be a game they are a bit better set up for. Um so yeah I I guess it is an interesting test for them and also the coping with the Champions League Premier League dynamic which is very different to the Europa League because yes it's Thursday Sunday but with that certainly in the groups you can rotate quite a lot uh in a way that you know you do you tend to do less in the Champions League. All right. What what do you expect from that meeting of managerial minds Burnley Nottingham Forest Parker vastu two contrasting styles it's fair it's fair to say and I mean both going into this not with not with pressure but but w with with with results behind them that maybe aren't overly um beneficial. I do think that, you know, for Nottingham Forest, I know it was away to Arsenal last week and that's obviously a very difficult game in itself, but I think there's a lot of underlying signs even at this stage in the season that there could that it could be problematic going forward. not just because they've got a lot of football to contend with and obviously with the the injury record that we know had been associated with Anastasia at Tottenham and the training demands that he has but what what players are suited to the system he wants to play and we we've gone through that but it just it just feels to me that they could have a very difficult season and games like this could actually be quite important at the long term just to make sure that they're not going to be dragged into to part of the table that they don't want to be and won't have that distraction from their European games which is what a lot of fans will be looking forward to. So, this game could be quite instructive and just to see how can they approach a match against a team who probably will sit off a little bit and will be difficult for them to to contract at Bernie side who diffused Liverpool so very effectively for almost all of last weekend. Unlucky to lose that. They were unlucky to lose to Manchester United the game before. I think I think Burnley will stay up fairly comfortably. Really? Yeah, I think so. So I could actually see them sort of winning this and more crisis rolling into the trend. What about Aston Villa and their trip to Sunland the Athletics? Will Jean's pointing out that Chris Wilder has been sacked by Sheffield United and reappointed by Sheffield United in the time since Villa last scored a goal. Kriky in the Premier League. Yeah, they scored in midweek. They you know that's they got that that's on the board. Um yeah, tough. I mean, Sunderland have been good so far, particularly at home. Um roofs in goal. He's got a very high ceiling. Um and you could see him keeping them out for another game. Shots on target are only as good as what you do with them, I guess. Miller have had 10 of them across their four games this season in the Premier League and have scored none. Sunland have only had nine but have scored five. Wow. football e West Ham Palace. I think things about to get even worse for Graeme Potter, do you think? Well, I think if he if he loses this one, then it is Yeah. Crisis Stations to butcher a phrase. Crisis station. I'm inventing it. I'm going with it. Um I mean to lose at home to Chelsea to down at West Ham. To lose at home to Spurs maybe seen as misfortune. Yeah. But to lose, I mean, Palace do have a pretty good record there. They've won four of their last six meetings. Yeah. Against concerning. I think with West Ham, it's not so much that they're a like a chronically bad team because in games they they tend to start okay and you see, oh, there's there's little patterns here and things, but as soon as they concede a goal, they tend to just fall apart. They capitulate. Like they they concede in batches of three or four within like a 20 25 minute period. And this is this predates Graeme Potter slightly, but it hasn't improved at all under him. I think it's a it's the mood around the club, isn't it? And obviously we talk about Graham Potter quite a bit, but in terms of the West Ham fans, it's the ownership of the club who are really taking the higher for everything that's that's going on. I mean, there's a lot of protests in the background. Um, and there's just a lot of discontent, but this has been going on really for years and not, we said before, not really having an identity of what they are, what they want to be. Whereas Crystal Palace do have all that. Um I'm not sure there's a lot of quality difference between the two teams, but in terms of the the defined style, there definitely is. Yeah. And Oliver Glner almost the poster boy for managers who come in and have an have an impact, which when you're growing potter still struggling to scratch the surface of the of the West Ham Malays is not the not the ideal person to have on the opposite dugout. That's much of what awaits on match day five of the Premier League. the other games we'll touch on in our special Friday show. So, look out for that one. Listen, we'll try have it ready for you sort of Friday lunchtime UK time. Very good. That I think wraps it up for us today though. So, Charlie, lovely to see you. Great to see you. Thank you Duncan. Thank you so much for being with us. Also, Mr. Colin Miller, Jake and producer Charlie in the booth and you listener. Hope you've enjoyed the show. Loads more Totalies on the way. For now, from all of us here, it's goodbye. The Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a week, bringing you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around, and the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the link below.