================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 2R_HpEF_Lds
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2R_HpEF_Lds
TITLE: Liverpool lose top spot to Arsenal after dramatic Chelsea winner
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-05
DURATION: 1h 5m 52s
VIEWS: 16,408
LIKES: 270
COMMENTS: 55

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo welcomes Daniel Storey, Duncan Alexander and Mark Carey onto the pod after another seismic weekend of Premier League action.

It's 3 defeats in a row for champions Liverpool after another stoppage time winner for Chelsea at Stamford Bridge. Which allows Arsenal to take top spot. What's going on with Arne Slot's side?

Crystal Palace suffer their first defeat of the season as Everton come from behind to secure a late victory through Jack Grealish. Cue limbs at Hill Dickinson.

What now for Ange Postecoglou? 7 games without a win at Forest as they lose 2-0 Newcastle.

Plus more Bournemouth brilliance and Man United make it 3 home wins on the bounce.

00:00 Antoine Semenyo - best in the league?
04:45 Brentford 0-1 Man City 
10:00 Everton 2-1 Crystal Palace
16:35 Newcastle 2-0 Nottingham Forest 
23:00 Wolves 1-1 Brighton
26:15 Aston Villa 2-1 Burnley with Jacob Tanswell
30:35 Chelsea 2-1 Liverpool
42:00 Arsenal 2-0 West Ham
45:50 Daniel’s trip to Edinburgh
50:20 Bournemouth 3-1 Fulha
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 13,597

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hey there, it's Sunday the 5th of October, Sunday evening. Perhaps you're watching us live as we lay down this Totally Football Show, live streaming it on YouTube. Or maybe you're catching a catching up with our, you know, polished end product on a Monday. Whatever you're going to be enjoying Duncan Alexander. >> Hello James. >> Hi Duncan. Mark Kerry. Hi James. >> Welcome Mark. Lovely to have you back. >> Thank you for having me. and also Daniel Story who's been on his travels as per All right, Daniel, >> thank you. >> Lovely to see you, James. >> Lovely to see you, too. >> Duncan, you had a hellish trip in. Hellish. >> Hellish. >> Right. What was your favorite bit of the weekend? >> Um, >> football wise. >> Football wise. Football wise. Yeah, let's stick to football. Uh, I think it was probably Semeno's cameo. Well, not really a cameo. Played the whole game, but you know, his performance for Bournemouth on Friday night. I mean, >> the most two-footed player in the Premier League. Um, and he demonstrated that >> uh very well. >> Indeed. Is he the best player in the Premier League? Mark, that's the question the athletic's been asking. >> Yeah, and Anthony asked that that very question, our colleague who is our data tactics writer. Uh, he was out there in the pouring rain. Um, I haven't spoken to him yet, but I do wonder how he got on in that regard. But >> yeah, it was as an assist as well as the the two goals. on on form. I mean, put it this way, he's in my fantasy Premier League team because if you don't have him, you're going to be falling behind. He's scoring points for fun >> in the real world or what you know, we define the real world, but who can say >> who can say um where would you classify him? I'll go to Daniel with this. Where would you classify him? Is he right now with involvements in nine of the 11 goals that Bournemouth have scored so far this season? Is he the Premier League's most effective player? >> Yeah, most effective is a really good way of saying it. I think best is really hard. I think he's definitely the most effective counterattacking player. Everybody kind of he's the one player at the moment where everybody knows what he's going to do and yet doesn't seem to be able to find a way to stop it. Uh which is yeah, it's brilliant for Andonia. Um he's just it's just the way he can go both ways. He can drive at you like really directly or he can slow down the ball and let other people overlap and kind of create a counter that way. And it's Yeah, he's brilliant. Brilliant to watch. I wish he, you know, he was born in London. I wish he was available to England, but he because he's a Yeah, he's a phenomenal player and also has had a really impressive journey kind of through the NFL up to the Premier League. It's not been plain sailing. It's not been kind of elite academy and straight into a first team. He's had to work at it. So, fair play. >> Excellent. Excellent. Well, lots to talk about today, including Bournemouth, but there's also drama for champions Liverpool. There's Crystal Palace's unbeaten run coming to an end. All sorts of stuff. The results anyway, busy Sunday afternoon, which saw Man City beating Brenford 1-0il at the GTech, beating the Bees with ease. Everton coming from a goal behind to beat Palace 2-1, ending their 19game unbeaten run. Newcastle got past Forest 2-nil to keep Ang's windless streak going. Wolves held Brighton to a 1-1 drop. Mullenu and Villa sore off Burnley 2-1. That's their fourth straight victory side kaki. Saturday the big news was Arsenal going top of the Premier League table thanks to their two-nil victory over West Ham and Chelsea's 2-1 defeat of Liverpool. The champions third game lost in eight days one point behind. Liverpool now in third and fourth are Spurs who won 2-1 at Leads. the first visiting side to win at Ellen Road in over a year and Bournemouth who indeed came from behind on Friday night to defeat Fulham 3-1 with a couple of absolutely belting goals. One of which was from Smeno and the other was from young not Patrick Justin Cliver. >> Correct. Yeah, >> Justin Cliver. There you go. Also, Manchester United beat Sunderland 2-0 Duncan. >> No nil nil draws this weekend but only Bournemouth scored more than two goals. It was a very every it was a lot of two nils and two ones and it was proper football it like the the goals per game rate this season's back to about 2.6 six. You know, we're >> we're back to real football, I think. >> Back to real football. Very nice. The game that we're going to What game are we going to begin with actually? Are we going to start with Brenford Man City? >> Maybe quickly. >> Okay. Uh back to real football. Excellent. Well, Sunday's action is going to be first up for today. Well, Sunday's action is going to be first up for us today on the Totally Football Show. Assume you're not going with any commentary here, are you? There is some Harland Peter Drury. >> Oh, go on then. Let's have that then. What he does he say anything silly? >> He says just one more as in another goal. >> All right, just one more. >> Right. Earling Harland there. That's now his 14th goal in his last seven games for club and country. I'll leave it to the mathematicians to work out what that goal per game ratio is, but it's scary. I I can I can guess that much. And as was indeed the way that he he took this goal. a Daniel rolling past poor set Vanderberg giving him the definition of a a torid time and then be beating Nathan Collins as well. >> Yeah, he's got that kind of beast mode back, hasn't he? Where, you know, he looks offended if anyone tries to take the ball off him. He's scored in 10 of his 11 games this season, the the defeat to home defeat to Spurs being the exception. But there's just yeah there's that sense I think especially with the early goals he scores like the one against Arsenal, the one against Monaco midweek, this one u where it's like it's almost like the first action of the game he does seems to be absolutely perfect and he Manchester City are back in that mode effectively where they start with a 1-0 head start because he's playing and that's when they got to their relentless best when they just got early leads and then ground things out. They don't actually win that many games one nil City, but this felt very one nily from 20 odd minutes onwards. And yeah, they they they obviously start the season slowly, but they are only because of the weird vagies of title challenging form this season, they're five points off the top and in a bit of a run. >> Three, three, three points. Three points off. >> That's even less than five less than five. So >> yeah. So if the first 20 minutes it looked very one nily uh were the last 20 minutes looking quite oney if you know what I mean. >> Yeah. Yeah it was a physical battle. I think that what I think Pep Guardiola said as much I think Harland said as much after the game as well that they knew that Brenford were going to be physical lean on set pieces lean on long throws which has been a massive theme across the whole of the Premier League so far this season. And Coyote was the one kind of it didn't even have to reach the final third or the final you know level with the penalty area. just had to reach over the halfway line and he was willing to throw it in because his launch was unbelievable. So I do think that yeah the final 20 minutes the second half um was far improved from from Brenford. So I think it was probably a lot to do with Brenford improving rather than necessarily Manchester City dropping off although go on there might >> mention cuz Rodri went off. >> Yeah. Yeah. It was I think yeah, Rodri coming off I think was was a factor and we saw it against Arsenal for Manchester City as well that they were willing to to drop back and be a little bit more defensive. So I mean to Daniel's point as well there's there's a little bit more of a robustness to Manchester City. They don't have to always do it in the the aesthetically pleasing way that they've done of of previous years last season aside. But I thought the first half in particular, even aside from Rodri, Manchester City were playing really well against Brenford because Brenford was sitting in in their 53 5-32 block. They were mid blocking, making sure that everything was compact. And that's kind of how Manchester City like to typically break down teams who play zonally, keep a really compact structure. They can stay really high and start to get their positions positionally into place and try and break down a a mid to low block. in the second half they didn't have it quite their own way and it was almost a blueprint from previous games this season where City have come unstuck where teams have pressed really high tried to put them under pressure and they haven't been able to kind of break out in the same way for whatever reason so I do think the fact that Brenford tweaked things a little bit in the second half the fact that they didn't play into Manchester City's hand was what hands was why we saw a bit more of an even game in the second half >> okay and a huge chance for Eigot Thiago as well to um possibly equalize although the oncoming Donorama possibly put him off is shot a little bit. Daniel, >> yeah, I was going to say what Mark was saying there, completely agree. This felt like a weekend for me. If there was like a general theme, it was I don't think this team would have won this game last season. And the the City one is exactly one of those. They look more frail last season in games like this. Uh Spurs is another really good example. I think there's a basically a 0% chance they win those that game in those situation in that sorry, I think there's basically a 0% chance they win that game in those circumstances. last season. Chelsea kind of finding something late when they needed it. So, yeah, City sort of closed the weekend exactly in the way that the whole team of the weekend played out, I think. >> Were there were there teams this weekend who wouldn't have lost that game last season? Liverpool perhaps. We'll get on to that maybe in a bit. >> Uh we're going to do the Sunday afternoon games. Duncan, was there something you wanted to add to our Man City uh Brenford chat? just I guess the assist from Guardia was sort of just dked over again a sort of pass that city didn't really use before and Gary Neville mentioned on commentary about the spine of that team now if Harland's in that sort of form Donna Rumor is just a bit of a a game changer a style changer as well but also a game changer um and I guess we touched on it but the the impact of Rodri you know not quite been able to get back to fitness that's probably the the key that's probably the the thing that you is still the biggest kind of unknown about City this um cuz they are as we saw today significantly more porous when he's not there >> right he has an international bait to try and sort himself out a hamstring issue it was that saw him leave the field early on in that game three points for City who moved to within three points of the top onto the 2:00 games then four of them taking place simultaneously Daniel you were watching the Newcastle forest of their Duncan was covering Everton as they finally ended Palace is unbeaten street. Mark who didn't get first first pick I'm guessing was across Wolves Brighton and Villa Burnley. We've delegated that to Jacob Tanwell who'll be popping up in a second or two. First of all Duncan what a moment around 4:00 when Jack Kish Jack Kish kind of had the ball bounce off him into the net for that come from behind win for Everton against Palace. >> Yeah, that didn't look like that was going to happen for a long time. Um it was the most game of two halves game I've seen for a long time. I mean, Palace were brilliant the first half, Everton couldn't get near them. Tyler Dibbling started and didn't look that effective. Um, but yeah, second half Everton really really changed it around. Um, and uh, yeah, they've got this uh, where is it? Is it the comebacks? >> Yeah. Yeah. So, there's an amazing stat. Everton have only won three of the last 31 home Premier League games where they've conceded the first goal. >> Right. Um, >> have they all been against Crystal Palace? >> They've all been against Crystal Pal. So, I think the Palace fans have had a lovely few months, but they probably even when they took the lead in this game and they had chances to go two up. Mateta missed a really good chance kind of try to sort of dink Pford got it over him, but um it was cleared off the line and then yeah uh the uh the winning goal from Greish um he didn't know much about it. Uh ball was dked in and Betto had a header very to be fair. I bet I get criticism, but it was almost the perfect header like down. >> Right. >> Um >> it was a little bit too much at Henderson's feet perhaps. >> Perhaps. But it as the um as the ball bounced out, it was cleared. It was literally cleared onto Jack Rish's leg and it bounced off and in. So yeah, >> there you go. >> I just want to say how impressed I' I've been with Crystal Palace this I mean this whole season everyone's sort of will agree with that. But again thinking about the numbers Crystal Palace have created the most big chances opt to defined big chances which I think Duncan you'll correct me is sort of an expected goals above 0.3 or is it something >> well it predates XG so it was more the the original definition was a 50/50 chance or a chance where the attackers you know reasonably expected to score. So, >> which still speaks to the point that not only are they creating chances, it's creating very very clear-cut chances a lot against Liverpool. They went on to win that despite conceding late and obviously came back to to win again and created a lot of big chances. I haven't exactly checked the numbers from this game specifically, but the the Mata goal being key to that that they chance I should say being key to that that they could have gone even further ahead and obviously this time it's cost them. was um there was a lot of people sorry a lot of people have talked about David Moyes's changes as one of the reasons why Everton were able to be so much more dominant in this second half to what extent is it the fact that this was only a couple of days after Palace played their first ever game in Europe do you think Daniel were they were their legs a bit empty >> I think last 30 minutes that's that's definitely true and I think David Moyes probably realized that and Moyes has got this trick at the moment where whichever striker starts is effectively a sort of sacrificial lamb and it's only the one he brings off the bench that plays really well because he's both Tion Barry and Betto have already been hooked at Halime this season. Um the Crystal Palace sorry again the West Ham game on Monday I was at it was like really bad. It was really bad with the starting striker. You bring the guy off the bench and he then plays well and they're sort of stuck in this cycle where someone comes off the bench plays pretty well then gets to start the next game plays pretty badly. They bring off a striker who play bring on a striker who plays pretty well. He then starts the next game. So I don't quite know where that ends, but the game did completely change with Betto's introduction. And yet on Monday night, the massive complaint with from Everton fans was like, why is Betto better on the pitch? We want Tiano Barry on the pitch. And yeah, I just I don't quite know how they get to the bottom that other than giving a striker runner of games. But yeah, I mean Barry was really poor first half. Nothing was sticking to him. And then it's how Betto brings in those three behind the striker that changes the game. >> Yeah. And we mentioned Dibling and Alcarez came on in the second half and he was transformative as well. So um I mean I guess the the plus side for it for Everton fans is that after a few seasons of them barely having 12 players to choose from really they've now got these options and they can rotate, they can make changes midame. And you know we we talked in the summer about clubs moving to new stadiums and how it takes time and and Everton are proving that a nonsense really. I mean they are making the Hill Dickinson as we like to call it um into a fortress and then the hilly d um and the noise at the end when when the Gish go in was was authentic. Let's put it that way. >> First limbs I think at the hill hilly D. So for Jack Greish score of the winner picking out the man of the match and a really touching moment after when he's talking to football shows Natalie Jedra who moonlights for Sky Sport when >> when she yeah and he spots you may have seen this he spots that the man of the match award is there he says I think that might be for me but you should really be giving it to Crystal Palace's Adam Warton because he was amazing. I mean those are my words not his but that was very much the message that Jack was sending out which was a lovely lovely touch to celebrate the opposition >> neither of them >> and who deserve celebration as you were doing there this just though the game where all came to an end I mentioned them playing in Europe they were two winners away against Damok that game taking place in the east of Poland on Thursday night in the Europa Conference League was that a Daniel finger that was waving up on the big screen >> I was just going to say that that Warton and Greish uh kind of coincidentally were the two probably most surprising emissions from the England squad named in midweek as well. So I I wonder if that was a kind of partly to do with that maybe because the fact that Warton wasn't in was really really surprising. He's been brilliant this season and Greish I think probably thought he'd done enough with the creativity to get back in. So yeah, a kind of shared initiative for them both to push in for the next one. H England taking on Wales in a friendly on Thursday night. Is that right? >> Thursday night. I will be there. >> Are you going to go along? >> Yeah, I'm really excited. It'll be the first England game that I've reported on, so I'm very excited. >> Excellent. Excellent. Now, uh Daniel, you were watching Newcastle's two-nil win over Nottingham Forest with silly old big Nick Voldem again on the score sheet. Bruno Gimme uh breaking the deadlock in this game. What can you tell us? So Anastasoglu I mean I think rightly chose to go significantly more defensive uh and it was a kind of it was an effective game plan until it wasn't. Bruno Gimme's goal was really really good. Excellent finish and that opened up the game and from that point it was completely one-way traffic because Forest made changes to try and get into it. Tried to completely switch the game were not able to do that and Newcastle I mean they they certainly deserve the two-0 win could easily have been more. Um, Forest only created 0.3xG in the whole game, which I know that's partly about game state because they were deliberately defensive for the first hour, but it's kind of mad to me that, you know, they've appointed Posoglu because they want to completely change the style. And within six or seven games, he's having to kind of fight crisis by going defensive and seeing seeing if that will work. It hasn't really worked. Goodness only knows what happens over the next two weeks because >> Yeah. So this this sorry go on >> no yeah you you said last week that you felt there was every chance that forest would be on another manager come Christmas this Thursday while palace were off winning in Poland against damo Kiev Forest Bless were managing to lose at home to Mitchelland 3-2 a game which saw chance from the home fans of sacked in the morning at their own manager which is pretty remarkable after then six games in charge Is that a good >> crack of the whip? >> Yeah. I mean I mean I was there and it was Yeah, it was toxic. Um I think yes that sounds very hasty but I think I think rather than towards an this was kind of towards this bizarre situation where you know Nuno for whatever reason has been made to feel like he's not in a position he he thinks is ideal over the summer and then publicly talks about it and then is sacked and then they go and get pastu is you know I know that Nun was trying to shift the style but it's a complete shift in mid-season we've talked about all this for the last couple of weeks I know so I think it was more a kind of declaration of like what's going on. It's interesting where Marinaki sits in the mainstand. He sits in front of this massive TV watching uh the screen and in front of him are some season ticket holders or certainly some match ticket holders on Thursday night and they were turning around when Melan scored the third goal as if to say like what's going on like if nothing else Forest were in control of everything last season or felt in control of everything and now like what's happening? This is not what we signed up for or thought we were signing up for. And that sounds really entitled, but Marinakis's whole stick, his whole ethos is, we want more, we want more. And if you tell supporters constantly, we want more. We're going to spend more, we're going to do better, we're going to, you know, finishing seventh just means we finish higher than seventh next year. It's very difficult to then be like, whoa, whoa, whoa. You need to be patient when the manager draws two and loses five of his first seven games after being appointed. So it's quite a hard thing to do, you know, to tell supporters when you've told them to demand more. >> But but there's no question that of of a change happening over the international break. Surely for forest. >> Oh, there's there is I I don't know where the percentages lie. So I'd be guessing if I said there would, but there is a significant chance that he is not there at the end of the international break. I suspect. Um, partly that will come down to who the heck for a point next because it's only, you know, as we've just said, it's only five or six weeks until they were looking for this guy. So, I don't know how easy that is to do. Uh, there is an argument. I think definitely even if you're if you know, if you're Marinakist saying, let's give it three or four more games. Let's give him the international break to see how two weeks in training does although quite a lot of the squad are off with England, particularly the mid midfielders. Um but yeah, there's definitely a non-zero chance that he's not there for forest next game. >> Wow. As for Newcastle, who actually won this game 2-0, mentioned Voldemard scoring. That was a penalty which you particularly admired his style on, Mark. >> Yeah, I just thought it was a little bit odd. I mean, he put it right in the top corner in the top left corner. It just felt like, you know, we've all watched so many penalties yet still that one seemed unconventional aesthetically and you you look at a replay and he doesn't kind of his leg I'm trying to sort of explain it a audibly. The trajectory of his leg doesn't look as though he's kicked a ball very hard. He almost ends with his right foot that he kicked with crossed over his left foot. And I think you mentioned it before, James, it almost seems like a a Rabona shot except it was a conventional shot because it it was almost from a standing start. It just seemed a little bit odd, but it clearly worked because it went to the top left hand corner. >> Bamboozled Matt Selz who probably couldn't have got got to it even if he'd known what Big Nick was doing. Only three players have ever scored in their first three Premier League appearances at St. James's Park. Nick Voldemort is one. The other two are kind of footnotes in the kind of Newcastle football history by the name of Ferdinand and Shira a Kriky. What's it going to be like? Is Vissa going to be back after the international break? Are the are the tune fans gonna see the visa vulde combination up front? What's that gonna be like? It sounds good. >> It's it's who would come out of the side if they did sort of double up. It's not quite the same as >> Elanganger at the moment and uh Lady Dy >> Gordon nonetheless. >> Sorry. Alexander Gordon. >> Yes. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good Gordon. >> Anthony Gordon. That is a very good comparison of I've seen that online. No, I know. I know what you're referring to. It's very good. Um but even the midfield, who would come out of the midfield if it were to be that? Because you need your width on either side. Fullbacks of course you would stay where they are. I mean I I can't think between Tanali Brunice and Joe Linton they are so crucial to the way that Newcastle play the the energy that they play with the way that tenacity that they play with. It was because of the tenacity that Bruno Rice showed that led to the first goal as well. So I can't see who would come out and as I say I think it's a bit akin to the Echitik Alexander Isac comparison with Liverpool. Do you play them together or do you just have them as rotational options? I'd probably say >> both. I mean to Daniel's point about Everson strikers, I think, you know, football managers these days love to use the word finishers rather than substitutes, don't they? And it's a good position for these clubs to be in to have those options when when they're available. >> Good problems to have. Speaking of problems, Wolampton Wanderers still bottom of the table, but they got another point today. For the second week in a row, they thought they were about to get all three. >> Mark, this time it was up against Brighton. What happened? Uh the best way I can explain it is a game happened. Um there wasn't a great deal of action. Um probably beyond last on match the day, but I don't want to be too disparaging about the game. I I think a draw was probably about right. I think that the point that you make about Wolves having a lead, which they haven't had too often this season, and then sort of giving it up was um unfortunate, but I do think they attracted Brighton onto them a little bit. I think they were sitting deeper probably after about 55 to 60 minutes. and you think you can't do this for that long and it was about I think it was 86 minutes that Yan Paul Van Hecker scored from the it was a corner that was played short and eventually crossed in it was an excellent header as well but they they probably Wolves looked quite dangerous on the counterattack if nothing else but in possession it felt a little bit I think it was said in commentary as well that there was a kind of a tension as for a team that is sitting at the bottom of the league to think as long as we don't make a mistake here it's very riskaverse if I can just play it backwards to a teammate, then it's not my problem. I've not been the one to to give up possession. And if you do that across, you know, enough sequences, it ends up going back to the goalkeeper and can't go further back. It just felt a little bit negative at times, but they did look pretty dangerous on the counterattack. But credit to Brighton, they came back into into the game um and did really well. It's interesting that both of the the goals, albeit not from first contact, but both of the goals came from set pieces. Um, and it's been widely spoken about, I know, but this season in the Premier League, it's been a season so far of set pieces. And of course, I looked into the numbers on this, including penalties, so all dead ball situations. 35% of the total goals scored in the Premier League this season have been via set pieces. And that's the highest in the data set that I at least have going back to 2018. >> Does that include throwins? He said stupidly. >> No, I believe so. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, absolutely. So, uh, it's, yeah, it's when you can get a dead ball situation, get your choreographed routines out and get it into the mixer because it's clearly effective. Anyone who's a fan of anguished fans um on TV should should watch the behind the goal as that Brighton equalizer goes in because it wasn't completely full the Wolves End so you can actually make out people a bit more clearly and there was so many sort of just that moment of understanding that the the the two points have just disappeared up the road and uh but there still >> was VTO Pereira sat there because he got sent off early early on in this. Yeah, he um he protested. Was it Balabour that that got booked for a foul on the touch line? >> It didn't need to be protested that much, I think. >> So, he kicked the ball towards the fourth official. Is that right? >> Towards the match official. Yeah. I >> It didn't require that much uh anger, I don't think. Um he was just frustrated by it. This has been the first half as well. And so, it wasn't like the they had just thrown away the lead. Um and was Julie sent off and then within about 90 seconds, Wolves go on and score. So maybe it was a good luck charm. I don't know. >> There you go. Excellent. Uh Daniel, if you've nothing else to add on that. Next up, we can hear about Aston Villa clocking their fourth consecutive victory or I'll say that again. Fourth consecutive victory. This one coming against Burnley. Watching at Villa Park was Jacob Tanwell who joins us now or a short time ago. What do you think? Now? Who joins us now? Jacob, you're live from Ursto Crisis Club Aston Villa following the 2-1 victory over Burnley. What's going on there? Four straight wins. >> Yeah, the Garden seems a little bit rosy now, doesn't it? Um, I think that was always going to be the case really. You saw these four games and you thought this was a really good chance for Villa to turn it around. You know, two pretty favorable home games on paper in the league. Then you have Europa League, which always tends to be a bit of a salvation for struggling teams. You saw that with Tottenham last year. And in fairness, Villa's players are looking more confident because they're scoring, because they're winning games. You saw it, the fact that Villa didn't score a goal and the first team in the top seven divisions yet to score a goal. So, that obviously weighed on them, but now they look a little bit more free going forward. Of course, there are still vulnerabilities. You saw that in the final 15 minutes against Burnley when they pulled a goal back, but it just feels like Villa started to get into their mojo. Not quite there yet, but the signs are promising. >> They do go a little bit under the radar. Villa don Maron with the brace in this guy. But who would be the most kind of under the radaresque player at the moment for Villa? >> You always have to say Lamar Bogard. Really a young player. He's a player that Emmery hasn't quite developed young players since he's come to the club and that's something that he wants to develop and he wants to do in the next couple of years. With Bogard, he's a player that's very versatile, a right back, a right size, a center back, a center midfielder. not been seen as one of these players that would go on to these heights, but he started today. He's been fantastic in recent games. He's very intelligent. He's only 21 22, but he can play multiple positions. He's got very good game awareness. And now, as Emry always like to say, he's got this real structure. Uh, and he understands the structure of Emry's team. So, Bogard is a young Dutch international, very good, very composed, and I think he's probably been a shining light in the last few weeks. >> And a word for Morgan Rogers, who continued his excellent series of assists. >> Yes. Um what is it now? Is he's had eight assists since April. In fairness to Rogers, he's had a really tricky time really. You know, you saw he got cheered when he made a pass against Bologna. He got cheered when he came off against Sunderland. He's been maybe Villa's worst player this season. He's really struggled. But today and against Fine on Thursday, of course, he's not been polished and he's still being quite loose in his passing, but he keeps getting the ball. He keeps getting into these great positions. And if you get enough chances and you get enough opportunities in that number 10 position driving at the back line, you're going to create and and obviously record assists. So it's very good for him. He just needs now to go up to the levels that we saw last season. >> Villa when they come back from the international break will be away at Spurs. What do you think um what do you think Emerald will be be most focused on over the next 10 12 days? >> I think rest. I think more or less is the case with him really because he's such an obsessive. is players are tactically demanding and they sit in long analysis sessions. You know, they had four before the game today. So, I think the players would be burned out. I think it's a good time for them to go on to the international break. It's a good time for them to go back to home if they're not away with their countries. But with Emry, you always know that he'll be planning and this is why this period before the international break was so key to win these games because they got Tottenham, they've got Liverpool coming up. They've got these big tough games that they might not win, but they've now got points on the board and they've got a bit of momentum. So that's the most important thing heading into this international break. >> Yeah, Spurs, Man City, and then Liverpool the first three back after the international break. Jacob, hope you have a lovely uh spell off as well. And thank you so much for that. >> Thank you, mate. Appreciate it. >> Cheery stuff from Jacob Tans. Well, as the Villa on the march up the Premier League table at the top of which there was a change this weekend. We'll get on to that after this. Splendid. And then we're just straight back in literally boom. Uh we've done all of that yada yada yada and b Oh dear. That's top two in the Premier League. Arsenal and Liverpool swap places on Saturday. The Gunners moving a point clear of the champions after their win over West Ham and Liverpool's defeat away to Chelsea in front of the watching Madonna who of course penned true blue in celebration of her deep affiliation with the Stamford Bridge side. Wild scenes at the end for Chelsea with Enzo Moresca doing a jose down the touch line kind of picking up a yellow card getting sent off. biggest win for Chelsea since New Jersey, Daniel. >> Oh yeah, definitely since New Jersey. Um just the the kind of resilience for one. Um the fact that they had to do things in game which felt a bit uncomfortable. So, I thought Reese James was he wasn't the best player on the pitch, but his his ability to play in multiple positions. Um, kind of I thought kind of ironic that him and Trent are the sort of two England right backs and Liverpool really look like they've got a problem at right back that they they're really struggling to solve and Chelsea for as long as Ree James stays fit and and you know will always provide a consistency. He can play central midfield, he can play right back, he can play right wing back, he can play central defense for a bit here. So I thought the way they managed that was really effective and Estaval getting the goal at the end because um Chelsea have an awful lot of wide attacking players and what they need is someone to go on a run and deliver or at least support J Pedro. Uh and so Estal scoring is massive as well. At no point as soon as Liverpool equalized I thought last season memory kicked in and I kind of thought that Liverpool would go on and win the game. they'd be the one that pushed, but it was Chelsea doing that. So, that feels like a change as well. I still got no idea about Chelsea, by the way. I still think they could finish fifth or they could finish second. I've got no idea. But that makes the moments that they produce all the more important. And this was this was a huge one. >> So, a win achieved without Cole Palmer. So many other players absent as well for Enzo Moresca's side. So, a really really impressive performance. Liverpool, meanwhile, first time that Anie Slots lost three games in a row in his managerial career. What's up with Liverpool? You mentioned Trent. This is kind of the weekend when everyone's bringing up Trent. Mo Salah, maybe his form bears some uh factoring into this whole conundrum. Is it are they the kind of issues that can be fixed over an international break? Do we think Ronnie Slot? >> Good question. Uh I I think naturally when you have that much turnover in the the squad, of course they had such a unbelievably terrible uh summer themselves as as humans, never mind sort of on pitch stuff. I think the amount of bodies that they got through the door in terms of turnover means that they they do need to take some time to to get used to how each other plays, the the runs and that will all come. I know that's been spoken about quite widely, but when you're a team the size of Liverpool, you need that to click quite quickly. But then yesterday uh slot did refer back to or go back to uh soy callister and grand burge in the middle to try and just get a bit more familiarity again and it still didn't quite work. I think the credit does have to go to Chelsea the way that they were really really aggressive and stop Liverpool kind of building through the third was impressive but I don't think there's anything you can really put your finger on specifically. It's not just right back. It's not just left back. >> It's not the fact that the attack isn't quite clicking. It's not just Salah. kind of all of the above. I think specifically yesterday it was a little bit the case that Liverpool kind of struggled building through the thirds because of Mama Dash Villi. The fact that he's left footed I thought was quite crucial because they were playing passes to him. I think almost thinking it was Allison and he was having to just shuffle it back onto his left foot or play it with his weaker right foot and he was kind of fine with it and there wasn't an error per se but it meant that then each then subsequent pass was labored and by which point Chelsea were just able to be in position and basically intercept the the uh the Liverpool attack. So it was very stilted, very um uncomfortable to watch, very labored in the way that Liverpool were trying to um yeah build through the thirds. There were a lot of misplaced passes. Um, all things which were just so unlike Liverpool last season basically. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. I think something that's gone a little bit under the radar um is Alexis Mallister's form as well. He's he's you know, he was so crucial in particularly in the second half of last season. Um and he just looks I mean I know he's had quite a lot of injury problems, but he really looks off it. And as Mark says, you know, the where do you want to start? The attack's not clicking. Um Kirk is I mean >> they need to improve on crosses on defending. >> Yeah. I mean, Anie Slot needs to dig out that Moyes tweet and do his own version. But, um, but then again, on the flip side, >> some of the reaction has has been insane. Like, really? >> Yeah. I mean, like, people sort of, you know, I mean, obviously a club like Liverpool will have a larger online fan base than others, but >> but you know, the sort of anti-slot um, >> have people been doing face swaps on him? No, >> he hasn't quite got to face swap. Um, although quite an easy person to face swap, I imagine. But um he hasn't got to that stage yet. But yeah, you know, like people already talking about who Liverpool's next manager should be. I mean, come on. It's uh you know, he's one of only two managers to win in the league in the last 30 odd years. So, um there is a lot to to work out, but this is why Mark and I will will bang the sample size drum in August and September because yes, Liverpool won their first five league games, but you know, a lot of those were quite fortunate. They're better than they've been than they've shown this week, but they're probably not as good as they looked maybe in the in the late summer. >> The truth lies somewhere in between. Trent, as I mentioned, getting a lot of references uh conspicuous by his absence in this year's this season's Liverpool. Mike says, "Was TAA actually incredibly underrated? Uh Liverpool having huge problems now at fullback finding it so hard to progress the ball. I had to laugh, says Mike, at match the day analyzing Salah not helping Bradley. As if that ever happened with Trent, who was just mocked for being a poor defender. >> Well, Cookerella pointed out post game that Chelsea had worked on attacking Liverpool's right hand side cuz they know that Salah doesn't really track back. So yeah, I think there was some harsh uh criticism of of Alexander Ron for his defending when he actually not only did he do that reasonably well, but his ability to step in midfield and play the passes that maybe Mallister and Graham Burch can't do is is also being missed. >> Sorely missed. >> Yeah, I wrote that piece as Duncan will know about Liverpool changing their out of possession approach. I won't labor on it too long, but the idea basically being that gakpo is now starting a little bit deeper out possession, which allows Mallister to shuffle along, which allows Gravenber to to shuffle along as well to try and support whoever the right back is, and there've been many so far this season to try and mitigate the fact that Salah doesn't tend to to track back very much. That didn't happen quite as much yesterday, which is why I think Connor Bradley, especially in the first half, well, it was only him in the first half and he obviously got hooked at halfime was quite exposed, which I think was uh was quite telling that they were targeting it. On the the point of Trent Alexander Arnold in possession, one thing that he did, we know about his passing range in general, but often when the team, the opposition was coming onto him, onto Liverpool specifically, he was able to play that ball often a diagonal or sort of up the line to Salah. And as as much as anything, yes, it was a searching pass, but it was also a bit of a release valve for the pressure. And they don't quite have that at the moment as well. >> And the other player who no one seems to mention at all, but who left is Lewis Diaz. And he was often the recipient of those balls and and was able to sort of, you know, hold the ball up or or and and that's another big loss. And it it is hard to change a team so significantly. >> On the subject of Mo Salah, if he doesn't track back and he also doesn't score goals, he's got what? Let's check this out. He's got four goals in the last 16 Premier League matches. Is Is it heresy to suggest that maybe he could do with a a spell out or again am I just Is that too small a sample size? >> Personally, I would say it's not even small sample size. I just feel like he's I mean he's he's judged by his his own standards, of course. I think that for the for the goal that Liverpool scored, it came from the fact that Dominic Solai when he moved to right back was overlapping and having bodies and supporting Salah. There was a lot of occasions throughout the whole game where he was isolated and sometimes he likes that because it means that he can face up the oppos the opposition fullback one v one and have a bit of space to run into and then you need runners ahead of him. There was a lot of times where I think it was actually when Floren Verz came on there was a very specific example where he gave the ball to to Salah >> with that magnificent spin. Uh, no. Although that was a fantastic what could have been assist chance created which which was really good and that's sort of positions you want to get Salah in but it was it was some later in the second half where >> he gave it to Salah thinking okay well you're the guy I should be giving it to and then I think turn his back to the ball and just sort of ran away and then it was Salah against two to three Chelsea players and it was like he need he needs runners ahead of him he needs bodies ahead of him and that's when he can either cut inside and play those back post crosses that he did so so well last season or maybe cut inside and and score or you know shoot whatever it may be when he's so so isolated he can't really do any of those quite quite as well so I think it was telling that when solight over overlapped him he had a pass to make for then the subsequent cross to be made and then the subsequent goal to be scored >> they've got Man United coming up at Anfield straight after the international break some problems in the past Daniel and also not Daniel what's your take on how much Schllock is going to be able to sort out over the next 10 to 12 days. >> I mean, it's really difficult. The salah question is a really interesting and instructive one, I think, because if you've got five problems to solve, on a slot is effectively left with two options, right? He tries to solve all of them at once. So, he tries to get the perfect team together and hopes that when it clicks, Liverpool, you know, everybody knows, right, this is what I'm supposed to be doing. This is how we're supposed to operate. We're now all good again. If you do if you try and do that compartmentalized, you know, you say, "Let's take out Salah." And then you think, "Right, we solved the other problems." Well, there's a chance that when you bring Salah in, everybody has to learn how to do that again. And if you're in a title race, or you're expected to be in a title race, that's really hard to do because that can take like two or three months, and you might not have two or three months. So, I suspect he's going to have to try and solve them all at once. Um I I think the the trend thing is interesting because the question is whether they're sort of missing players and what they did or they just have there's so much change that the that different players are operating in a different way. So I think Dominic Dominic Slobers could be a really good right back but he's a very different one to Trent. I think Frimm could be a good right back but he's a very different one to Trent. I think Connor Bradley maybe could be a filling but he's a different one to Trent. So all the options they have are not just different to Alexander Arnold, they're also different to each other. So it's almost like every team he picks feels like the first day of the season at the moment and we're not quite sure how they'll play. And that's, you know, the international brick is massive for that because yeah, two weeks on the training ground is is something that managers of elite clubs, Champions League clubs don't get very often. >> Although he won't have too many of his squad there with him because they'll be off on international break. Arsenal now one point ahead of Liverpool at the top of the table. They beat West Ham 2-nil goals from former West Ham boy Declan Rice and then Bukaya Sacka with the penalty. So 21 shots and 47 touches in the opposition box for Arsenal which is their best numbers in a game this season. That was the good news. The bad news is that once again Martin Udard has gone off. Indeed, he's left before Halime in each of his last three Premier League starts. I this time it's a >> first time that's ever happened in the Premier League. >> Third time. >> First time. >> Oh, first time. >> Yeah. And it's ridiculous really because he came off injured um in midweek in the Champions League as well. And it's almost like >> give him a rest, Muel. But um but then the flip side argument to that would be that he has been back to his best at times this season. So I could see why he was risked. >> Indeed. a medial collateral ligament, an MCL. Is that who wants to venture a medical opin opinion on on the likely duration of that? >> I really wouldn't know, but it doesn't sound good. I don't know if you know, Daniel, but unless I Google it, >> it's not that bad. >> It's not that light. >> It's about 3 to four weeks, >> basically. >> Okay. >> Yeah, it's the hipster uh ligament. >> Yeah, >> it's an ACL light. Let's put it that way. West Ham who are now managed of course by Nuno Spirit Santo picked up four points from their first seven games which is their joint worst start ever in the Premier League. >> Just on uh on Arsenal's defense which is imperious and I know Daniel loves this sort of chat. Um they've considered three so far now I think is Chelsea's 15 under threat. We had this chat with Burnley, didn't we, last season, but um that wouldn't have counted because it was in the Championship. So, but yeah, I mean, do you know the last team to score more than twice against Arsenal in the Premier League was Luton Town >> two seasons ago. >> Wow. >> Um, which is mad. >> That is mad. So, they've conceded three and seven. Seven is about what 20% of the season. >> So, 5* 3 is 15. So, you you're pretty much on track to match Marin Mourinho era Chelsea. That's remarkable. >> Yeah, they're on about 16 at the moment. They need to tighten up a bit, but they uh you know, they got a chance. >> All right. Well, best wishes to Martin Odigard. A lot of positivity though regarding how Arsenal performed without him once he did go off thanks to the arrival of Zubime Mendi of course. Uh anything else you want to add on this or should we get on to the likes of Spurs and Manchester United and and yes, Bournemouth? We'll do that then next. wait for the Premier League. All sorts of things been happening. For example, Barcelona getting absolutely not sure what word you use. Spanked. I hope really >> spanked by Seville. Sevilla uh this uh this weekend 4-1. Also around Europe, uh Juventus and Milan going at it on Sunday night. Don't know what's happened in that because that hasn't actually kicked off yet. Uh, but I'm warming up to say that all these stories and their outcomes will be featured in the Totally Football Show European edition, which will be out with you first thing Tuesday morning. It'll also feature another record for Harry Kane, who's now set a record for the number of consecutive games that he set a record in, I think. Also, word on the future of Sansero, Jeppe Mansa, and loads of other stuff in the Totally Football Show European edition with myself, James Horn, Castle, Julian Ron, Paul Beloo, and Seb Stafford Blur. Speaking of away from the Premier League, Daniel, you went to see the best team in Scotland on Saturday and they don't play in Glasgow. >> They do do not play in Glasgow. They play in Edinburgh and they are the fabulous Gorgi boys. the hearts. >> Um, yeah, I went to my first ever Edinburgh Derby. It was kind of everything I wanted to be like really nasty before the game. >> Really blood and thunder and I mean a nonsense wind as well uh for the game and then Heart scored with pretty much the last kick uh to win the derby. And yeah, I mean I I I went up for this on the road series because not just because of hearts, but because I think the story for kind of the the narrative or the core celeb for like 20 25 maybe even longer years was that will the old firm come down and play in England? And actually it now seems that the alternative the flip side of that might be the the far more relevant question because Harts have well they're minority what they've been invested in by Tony Bloom at Brighton and Bournemouth owners have a minority stake in Hibs. So it was a kind of the first Edinburgh derby with Premier League investment. And I genuinely think, I'm not just saying this cuz I went, but I genuinely think it could be a game changer for Scottish football because I don't think it would take a huge amount of investment with the state that Celtic and Rangers are in at the moment now to create a title challenge. I didn't see Hearts being top of the league at this point, and they are, and they are deservedly so. But the recruitment this summer, you know, they their best player at the weekend was a um a guy they signed from a Slovakian top tier club. They signed players from from Germany and Portugal and they've got this Kazakhstani guy joining in January who's everyone's very excited about. So they are kind of in with the Tony Bloom data model anyway and yeah it's really interesting. It can bring competition to Scotland. It can improve the league. It can it's a the question I have for supporters is whether there's any degree of that subservience to a Premier League club sits awkwardly in any way. But I don't think they have a choice because the finances of Scottish football are so weighted against everybody but Celtic and Range. It's that you take your chance when you can. So yeah, the piece will be out I think this Thursday. So I'm really looking forward to writing it. >> Excellent. I'm looking forward to to reading that in the eye. Uh Duncan. Yeah, I mean to back up Daniel's point, I think the Scottish League was quite quite slow in adopting data and and things like that in their recruitment. And I think that's where they really fell behind some of the sort of equivalent European leagues in size and stature. Um, and I think it's pretty exciting. I mean, having a team other than Rangers or Celtic win the Scottish title would be good. I mean, obviously Bournemouth and Brighton as as Daniel mentioned, there's a bit of other South Coast uh influence as well with Russell Martin going to um from Southampton to uh >> Yeah. Well, he's he's helping as well. So, they they got a plucky point at full cut. So, yeah. >> Excellent. Excellent. Uh also should mention that the Old Farm derby took place this weekend and for the first time in 6,13 days It saw Ipsswitchtown beating Norwich City in that celebrated fixture 3-1. >> Yeah, the Athletics Michael Bailey I spoke to yesterday was very concerned, he's a Norwich fan, okay, >> that they would lose for the first time to switch since the iPad had been invented and lo and behold, >> uh maybe they'll start selling it in East Anglia. >> 16 years, >> 14 matches in that time. Sorry, Daniel. >> Some incredible sousery at that game as well. So for people that don't know, Marcelino Nunz became the first player for a long time to go between the clubs this season when signing from Norwich for Ipsswitch. Uh and some Ipsswitch town supporters had brought a banner which was effectively a screenshot of a Norwich fan's tweet that said build Nunez a statue already from when he was a Norwich player and they had this massive banner in the in the home end. Uh it was yeah it was pretty fruity at fulltime. Uh Ipsswich were by Mars the better team. They've kind of flattered to deceive this season, but if they keep playing like that, they will go up. Uh and yeah, some of Norwich's defending was uh not safe for work quite literally. Criy. Excellent. Uh there you go. That was Ipsswitch 3 Norwich one, which is the exact same score line. Actually, I noticed that our next game that we're going to talk about featured that's Bournemouth 3-1 Fulham from Friday. I asked the question which I read in the Athletic. Is Antoine Semenya the best player in the Premier League right now. Effective says Daniel Duncan. You're going to say yes, aren't you? You love him. >> Well, I wrote that headline so I'm going to back up. Yeah. Yeah. Um but yeah, I think as we talked about earlier, he is just Yeah. I I just love how two-footed he is. Like he is he's not just a player that can use his weaker foot. It's like he genuinely is equally talented with both feet and that is a good thing. Did you know that? Because I saw this I think on the TV yesterday and I had to check it in the numbers. He has taken the most non-penalty shots of any player since the start of last season in the Premier League more than Erling Harland. And it just it's just jarring. You just think that it's always central strikers who are going to be at the top of that list. And and Smeno is on 141 non-penalty shots and ahead of Harland Salah, Cole Palmer, all all the all the big names. And he himself of course now is is a big name, fantastic player. Maybe it's because he's able to shoot off both feet that there's no angle too tight that he can't still get a shot away. >> Speaking of tight angles, how about that opening goal in this game? Wow. >> Yeah. Yeah. The way that he Well, there was two players doubling up on him and you thought, okay, well, he's kind of going to a bit of a culde-sac. He might need to turn out and and pass it, maybe make a run as a consequence, but he thought, no, I'm going to just drive to the by line, just keep the ball in. And then I think he said in his postmatch interview, he said he looked up and there was no one there, so may as well go for it. >> But he managed to >> Exa. Yeah, exactly. And it wasn't even I think sometimes it's so much more satisfying if it's just cleanly through rather than just like off the goalkeeper's back leg and then you know in whatever it is. >> I was watching that game with some people and I think at least two of them involuntarily went whoa cuz like just seeing the net bulge from that position it it defied logic for a few seconds. >> Uh Justin Clver's goal a moment for a lot of his teammates as well. Uh, you are predicting the Cherries to finish in the top six this season, Daniel. >> Yeah, I think I said that a few weeks ago, so it would be remiss of you not to bring it up when they win. So, thank you. Um, yeah, I I just think the amount of teams in Europe this season was always going to create an advantage for someone else. I kind of weather wondered whether it would be Manchester United, but maybe not. Um, but Bournemouth are very very good at lots and lots of things. there's no obvious weakness in the team. They have rebuilt the defense. And like I I always think the sign of a brilliantly run football club or elite football club is when players leave and the the their replacements look better than the players who left for for more money. And I can't think of a better example this season so far than Kirk hasn't because he just looks made for Bournemouth. and this it's this ability to have these plug-in and play signings that always look like they they've already been at the club 6 months before you see them play. Um, and that's a huge compliment to the environment at the club and it's a huge compliment to to Andonia and his role in that because um yeah, they are really really really hard to play against and they also like they are punching above their weight by such a distance. If you go to that ground, it is small. Um, it isn't a football heartland necessarily, but they're just really, really sensible and clever and smart and do things right and squeeze things out of players who you don't expect. So, you know, Lewis Cook and Adam Smith and the the kind of unheralded players, the glue that makes everything stick together. They're really really good at it. So uh eventually what happens in this is that a club has that rise and then the bigger clubs switch on and think we need to shut this down either by signing their players which people have tried with Bournemouth or by shutting down the style. So that's the kind of next era of Bournemouth. But I don't see any reason they can't finish in the top six. >> Currently lying fourth two points off the top. they will struggle to repeat that trick of selling somebody and having a better player coming in in the case of Antoine Semeno as and when he does move which is likely to be I guess a big story maybe next summer but sorry Duncan >> I mean the other fear I guess for Bournemouth fans would be that um IA is >> is uh targeted and and picked up by someone else but I think he's really enjoying the freedom and and the and the space he has to do to you know instill his principles at Bournemouth I think I think for someone like him going to a bigger club and doing that. We've seen many times it's not as easy to walk into a into a hyper club and and make um make that much difference. But uh he was um he was out running the line in in an under eight girls game as well. Was he? Yeah. So it's good to see it. >> Excellent. There you go. Uh they're lying fourth. Manchester United, who Daniel mentioned as potential beneficiaries of a a nice gentle midweek calendar by and large, did indeed this week get a victory. They beat Sunderland. >> What's that stat about? Is it 50% of all Ruben Amarim's wins in the Premier League have been against promoted sides? >> Yeah, >> there you go. So, 2-0 against Sunderland. But was there a bit of flexibility here? A lot of people accusing him of being too witted to his 352, but was there a different approach from Man United here, Mark? >> Uh, I'm not I'm not too sure. I think as much as anything, the fact that he was playing the players that he was, including Mason Mount, I know that Mason Mount scored the goal. I always feel like Manchester United just look better in and out of possession. It's it's widely spoken about, but I do think that's the case when when Mason Mount is in the team, right? >> I I think so. I think that the widely spoken about thing is they look so porous in midfield when there's just a midfield two. Mount can play a little bit further forward, but when Manchester United are out of possession, he can start to plug a few gaps and block a few passing lanes, etc. I do think that's >> should I be getting ready for the Mason Mount kind of redemption bandwagon. >> If he can stay fit, I think that's the thing. And it's it's one of those as well with the the firepower that Manchester United have added this summer. It's I always like to say it's your best 11 or your 11 best and if it's your your 11 best you'd maybe include the well Cesco Brian and Burmo and Matteas Kuna but I think that your best 11 probably includes Mason Mount for for the reasons I described. So I think with Cesco in the team as well it seemed like they were doing it more of playing directly. Sometimes they do just circulate it around the back and it's for passing sake, but then when they do go direct to Cesco, >> he can then get a flick on and when they I I basically think United look most dangerous when they go a little bit more direct and now they've got someone who can make it stick or flick it on better than Rasmus Hyen basically. Daniel Mount's one of those players that his career is is absolutely bizarre really. I was looking at this this the other day for something else about England and Mount was the player fouled for Harry Kane to get the penalty that England missed in the last World Cup um against France. So he was like he was key he was central to that massive moment of England's last World Cup and it's pretty much his last cap. I think it might even have been his last cap 2022. He's got like 36 England caps. He's only 26 and he hasn't played for England for three and a half years now or three years now because it was a Winter World Cup. It's just a very strange player. Obviously, Manchester United was really has been really bad for him, but I agree with Mark like he he makes a difference to teams. There's a reason why managers really like him. I I honest I think there was a really interesting um sliding doors moment when Manchester City signed him. Both he and Jack Greish were both available at roughly the same time and City went for Greish rather than Mount and that I think they were looking at Mount at the time and Guardiola liked him. It's been really interesting to see how those two careers could have gone differently over the last three or so years since because I think it's fair to say that they made they both kind of all made the wrong choice. >> Wow. Greish at United and City with Mason Mount. >> A better world is possible. Um and Mount's finish in this game was was excellent. Yes. >> Um I think the other thing we should mention is that and Manchester United fans were singing about Peter Schmeichel on on Saturday was the Senna Lmond's debut in goal and >> was good at catching and saving and kicking and I think that made quite a big difference. So >> um United that's three homes in a row they've got now. Um >> they're only five points off the top now. They're not going to challenge for the title I suspect. >> Six points. Six points off the top. >> Six points. Yeah. But um it's a very condensed uh Premier League and to Daniel's point, you do think that you know Bournemouth, Man United, maybe Sunderland, Everton um with fewer commitments, they they could have it's a really good chance for them to to get a top five finish which should be uh Champions League football. >> Manchester United in the Champions League. It could happen, says the Athletics Duncan Alexander. Nice to have some good news to report about Man United for once. >> And also the other thing is we know everyone there's a lot of Ruben Ammer stats that people know but one of the the classics is that he hasn't won backto-back games since being there >> right >> that as we mentioned earlier their next game is against Liverpool and I mean the narrative gods have served us up a treat there. I mean what that's that's a game to look forward to. >> Certainly is only four wins away from that lad getting a haircut now as well actually. Yeah. The other game from this weekend, which I'm not sure how it's ended up last, last, but by no means the least, you would call it leads Spurs 2 by Saturday lunchtime, which was kind of a a pint of pure Premier League with pouring rain and lots of physicality and people getting stuck in. Daniel, did you enjoy? >> Yeah, I really did. Yeah, I I think I said at the top of the show that I watching the game, if this had been last season, there was a n% chance that Spurs would have won that game because they completely lost control in the second half. um when Jav Simmons went off I think pretty much I don't know if coincidence or just the the changes enabled Lees to kind of feel that stronger but yeah they they Spurs ground it out and they just haven't done that recently and they are near the top of the league because they they have been doing that in the league more often than not. Um I went back and looked and between the start of November 2023 and the end of last season so that covers pretty much all of anogloo's tenure. Um, Spurs only won one away game in which they conceded. It was 4-1 at Ipsswitch. So, basically, whenever they face any adversity on the road, either going behind or a team comes back at them, they just didn't win the matches. They either scored first, scored first, were pegged back and then just sort of wilted or they conceded first and never got back into the match. Um, and these are the things I think where Frank is making that tangible difference. There will obviously be little things he's doing. Um the new players help but there just seems to be a different resolve amongst Spurs players that has haven't been there before. I was really worried at the start of the game when I saw the front three. It looked too kind of weak to me. I was not sure if that they would be able to get back. You know, Le are a really physical team in midfield and in defense and I thought that might kind of Tottenham might just look a bit powderpuff against them, but they got it done. We saw that resolve of which you speak as well in the Champions League midweek when they came from two goals down to Bodo glimp to earn a point. Lovely to see Matel getting a goal here as well. I imagine that'll mean the world to him. >> Yeah, he was yeah picked out as a as a really good story for for the fact that he's got I think by Thomas Frank saying he was so so pleased for him. I think it was Muhammad Muhammad Curtis's first goal for Spurs as well I believe as well. So really glad that both of them got off the mark I suppose. I think Kudis has been the the main creative threat almost too much, I'd say, in the the early weeks of the the season for Spurs. I think they kind of lacked the same balance on the other side. Um, and it's kind of been up to Cudas to create something or cross the ball each time and hope that someone gets on the end of it. And again, looking at the numbers, he's had 60 takeons already this season, which is comfortably higher than any other Spurs player, but comfortably higher than any other player in the league. So, it it very much has been get it to him and then hope that he kind of does something with it. But just speaking about that balance, I think since Destiny or Doggy's come back into into the side from left back, he can make those forward under overlapping or overlapping runs again and it does kind of get Spurs forward a little bit more on the left hand side because previously it had been Jed Spence playing on his his weaker foot essentially and often coming inside or maybe playing it backwards. I think they've now got a bit kind of thrust going on on either side. So I think that's been a key reason why they've I say picked up. They've been about par, I'd say, in the in the opening part of the season, but they've looked a little bit more potent going forward, I think, in recent weeks. >> All right, line third. Just two points off the top of the table. Leads losing a game at home in the league for the first time in over a year, 385 days. >> We should mention the beach ball or inflatable ball, >> right? >> Um, which almost got in the way when Okafur equalized. I mean to the extent that it was in front of Vicario and he he battered it away in anger which is you know how you should treat a beach ball. >> Were you rooting for a Sunderland style beach ball instant? >> Probably not as much as Darren Ben's agent was I suspect but um but yeah it was uh and we know now that if it had gone the way the goal wouldn't stand. >> Yeah. >> Maddest that that goal stood. >> Yeah. >> Different times. Different times. Well, there you go. That was the Premier League on this match day seven. Anything else you want to add, Daniel, before we head off into the ether? >> No, just say I'm going I'm going away on holiday this week to the city where I will >> Oh, yeah. I know. Where I'll be not just reporting Not just reporting on the world's smallest football league, but actually playing in the game next Sunday. So, >> no way. >> That's going to be fun. >> What? >> Yep. >> Wow. >> No deadline day, no transfer windows on the silly. >> Amazing. Amazing. Well, best of luck. Uh, with that, may the best team win. >> What position you going to be playing? Has that been agreed? >> I think I think substitute will be probably the natural position to start with and then where I'm told. I mean, it all depends on >> finisher >> whether it all depends on whether I can get a boat from St. Agnes to St. Mary's on the morning of the game. But I'm reliably informed that one will be running to take me over. So, it is on. >> Wow, that's extraordinary. Well, when you return, look forward to hearing all about that. Thank you for today, Daniel. Have a super time in the silly hours. Mark, thank you for being with us this Sunday evening. Duncan, thank you for struggling through the vagaries of >> Yeah. big city transport. Yeah. And uh listener stroke viewer, thank you for joining us and making us part of your Premier League experience. That's what I'd call it. We'll have another totally for you. The European one that will be up Tuesday morning and then Thursday we return with the regular show. So do look out for those. For now from all of us here it's goodbye.