================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: karup-Mtufk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=karup-Mtufk
TITLE: 'Ballon d'Or!' Rio screams, 13 times | Libero 054
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-19
DURATION: 1h 1m 28s
VIEWS: 2,530
LIKES: 144
COMMENTS: 24
TAGS: football, podcast, soccer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Ruud Gullit has been booked. iShowSpeed is getting his tuxedo ready. Kaka will be around, probably. That’s right: it’s Ballon d’Or time, and on today’s Libero, John Brewin, Miguel Delaney and Rory Smith — Libero’s balls of gold — discuss the shifting meaning of the trophy, whether the obsession with it is an exclusively modern phenomenon, and the tension of individual awards in a team sport.

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky.social
Follow us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/liberopod
Follow us on TikTok https://www.tiktok.com/@liberopod
Follow us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/liberopod

Chapters
00:00 Intro
02:43 Champions League insights and Miguel's trip to Bilbao
08:51 Rio Ferdinand and the Ballon d'Or discussion
14:36 The Impact of Messi and Ronaldo on the award
23:19 Individual awards in football
35:45 The Challenge for
... [truncated]

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 12,149

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hello and welcome to Libero number 50ish, the podcast about the least important of the most important things as Zoran Mandani wrongly attributed to Pope John Paul II a couple of weeks ago. Just a reminder as there always is at the start please don't fast forward it. If you can like, subscribe, rate, review on Spotify, Apple, YouTube, Facebook, MySpace, Bibo, whatever you can only fans then it all helps us uh keep going. We really like doing this. We hope you like listening to it too. I'm Rory Smith of The Observer and Men in Blazers. And today I'm joined by Miguel Delaney, author of acclaimed book states of play, which I would like to wholeheartedly endorse as a literary experience. And uh and John Breuin, who I would like to whole wholeheartedly endorse as a personal experience. Uh I was going to start off by asking about the Champions League, the first couple of match nights. We're recording this Thursday morning, so we haven't seen Newcastle or Man City play yet. But mainly, I want to talk about Miguel's shirt. If anyone's watching on YouTube, Miguel is wearing a spectacular retro AC Milan number, which I've got to admit, mids, looks very good. >> Yeah, the 88. I think it's 88. It's the Medam uh sponsor. Yeah, >> it's a classic. It is a classic. >> Yeah, I I I mean, with retro shirts like actually, they're obviously back in now. In fact, they're probably worth libering around the house, which I am doing today. Is it is it one of those? I've got a Napoli shirt made by NRA, the the traditional brand that made them all in the in the 80s and it's almost like a wool material. Is it is >> No, this is actually a classic and I think it was like the original. This is like the kind of that nylon uh that was very popular in the mid '90s. >> What happens when you sweat in it? >> It's actually been okay to play football in to be fair, I have to say. And I have worn it on some muggy nights here in Wsworth. >> Muggy nights in Wsworth. The new rainy nights in Stoke. Uh John, how has the Champions League been for you? >> I was just going to say uh I don't collect uh shirts, but I do have a collection of shorts. Uh and and let's not show the viewers, but I'm wearing uh I've got I've got some Napoli shorts. Actually, I've got some I've got two pairs of Peru shorts. >> Nice. >> I've got Andor national team away. Uh I'm actually wearing Macklesfield FC here. That is that is a really deep cut to be like I collect football shorts >> because you can because I I find football shirts really uncomfortable, right? And they always Yeah. Uh whereas shorts you can wear around the house and like you know are pretty practical items, you know, and I just find it's also they take up less space. >> That's true. >> I do live in a shoe box. So there you go. >> The uh John Brewing shorts enthusiast. Excellent. Um, how has >> the Champions League? >> How has the Champions League been for you? >> Yeah, actually um I've done a bit of a Rory Smith on it and uh the bits I've enjoyed and I think maybe this wasn't the point of the Champions League expanded group stage, but the more interesting games have come towards the bottom of you know the the 36 teams as we expect them. Uh maybe we'll get on to Benfica's fun with Carabag and the uh well basically it's brought us back Jose Mourinho which can only add to the wealth of nations. Uh >> check out our episode on Marinho. >> Yes of course. Yes. And uh but um your boys Bodo glimpse against Slavia Prague. That was a hell of a game. Uh and then a point that we raised uh and this banged on Tik Tok uh a discussion Miguel and I had uh about the changing uh hierarchy between Belgium and Holland. >> Oh yeah. You've been bid on Belgian Tik Tok, haven't you? >> Yeah. And uh with San Jillwa, Tony Bloom's boys demolishing PSV. That was a great performance. Um and uh I was I was just just doing some research for a piece I was writing and uh some great and uh the coach of um Jila described it as which I thought was very funny as total football from his team which uh >> Oh that is >> is that is that's a good kiss off is it? Yeah, it really is the Yeah, I think Mid's obviously and I disagree a little bit on the um on the format of the Champions League, but one thing that I do think it has done accidentally, it's absolutely not designed this way does seem to have empowered certain clubs to kind of aim for qualification in a way that I think wouldn't have been possible under the group stages. I've had a good week, not just because of Bodo, John, uh, but because on the radio on Monday, I I kind of off-handedly just said that I thought Carabag wouldn't be as bad as everyone was assuming. I saw a bit of them in the Europa League last year, >> and they're a pretty good team. They they they gave Lever Tusen, I can't remember if it was a year ago or two years ago, they gave Liveron a really good game over two legs and I thought they'd be all right. And by all right, I kind of meant they they might get seven points and not disgrace themselves. And they went and won and Benfica and Chris Chris Sutton who' done who'd laughed at me mentioning Carabag as hipster nonsense was forced I think to apologize to me on national radio. >> I was on that episode actually. I I was on BBC the very next night after the Bilbao Arsenal game. And yes, Chris was forced to uh to eat his words as he >> so that is a that I mean that is in many ways it's a public service to Britain. I mean they made it the real victory of the Champions League this week. >> I think this week this season made how was Bill Bao? >> H I very much enjoyed it. Uh didn't want to come home yesterday. >> Is that partly because it was your birthday in Bilbao? >> It it was my birthday and I had a great day. Um basically walking around eating h and then have to go for the one thing about Bilba is so I go there a lot. Obviously my mom is from about 90 minutes away in Navara. So that's where we fly in when we visit our Spanish side of the family. So I do know it well but it is quite anytime there's any sort of event there like a football match it is difficult to get to. So I had to come home uh through um Barcelona, Bilb Barcelona to Gatwick because obviously all the Arsenal fans had taken up to the direct flights and yeah that that was the thing that that spoiled my day cuz prior to that I was having a great time wandering around eating pinchos back because of that I knew the flights I backloaded my work in the day onto the flights themselves. But yeah, um it's also actually one more serious Libro related point. On the Monday night before the game, uh athletic club h as their official name, they invited all the English media present to an event in the stadium where basically they just wanted to kind of like put they put on a presentation about the club h and you know put on food and drinks and like the sporting director was there. uh their kind of main cultural officer who does loads of stuff like so every year Bill Ba run a festival like for football films, football books. Yes, I did bring a copy of the book, but like it was also cuz like I mean look being half Spanish, I know it all well. Um you you guys know the the tradition of Athletic Anytime too. Um but like a lot of people don't aren't necessarily aware especially because Athletic maybe aren't on the public consciousness as much as they were even 20 30 years ago. And it did strike me like a lot a lot of the traveling pack got a lot out of it. Um also to be talking to a sporting director in that context is like um is different. And I was struck how how few clubs now do this. I mean probably because they just they don't have to be bothered. If you're one of the super clubs, you can maybe give stuff to one of your influencers or something like that and or one of the influencers associated with the club. That's how they get a message out. >> It's it's interesting because I um I had a good relationship. Athletic have always been really good at telling their story. they their their their comms people are excellent at kind of saying and this isn't just like that they give stuff to journalists but they're they're open to ideas they do work with content creators and influencers as they should um I think they're obviously connected into their fan base and stuff but I remember talking to to a friend of mine at Sevilla when Sevilla were better than they are now and he said that they basically worked out that if they wanted to grow their kind of brand awareness they had to engage with with English speaking media or English speaking outlets because because the Spanish papers weren't really bothered. So marker and ass only care about the two Madrid teams and they only really care about one of the Madrid teams. Mundo Deposibo and sport obviously only care about Barcelona. And he was like well we so their their policy this would be a few years ago. Their policy was kind of we are um moving away from trying to engage local Spanish papers and we are dealing with our local papers, our local outlets in Seville and we are dealing with the international media because otherwise we don't get the chance to tell our story. And I agree with you. I find it surprising that that as football kind of shifts into more of a like a they are the clubs are just content. They're content machines. That's all they are deep down. That's how the media ecosystem sees them. I do find it weird that more clubs haven't thought we should probably get our stories out to more places. is they there's still quite a lot that uh to mention a Scottish club that I've been trying to deal with recently um who do not seem very keen for a national newspaper to cover them which I find in a very positive way which I find slightly weird. What what what's wrong with that? The other thing I'd say about um about athletic dominates is I had a bit of a problem. I was watching it with my little boy and before the game as you would have seen they they unveiled a bid banner saying unique to the world. So Ed said to me, "Daddy, why are why are Athletic Bill Bao unique?" And I said, "Oh, it's this amazing thing where they will only, you know, most clubs will have teams from all over the world, uh, but Athletic are really conscious of of their community and their place and where they're from. So they only play BAS players or or players with Bast heritage, >> people from the region, as they put it now, >> the best region. Yeah. Yeah. Including bits of >> northern Spain that aren't really Bast. But yeah, they they've expanded it a bit, but the principle holds and it's nice. Um, and he went, "Well, that's stupid." And I went, "What do you mean? Why is that stupid?" He is only he's not even eight, so let you know, we can forgive him. And he went, "But you're" and he I thought he was gonna say, "You should just buy the best players." But he said, "You've always told me that it's best if lots of people from all over the world come together and make things stronger." And I was like, "Yeah, do you know what? That is fair. We are, you know, we're a big kind of we we'll preach the virtues of multiculturalism and diversity and all that stuff. We we've made like a decision to do that as parents." and Athletic Bill Bao are admirable for the exact opposite reason. And it was I didn't really know how to get out of it to be honest. >> You can get into neoliberalism with them. Bring them on. Bring them on and we'll shred his opinions to bits. >> This isn't what we're we're not talking about my parenting or about the Champions League today or even about Miguel's controversy. >> Your son's uh farright views. Yeah. >> My son's in increasingly obvious desire to unite the kingdom. Um, uh, we are talking, uh, we're not even talking about Miguel's controversial decision to have two types of chocolate ice cream in the same cup and or cone on his birthday, which I think is is nonecanon and is disgraceful. Um, we're going to talk about something that I think is best summed up by one of football's truly great thinkers, Rio Ferdinand. And I don't know if you both remember him saying one of the most kind of evocative things I've ever heard about Venice Jr. when he said balandor balandor balandor balandor balandor that's probably enough isn't it I don't know how many he did was it 13 on that clip >> I think there's a yeah there's a a twitter counter isn't there where it doesn't go to it's something like 13 >> and that was I think >> he regrets this now or do you think because it banged on socials that's you know formed the bedrock of his podcast empire Hey, listen. We We're trying to do the same. You know, we're all in the social gang together. But, um, do you think he regrets that comment or do you think he's quite happy with it? >> I don't know if Rio Ferdinand regrets anything he's ever said. >> Okay, fair enough. That's a good point. >> Um, I might be being a bit harsh. It's a good clip. You should find it. It's very >> Yeah. >> Uh, but it is >> captures something, you know. It It really does. >> It's Well, it's the Bandora Monday and that's what we're going to talk about, John. It's the Bondora Monday. And I do think, as you say, that that clip is quite illustrative of of kind of where the Balandor sits in the um in like the modern football cultural ecosystem. Uh I think that was in the Champions League final in 2024, wasn't It was after the goal that Venice scored >> two-0. >> And it reminded me a little bit of when the BBC, this is a slightly British reference >> of when like the BBC covers a minority sport and someone wins something and they immediately treat that sport as a qualifier for the sports personality of the year. Um so everything is you someone will I mean even tennis someone will win win Wimbledon and one of the first questions will will be do you think you can now win sports personality and you think well that you've got that the wrong way round everybody. the sports personality is is a trinket. The real prize is that trophy. Um and it does feel as though a little bit these days players doing stuff especially in the Champions League major international competitions is treated as a qualifier for the balonor. Do we think that is fair? >> Yeah, I think that is definitely happened. I think it ties into sort of look well it ties into all the themes we talk about on on the pod I suppose you know neoliberalism as we just mentioned there the kind of growth of super clubs and like the way a certain football is obviously the most popular sport in the world in all terms but also at the very top where it has this kind of now element of super glamour to it as well and tying in with that is naturally then the um extreme promotion of individuals and stars that's part of this sort of ecosystem and once you have that and the idea of individual awards and that's something we'll get into because I think Wilson maybe he should have been on this just for this the fact that he has been anti-individual wars in the past. I don't have a problem with them but I think and maybe this sums up a lot of the Libro I think once again it's a thrashier it's become a thrashier version of something that actually has prestige to it and was and still can be good. >> Yeah. Uh Jonathan Wilson. Yeah, Jonathan Wilson. Um I was doing trying to do some research for this and I thought let's go let's go and look at the more obscure uh winners of this award and they will be Alan Seammonson uh I think won it in 1977 got Olive Block in um 1975 and uh the most obscure of all Eagle Bellanov 1986. So I thought I'm going to read the Bible of Eastern European football as written by Jonathan Wilson and he barely mentions the European football of the war of these but they play for Lobinowski. You see both those players Bellanov >> his boys and so that's to do and of course Jonathan let's not get the 10 part series of Linowski. I'm sure he's done that one elsewhere. uh but um somewhere in his empire suppose the fact is those players were part of the collective and maybe kicked against uh that idea of the team which obviously is the the the uh essence of the Lonoski um philosophy. But I suppose yeah the the the the balandor for me I mean talking of other great football philosophers some actually do like listening to Michael Owen who I think is really quite an engaging talker when he's talking about himself uh he because he's got that sort of honesty hasn't he about himself or and um there's this weird uh retroverted thing that him uh and I think even Rio Ferdinand have talked about. Oh yeah, Michael, when you won the Bellandor in 2001, you know, no, no one in England really knew how big an award that was. Well, I I'm terribly sorry. Uh those of us that were paying attention have always known how big it was. And if you go back to the first winner in this, of course, is Stanley Matthews who sort of handed it for essentially uh you know having a great career, you've got that Manchester United were known for having three European footballers a year in the 60s. It is a hugely it was a hugely prestigious award that English players didn't tend to win too often. Kevin Keegan won it of course or British players in because it's a continental thing. Um it was a massive thing and if you were a reader of world soccer or football monthly or whatever this thing meant an awful lot. Um and to to re to say oh yeah no one really understood how big that was. I think that's a little bit off. >> Huge deal. >> I agree. And I remember like, you know, growing up in the late 80s, early 90s when you'd be consuming all manner of football media, it was always there in the pictures and it was also it was a much more restrained balandor trophy, a small little ball uh which I suppose is reflective of a bit and it was mentioned a lot, but also there was there was a gravitas to it. >> Yes. And I think what maybe Michael Owen and Rio Ferd are getting at is that where it was previously an old world gravitas, it's become instead this kind of modern glamour where there used to be kind of I suppose a kind of a solemn respect for it. Now there's loud noise that I mean I think that's the way maybe I' describe the difference in it and and like I suppose back then the English media say wouldn't have spoken about it in the terms it's spoken about now but obviously with the especially with the rise of what Messi and Ronaldo made it it's become something that you know means yes it means maybe the the best well we'll get into this as well I suppose what it's actually representing the best performing player in a given year but also kind of just has this you know it's good for players career it's the glossy it's what the kind of ceremony has become um as as basically I suppose all sorts of lobbying starts for it >> I mean I wonder to an extent whether whether what Rio and and Michael Owen were referring to is is partly like their ignorance of it as players which is which I it sounds really really critical it's not meant to be but also there there is a bit of a break isn't there we should we should acknowledge after heel that English football suddenly so in the 60s yeah best Lauren Charlton would all have been thinking you know could I win this award that at that point was like an unofficial thing but but did recognize the best player in Europe not in the world um but then in in between 85 and and obviously 91 when when English clubs returned to Europe but really for a little bit longer than that Europe the way we thought about Europe the way we kind of interacted with the rest of the world was very different to how I I suspect it was in the 60s and 70s so Maybe they just happened to grow up in a period when there was a bit of a lull around it. >> Well, I was going to ask you to uh this question. Um who is the first Balonor meter of similar age? Ballandor winner that you remember happening at your time and being you really like wow that's because mine was Eigor Bellanov and then I was like what this guy I do remember him as at the World Cup. I was like and and you see who came second and it was Gary Liker, you know, and uh for his he was top scorer at the 86 World Cup >> for me in terms of actually what it represented and when I actually became conscious of what it meant was probably Bagio. >> Okay. >> And and and and actually the signifier that this was basically a level of football or notionally beyond what I was seeing in the Premier League at the time. Hey, >> I'd say I think Wayer is the first one I remember winning it. >> Okay. Okay. I mean, >> which I think is 95. >> Again, Van Baston winning it three times in succession. Uh, and it's almost like Van Baston is a I wouldn't say forgotten player, but because his career finished early, it's like he he seems from a different age when he's >> modern. >> Marco Vanbastian is the lead United of international footballers. >> Yeah. >> He he is the best player in the world before football started in 1992. >> Yeah, exactly. And he was a he he probably was he's probably in the top three strikers of all time or something. He was just unbelievable. But he he he is yeah it's that sort of preserved in aspic sort of vintage almost cool to him. I mean Van Bass was undoubtedly a brilliant player. So, so if we if it sounds like we all basically agree that until certainly the mid90s, the balonor in its traditional format which was when it was voted for I think by the journalist of France football. >> Yes. >> Um and that that was it. That was the panel. Um they they asked all their correspondents to submit a vote. It was all very secretive. They took it very seriously. Not like the French to take themselves seriously, but they took it seriously. Um another thing, and Miguel, I think this is a point that's very close to your heart. Another of the good things about football invented by journalists. Um the Balonor, the European Cup, it's all there. Um it's all because I mean Yeah, that's French journalists. >> That's exactly the Bondor just like the World Cup, just like the European Cup. Uh a proper prestigious version initially created by football writers, bastardized and made trashy by the people who actually run the game. >> Maybe they should just let us be in charge. We'll come back to that. But if we can assume that yeah, we all agree that in until the mid '90s, certainly maybe even the late '9s, it was a prestigious quite serious unofficial award that meant a lot to to the players who won it to the to players of a certain caliber and I think possibly to a certain stripe of fan. I don't I can't speak to how it was perceived in Europe, but certainly in Britain, I think it was the sort of thing you noticed if you were maybe interested in European football as much as >> you read kicker, you know, um leip, you read, you know, world soccer in England, uh you read, you know, vert ball international in, you know, that it's that strata of let's say mid-market but intellectual football magazines that that exist now but not in the same Yeah. And carried real weight. When do we think that starts to change? When does the Balandor become a little bit more glitzy, a bit more glamorous, a bit more showy? I I remember as Barcelona were rising again in the mid 2000s and Madrid were starting to become kind of a bit bloated, one of the discussions then was and this is the first time I I think I noticed it going into another dimension maybe was that Madrid by Balandor as Barcelona create them and I think that's maybe a point then when it becomes about like Madrid are actually reacting all the time to well who's the best player in the world that's who we want as they got kind and again yeah again ties with like rise of the internet, all the super clubs um and and and I suppose and just this kind of Madrid having to have that galactico it became this kind of it ran parallel to where football itself was going in. And obviously this notion of Barcelona developing Ballindors and Madrid buying them bleeds perfectly into the era that really created this which was Messi Ronaldo because Madrid buy Ronaldo just after he's won the Balandor and then Messi at Barca takes it off him. But then I that's interesting is I I was going to say that we should look at the kind of Ronaldo Messi period of of Balandor dominance for the for the real kind of change in in its status. But I wonder if you're right, Mids. I I think it might be you could maybe trace it back even to like the Galactico policy that it was a way of identifying like this person is the biggest star in world football. Let's go and sign them. And yeah, and I know John's going to go into like what the kind of parallels to the Brit Awards and all that, but also that that idea of having an award it ti and like this kind of football Oscar ties exactly into what Florentino Perez was specifically doing with the Galactico period, which was where he'd make transfer signings like film premieres that it was a he was creating content and all and all that. Yeah, I I was going to say that um I don't know if you you chapter at this, but uh the 2010 World Cup there was this big sort of ceremony about the Balonor becoming part of FIFA because you had this merging of the awards, didn't you? Because you had FIFA World Player of the Year award, which I think started >> early 90s. Yeah. Yeah. So, you'd have this sort of split. It was almost like the boxing championships. Uh and and of course FIFA World Play was broader and then of course the Bondor became world uh you know beyond Europeans um and then they merged and there was this you know event I think it was at soccer city and the bowels of that enormous stadium uh and and there's this launch of you know that this is the new way that it's going to be um uh and you know was platin there I think it might because you know three times winner of the balandor it was you FIFA tend to roll out the the big names, don't they? Those that like a free lunch or whatever. Uh and um that was just at the point of course when we went into the Ronaldo Messi years. That was the point of celebrity. Weirdly enough, I think in this post Ronaldo Messi years, you have more of this campaigning. Excuse me. second chaps. Sorry. Uh you have this um Ronaldo and Messi post Ronaldo Messi when you've got these undoubted stars and this you know um almost like Star Wars type of battle going on. Um now you have this campaigning because nobody reach is reaching their levels. So you have the campaign for Killian Mbappe, you have the campaign for Niches Jr. You have this idea that Usuzman Dembele should be the guy winning the Now let's be frank about this. man Dembele as a footballer, very good footballer, very talented footballer, is now way on the level of those classic names that we're talking and I include Ronaldo Messi in there of course, but it's like as the game has gone into that post uh Ronaldo Messi era, we're still searching for the big star and this appears to be part of that that chase for the big star. And I think sometimes actually Rodri winning it, which you know was was actually quite a nice development because it was like the best player in the best team. Well, maybe we're in a team era now, but you've got the team era at the time when individuals matter more for marketing and stuff like that. So the game is is a contra contravening what the this this star system is operating as. >> The Rodri victory was actually a very old-fashioned vic like it was like a throwback to the 60s in sense of this is actually this is the MVP to use the Americanism. Uh he was he was the best player the best performing and most important player in a team that had a big achievement. And to my mind, that's what the Balandor always should have been. And to be fair to Messi Ronaldo, we did obviously change this. I mean, the thing there was, I mean, you couldn't dispute it with them. It was we had like they were two obviously both obviously the two best players in the world. I would have always had Messi ahead by bit. But in the years they won, >> put that up for Tik Tok. See how that does. >> Yeah, there we go. But by significant bit. Um, but the years they won it, they always did something worthy of the balandor. Like it was undisputable. like be it kind of Barcelona winning the treble with Messi the center Ronaldo being at the center of a Madrid Champions League, you know, Messi's kind of ludicrous amount of goals in 2012. Like they weren't just winning it by default at that point. Um, and it's why it's so interesting now. I mean, Modric was maybe a bit of a turn back, but I think Rodri was much more representative of that old fashioned Champions League. I'd have to say if I had a vote now I would uh I' I'd probably go Yamal actually and maybe after Yamal Fargalia who I thought was more important actually than Bailey the um it's interesting because I think that tension that you you talk about every basically everything gets kind of contorted by Messi and Ronaldo doesn't it because it was really hard for probably 15 years to make any sort of case that one of those two wasn't the best player in the world in any given year but there has always been a bit of attention around what the balonor is and John, I take it back to the the original sin of Stanley Matthews who gets it for his his career. It's like it the first one is a what do they call it? The it's like a lifetime achievement award at the Oscars, isn't it? >> Scorsese getting it for The Departed. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Although brilliant. >> The Departed is brilliant. >> Yeah. >> But Stanley Matthews in 1963 is not The Departed. That is his You'll have to Someone will have to fill this in for me. >> His His taxi driver was the 1953 FA Cup final. >> Yeah. Yeah, it was it was the first year of the European Cup as well. So this kind of the 55 being maybe the true birth of modern football. Maybe there's an Blackpool playing in, you know, but um >> they should have been. It would have been great had Blackpool won trying to dur it. But you other than that, that was a slightly dib point, but you do have this tension between is it an award for the most talented player? Is it an award for the most important player on the best team? As Miguel says, it's it feels a lot of the time now as though it's kind of given to the player who does the most high high-profile thing in the biggest tournament. So in a World Cup year, it will be a player from the team that wins the World Cup. If it's not a World Cup year, it might be a player who wins uh who was on the team that wins the Euros, maybe the Copper America, and after that the Champions League. Rodri was interesting. Does it kind of suggest that the Euros does outweigh the Champions League? Um because he won it in 2024 obviously after Spain win the Euros rather than um 2023 after City win the Champions League. But there has always been that confusion of of what it's about. And I do think that in 2008 you get this this step change in it where it becomes something else entirely because it it's basically a tiebreaker between Messi and Ronaldo. It's they're breaking records. They're winning trophies. You can make pretty convincing cases most years for both of them. And the way of settling which is the greatest is who has got the most balon doors. >> Yeah. Well, certainly it became this kind of signifier for a while h until basically Messi won the World Cup and that was that that was seen as kind of the argument ender. >> Um the thing is that it it deval how can you devalue being the world's best player? It almost devalued that idea. They were so much f further ahead in terms of their their personal achievements and their the gravitas they carried over the other players of that era of which there were several brilliant players. I mean I would say that Luca Modric who did win it eventually is the best midfielder of the 21st century. I don't think there's much doubt about that. is an absolutely fantastic and his longevity can you know sustains that but it's like nobody could get close to that and um and this is this is what I'm talking about before is we're in this era of try of people attempting to be the new Messi and Ronaldo and it's not really possible at all is it? It's not it's not in the 1980s did people try and be the new Johan Croy for France Beckenbower. It's the the culture has it the individual culture that Miguel talked about at the outset of this conversation is I I just I don't think it fits into the uh into the game. It it's about teams. It's about we talk about this all the time. It's actually about managers and coaches and so much more than that. It's actually about owners. >> Well, you know, >> it's best to Balandor for own. Yeah. >> So, so hang on. I think that's an interesting point, isn't it? Because may maybe I'm maybe we should disregard everything I said two minutes ago because I think what what happens with Messi and Ronaldo is there is a spell and I wouldn't I mean maybe the Modric win in 2018 is the the natural end to it where it is completely logical that one of those two should have won it every single year. Like there is no way you can quibble with that. But after that, there were a few lifetime achievement awards for them and it it did feel a little bit like they were being voted almost by default until 2022 when Messi wins the World Cup. >> Yeah, it was a popularity contest at that point, wasn't it? >> But is but does that actually I remember thinking this at the time, does that change it a little bit? Is what people are actually voting for there, it looked cynically and I think the liberal position would generally be the cynical one that everything's terrible. It looks cinly like it's a popularity contest that what they've done is they've ruined it by allowing people who aren't journalists to vote on it and the and and they've taken this ridiculous decision that players, managers, and fans know more about football than journalists, which I think we should all all agree is ridiculous. But the um it looked a lot like a popularity contest. But was it actually a way of people voting for who they think is the the best player at football in the world, the most talented player? Because even between say 2019 and 2023, 2024, that was Lionel Messi. Lionel Messi was the most talented footballer still. Even if Barcelona weren't winning or PSG weren't winning Champions Leagues, even if Argentina weren't winning World Cups until 2022 or Topper Americas, although I think they were to be fair, um it was very much kind of well you can't vote for anybody else because he's better at football than everyone else. >> There's a really striking thing there. And just as you as you mentioned the uh words most talented, it kind of you can prompt me to come back to a point I wanted to say I was kind of putting in the notes like yes there probably is some sort of logic or merit to the idea of saying right if we want who is the best foot pure footballer in the world regardless of who has the best talent right now. Um, but I don't think that's what an award like this should be about because of the idea that I suppose talent doesn't have the same meaning if it's not actually being applied to its fullest. So, I know we're in it's a bit like that little that scene in uh in Dead Poet Society where Robin Williams is talking about what makes a great poem or like where sorry he's deriding what makes a the idea of what makes a great poem, you know, >> because all poetry is terrible. the graph meets but but there has to be an element of that in this because it's almost about like the talent of a player and the level he plays at and at what point did he apply that talent which is why like yes Messi might be the best player in the world and say 2017 say but if Barcelona don't win the title and um and they get knocked out of the Champions League in the quarterfinals as they did by Juventus then what's the po not what's the point of that talent but that talent didn't have the same effect in that given year so you have look elsewhere and Ronaldo did win it that year h and I and I hence I think it's its best element is an MVP but obviously the MV because the game is so fragmented in terms of its many actual team trophies it has to be almost an amalgamation of all that and looking at all that it's its totality which is why tournaments still kind of have this uh you know um disproportionate effect I'd say rightly and the Champions League obviously has this uh disproportionate effect What what must it be like being a player like say Muhammad Salah? Yeah. Who you know the best of his times of his career? He's still a good player now of course were probably during that Messi and Ronaldo dominance and Salah who was pulling off feats of goal scoring and uh you know winning the Champions League and uh you know wi winning Liverp helping win the first titan it's like you haven't really got a chance of anything other than maybe splitting those two up it it it's but I suppose the question is it there is who of that era uh was able to challenge that >> Leandowski as well. >> I mean, he he it was ridiculous they didn't give it to him in 2020. >> Well, but that that's why he's so sore about that. And Robert Leandowski, who I think we've probably all spoken to at some point. Um the is a very very reasonable man. He's slightly tunnel visioned as all footballers tend to be. >> Tom Brady sort of effects about him these days. Yeah. >> Yeah. But he um he definitely deserved it in 2020. Bay won the treble. Um, and they canceled it because of COVID, which didn't make any sense at the time because they were still playing football. Um, it felt maybe like, you know, the French were taking themselves just a little bit too seriously there. Um, but he's really, I think, genuinely kind of it wrangles with him because he was very much of the view that that should have been his for the season, but it would also, I guess, have had the function of being a lifetime achievement award. It was recognition that for a good spell of that Messi Ronaldo period, Leandowski was probably the third of the three. Yeah, he he's been the best center forward for, you know, the last 10 10 15 years or whatever. And and that's I suppose that's when you Okay, let's you know these awards, what are they for? That's that's the I suppose that's what we're asking from the outset, isn't it? >> Well, I think the other thing we have to get into is the fact that all the players we're talking about are attackers because that there is a there is an obvious attacking bias in the voting. And I guess your explanation for that is what that the they're the players that illuminate the game the most. They're the ones that get the fans off the seats. They're the ones you pay to watch rather than Paulo Maldini. That's how it's always defended. I don't I don't I don't know if that stands up. Also, the idea that you're a better footballer if you're an attacker because it's about creation and defending is about the obviously the modern game has warped this and we've had defenders that can go but that has probably as someone who spent a lot of my um career as a defensive player. >> You've got you've got an eye for a pasty. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, >> you're all right. You're doing okay. I think I mean I I've thought at various times we've had a bit of feedback that means I'm not allowed to mention the player or club in question but I think maybe not for the balonor but I think you certainly could have made the case at least once in the last say five years that the best player in the sense that they're the best at their job in the Premier League was a goalkeeper but you if you say that people are like well don't be ridiculous but you think well why why why can't the best person at their job in football be a goalkeeper? Have you seen these things on you get it? I presume it comes from Tik Tok, but you see it a lot on YouTube now where they ask famous footballers of their favorite players and they do this thing where it's, you know, this one against another. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. You know, so it's, you know, >> winner stays on. >> Yeah. Roy Keane versus David Beckham. Oh, I'll take Roy or whatever. And that Maldini is the one defender that they always sort of go, "Oh, yeah, Maldini." And some of them I think have you actually seen Maldini play? I mean he did play for a long time but it's like he's like the the the Maldini was a brilliant player. Let's not be stupid but it's like Maldini has held. Oh yeah he's the one defender allowed to well maybe Canavaro was better. I mean he did win this. >> By a tangential anecdote there. There is Jack Charlton did not think Maldini was anywhere near the best defender in the world. And when Ireland were preparing for the Italy game in 94, he picked out loads of clips where they could get at Maldini. He had said and he even said the word something like people say he's the best defender in the world. I'm not so sure. And then set started playing the clips. >> Well, he was best looking defender, wasn't he? That was the thing. I tell you one one of my main takeaways from the from the Champions League this week was um I watched a lot of the Juve Dortmund game the four all and that game was basically um two types of shot from the camera. One was someone scoring a goal in the second half or it was Manuel Lockatelli the UV captain talking to the referee. He just did it constantly seems to be walking around with him. Um Manuel Loatelli is a beautiful man. He really is. There's a point where you just think he's he's like Italian football's not what it was, but he's the captain of Juventus and he's incredibly handsome. That guy's having a whale of a time. Um, on that note, I think we should take a break. Uh, and we are going to come back to discuss Manuel Lockatelli's looked a little bit further, but also whether actually all this stuff about the balonor is just quite fun. Just to check actually, have have either of you two voted in the Balon door? >> Never had a vote. Uh I did once write a piece on um how in 2015, I think it was, which also the first time I attended the awards, I wrote a piece and all the lobbying around it, which actually it's at a like in 2015, it was obviously nowhere near the level it is now. H and Henry, who did have a vote, came up. >> Henry Winter. >> Yeah, I must say, Me, I'd never uh I haven't been lobbyed too much. Um, >> but that's because Henry is the most upstanding man in the world. You you wouldn't you wouldn't be lobbying Henry that you'd be lobbying people of of less moral virtue. John, what about I mean I'm presuming you haven't voted because I think Henry has the British vote. >> No. Well, I I I of course Henry's judgment on this and always will. >> I I am available for lobbying but don't have a vote. Um what's it like going I've written about it, M but I've never been. I've written about the um like the secrecy around the um the the votes when they come in that France football maintain again because the French like taking themselves very seriously. Um but uh I've never been. What's it what's it like? >> So I've been to two of when it was the FIFA ones in 2015 16 when Messi reclaimed it. Remember that was that was seen as big at the time and I was actually seen as an argument at the time. Um and there and it was around the kind of bar lock the infamous it was that area and then I've been to the best when it was in London which obviously isn't the same thing but it's like it's what they're going for and it it had but by by 2015 16 it felt like it had become something else I mean like they always had a you know a famous showbiz host and actually that was so we were in the bar afterwards >> define famous showbiz host we talking Dale Winton >> so what okay I met him I'm doing the man at the service here and I know he's a big football fan so obviously they've had Idris Ela since who's obviously has been you there or thereabouts as regards al-ist status to use a very football phrase for that that industry. But we had James Nesbbit in the first one I went to and he came drinking with us afterwards. >> Is that right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was I mean that was some scene. It was me about five or six journalists in the bar afterwards and then loads of like legends like Hidatashi Nata just out with his entourage h or there was a few other players that ill kind of big mid2000s players and then James who uh >> who just turned up beside us and mostly spoke to uh to Paul Hayward about horse racing. >> What what what would James Nesbet and Hidatoshi Nata talk about do we think? Do you think Hatoshi Nika was a big cold feet fan? I can imagine that. Well, he did play for Bolton, so I suppose he true. >> Do you want to talk to if you have a chat about Bolton? Do you want to talk about the Middle Brook Retail Park? I'm Yeah. Is it Does it feel in fact, you know, I think I have been to one, I think. I'm sure I went to I remember a glitzy event and like a Mzone Strum afterwards. Yeah, it was in London. That might have been the best to be fair. I genuinely completely forgotten that. The >> I've been to one which was do you ever remember this one the golden foot which was in Monaco. Do you remember this? And this was for players who were it was slightly speurious of like over 28 but it was almost like a career thing that they and I went to one certainly one where Ronaldo won it when Ronaldinho was on the way down and then he had all these other events. I tell you who else was there because it was in Monaco. Prince Albert uh was sat on the next table to me. So there you go. Uh >> the Golden sounds a lot like a an award for a particular like type of fetishist. >> Well, we won't go into that, but they were giving away free condoms at that event. That's true. Uh um Prince Albert uh is a a campaigner for uh HIV against HIV, I believe. Anyway, there you go. Um, check that lead. >> Taking a turn. >> Yes. Someone someone lead all that. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Um, no. And uh but what they did is they combined it with uh legends being there. So uh I there I met France Beckenbower. I met Franchesco Tootty. In fact, Tootty won the award one year. Um >> so yeah, these events it's the scrum around the the people >> that is the is the big that's what people are there for, aren't they? those Italian camera crews that run over and fight with each other over some little what Ronaldo is going to say. Uh I also saw so get with the for a forementioned uh Oleg Blockin getting drunk with uh Poland's Bontak uh which was you know a great >> that is what so I have a similar one it's it's not quite the level of the Balandor although the PFA would obviously differently the PFA awards uh which I go to every year that used to be quite a stuffy oldfashioned kind of British event you'd say which was a 4hour long event and everyone seated at dinner tables wearing a tuk and apparently once they had the COVID break, the players didn't really like that. They didn't want to be sat in a room. Um, and basically wanted to, you know, quick ceremony and go in the lash a bit. Now, it's actually worked against them because it used to be at the end of the season, so it was a big night for EFL players who'd finished their their league, whereas now it's in August because they can't really find a date. But they've gone from that now to it's kind of a it's an hourong ceremony in kind of like a cinema style room or a kind of a you know theater and then they have like a drinks reception and the first new one of those I went to was classic because it was all the old boys uh Neil Ruduk you know Kevin Campbell at the time the late Kevin Campbell suddenly um who are still members of the PFA Liam Brady and they were all just basically on the lash in the corner which was quite nice to see actually probably what uh something like that should be out. But equally then the PFA just as you mentioned kind of Italian camera crews John it it's a bit like that I mean obviously they've got a red carpet now with um all sorts of you know social media content people like Liberum you might say >> that yeah will you just wait till we take our Tik Tok down to the red carpet the PFAS I do have a sort of tangental theory that the PFA has always been a really prestigious individual award um there is a football writers award which obviously I think we we could all agree is more important but that I think has taken on a bit of it's had a bit of a new lease of life cuz there was a point in around like I don't know maybe 2009 2010 when players kind of stopped turning up and managers stopped coming a little bit and you could tell it was just a bit of a harder sell but they've really kind of managed to turn it around partly because a friend of the podcast John Cross the um the chairman of the FWA I think they've put a lot of kind of work into it but I wonder to an extent whether it's because to this generation of players individual awards really mean something like they they obviously want the the accol accolade from their from their peers as they always have. The PFA has always been prestigious. But I wonder if the FWA they've looked at it and thought well actually that is recognition from a group of people who we generally hate and that means that but they are kind of around the game. It is an award that has a long and and rich history. So I wonder whether that there is a broader uptick in players being more concerned by individual awards. And do you know what I'm going to say? I don't think that's a bad thing. I agree with Miguel that that it does reflect the showbization of football. It does probably reflect a the tension between individual prominence and a team sport. And I think there is an element of it where a lot of it's driven by like marketing uh necessities rather than like sporting imperatives. But it's we've just we been talking about this for like 50 minutes. It's it's good. It's fun. It's interesting. This is an interesting thing to be able to talk about. >> Yeah. And I was going to talk about how you compare it to awards in other spheres. So the interesting thing about um this this campaigning that you get from Real Madrid now or you're having for Dembele for for PSG from PSG that goes on in the Oscars. It goes on in the Brit Awards. I imagine it goes on in the Ivan Noll songwriting awards. It's this press awards. >> What's that? >> It it goes on in the SJA uh not the SGA the FSA uh football writers awards where some some close to this podcast have been known to uh use their social media to >> Yes. Well, >> yeah. And and you know the thing is though in in each of these things, do you need an Oscar to tell you that films are great? Not particularly. No. Uh, do you need uh an award to tell you that a footballer is did we actually need a an a an annual award to tell us that Nessie Ronaldo were the best two footballers in the world? Not really. In the Brit, but they can capture a moment. Let's think of the Brit Awards, you know, famous Oasis Blur or something like that. That captures a moment in culture at that point as does Oscars. and and that's maybe what the these awards do in in football. Um and the funny thing is that football, you know, that slightly stuffy image that you have. I remember watching the best awards. I think this was in 2020 just pre lockdown. I was watching it with uh well a friend of mine, a female friend of mine and it was like watching I was up watching the Brits with her or something like that. It was just like the way that it was rolled out and the way that it was all done. And I think I think maybe Rude Hullet was the presenter or something like that. It was it's it's a s it shows you that football is show business which is something that even Jonathan Wilson is going to have to accept that at some point maybe you know maybe on his deathbed or something. >> Yeah. But to be fair, have you seen those um have you seen those history videos he's doing where he's walking moodly along a beach? I think Wilson is fully Wilson is embracing the showbiz. Yeah, I think he's trying to be like uh remember those TV programs you used to get like war walks or something like that where you'd have some like old sort of Shakespearean actor walking around describing the battle of Bosworth Field or whatever. I think that's >> Well, I mean I I to be honest he's a man walking on on his own on a beach. I I assume he's practicing for faking his own death, but that that might be >> house of libero. Yes. he tried to get out of doing podcasts with her. So he's got to leave for Panama in a canoe. Um the one thing I would say about about the the Oscars parallel is it does feel as though the Austers rewards something else and the polit like the the lobbying and stuff around it is a problem and that's definitely true of the Osters. It's it's certainly true of the Bondor. The Austers rewards like the the films that win Ostras are not the films that make the most money and it's it's quite a nice like natural corrective. you know, it'll be the the Marvel franch franchise films will make, you know, shitload at the box office, but then it'll be some artsy thing that wins it'll be Parasite that wins the Oscar. Do you know what I mean? And it it feels as though it's a different stream almost. So, you have if you're making a movie, you can either go for critical acclaim and win an Oscar or you can go for public acclaim and win lots of money at the box office. And most >> same with the the Brits or something like the Brits is basically about it's a record it's a it's the Brit BPI the British music indographic industry it is it's about who sells the most units essentially isn't it like >> you know um >> but then you have the Mercury which is a little bit more artistically >> absolutely yeah >> yeah so there are different streams the problem with the balandor and this takes us back to like no one really being sure what it's for is that it probably should be a a purist's recolle our purest kind of decision on who is which player has actually been most important this season to the to the success of the best team. that feels like a fair thing or which not even that like which player has had the most impact on their team and sometimes that would coincide with who has the most talent because there were years as we've said where where both of those categories the the answer was Leon Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo but at the same time there are years when it is Rodri or it is Virgil van Djk or it is Luca Modric the issue around the balandor I guess is that it's gone too far the other way and now it's basically a way of rewarding the best the most famous player on the most famous team which is why you get the to bring the lobbying into it as well. You get the ridiculous situation of Real Madrid refusing to attend the ceremony because Venicius hasn't won as though they are you get this like public vote and so it's voted for now by not just by journalists but there's coaches players journalists and a public vote and Rodri wins it and despite the fact that I think Venicius came second and then Danny Carvajal came fourth Madrid refused to attend because of an anti-Madrid bias that suggests that we've all lost sight of what is actually for completely because as far as Real and I suspect other clubs are concerned they they are now so conspiratorally minded that they see a conspiracy against them in the public vault. >> Well, I suppose at that point we we're feeding social media fans such flames, doesn't it? And that's part of the issue, isn't it? that the Messi Ronaldo dominance came in the year of social media whereby back when Michael Owen won the award that we'd never heard of that we actually had heard of you read about it in a newspaper and you thought oh that's quite interesting you know well done Michael Owen now it's this big buildup and then of course those that don't vote for let's say Usuzman Dembele or whoever is the the people's champion are you know biased nonses or whatever and it and it it just and and and that's it erupts from there and it it's its own content driver of course because everything has to be that even if it is this August award that you know Stanley Matthews first won and I don't know how Stanley Matthews received his award he probably did he go to a ceremony or did it arrive via royal mail uh you know or you know it it's >> I'd said Stanley Matthews would have been down the red carpet selfies talking to KSI and then into the into the ceremony surrounded by an entourage. That's how Stanley Matthews role. >> Yeah. And a pint with James Nesby afterwards. >> Pint with James Nesbbit and Hidashi Nata afterwards. The um mids do we think that there's obviously a tension around individual awards in team sports. It feels like we we can just say actually that's quite fun. We don't there doesn't have to be an answer to that. But it's pretty clear that it's much worse now that like everything else in football it has been kind of co-opted by clubs as a tool of power. that feels like a genuine problem rather than a kind of theoretical complication >> and and it has actually potentially we were discussing this obviously in the WhatsApp bit of back and forth about it. It has a bit of a potentially distortive effect. So, cuz this now works multiple way. Look, we're we're all aware now of players that talk about winning the Ballandor before they win the Champions League, which to me means insane or it's insane basically. But because of that, then clubs obviously feel they have they they have to lobby for players essentially to keep them happy. But then of course, if they do that, they also have to pay more bonuses. is it can be good for a club and it's very valuable to have a balandor winner especially in terms of their own commercial deals but equally it means they contracts have to be negotiate renegotiated there's bonuses there's potentially interest from elsewhere like all of this stuff comes into it and yeah I mean I'm not sure how specific we can go here but we've all been talking about on on the chat the last few days basically I suppose we've heard stories of clubs lobbying continents or the kind of representative from continents to kind of push certain votes clubs lobbying players who used to play for them who work in media to specifically mention um players that you know their players they want to win. Uh what else has been there's been a few wonderful >> well there's also the the story that came out I think last week about a guy called Neil Gardner who's an Australian journalist and influencer who was approached by what turned out to be like an Indian-based marketing firm to run a campaign about Usman Dembele. There's a piece in the athletic Danny Taylor's done it. Um, and there is an explanation that it was an intern who was trying to explore something. It's not a very convincing explanation. I know knowing Danny, I'm I I can imagine him raising a quizzical eyebrow the explanation he was given, but we know it happens. We know that that that clubs do try and exert influence on various people to to lobby for their players. But do you know what it means? I never I'd never thought that they're basically doing it is they have to keep the players themselves happy. It's probably coming from them as much as the clubs, right? >> Yeah. It can also happen in quite simple way as well, I suppose. You know, agents whoever, you know, give them a mention in terms of potentially winning this award. >> What's their lobbying when Eagle Bell won it or Florian Albert in 1960? >> The politics around Albert would have been ridiculous. Yeah, >> but that that's why it did feel much more prestigious because it was basically just okay. So maybe potentially I I don't know the journalist who voted at the time potentially maybe stuffy men who took themselves seriously which we you could which Libro could never be accused of and who were basically but they were very much voting on the idea of and I'd say usually it was a kind of who's doing well in the European Cup this year. I think it's right they should be seen in the same lineage as K beckenbower all >> well I think initially the way that France football conceived of it was that they they had correspondents all over all over Europe and that they they wanted to see if you could kind of put a mosaic together of who was considered from the various different you know we are all conscious of our like limitations and our perspectives. We are we focus much more on the Premier League than we would do if we were all German. Do you know what I mean? They wanted to get a more complete picture and so their correspondents in their various bureaus around the world around Europe voted on it and I can imagine there was a little bit of a you know the Hungarian guy probably vote you know lobbyed for Florian Albert a bit more than the Spanish guy. The Spanish guy might have wanted Luis the original Luis Suarez to win it or whatever. Um so it wasn't ever designed to be like a scientific answer but it was a a much more complete picture. But it sounds like what we've decided is that it would be better if they just let journalists vote on it. I mean, I would say France football uh which is now monthly if if I'm correct uh rather than weekly uh used to have we used to run at the Guardian uh play team of the week from the Premier League. Uh and I must confess I've knocked that up in you know in two two minutes to to be sent to them. So you as we know in journalism things aren't always that scientific are they? uh and often done off the cuff and so >> but it has to be subjective and I think that the init kind of the the initial way it was decided was obviously subjective it wasn't pure but maybe it was a little bit cleaner and a bit clearer than it is now cuz there is there is it has become as it's I mean this is basically true of so much of football isn't it that as it's grown it's become a lot more complicated that that is there are forces acting upon it that are difficult to control. That feels like John has nodded. I'm going to take that as as >> I I actually just suddenly got distracted at the end because uh four Oasis tickets that I'm supposed to be getting from my brother-in-law have come true. Um >> ah where for? >> We nice. >> It's that is it. Well, do you know what people always say? We never end these things on a positive note. Uh and that'll do. Miguel's brother-in-law is going to see Oasis. >> And I think by extension I am too. >> There you go. So that's great news for Miguel Delaney. The Milan shirt has worked. Um, thank you Miguel. Thank you John. Thank you all for listening that Miguel. There you go. >> Um, yeah, John will take that as a punishment. That's a really negative end for John Brewing. The um, thank you Tom, producer Tom who turned up halfway through. I'm not quite sure what you've done, but hopefully you can press stop on the record. Thanks for listening. We will be back with you next week. >> Powered by Riverside FM. Heat. Heat. N.