================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: wu-p5xrJ8-E
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wu-p5xrJ8-E
TITLE: Trump vs Powell, Solving the Debt Crisis, The $10T AGI Prize, GENIUS Act Becomes Law
CHANNEL: All-In Podcast
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-19
DURATION: 1h 19m 29s
VIEWS: 444,309
LIKES: 7,348
COMMENTS: 936
TAGS: chamath, david sacks, david friedberg, jason calacanis, all in podcast, tech, news, politics, big tech, antitrust

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
(0:00) The Besties welcome Gavin Baker!
(1:51) Markets: Pricing in tariffs, Trump vs. Powell, solving the debt crisis
(19:24) The $10 trillion AGI prize, what artificial general intelligence and superintelligence looks like in the economy
(38:33) Sacks and Bo Hines join to discuss the GENIUS Act and the CLARITY Act passing the House this week, and what it means for crypto in the US
(52:42) AI Infrastructure: $90B in new investments announced, Nvidia H20 export restrictions lifted
(1:06:06) Sacks interviews Senator Bill Hagerty on the passing of the GENIUS Act

Follow Gavin Baker: 
https://x.com/GavinSBaker

Follow Bo Hines: 
https://x.com/bohines

Follow Senator Bill Hagerty: 
https://x.com/SenatorHagerty

Get The Besties All-In Tequila:
https://tequila.allin.com

Join us at the All-In Summit:
https://allin.com/summit

Summit scholarship application:
http://bit.ly/4kyZqFJ

Follow the besties: 
https://x.com/chamath
https://x.com/Jason
https://x.com/DavidSacks
https://x.com/friedberg

F
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 29,898

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
So, uh, Gavin, were you at the Coldplay So, uh, Gavin, were you at the Coldplay concert in Boston last night? concert in Boston last night? Uh, sadly I missed that. It's Uh, sadly I missed that. It's amazing. amazing. amazing. Exactly. I was at home with my wife, but Exactly. I was at home with my wife, but yeah. Wow. How insane. yeah. Wow. How insane. There's just so many layers to that There's just so many layers to that story. It's impossible to get away from. story. It's impossible to get away from. It'll be 72 hours of memes. Dave, um, It'll be 72 hours of memes. Dave, um, were you at the Cold Play concert in were you at the Cold Play concert in Boston last night? And if so, were you Boston last night? And if so, were you with Woody, your astronaut friend? with Woody, your astronaut friend? Did you take Woody to the concert? Did you take Woody to the concert? No, counselor. I was here in Santa Cruz No, counselor. I was here in Santa Cruz last night. last night. last night. You were in Santa Cruz on a business You were in Santa Cruz on a business trip. trip. trip. The funny thing is, if they had not The funny thing is, if they had not reacted the way they did, the camera reacted the way they did, the camera would have just panned away. would have just panned away. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. No one would have ever known. No one would have ever known. There is some great irony to the head of There is some great irony to the head of people and human resources being in an people and human resources being in an affair with the CEO apparently. affair with the CEO apparently. Allegedly. Don't take conclusions, Allegedly. Don't take conclusions, Jason. Jason. Jason. No, it could have. I No, it could have. I He could have been cracking her back. He could have been cracking her back. You know, like when you get your back You know, like when you get your back tight chiropractic tight chiropractic tight chiropractic Yeah. chiropractic move. Yeah. chiropractic move. Oh my god. Oh my god. Let your winners ride. Let your winners ride. Rainman David. We open sourced it to the fans and We open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. All right, let's get to work. It is uh All right, let's get to work. It is uh the slow slow news weeks of summer and the slow slow news weeks of summer and we are delighted delighted to have fan we are delighted delighted to have fan favorite super intelligent bestie Gavin favorite super intelligent bestie Gavin Baker with us from a treaties. How are Baker with us from a treaties. How are you sir? How's your summer shaping up? you sir? How's your summer shaping up? Fantastic. Um it's been awesome. Fantastic. Um it's been awesome. Stock market is back. That's good for Stock market is back. That's good for you because you invest in both public you because you invest in both public and private companies. Yeah, and private companies. Yeah, my firm does. Yes. Yeah. my firm does. Yes. Yeah. Gavin, let me ask you a question. How do Gavin, let me ask you a question. How do you price tariffs today? So, where do you price tariffs today? So, where do you think this ends up? Obviously, you think this ends up? Obviously, there's a lot of back and forth and you there's a lot of back and forth and you know, everyone's trying to make a read know, everyone's trying to make a read on what the endgame is. What's your on what the endgame is. What's your market take as you're making investments market take as you're making investments right now and where we end up on the right now and where we end up on the tariff front? tariff front? tariff front? It is a good question. It's it's open. It is a good question. It's it's open. We're going to see what happens with We're going to see what happens with sectoral tariffs. I think it's it's sectoral tariffs. I think it's it's hard. You're doing the winning AI hard. You're doing the winning AI summit. It's going to be hard to win in summit. It's going to be hard to win in AI if we put um tariffs on AI if we put um tariffs on semiconductors. semiconductors. semiconductors. But for a lot of what I do for now, But for a lot of what I do for now, tariffs are not super relevant. But, you tariffs are not super relevant. But, you know, for for the market, for the know, for for the market, for the economy, they are relevant. But for AI, economy, they are relevant. But for AI, they're maybe a little less relevant they're maybe a little less relevant because I think everyone is is maybe a because I think everyone is is maybe a little more sophisticated about the little more sophisticated about the downsides of tariffs for constructing downsides of tariffs for constructing data centers here in the United States. data centers here in the United States. Mhm. And ultimately, Mhm. And ultimately, don't we look at the tariff situation don't we look at the tariff situation and say despite the shock and awe of the and say despite the shock and awe of the opening salvo, it's quite a boring opening salvo, it's quite a boring position now. It just seems to be position now. It just seems to be reciprocity and reasonable reciprocity reciprocity and reasonable reciprocity at that. Yeah, that's how we would sort at that. Yeah, that's how we would sort of categorize the endgame here. of categorize the endgame here. I would say for everyone but China. Um, I would say for everyone but China. Um, you know, it is and you know, we've you know, it is and you know, we've clearly reached some sort of deal with clearly reached some sort of deal with China. you know, rare earths for H20s China. you know, rare earths for H20s and MI308Xs. and MI308Xs. and MI308Xs. But it's interesting and one of the the But it's interesting and one of the the trade deals that has been finalized is trade deals that has been finalized is Vietnam, and there's a special carveout Vietnam, and there's a special carveout for goods that were trans shipped from for goods that were trans shipped from China through Vietnam. So, they are China through Vietnam. So, they are clearly focused on China more than clearly focused on China more than almost any, you know, any other country, almost any, you know, any other country, rightly or wrongly. But yeah, and I do rightly or wrongly. But yeah, and I do think there is, think there is, you know, there was maybe you know, there was maybe three months where where Trump said he three months where where Trump said he did not care about the stock market, but did not care about the stock market, but now he's back to quoting the market at now he's back to quoting the market at all-time highs. all-time highs. all-time highs. Yes, Yes, Yes, he clearly cares and is clearly very he clearly cares and is clearly very sensitive to market feedback. So, I sensitive to market feedback. So, I think that that will be a um think that that will be a um dampening mechanism dampening mechanism dampening mechanism on tariff volatility. on tariff volatility. But, you know, they passed the bill and But, you know, they passed the bill and he immediately went back to tariffs and, he immediately went back to tariffs and, you know, we'll see where we land in you know, we'll see where we land in August. But I just think the most August. But I just think the most important thing in the market by far is important thing in the market by far is AI. It kind of overwhelms everything AI. It kind of overwhelms everything else. else. else. Absolutely. And, uh, I guess the other Absolutely. And, uh, I guess the other big story with the market, and we'll get big story with the market, and we'll get into the H20s. Uh David Sax will be into the H20s. Uh David Sax will be joining us in a moment, so he'll be joining us in a moment, so he'll be jumping in halfway through it, but let's jumping in halfway through it, but let's start with maybe this uh soft launch of start with maybe this uh soft launch of the firing of Jerome Powell. On the firing of Jerome Powell. On Wednesday morning, Bloomberg reported Wednesday morning, Bloomberg reported that Trump was likely to fire Pal soon that Trump was likely to fire Pal soon after talking with Republican lawmakers. after talking with Republican lawmakers. Shortly after that, the New York Times Shortly after that, the New York Times reported that Trump had actually drafted reported that Trump had actually drafted Pal's termination letter. Market Pal's termination letter. Market instantly reacted negatively, dropped instantly reacted negatively, dropped 1%. Bond yields rose about 10 basis 1%. Bond yields rose about 10 basis points. You can see the blips here on points. You can see the blips here on these charts starting around 11:30 a.m. these charts starting around 11:30 a.m. when the article was published. Poly when the article was published. Poly market reported Jerome Powell out as Fed market reported Jerome Powell out as Fed chair in 2025 spiked up to uh 30% on chair in 2025 spiked up to uh 30% on Wednesday before dropping back down to Wednesday before dropping back down to 20%. Trump uh quickly squashed these 20%. Trump uh quickly squashed these rumors. Markets rebounded and Trump said rumors. Markets rebounded and Trump said we're not planning on doing anything we're not planning on doing anything regarding Pal. Some people speculating regarding Pal. Some people speculating maybe this was Trump testing the market maybe this was Trump testing the market reaction. As you talked about earlier, reaction. As you talked about earlier, Gavin, he uh he does seem to care about Gavin, he uh he does seem to care about the market as most presidents do. If you the market as most presidents do. If you remember, Trump nominated Pal as Fed remember, Trump nominated Pal as Fed chair November 2nd, 2017. And he has chair November 2nd, 2017. And he has gone on a tirade the last couple of gone on a tirade the last couple of months, calling Pal stupid, numbum months, calling Pal stupid, numbum skull, stubborn, low IQ, a knucklehead, skull, stubborn, low IQ, a knucklehead, mentally average. It's a long list of mentally average. It's a long list of descriptors of the person he placed. descriptors of the person he placed. Pal's term ends May of next year. White Pal's term ends May of next year. White House officials have confirmed Trump is House officials have confirmed Trump is in the process of selecting his in the process of selecting his successor. Poly market says that could successor. Poly market says that could be Kevin Walsh 22%, Kevin Hasset 19%, be Kevin Walsh 22%, Kevin Hasset 19%, Scott Besson 15%. This hasn't actually Scott Besson 15%. This hasn't actually ever happened, right? ever happened, right? We've never had a Fed share fired. But We've never had a Fed share fired. But we have inflation coming back a bit. If we have inflation coming back a bit. If you all remember, there's a dual mandate you all remember, there's a dual mandate for the Fed to keep unemployment low. for the Fed to keep unemployment low. Check. That's pretty good. And keeping Check. That's pretty good. And keeping inflation under control. That's been inflation under control. That's been going very well since our massive going very well since our massive inflation spike over the past couple inflation spike over the past couple years. And uh here we go. CPI ticked up years. And uh here we go. CPI ticked up 10% from 2.4 to 2.7% 30 basis point 10% from 2.4 to 2.7% 30 basis point increase over May. So any thoughts, increase over May. So any thoughts, Gavin, on these macro issues around Gavin, on these macro issues around inflation coming back a bit, the the inflation coming back a bit, the the stock market at an all-time high and stock market at an all-time high and unemployment. unemployment. unemployment. If you believe the unemployment data, If you believe the unemployment data, and we've had a bunch of debates here and we've had a bunch of debates here about that, you know, how how correct is about that, you know, how how correct is it being at close to an all-time low in it being at close to an all-time low in our lifetimes. Let's go macro. our lifetimes. Let's go macro. Yeah, I wouldn't Yeah, I wouldn't read too much into the CPI bouncing up a read too much into the CPI bouncing up a little bit. There's base rate effects, I little bit. There's base rate effects, I think, on a month-over-month uh basis. think, on a month-over-month uh basis. And if you looked at, you know, what And if you looked at, you know, what what economists call core, super core, what economists call core, super core, different, you know, ways to maybe different, you know, ways to maybe smooth out CPI, I think inflation is smooth out CPI, I think inflation is still still still relatively contained relatively contained relatively contained as far as, but I mean, as far as, but I mean, a lot of very smart people are convinced a lot of very smart people are convinced that tariffs will lead to inflation. that tariffs will lead to inflation. We'll see. There's certainly sound We'll see. There's certainly sound theoretical arguments for why they will, theoretical arguments for why they will, but it does look like maybe the um but it does look like maybe the um overseas exporters are eating a little overseas exporters are eating a little bit more of the tariffs than than people bit more of the tariffs than than people thought that they would, which is which thought that they would, which is which is good for US inflation. But, you know, is good for US inflation. But, you know, the combination of a very weak dollar the combination of a very weak dollar and tariffs theoretically should lead to and tariffs theoretically should lead to a little more a little more inflation. inflation. inflation. Firing pal, Firing pal, Firing pal, I worry that the market only went down I worry that the market only went down 1%. I do think the market would go down 1%. I do think the market would go down quite a bit more if Trump did fire Pal. quite a bit more if Trump did fire Pal. I think it would be a mistake. I hope he I think it would be a mistake. I hope he doesn't do it and you know there are doesn't do it and you know there are very sound reasons for the Federal very sound reasons for the Federal Reserve to be independent Reserve to be independent and I hope he does not read from that and I hope he does not read from that trial balloon down 1% that that's all trial balloon down 1% that that's all that would happen. Look, the world would that would happen. Look, the world would continue spinning, America would go on, continue spinning, America would go on, but it would be a mistake. but it would be a mistake. Freeberg, we have uh this idea that Freeberg, we have uh this idea that there would be a couple of rate cuts and there would be a couple of rate cuts and maybe we get monetary velocity going maybe we get monetary velocity going again. People will be able to take more again. People will be able to take more loans out, invest more in business. But loans out, invest more in business. But with the stock market tearing it up, with the stock market tearing it up, there's a lot of wealth being put into there's a lot of wealth being put into the system with the big beautiful bill. the system with the big beautiful bill. There's a lot of spending in there as There's a lot of spending in there as we've talked about here. Putting that we've talked about here. Putting that aside, it feels like the economy is in aside, it feels like the economy is in really great shape. Chances of a rate really great shape. Chances of a rate cut has now flipped. No change is now cut has now flipped. No change is now the favorite option for September. the favorite option for September. whereas a week ago the favorite option whereas a week ago the favorite option was 25 bips. So this idea that we're was 25 bips. So this idea that we're going to cut or the Fed's going to cut going to cut or the Fed's going to cut that seems to be changing as well. So that seems to be changing as well. So your thoughts on the um the macro your thoughts on the um the macro picture here? So I'm not sure like the picture here? So I'm not sure like the firing of Jerome Pal necessarily solves firing of Jerome Pal necessarily solves the US fiscal challenge which is rising the US fiscal challenge which is rising interest rates on the long end of the interest rates on the long end of the Treasury curve. So, if you look at the Treasury curve. So, if you look at the the 30-year Treasury yield over time, the 30-year Treasury yield over time, and Nick, maybe you could pull this up and Nick, maybe you could pull this up while I'm talking, but as of today, while I'm talking, but as of today, we're at exactly 5% on the 30-year. And we're at exactly 5% on the 30-year. And you can see that this 5% yield, which is you can see that this 5% yield, which is what the market is demanding the United what the market is demanding the United States government pay in order to be States government pay in order to be loaned the money to make the bill loaned the money to make the bill payments that the US government has to payments that the US government has to make every year is the highest it's make every year is the highest it's been. The borrowing cost is the highest been. The borrowing cost is the highest it's been since going all the way back it's been since going all the way back to 2007 as of today. And I think this is to 2007 as of today. And I think this is the real story for the United States. We the real story for the United States. We have 36 trillion of debt. The average have 36 trillion of debt. The average interest rate we're paying on that debt interest rate we're paying on that debt today is 3.3%. That's the average of all today is 3.3%. That's the average of all the treasuries that the federal the treasuries that the federal government has issued, the Treasury government has issued, the Treasury Department has issued to borrow the Department has issued to borrow the money that it is using and has used to money that it is using and has used to pay all its bills. And if you look at pay all its bills. And if you look at the 5% number, that's a 1.7% hike. the 5% number, that's a 1.7% hike. At 3.3%, which is the current average At 3.3%, which is the current average rate we're paying across $36 trillion, rate we're paying across $36 trillion, we're we have a run rate interest we're we have a run rate interest expense. So just the money we're paying expense. So just the money we're paying each year and the interest of the each year and the interest of the outstanding debt is $1.2 trillion a outstanding debt is $1.2 trillion a year. And if this spikes up to 5% from year. And if this spikes up to 5% from 3.3, we're talking about nearly $2 3.3, we're talking about nearly $2 trillion a year in interest expense. And trillion a year in interest expense. And that number is only going to get bigger that number is only going to get bigger as we borrow more money each year and as we borrow more money each year and the loan balance goes up, the the loan balance goes up, the outstanding debt goes up because we are outstanding debt goes up because we are still running a deficit. The government still running a deficit. The government is spending more than it's making every is spending more than it's making every year. So the crisis that America faces year. So the crisis that America faces is a more profound fiscal crisis where is a more profound fiscal crisis where the rates that we're having to pay are a the rates that we're having to pay are a function of what the market is telling function of what the market is telling us. The market does not want to loan the us. The market does not want to loan the United States money over a 30-year United States money over a 30-year period for less than 5% as of today. And period for less than 5% as of today. And so making adjustments to the short end so making adjustments to the short end of the Treasury curve, making overnight of the Treasury curve, making overnight loans cheaper, which is what the Fed can loans cheaper, which is what the Fed can do, will stimulate the economy and make do, will stimulate the economy and make more money flow easily because now more money flow easily because now you'll be able to borrow money overnight you'll be able to borrow money overnight to do stuff like build a building and to do stuff like build a building and then sell the building next week or next then sell the building next week or next month or take out a car loan and pay it month or take out a car loan and pay it down and use your car to go drive for down and use your car to go drive for Uber and grow the economy and other Uber and grow the economy and other things. So the theory is that if we can, things. So the theory is that if we can, you know, drive rates down on the short you know, drive rates down on the short end of the curve, we'll grow the economy end of the curve, we'll grow the economy such that we'll be able to make those such that we'll be able to make those payments on the long end of the curve. payments on the long end of the curve. Um, but there comes a point where again, Um, but there comes a point where again, you're only going to be able to move the you're only going to be able to move the market so much until the more important market so much until the more important fiscal situations are going to be fiscal situations are going to be addressed, which is addressed, which is spending, taxation, and some of the spending, taxation, and some of the other key policy issues. So I think what other key policy issues. So I think what the market is saying is it's not as much the market is saying is it's not as much about Jerome Pal and frankly getting rid about Jerome Pal and frankly getting rid of a prudent individual may be more of a prudent individual may be more challenging than it is beneficial when challenging than it is beneficial when the real challenges facing the United the real challenges facing the United States need to be more hardily States need to be more hardily addressed. So I think that's my kind of addressed. So I think that's my kind of take on this whole take on this whole yeah go ahead Gavin build on it. yeah go ahead Gavin build on it. So point number one the 30-year has gone So point number one the 30-year has gone up since Pal started cutting rates. So up since Pal started cutting rates. So that is just empirical proof that what that is just empirical proof that what David is saying I think is right. And David is saying I think is right. And second, second, second, the deficit has been a feature of the deficit has been a feature of American politics dating back to Ross American politics dating back to Ross Perau's, Perau's, Perau's, you know, 1992 you know, 1992 presidential run, presidential run, presidential run, his independent third party run. his independent third party run. His independent third party run. His independent third party run. Here we go. But yes, but it the deficit Here we go. But yes, but it the deficit never really mattered because interest never really mattered because interest rates kept going down such that even as rates kept going down such that even as our debt grew, interest expense has kind our debt grew, interest expense has kind of a percentage of the government's of a percentage of the government's budget stayed relatively low. Now that budget stayed relatively low. Now that rates have gone up and don't seem like rates have gone up and don't seem like they're, they're, they're, you know, going down anytime soon, the you know, going down anytime soon, the deficit does matter and it really deficit does matter and it really matters. And you can kind of run a a matters. And you can kind of run a a couple of scenarios, but like pick your couple of scenarios, but like pick your pick your metric. pick your metric. If the deficit kind of continues at If the deficit kind of continues at current levels and we were to refinance current levels and we were to refinance the debt at the prices that uh you know the debt at the prices that uh you know David was talking about, David was talking about, you know, it's it's only a few years you know, it's it's only a few years before spending on interest is before spending on interest is significantly larger than spending on significantly larger than spending on Medicare and Medicaid or Social Security Medicare and Medicaid or Social Security or the military. So, pick something you or the military. So, pick something you care about. But you know our current care about. But you know our current course in speed it's it's in the not course in speed it's it's in the not tooistant future where interest expense tooistant future where interest expense is the biggest line item for the is the biggest line item for the government and that is not healthy and government and that is not healthy and that's why the deficit finally matters. that's why the deficit finally matters. It's just that rates are higher. But the It's just that rates are higher. But the great thing is is there is a virtuous great thing is is there is a virtuous cycle here. Has you close the deficit cycle here. Has you close the deficit rates should theoretically rates should theoretically come down come down come down and then those both feed on each other and then those both feed on each other to kind of help the problem. And it is to kind of help the problem. And it is possible. There's no silver bullet here, possible. There's no silver bullet here, but some combination of slowing but some combination of slowing government spending, extra revenue, and government spending, extra revenue, and you know, tariffs are effectively, we've you know, tariffs are effectively, we've never had a consumption tax here in never had a consumption tax here in America, which I think is a good thing America, which I think is a good thing because consumption taxes are very because consumption taxes are very regressive. regressive. regressive. But the reality is like even when Obama But the reality is like even when Obama controlled the House, the Senate, and controlled the House, the Senate, and was the most popular Democratic was the most popular Democratic president of our lifetime, I don't think president of our lifetime, I don't think federal government tax receipts, has a federal government tax receipts, has a percentage of GDP got above 18 19%. So percentage of GDP got above 18 19%. So that's kind of the ceiling. that's kind of the ceiling. And it for income taxes alone, and And it for income taxes alone, and tariffs are really just a consumption tariffs are really just a consumption tax that kind of insense domestic tax that kind of insense domestic manufacturing. I mean, there's all sorts manufacturing. I mean, there's all sorts of reasons they're bad ideas. You know, of reasons they're bad ideas. You know, David Ricardo, the theory of comparative David Ricardo, the theory of comparative advantage, advantage, advantage, 100% correct. Free trade is a good 100% correct. Free trade is a good thing. thing. thing. But introducing some sort of a But introducing some sort of a consumption tax, growing the economy a consumption tax, growing the economy a little bit faster through deregulation little bit faster through deregulation and slowing government spending. and slowing government spending. I think there is a way out of this for I think there is a way out of this for America. America. America. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But it's important to find the way But it's important to find the way because the deficit finally does matter because the deficit finally does matter after really never mattering in my after really never mattering in my political lifetime. political lifetime. political lifetime. It is interesting. We've never had to It is interesting. We've never had to worry about our debt. It was always worry about our debt. It was always manageable manageable manageable because it wasn't that large. And even because it wasn't that large. And even when it got large, it wasn't compared to when it got large, it wasn't compared to GDP because the country was doing so GDP because the country was doing so well. We had the PC revolution. We had well. We had the PC revolution. We had the internet boom. I mean, we've had the internet boom. I mean, we've had boom after boom after boom in efficiency boom after boom after boom in efficiency that we've led the world. When these that we've led the world. When these companies like Google or Apple take over companies like Google or Apple take over the world and all those tax receipts and the world and all those tax receipts and income comes into our country, that does income comes into our country, that does sort of um make you not look at it. I sort of um make you not look at it. I guess I you know, I've been talking to guess I you know, I've been talking to you Gavin. uh not to make this super you Gavin. uh not to make this super political, but both parties have proven political, but both parties have proven that they have no interest historically that they have no interest historically and in in the current one with cutting and in in the current one with cutting spending. It's just the nature of it. spending. It's just the nature of it. So, we can sit here whether you're a So, we can sit here whether you're a Biden fan, Trump fan, put it all aside. Biden fan, Trump fan, put it all aside. Both parties love spending and they're Both parties love spending and they're not stopping. One of our friends has not stopping. One of our friends has proposed, hey, maybe in the midterms we proposed, hey, maybe in the midterms we have a couple of uh these House have a couple of uh these House positions, couple senators, maybe we try positions, couple senators, maybe we try to flip them and create a new party that to flip them and create a new party that cares about this issue. What are your cares about this issue. What are your thoughts broadly on that? If a couple of thoughts broadly on that? If a couple of more Joe Mansion types were in the more Joe Mansion types were in the House, the Senate, could this country House, the Senate, could this country maybe start to make this the um the maybe start to make this the um the deciding issue? And maybe could we see deciding issue? And maybe could we see some movement on the other two parties, some movement on the other two parties, some pressure on them by a third party, some pressure on them by a third party, an America party perhaps? an America party perhaps? Yeah. Well, I think a few things. Yeah. Well, I think a few things. I do think there is room for a much more I do think there is room for a much more centrist party in America. centrist party in America. you know, the way the primaries work, you know, the way the primaries work, it, you know, leads to more maybe it, you know, leads to more maybe extreme candidates extreme candidates extreme candidates than anyone would actually want, than anyone would actually want, you know, be being each party's you know, be being each party's candidate. I think a third party would candidate. I think a third party would be helpful, be helpful, be helpful, you know, and you know, I think there's you know, and you know, I think there's plenty of room for a party that is, you plenty of room for a party that is, you know, kind of a, you know, fiscally know, kind of a, you know, fiscally conservative, conservative, conservative, you know, reasonably socially liberal, you know, reasonably socially liberal, pro-American energy production, pro-American energy production, all kinds of energy production, all kinds of energy production, including solar including solar including solar importantly. importantly. importantly. So, I think there is room for that. And So, I think there is room for that. And I think it is right that if you just I think it is right that if you just target a few races, you can have a big target a few races, you can have a big impact. But I would just say, yeah, impact. But I would just say, yeah, humbly, I think the American party is a humbly, I think the American party is a great idea. great idea. great idea. I just don't know that it is the highest I just don't know that it is the highest and best use of Elon's talents at this and best use of Elon's talents at this moment in time with what's happening moment in time with what's happening with AI. with AI. with AI. and just you know to the extent uh Elon and just you know to the extent uh Elon is a friend of the pod I just think is a friend of the pod I just think staying focused AI Mars that might be staying focused AI Mars that might be the highest and best use of his the highest and best use of his particular talent particular talent particular talent 100% 100% 100% hasn't that been the case for for some hasn't that been the case for for some time Gavin and anytime there's something time Gavin and anytime there's something whether it's Neurolink or Boring Company whether it's Neurolink or Boring Company or some other new project that there's or some other new project that there's these claims that this is a distraction these claims that this is a distraction away from the highest priority work that away from the highest priority work that should be should be should be I mean, is the political stuff unique? I mean, is the political stuff unique? And then his point of view on the And then his point of view on the political stuff, just like it was with political stuff, just like it was with Twitter, is that it's existential to Twitter, is that it's existential to society and civilization and our ability society and civilization and our ability to function and to do, you know, to to function and to do, you know, to achieve the progress that he aims to achieve the progress that he aims to achieve and his core function. So achieve and his core function. So obviously he is succeeding being the CEO obviously he is succeeding being the CEO of many different companies but you know I think a big part of what but you know I think a big part of what makes him kind of exceptional as a CEO makes him kind of exceptional as a CEO is the perfectionism the drive and you is the perfectionism the drive and you know politics is not a game of know politics is not a game of perfection it's a game of compromise perfection it's a game of compromise so I am sure if he sets his mind to the so I am sure if he sets his mind to the America party that he will succeed but I America party that he will succeed but I think there are other things for him to think there are other things for him to focus on and you know the Boring company focus on and you know the Boring company Neuralink. Neuralink. Neuralink. These are games of perfection. These These are games of perfection. These are, you know, this is about are, you know, this is about engineering. This is about solving a engineering. This is about solving a problem. It's not, you know, compromise problem. It's not, you know, compromise in the art of the possible. So, I think in the art of the possible. So, I think he would succeed. I just think that he would succeed. I just think that there are other things that maybe a there are other things that maybe a higher calling for him. higher calling for him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and the the cost of being Yeah. I mean, and the the cost of being away from his businesses this last time away from his businesses this last time around, as he said very publicly, was around, as he said very publicly, was severe. It was intense. And he's had to severe. It was intense. And he's had to really regroup. But we got this really regroup. But we got this incredible news when Grock 4 came out. incredible news when Grock 4 came out. And I think we should maybe talk a And I think we should maybe talk a little bit here about what that big little bit here about what that big prize is. The big prize, I think, is prize is. The big prize, I think, is most well, it's actually going to be an most well, it's actually going to be an open question. uh Freeberg, I think the open question. uh Freeberg, I think the big prize is whoever wins general big prize is whoever wins general intelligence, super intelligence or the intelligence, super intelligence or the biggest cluster or the most power to biggest cluster or the most power to power the biggest cluster that powers power the biggest cluster that powers general super intelligence. So where do general super intelligence. So where do we sit on the language models today, we sit on the language models today, Gavin and Elon's recent, Gavin and Elon's recent, let's just call it what it is. I mean, let's just call it what it is. I mean, incredibly dominant release of Grock 4. incredibly dominant release of Grock 4. I don't think people expected that. They I don't think people expected that. They didn't expect him to be able to leaprog didn't expect him to be able to leaprog everybody. And and let's be honest, everybody. And and let's be honest, people are leaprogging each other every people are leaprogging each other every four to six months. So I I fully expect four to six months. So I I fully expect Gemini will leaprog rock and open AI Gemini will leaprog rock and open AI will have their time in the sun again as will have their time in the sun again as well. But this was pretty impressive, well. But this was pretty impressive, right? right? right? I would say this is the biggest leaprog I would say this is the biggest leaprog we've seen in quite some time. And I we've seen in quite some time. And I think the benchmarks that matter are think the benchmarks that matter are RKGI2 RKGI2 RKGI2 and humanities last exam where it did in and humanities last exam where it did in in the case of RKGI2 it's called in the case of RKGI2 it's called semi-private which is important because semi-private which is important because it means that some of the questions were it means that some of the questions were held back because a criticism of these held back because a criticism of these models is they memorize the answer and models is they memorize the answer and so RKGI2 it has not seen the questions so RKGI2 it has not seen the questions before and it did roughly twice as good before and it did roughly twice as good as you know the state-of-the-art Google as you know the state-of-the-art Google open AI and anthropic models and then a open AI and anthropic models and then a humanity 's last exam, you know, we can humanity 's last exam, you know, we can call it 50 to 75% call it 50 to 75% that are, you know, exceptional humans that are, you know, exceptional humans score 5% on that. It scores in the 40s. score 5% on that. It scores in the 40s. So, this is incredible progress. And I So, this is incredible progress. And I think it's worth mentioning think it's worth mentioning this model was trained on Hopper. So, this model was trained on Hopper. So, this this model is probably about as far this this model is probably about as far as you can take the last generation of as you can take the last generation of Nvidia GPUs. the next models we see, you Nvidia GPUs. the next models we see, you know, Gro 5, you know, '05 from OpenAI, know, Gro 5, you know, '05 from OpenAI, whatever they're going to call gym, the whatever they're going to call gym, the next Gemini, next Gemini, next Gemini, they will be trained on Blackwell and I they will be trained on Blackwell and I think that will be a really big step think that will be a really big step function. But I do think the ultimate function. But I do think the ultimate prize here is um artificial super prize here is um artificial super intelligence. Like I think artificial intelligence. Like I think artificial general intelligence will create a lot general intelligence will create a lot of economic value. But you know and you of economic value. But you know and you know maybe we will be able to work less know maybe we will be able to work less as humans. But I think ASI artificial as humans. But I think ASI artificial super intelligence is what is really super intelligence is what is really exciting you in terms of maybe you know exciting you in terms of maybe you know being able to live longer you know being able to live longer you know really kind of fundamentally kind of really kind of fundamentally kind of change the fabric of our lives. Can you change the fabric of our lives. Can you take a stab at explaining that take a stab at explaining that difference in definition to the audience difference in definition to the audience who they hear these terms and we kind of who they hear these terms and we kind of bundle them into either a transcendent bundle them into either a transcendent intelligence that we haven't seen before intelligence that we haven't seen before that we as humans can't comprehend. It that we as humans can't comprehend. It goes beyond human intelligence or this goes beyond human intelligence or this is the smartest human on the planet and is the smartest human on the planet and where we are right now in this journey where we are right now in this journey because I think these terms are all because I think these terms are all getting muddled together and I think we getting muddled together and I think we have an interesting conversation here if have an interesting conversation here if we parse them. I think artificial we parse them. I think artificial general intelligence, I would define it general intelligence, I would define it as an AI that can take economically as an AI that can take economically useful actions in a variety of domains useful actions in a variety of domains and be better than the average human in and be better than the average human in most domains, all domains. most domains, all domains. But that's very different than super But that's very different than super intelligence. intelligence. intelligence. You know, being, you know, being able to You know, being, you know, being able to draft a contract, that's not super draft a contract, that's not super intelligence, but it is useful. Being intelligence, but it is useful. Being able to do a medical diagnosis, not able to do a medical diagnosis, not super intelligence, but it is useful. super intelligence, but it is useful. you know, being able to book my travel, you know, being able to book my travel, so on and so forth. Super intelligence so on and so forth. Super intelligence means exactly what you said that it is means exactly what you said that it is smarter than any human. It has, you smarter than any human. It has, you know, access to all of human knowledge. know, access to all of human knowledge. And I think one of the most interesting And I think one of the most interesting questions is what will the economic questions is what will the economic returns to super intelligence be? And returns to super intelligence be? And they are definitionally unknowable they are definitionally unknowable because we have never seen super because we have never seen super intelligence before. If as humans we intelligence before. If as humans we have kind of um pushed the limits of have kind of um pushed the limits of physics, biology, chemistry, the laws of physics, biology, chemistry, the laws of the universe, then maybe the economic the universe, then maybe the economic returns to super intelligence won't be returns to super intelligence won't be that high. But if super intelligence is that high. But if super intelligence is curing cancer and inventing warp drives, curing cancer and inventing warp drives, then the returns are going to be really, then the returns are going to be really, really high and it's fundamentally really high and it's fundamentally unknowable. unknowable. unknowable. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, we're at general intelligence. Okay. So, we're at general intelligence. Hey, your lawyer, your tax, your Hey, your lawyer, your tax, your accountant is going to go much faster. accountant is going to go much faster. They'll have a co-pilot. This is all They'll have a co-pilot. This is all going to be great for a business. Every going to be great for a business. Every business gets 10% more efficient a business gets 10% more efficient a month. Seems like a reasonable bogey, month. Seems like a reasonable bogey, which means every 7 8 n months, every which means every 7 8 n months, every business is going to get twice as business is going to get twice as efficient at these kind of chores. Yeah, efficient at these kind of chores. Yeah, I think that I wouldn't say that's a I think that I wouldn't say that's a reasonable bogey. I think that might be reasonable bogey. I think that might be a little aggressive. It's, you know, the a little aggressive. It's, you know, the world the world always it's, you know, I world the world always it's, you know, I think it's a a Bill Gates quote. You think it's a a Bill Gates quote. You know the the world always changes less know the the world always changes less than you expect over the next 1 2 3 than you expect over the next 1 2 3 years but way more than you expect over years but way more than you expect over 10 years. Just takes time for 10 years. Just takes time for technologies to diffuse. You know maybe technologies to diffuse. You know maybe really nimble startups will see some of really nimble startups will see some of the gains you know that you were talking the gains you know that you were talking about about about but I mean if we doubled productivity I but I mean if we doubled productivity I mean that would be like an economic mean that would be like an economic revolution. revolution. revolution. I mean we're seeing it in programming. I I mean we're seeing it in programming. I I I for sure if you talk to the average I I for sure if you talk to the average developer, they I think would say developer, they I think would say they're getting 5 to 10% better a month. they're getting 5 to 10% better a month. Better being defined as faster shipping Better being defined as faster shipping more code. more code. more code. Rule of 72. Hey, you know, every year at Rule of 72. Hey, you know, every year at least, you're going you're going to be least, you're going you're going to be twice as good. I think that actually twice as good. I think that actually seems to be happening with developers. seems to be happening with developers. I think it is happening with software. I I think it is happening with software. I think software is the first area where think software is the first area where you've seen a real true kind of economic you've seen a real true kind of economic productivity impact productivity impact productivity impact generalized. A lot of companies are generalized. A lot of companies are having incredible success with AI for having incredible success with AI for customer, you know, support for sales. I customer, you know, support for sales. I think you see it more in startups than think you see it more in startups than big companies, but it the impact it has big companies, but it the impact it has had on coding is undeniable. had on coding is undeniable. Freeberg, let me swing this around to Freeberg, let me swing this around to you. We've got the super intelligence you. We've got the super intelligence out there. We've got AGI out there. out there. We've got AGI out there. One of the things Gavin said was by One of the things Gavin said was by definition, you can't quantify the gains definition, you can't quantify the gains of super intelligence. That is the big of super intelligence. That is the big prize here. That's why people are prize here. That's why people are putting this much money into these kind putting this much money into these kind of data centers. Yeah. In your mind, of data centers. Yeah. In your mind, it's not just the general intelligence. it's not just the general intelligence. That would be the silver medal. People That would be the silver medal. People are going for the gold here, not general are going for the gold here, not general intelligence, super intelligence intelligence, super intelligence breakthroughs that we can't imagine. Am breakthroughs that we can't imagine. Am I Would you say that's a fair way to uh I Would you say that's a fair way to uh sum up the massive interest in investing sum up the massive interest in investing in these projects? Yeah. I mean, I think there's something Yeah. I mean, I think there's something where everyone has identified this where everyone has identified this asmmptoic return moment where if you get asmmptoic return moment where if you get to that moment, you're limitless in to that moment, you're limitless in terms of the upside. Is there one terms of the upside. Is there one winner? I don't know. I don't think so. winner? I don't know. I don't think so. But I I would also kind of reframe this But I I would also kind of reframe this as being some binary condition that I as being some binary condition that I think we're talking about it as being think we're talking about it as being quote general intelligence, super quote general intelligence, super intelligence as being on a spectrum of intelligence as being on a spectrum of leverage towards complexity. M leverage towards complexity. M complexity meaning like I can do a complexity meaning like I can do a simple task like instead of writing a simple task like instead of writing a letter and putting it in an envelope and letter and putting it in an envelope and having some guy carry it to my mom, you having some guy carry it to my mom, you know, and she gets it the next day, I know, and she gets it the next day, I can digitally get her that message can digitally get her that message instantly over email. That creates an instantly over email. That creates an incredible amount of leverage and solves incredible amount of leverage and solves a lot of the complexity of getting her a lot of the complexity of getting her that communication from me. So if I as a that communication from me. So if I as a human said I would like to harness human said I would like to harness fusion power similar to what the sun fusion power similar to what the sun uses to make energy and I want to do uses to make energy and I want to do that on earth today we're in call it that on earth today we're in call it year 40 or 50 of a research cycle of year 40 or 50 of a research cycle of humans trying to solve that particularly humans trying to solve that particularly complex problem. It's a scientific complex problem. It's a scientific problem. It's a discovery problem. It's problem. It's a discovery problem. It's an engineering problem. And this idea of an engineering problem. And this idea of super intelligence is that it could give super intelligence is that it could give us immense us immense us immense leverage in solving that complex problem leverage in solving that complex problem that we otherwise may be challenged to that we otherwise may be challenged to solve over decades or hundreds of years solve over decades or hundreds of years or think about one day solving a problem or think about one day solving a problem that would take humans thousands of that would take humans thousands of years to solve. I I don't think that years to solve. I I don't think that humans are limited in our ability to humans are limited in our ability to solve problems. I think we're limited in solve problems. I think we're limited in terms of time. And what intelligence terms of time. And what intelligence what digital intelligence gives us is what digital intelligence gives us is leverage on time so that we can now leverage on time so that we can now tackle ever more complex tasks that as tackle ever more complex tasks that as you think about these tasks the amount you think about these tasks the amount of time isn't just an incremental one of time isn't just an incremental one year or two years but it becomes a year or two years but it becomes a hundred years or maybe a thousand years. hundred years or maybe a thousand years. So this relates to I think projects So this relates to I think projects around physics, around chemistry, around around physics, around chemistry, around transportation, around biology transportation, around biology where we're probably fundamentally where we're probably fundamentally scratching the surface today and where scratching the surface today and where the super intelligence is an enormous the super intelligence is an enormous leverage creator for us. And so I don't leverage creator for us. And so I don't view it as some like species or race view it as some like species or race that independently persists in its own that independently persists in its own intentions. But it is a tool that intentions. But it is a tool that provides leverage in a way that is provides leverage in a way that is orders of magnitude greater than the orders of magnitude greater than the leverage we got from yesterday year's leverage we got from yesterday year's digital tools and probably today's AI digital tools and probably today's AI tools and probably tomorrow's general tools and probably tomorrow's general intelligence tools is kind of how I intelligence tools is kind of how I would I would think about it. And you would I would think about it. And you know maybe it's because one model does know maybe it's because one model does so much stuff better than any human you so much stuff better than any human you can call it super intelligence. But I can call it super intelligence. But I think functionally leverage and into think functionally leverage and into complexity is is where this becomes complexity is is where this becomes super compelling for humans. And it's super compelling for humans. And it's why I think we can and should be highly why I think we can and should be highly optimistic about living very long lives optimistic about living very long lives and traveling anywhere we want and and traveling anywhere we want and having abundance in food and having having abundance in food and having abundance in resources and having abundance in resources and having abundance in recouping our time to do abundance in recouping our time to do the things we want to do instead of the the things we want to do instead of the things that we have to do today because things that we have to do today because we don't have access to this incredible we don't have access to this incredible leverage. So that's where I get kind of leverage. So that's where I get kind of I love it. I think it's a great way to I love it. I think it's a great way to look at it. But I want to go back to the look at it. But I want to go back to the silver metal here in this sort of silver metal here in this sort of competition. Gold being super competition. Gold being super intelligence. We start solving fusion intelligence. We start solving fusion and really big problems on deep research and really big problems on deep research cycles and the velocity of that goes up. cycles and the velocity of that goes up. But just going back to the silver, you But just going back to the silver, you know, everybody in the economy becomes I know, everybody in the economy becomes I don't know single digit. It's more don't know single digit. It's more efficient every month and you know some efficient every month and you know some amount every year. I've been trying to amount every year. I've been trying to back of the envelope what I think the back of the envelope what I think the value is for uh a human being in the value is for uh a human being in the west in the modern world west in the modern world and what they should spend on AI per and what they should spend on AI per month. I've come up with a number of month. I've come up with a number of about 75 bucks somewhere in that range about 75 bucks somewhere in that range is a nobrainer to spend on your AI per is a nobrainer to spend on your AI per month as an individual working in the month as an individual working in the world. If that's the premise, right, I world. If that's the premise, right, I think there's a billion people in the think there's a billion people in the developed world who could spend, let's developed world who could spend, let's call it a hundred a month. It's 1,200 a call it a hundred a month. It's 1,200 a year. Doesn't take a genius to figure year. Doesn't take a genius to figure out this is a trillion dollar in revenue out this is a trillion dollar in revenue based on market cap. That's probably 10 based on market cap. That's probably 10 trillion in market cap. And then we just trillion in market cap. And then we just have to back into the spending of what have to back into the spending of what it costs to build this. You're doing it costs to build this. You're doing these kind of calculations, I'm sure, at these kind of calculations, I'm sure, at a treaties. Yeah. and and where this a treaties. Yeah. and and where this general back of the envelope that I've general back of the envelope that I've come up with in my mind for a mental come up with in my mind for a mental model that there's a $10 trillion prize, model that there's a $10 trillion prize, a trillion dollars in revenue just in a trillion dollars in revenue just in the silver medal, does that jive with the silver medal, does that jive with the spending we're seeing today? I think the spending we're seeing today? I think people are putting in 10 billion worth people are putting in 10 billion worth of equipment a year across five of equipment a year across five different companies, right? different companies, right? Well, I think they're putting in quite a Well, I think they're putting in quite a bit more than 10 billion per year um bit more than 10 billion per year um um each. um each. um each. No, no, Google alone's doing 70 billion No, no, Google alone's doing 70 billion this year. each 70. this year. each 70. But is that is that 70 billion they're But is that is that 70 billion they're putting in this year going to be putting in this year going to be repeated for the next five years? So repeated for the next five years? So it'll be 350 billion it'll be 350 billion if you look at if you well yeah TBD the if you look at if you well yeah TBD the future is always uncertain but um future is always uncertain but um you know if there are economic returns you know if there are economic returns to that they will keep doing it for to that they will keep doing it for sure. Something interesting is you know sure. Something interesting is you know AI is you know as we've discussed in AI is you know as we've discussed in previous all-ins extremely compute previous all-ins extremely compute intensive and it's just at no point in intensive and it's just at no point in my career as a tech investor except the my career as a tech investor except the very beginning which was kind of the end very beginning which was kind of the end of the PC wars which Dell won by being a of the PC wars which Dell won by being a lowcost producer going direct cutting lowcost producer going direct cutting out the working capital you know the out the working capital you know the components and a PC depreciate so if you components and a PC depreciate so if you have to go through a store um where have to go through a store um where where it sits on the shelves you're at a where it sits on the shelves you're at a big disadvantage from you know either a big disadvantage from you know either a you know call it a cost or quality you know call it a cost or quality perspective. But at no point in the 25 perspective. But at no point in the 25 years I've been a tech investor has years I've been a tech investor has being the lowcost producer mattered. being the lowcost producer mattered. Being the lowcost producer is really Being the lowcost producer is really going to matter in AI because um at some going to matter in AI because um at some level the amount of tokens you produce level the amount of tokens you produce is intelligence because of test time is intelligence because of test time compute um you know post-raining compute um you know post-raining reinforcement learning and so if you can reinforcement learning and so if you can produce those tokens at a lower cost produce those tokens at a lower cost you'll have a big advantage. You know, you'll have a big advantage. You know, if for that 75 billion or 30 billion or if for that 75 billion or 30 billion or 50 billion that you're spending per year 50 billion that you're spending per year in capex, you can produce more tokens, in capex, you can produce more tokens, that is a profound advantage. I don't that is a profound advantage. I don't like your your calculations like just like your your calculations like just has a back of the envelope, has a back of the envelope, you know, kind of scratch. They seem you know, kind of scratch. They seem reasonable to me. the trillion dollars a reasonable to me. the trillion dollars a year in revenue because of AI seems year in revenue because of AI seems quite reasonable when you frame it as a quite reasonable when you frame it as a thousand dollars for a person to be thousand dollars for a person to be whatever 30 40 50% more efficient at whatever 30 40 50% more efficient at work every year. work every year. Yeah. And it's just you we could Yeah. And it's just you we could probably go back and look at kind of probably go back and look at kind of like the early days of you know cell like the early days of you know cell phones and what were people willing to phones and what were people willing to pay relative to disposable income. pay relative to disposable income. Your PC analogy would actually be the Your PC analogy would actually be the perfect one. A PC at back in the that perfect one. A PC at back in the that era was what three $4,000 per person. era was what three $4,000 per person. and they lasted for 3 years. So it was and they lasted for 3 years. So it was exactly a thousand a year. exactly a thousand a year. But this is why this is why But this is why creating such delineated distinction creating such delineated distinction between different types of AI is between different types of AI is is also like the equivalent of trying to is also like the equivalent of trying to create distinctions between other types create distinctions between other types of technology. So the the automobile, of technology. So the the automobile, the airplane, the telephone, the the airplane, the telephone, the computer, all of these technologies are computer, all of these technologies are tools that created leverage uh leverage tools that created leverage uh leverage on things that were otherwise complexity on things that were otherwise complexity and reduce them down to simplicity from and reduce them down to simplicity from a human perspective. pick up the phone, a human perspective. pick up the phone, make a call instead of giddying up on make a call instead of giddying up on your horse and going across the country your horse and going across the country to deliver a message or using a computer to deliver a message or using a computer to do a spreadsheet that calculated to do a spreadsheet that calculated everything for you rather than everything for you rather than calculated by hand and so on and so calculated by hand and so on and so forth. like all of these tools reduce forth. like all of these tools reduce complexity to simple tasks for humans complexity to simple tasks for humans and the everinccreasing complexity of and the everinccreasing complexity of what we can accomplish with digital what we can accomplish with digital tools is you know continuing in this tools is you know continuing in this kind of era now but that's why I think kind of era now but that's why I think it's very similar Jason like we this is it's very similar Jason like we this is not some new concept it's it's the not some new concept it's it's the continuation of human productivity it's continuation of human productivity it's the continuation of the improvement of the continuation of the improvement of what humans can do what we can produce what humans can do what we can produce what we can and and yes there's a what we can and and yes there's a concept now that intelligence has become concept now that intelligence has become such a like it's caught up to everything such a like it's caught up to everything But and Gavin, I don't know if you think But and Gavin, I don't know if you think that there is this concept of some that there is this concept of some moment of singularity, but it it does moment of singularity, but it it does feel to me like there's just feel to me like there's just extraordinary leverage that's being extraordinary leverage that's being created that feels similar to Yeah, created that feels similar to Yeah, for sure that's true. I hope that's for sure that's true. I hope your vision of it being a true. I hope your vision of it being a productivity enhancer for humans is productivity enhancer for humans is correct. You know, I do think, you know, correct. You know, I do think, you know, people deep in AI people deep in AI do think there's some probability that do think there's some probability that it goes sideways, but I hope I I hope it goes sideways, but I hope I I hope that you're right. But coming back to to that you're right. But coming back to to JCAL's, you know, $10 trillion prize JCAL's, you know, $10 trillion prize and, you know, relative to, you know, and, you know, relative to, you know, the market caps and the companies the market caps and the companies involved, it it it needs to be at least involved, it it it needs to be at least $10 trillion. Something that I think is $10 trillion. Something that I think is is interesting and and and relevant is interesting and and and relevant particularly to Grock 4 being the best particularly to Grock 4 being the best product is the best product doesn't product is the best product doesn't always win in technology. always win in technology. No. Yeah. No. Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. In sports, you know, they say uh Yeah. In sports, you know, they say uh defense wins championships and on the defense wins championships and on the internet distribution wins championships internet distribution wins championships and Gro four has formidable competitors and Gro four has formidable competitors with lots of distribution and Google with lots of distribution and Google and you know Meta if they get their act and you know Meta if they get their act together Microsoft and so from an together Microsoft and so from an industrial logic perspective something industrial logic perspective something that I think makes a lot of sense that I think makes a lot of sense particularly since OpenAI bought Johnny particularly since OpenAI bought Johnny Ives hardware startup which will place Ives hardware startup which will place them into competition with Apple at some them into competition with Apple at some point is XAI and Apple are natural point is XAI and Apple are natural partners. There's been a lot of news partners. There's been a lot of news about Apple thinking about buying about Apple thinking about buying Perplexity or Mixedraw, but that's just Perplexity or Mixedraw, but that's just a band-aid. Those companies don't get a band-aid. Those companies don't get Apple what they need. And Apple's had an Apple what they need. And Apple's had an incredible partnership for many years incredible partnership for many years now with Google that's generating tens now with Google that's generating tens of billions of dollars for both of billions of dollars for both companies. And I think there is solid companies. And I think there is solid industrial logic for a partnership. you industrial logic for a partnership. you could have Apple Grock, safe gro, could have Apple Grock, safe gro, whatever you want to call it, you know, whatever you want to call it, you know, so that Apple feels comfortable and that so that Apple feels comfortable and that probably also helps Grock in the probably also helps Grock in the enterprise and then it also helps both enterprise and then it also helps both Apple and Google with this DOJ trial. Apple and Google with this DOJ trial. And so I think in this, you know, And so I think in this, you know, incredibly high elo chess match that is incredibly high elo chess match that is being played between the leading labs being played between the leading labs like that is like that is that partnership makes a lot of sense that partnership makes a lot of sense for both companies. first time I've for both companies. first time I've heard anybody sort of make that natural heard anybody sort of make that natural connection. But you're right, Eric connection. But you're right, Eric Schmidt and Steve Jobs at one point had Schmidt and Steve Jobs at one point had this discussion which was, "Hey, we've this discussion which was, "Hey, we've got search and you've got a browser now got search and you've got a browser now because the iPhone didn't have a because the iPhone didn't have a browser, you know, uh or you know, they browser, you know, uh or you know, they could have built their own search could have built their own search engine. They could have partnered with engine. They could have partnered with Yahoo, but they decided to make this Yahoo, but they decided to make this long-term partnership with Google and long-term partnership with Google and man that dropped what, 20, 30 billion to man that dropped what, 20, 30 billion to the bottom line at Apple and cemented the bottom line at Apple and cemented Google's search franchise." Absolutely. Google's search franchise." Absolutely. And right now that deal is being And right now that deal is being litigated by the DOJ and the DOJ is litigated by the DOJ and the DOJ is considering remedies. And so if you considering remedies. And so if you bring on a really kind of effective, bring on a really kind of effective, credible AI provider, credible AI provider, I think it could help both Google and I think it could help both Google and Apple with their antitrust issues. And Apple with their antitrust issues. And at the end of the day, you know, Google, at the end of the day, you know, Google, they have Android and their Pixel they have Android and their Pixel phones. OpenAI is making hardware. phones. OpenAI is making hardware. Anthropic is kind of a captive of Anthropic is kind of a captive of Amazon. Meta is kind of a um you know Amazon. Meta is kind of a um you know they're they're in a death match with they're they're in a death match with Apple. So I think there is really sound Apple. So I think there is really sound logic for that partnership. I think it' logic for that partnership. I think it' be good for both companies. Love to see be good for both companies. Love to see it happen. it happen. it happen. It feels to me like the interface is It feels to me like the interface is going to be the browser. I know this going to be the browser. I know this sounds crazy but I've been playing with sounds crazy but I've been playing with the comet browser from Perplexity. Did the comet browser from Perplexity. Did you play with it yet, Gavin? Or look at you play with it yet, Gavin? Or look at some of the demos. some of the demos. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What are your thoughts here? because What are your thoughts here? because it's really and and then chat GPT just it's really and and then chat GPT just launched a virtual desktop that pops up launched a virtual desktop that pops up to go do your, you know, little to go do your, you know, little web-based scrapes, agents, assignments, web-based scrapes, agents, assignments, whatever you I'm going to call it, whatever you I'm going to call it, assignments, you know, homework, chores, assignments, you know, homework, chores, go do your chores. What What are your go do your chores. What What are your thoughts on this modality? thoughts on this modality? Yeah, the browser is part of Yeah, the browser is part of distribution winning championships. distribution winning championships. Apple has Safari, Google has Chrome, and Apple has Safari, Google has Chrome, and if you're not going to strike a if you're not going to strike a partnership with one of those partnership with one of those distribution channels, you will distribution channels, you will eventually need to do your own browser. eventually need to do your own browser. And you can extend that logic, you know, And you can extend that logic, you know, all the way, you know, that's why they all the way, you know, that's why they Google, they did a browser, they did a Google, they did a browser, they did a phone, but I also do think the um, you phone, but I also do think the um, you know, the companions from Grock have know, the companions from Grock have been interesting to play with and they been interesting to play with and they certainly make it more engaging certainly make it more engaging that becomes the agent. It's a kind of that becomes the agent. It's a kind of incredible, mind-blowing incredible, mind-blowing incredible, mind-blowing concept for that to be the interface. concept for that to be the interface. All right, listen. Here we go. Calling All right, listen. Here we go. Calling in live. Got a breaking bestie coming on in live. Got a breaking bestie coming on board here. Uh, David Sachs calling in board here. Uh, David Sachs calling in live. I I see the pale yellow paint uh live. I I see the pale yellow paint uh and an ancient building. You must be in and an ancient building. You must be in some sort of wing of the great White some sort of wing of the great White House. Is that correct, David? House. Is that correct, David? I am. Well, I'm actually not in the I am. Well, I'm actually not in the White House, per se. I guess I'm on the White House, per se. I guess I'm on the White House grounds. We're in the White House grounds. We're in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. Eisenhower Executive Office Building. That's where my office. That's where my office. I can tell from that I've been here. I can tell from that I've been here. Yeah. No, I they said great things. I Yeah. No, I they said great things. I And I checked my calendar. I'll I'll And I checked my calendar. I'll I'll send you some photos. It's great. send you some photos. It's great. Well, no, but the calendar's wide open Well, no, but the calendar's wide open between now and the All-Ins Summit. between now and the All-Ins Summit. Allin.com yada yada. So, the windows Allin.com yada yada. So, the windows there, Sachs. The windows wide open. And there, Sachs. The windows wide open. And I'll see you in the cafeteria, I guess. I'll see you in the cafeteria, I guess. Play your cards right on stage next Play your cards right on stage next week, Jake. And you might get invited week, Jake. And you might get invited after the the AI summit we're doing. after the the AI summit we're doing. Yes, Yes, Yes, absolutely. absolutely. absolutely. The AI event in DC next Wednesday, which The AI event in DC next Wednesday, which has been publicly announced, so it's has been publicly announced, so it's going to be exciting. going to be exciting. David, you uh you brought a friend David, you uh you brought a friend today. Maybe introduce your friend and today. Maybe introduce your friend and tell us uh what you got done. What have tell us uh what you got done. What have you gotten done in the last week for the you gotten done in the last week for the American people? They want to know what American people? They want to know what because you weren't here last week doing because you weren't here last week doing the pod, so you must have gotten the pod, so you must have gotten something done for the American people. something done for the American people. Let's hear it. Let's hear it. Well, first of all, this is the Zar Well, first of all, this is the Zar behind thesar, Bohe. behind thesar, Bohe. Okay. He's the executive director of the Okay. He's the executive director of the president's working group on digital president's working group on digital assets. So that's the working group that assets. So that's the working group that I chair, but he actually does all the I chair, but he actually does all the work. He's the executive director and work. He's the executive director and he's here every day. And um he's been he's here every day. And um he's been working on crypto pretty much non-stop working on crypto pretty much non-stop since we started the administration. since we started the administration. and he's kind of the unsung hero and he's kind of the unsung hero within our operation here on these two within our operation here on these two bills that just passed the house which bills that just passed the house which are historic and quite momentous. are historic and quite momentous. So, uh, Bo, welcome to the program and, So, uh, Bo, welcome to the program and, uh, maybe you could tell us a little bit uh, maybe you could tell us a little bit about these bills and what they do for about these bills and what they do for the American people. the American people. Yeah, well, first of all, David, you're Yeah, well, first of all, David, you're you're too kind. We've had a blast you're too kind. We've had a blast working together. I mean, we connected working together. I mean, we connected uh back in transition, I think in late uh back in transition, I think in late November, and we started mapping out a November, and we started mapping out a plan for this, and to see it come to plan for this, and to see it come to fruition this week is is really like fruition this week is is really like it's unbelievable. Um the fact that we it's unbelievable. Um the fact that we had the bipartisan votes we did today in had the bipartisan votes we did today in the House um is remarkable. It's the House um is remarkable. It's unprecedented and it shows you that, you unprecedented and it shows you that, you know, leaders on both sides of the aisle know, leaders on both sides of the aisle understand that our country has to be at understand that our country has to be at the forefront of this technological the forefront of this technological development. development. development. But let's start with genius because I But let's start with genius because I think genius is really the foundation think genius is really the foundation for everything else we can build upon in for everything else we can build upon in this space. A lot of industry cares this space. A lot of industry cares about market structure as do we and we about market structure as do we and we want to see it done on the president's want to see it done on the president's desk as well. But genius is unique desk as well. But genius is unique because it really updates the payment because it really updates the payment rails inside of our current financial rails inside of our current financial system. I mean the payment rails have system. I mean the payment rails have been archaic and I've likened it to the been archaic and I've likened it to the fact of the ways in which we've fact of the ways in which we've communicated have changed quite communicated have changed quite dramatically over the course of the last dramatically over the course of the last several decades. the ways in which we several decades. the ways in which we move money really haven't and we have move money really haven't and we have the technology there and blockchain the technology there and blockchain technology. technology. technology. So what we're doing here is we're fixing So what we're doing here is we're fixing the plumbing of our financial system. the plumbing of our financial system. We're securing US dollar dominance for We're securing US dollar dominance for decades to come. If you want to access decades to come. If you want to access our capital markets, you're going to our capital markets, you're going to have to use a dollar back stable. You're have to use a dollar back stable. You're also providing a pathway for, you know, also providing a pathway for, you know, tokenization of public securities and tokenization of public securities and 24/7 markets and the things that people 24/7 markets and the things that people have dreamed about for for quite some have dreamed about for for quite some time. time. time. This is a revolutionary piece of This is a revolutionary piece of legislation and the fact that it had legislation and the fact that it had this much bipartisan support is this much bipartisan support is incredible. It's a testament to incredible. It's a testament to President Trump's leadership. It's a President Trump's leadership. It's a testament to our fantastic AI and testament to our fantastic AI and cryptosar, David's leadership. I mean, cryptosar, David's leadership. I mean, he's truly been the guiding star behind he's truly been the guiding star behind the ideology and what we're pushing the ideology and what we're pushing here. And, you know, he has a phenomenal here. And, you know, he has a phenomenal team as well. I mean, I I'd be remiss team as well. I mean, I I'd be remiss not to thank Tracy who's David's chief not to thank Tracy who's David's chief of staff. I mean, in the midst of all of staff. I mean, in the midst of all the chaos to get this done and like the chaos to get this done and like there was so many steps to this, we had there was so many steps to this, we had to beat the banking lobby to get it to beat the banking lobby to get it passed the Senate, then it moved over to passed the Senate, then it moved over to the House in which we had to to to the House in which we had to to to basically fight some members that that basically fight some members that that really misinterpreted or misunderstood really misinterpreted or misunderstood what this bill actually did. And the what this bill actually did. And the president stepped up. David stepped up president stepped up. David stepped up in the enormous way. It wouldn't have in the enormous way. It wouldn't have happened without either of them. And so happened without either of them. And so now we have this bill heading to his now we have this bill heading to his desk tomorrow. And to pivot to market desk tomorrow. And to pivot to market structure really briefly, this provides structure really briefly, this provides like the rules of the road for the like the rules of the road for the exchanges, the brokers, everyone in the exchanges, the brokers, everyone in the space, they desperately need it so that space, they desperately need it so that we can break down the wall between we can break down the wall between traditional financial institutions and traditional financial institutions and these digital asset players. I think these digital asset players. I think that's that's well underway. Obviously, that's that's well underway. Obviously, you know, getting a vote as strong as you know, getting a vote as strong as they did in the House is indicative of they did in the House is indicative of what can happen in the Senate. If we what can happen in the Senate. If we deliver on these two pieces of deliver on these two pieces of legislation, I mean, that's about 90% of legislation, I mean, that's about 90% of what needs to be done for crypto to make what needs to be done for crypto to make the US crypto a capital of the world. the US crypto a capital of the world. And, you know, it's it's just And, you know, it's it's just remarkable. I mean, we're we're over the remarkable. I mean, we're we're over the moon. moon. moon. Okay, Saxs, you got these two things Okay, Saxs, you got these two things over the finish line. Congratulations on over the finish line. Congratulations on that. Lots of compromises you had to that. Lots of compromises you had to make. So, I want to get into what were make. So, I want to get into what were the compromises to get this done. the compromises to get this done. Just to clarify one thing when you say Just to clarify one thing when you say finish line. So, like Bo was saying, finish line. So, like Bo was saying, there's two bills. There's the Genius there's two bills. There's the Genius Act, which is the stable coin Act, which is the stable coin legislation, and then there's the legislation, and then there's the Clarity Act, which is market structure. Clarity Act, which is market structure. It's basically all the other tokens It's basically all the other tokens besides stable coins. Where we are is besides stable coins. Where we are is that both passed the House today, but that both passed the House today, but GDS has already passed the Senate, so it GDS has already passed the Senate, so it is going to the president's desk is going to the president's desk tomorrow, and it will become law. We're tomorrow, and it will become law. We're doing a bill signing with the president. doing a bill signing with the president. By the time this pot is released, it By the time this pot is released, it will probably be law. I think we will will probably be law. I think we will have the the signing. have the the signing. Clarity started in the House and so it Clarity started in the House and so it has passed the House and now it's going has passed the House and now it's going to the Senate and they still have to do to the Senate and they still have to do their hearings and markup on it and we their hearings and markup on it and we expect that'll happen over the next expect that'll happen over the next couple of months. In fact, the chairman couple of months. In fact, the chairman of the Senate Bank Committee, Tim Scott, of the Senate Bank Committee, Tim Scott, has said that he wants to finish with has said that he wants to finish with the market structure legislation by the the market structure legislation by the end of September. So, if all goes well, end of September. So, if all goes well, then we could be looking at a second then we could be looking at a second bill signing in say October. And like bill signing in say October. And like Bose said, that would be Bose said, that would be pretty much the crypto industry's pretty much the crypto industry's wish list for having a clear legal wish list for having a clear legal framework in the United States for both framework in the United States for both stable coins and other crypto tokens. stable coins and other crypto tokens. So, it's really pretty amazing. I mean, So, it's really pretty amazing. I mean, when I started this job, I'll just tell when I started this job, I'll just tell you, one of my friends in Silicon Valley you, one of my friends in Silicon Valley said that, said that, said that, you know, you may be able to get some AI you know, you may be able to get some AI things done, but you'll never get things done, but you'll never get anything done on crypto. And and the anything done on crypto. And and the reason is because the entrenched reason is because the entrenched interests are too powerful and they'll interests are too powerful and they'll stop it. The banking lobby will stop it stop it. The banking lobby will stop it or Elizabeth Warren will stop it or just or Elizabeth Warren will stop it or just all the status quo players who could get all the status quo players who could get disrupted by blockchain based technology disrupted by blockchain based technology will somehow find a way to stop it. And will somehow find a way to stop it. And that didn't happen. Like we've actually that didn't happen. Like we've actually now move forward. Genius is about to now move forward. Genius is about to become law. And I think Clarity is become law. And I think Clarity is looking like it's going to have the looking like it's going to have the votes in the Senate as well become law. votes in the Senate as well become law. So, it's really pretty amazing how much So, it's really pretty amazing how much progress we've made in just 6 months. progress we've made in just 6 months. And like both said, this really comes And like both said, this really comes down to President Trump's leadership. He down to President Trump's leadership. He made the promises during the campaign to made the promises during the campaign to prioritize crypto, to make the United prioritize crypto, to make the United States the crypto capital of the planet. States the crypto capital of the planet. And it was his negotiating skills and And it was his negotiating skills and deal making that made this all happen. I deal making that made this all happen. I mean, this past week has been a little mean, this past week has been a little bit of a roller coaster. There were bit of a roller coaster. There were reports over the last couple of days reports over the last couple of days that the whole thing was falling apart. that the whole thing was falling apart. And would it happen? There was a moment. And would it happen? There was a moment. I think this has been publicly reported I think this has been publicly reported but give you some color on it is there but give you some color on it is there were 12 members of the house whose votes were 12 members of the house whose votes were necessary to advance the bill to were necessary to advance the bill to this vote today and at a certain point this vote today and at a certain point President Trump brought him into his President Trump brought him into his office the oval office and worked out office the oval office and worked out all the differences personally and all the differences personally and that's what put this bill over the top. that's what put this bill over the top. If it wasn't for the president's direct If it wasn't for the president's direct involvement and action and understanding involvement and action and understanding of the issues, he listened to all the of the issues, he listened to all the concerns and he paid attention to the concerns and he paid attention to the ones that were real and then rebutted ones that were real and then rebutted the ones that weren't. If it wasn't for the ones that weren't. If it wasn't for his direct involvement, we would not be his direct involvement, we would not be here today. here today. here today. And he understands crypto. He's involved And he understands crypto. He's involved in it. Is uh seems to have an in it. Is uh seems to have an understanding of the value of stable understanding of the value of stable coins for the US dollar. That seems to coins for the US dollar. That seems to be a key motivator for this being be a key motivator for this being bipartisan. you got a twice as many bipartisan. you got a twice as many Democrats as you thought you would get. Democrats as you thought you would get. Is that because people want to make sure Is that because people want to make sure the dollar supremacy gets locked in in the dollar supremacy gets locked in in stable coins as a way to do that? stable coins as a way to do that? Because you can't have a stable coin Because you can't have a stable coin unless it's backed by a dollar. unless it's backed by a dollar. Yeah. I mean, like I've talked about on Yeah. I mean, like I've talked about on this show before, it shouldn't be that this show before, it shouldn't be that hard to sell regulation to Democrats. I hard to sell regulation to Democrats. I mean, what we're doing here is providing mean, what we're doing here is providing a regulatory framework for the industry. a regulatory framework for the industry. They didn't have one before. And that's They didn't have one before. And that's why the number one stable coin player in why the number one stable coin player in the world right now is an offshore the world right now is an offshore entity. They will have to come onshore entity. They will have to come onshore as part of this bill in the next 3 as part of this bill in the next 3 years. So what we're doing here is years. So what we're doing here is creating a regulatory framework. But the creating a regulatory framework. But the reason why it's substantially bipartisan reason why it's substantially bipartisan is because the industry wants this is because the industry wants this regulation because they want the regulation because they want the stability it gives them in terms of stability it gives them in terms of having that legal authorization. having that legal authorization. They want to make sure that if you know They want to make sure that if you know 4 years, 8 years from now, 12 years from 4 years, 8 years from now, 12 years from now, whatever, there's not some new Gary now, whatever, there's not some new Gary Gendler who comes in and turns the whole Gendler who comes in and turns the whole industry upside down because he doesn't industry upside down because he doesn't like some aspect of what they're doing like some aspect of what they're doing and he just starts prosecuting them, and he just starts prosecuting them, which is what the industry experienced which is what the industry experienced over the past four years with Biden's over the past four years with Biden's war on crypto. So, we meaning that the war on crypto. So, we meaning that the Trump administration could fix the the Trump administration could fix the the Gendler issues just with agency Gendler issues just with agency rulemaking, and we're certainly on that rulemaking, and we're certainly on that path to do that. But if you want path to do that. But if you want long-term stability that goes beyond long-term stability that goes beyond just this administration, you have to just this administration, you have to get legislation, you have to canonize it get legislation, you have to canonize it into law. And that's why the industry into law. And that's why the industry was so interested in getting these bills was so interested in getting these bills passed. So I think that's why you're passed. So I think that's why you're seeing some bipartisanship here. Like seeing some bipartisanship here. Like both said, I do think that there's a both said, I do think that there's a substantial number of Democrats who substantial number of Democrats who understand that this technology is the understand that this technology is the future and it's a positive thing for the future and it's a positive thing for the US. What could be bad about allowing US. What could be bad about allowing digital dollars which extends the digital dollars which extends the dollar's dominance online so that it dollar's dominance online so that it basically bolsters the dollar status as basically bolsters the dollar status as the world's reserve currency over time the world's reserve currency over time as we get challengers from bricks for as we get challengers from bricks for example this is going to make the US example this is going to make the US dollar stronger and every time a dollar dollar stronger and every time a dollar token trades somewhere in the world on a token trades somewhere in the world on a crypto wallet there has to be a physical crypto wallet there has to be a physical dollar in a US bank account invested in dollar in a US bank account invested in a US treasury And that creates demand a US treasury And that creates demand for our debt, which is another positive for our debt, which is another positive thing. And there have been studies done thing. And there have been studies done that show that the results of this bill that show that the results of this bill could be trillions of dollars of new could be trillions of dollars of new demand for our debt, which is only a demand for our debt, which is only a positive thing. positive thing. positive thing. And if you don't allow a legal way to do And if you don't allow a legal way to do this and you don't have a proper this and you don't have a proper framework, you have you've been dancing framework, you have you've been dancing around this person who has three years around this person who has three years to get their act together. That's to get their act together. That's Tether. I'll say it. You can type You Tether. I'll say it. You can type You can do a search for Tether controversies can do a search for Tether controversies or uh shenanigans and you'll find plenty or uh shenanigans and you'll find plenty of them. And I don't think it's fair to of them. And I don't think it's fair to say they don't have their act together. say they don't have their act together. I think they have their act together. I think they have their act together. It's just that they did not know how It's just that they did not know how they'd be treated operating onshore in they'd be treated operating onshore in the US under Gary Gendler and the Biden the US under Gary Gendler and the Biden administration. And so they operated administration. And so they operated offshore and and and what was happening offshore and and and what was happening under the last administration is that under the last administration is that the last administration by creating all the last administration by creating all this uncertainty and doubt was driving this uncertainty and doubt was driving all the innovation offshore. all the innovation offshore. Okay, fine. I They have a sorted past. Okay, fine. I They have a sorted past. That's my statement, not yours. But now That's my statement, not yours. But now they have to clean up whatever messy they have to clean up whatever messy stuff they have in their past. That's me stuff they have in their past. That's me saying it, not you. You can have your saying it, not you. You can have your opinion. I'll take mine. But I we're opinion. I'll take mine. But I we're we're in agreement that if you don't we're in agreement that if you don't have a framework, they would be doing have a framework, they would be doing even more things that were maybe off the even more things that were maybe off the reservation of my mind. Gavin, any reservation of my mind. Gavin, any thoughts here on crypto? I'm not sure thoughts here on crypto? I'm not sure you've participated in it particularly you've participated in it particularly because it didn't have a framework. Yes, because it didn't have a framework. Yes, I would just say um one, David, I would just say um one, David, congratulations. Seems like an congratulations. Seems like an incredible achievement. two, I try to incredible achievement. two, I try to invest in areas where I feel like I I at invest in areas where I feel like I I at least believe I have some sort of uh least believe I have some sort of uh competitive advantage and it's not clear competitive advantage and it's not clear to me that I have any sort of to me that I have any sort of competitive advantage in crypto. But competitive advantage in crypto. But three, David, I am curious for the three, David, I am curious for the stable coins. Is it does the Genius Act stable coins. Is it does the Genius Act limit them to dollarbacked stable coins? limit them to dollarbacked stable coins? So, it's not like you can create the So, it's not like you can create the stable coin and then swap in something stable coin and then swap in something other than a dollar. Is that is that other than a dollar. Is that is that true? true? true? Well, I mean, anybody can create a Well, I mean, anybody can create a stable coin that's backed by anything. stable coin that's backed by anything. And in fact, I think there are like euro And in fact, I think there are like euro backed stable coins out there, for backed stable coins out there, for example, but nobody uses them. I think example, but nobody uses them. I think if you look at the stable coin market if you look at the stable coin market share, it's like 98% US dollars, 2% share, it's like 98% US dollars, 2% euros, because there's a flight to euros, because there's a flight to quality. I mean, everyone wants to use quality. I mean, everyone wants to use the best one, right? And this is why the best one, right? And this is why it's in the interest of the United it's in the interest of the United States to basically enable this States to basically enable this technology to continue flourishing is technology to continue flourishing is because as the best fiat currency, we're because as the best fiat currency, we're the one that's going to get used the the one that's going to get used the most. There's no reason to have multiple most. There's no reason to have multiple fiat stable coins. Not really. So that fiat stable coins. Not really. So that this is going to acr to the benefit of this is going to acr to the benefit of the United States. Jake, I'll let me go the United States. Jake, I'll let me go back to something you said. So I don't back to something you said. So I don't necessarily agree with your criticisms necessarily agree with your criticisms of of that particular company, but where of of that particular company, but where I I will agree is that this bill will I I will agree is that this bill will provide additional comfort for consumers provide additional comfort for consumers and additional protection for consumers and additional protection for consumers because now all the stable coin because now all the stable coin companies will have to operate in the companies will have to operate in the United States. They'll be subjected to United States. They'll be subjected to quarterly audits and we will know that quarterly audits and we will know that every stable coin that's been issued is every stable coin that's been issued is fully reserved or backed up by a dollar fully reserved or backed up by a dollar in a US bank account. And so therefore, in a US bank account. And so therefore, when a stable coin holder eventually when a stable coin holder eventually wants to cash out and they go to wants to cash out and they go to basically an off-ramp, basically an off-ramp, the money will actually be there. Now, the money will actually be there. Now, I'm not saying that the money isn't I'm not saying that the money isn't there with any of the current providers. there with any of the current providers. In fact, I think it is. But now In fact, I think it is. But now consumers will have the additional consumers will have the additional protection and confidence to know that protection and confidence to know that all these entities have been audited. all these entities have been audited. They've passed these audits and they're They've passed these audits and they're regulated entities under US law. And regulated entities under US law. And that creates confidence for the market that creates confidence for the market and it's good for everybody and it will and it's good for everybody and it will spread the adoption of this stable coin spread the adoption of this stable coin product. product. product. And if they don't, they can't And if they don't, they can't participate in our market, right? So participate in our market, right? So that's the the good news here is, you that's the the good news here is, you know, if you choose to not go through know, if you choose to not go through those audits and you do a test stations those audits and you do a test stations or other fugazi fugazi stuff offshore, or other fugazi fugazi stuff offshore, you know, not saying anybody's doing you know, not saying anybody's doing that, but people have, you know, then that, but people have, you know, then you just don't get to participate. And you just don't get to participate. And and this is the great thing about having and this is the great thing about having some basic rules of the road. We should some basic rules of the road. We should talk a little bit here about talk a little bit here about infrastructure sacks. You were in infrastructure sacks. You were in Pittsburgh this week. There was some Pittsburgh this week. There was some announcements. This was another announcements. This was another bipartisan win. I think Shapiro was bipartisan win. I think Shapiro was there. a bunch of investment going on there. a bunch of investment going on there. Maybe tell us a little bit about there. Maybe tell us a little bit about the progress made in Pittsburgh with the progress made in Pittsburgh with regards to AI and infrastructure. regards to AI and infrastructure. This was a energy and innovation summit This was a energy and innovation summit that was organized by the Pennsylvania that was organized by the Pennsylvania Senator Dave McCormack and his wife um Senator Dave McCormack and his wife um Dina Pal McCormack and they did an Dina Pal McCormack and they did an amazing job bringing together all of amazing job bringing together all of these different companies and interests these different companies and interests that have a stake in energy in that have a stake in energy in Pennsylvania and and the development of Pennsylvania and and the development of AI. And Pennsylvania is I think it's the AI. And Pennsylvania is I think it's the number two energy producing state in the number two energy producing state in the US. It has tremendous amounts of natural US. It has tremendous amounts of natural gas. They feel like they can expand gas. They feel like they can expand that. I think there's been a lot of that. I think there's been a lot of fracking in the past there for example. fracking in the past there for example. They even have nuclear Westinghouse is They even have nuclear Westinghouse is there and it makes sense to have the there and it makes sense to have the data centers near the power source, data centers near the power source, right? And so we know that these big AI right? And so we know that these big AI data centers are going to be powered by data centers are going to be powered by either natural gas or nuclear. And so either natural gas or nuclear. And so Pennsylvania just makes a lot of sense Pennsylvania just makes a lot of sense as a place to build this AI as a place to build this AI infrastructure. So this was a summit to infrastructure. So this was a summit to announce new investment in Pennsylvania, announce new investment in Pennsylvania, something like $90 billion. President something like $90 billion. President Trump was there to keynote the summit Trump was there to keynote the summit and talk about these investments. It's and talk about these investments. It's his policies towards energy that he his policies towards energy that he started describing long ago. I mean started describing long ago. I mean remember uh he made the campaign promise remember uh he made the campaign promise of drill baby drill. He's been talking of drill baby drill. He's been talking about the need for energy expansion in about the need for energy expansion in America for many years. And I think he America for many years. And I think he was very far-sighted in seeing that was very far-sighted in seeing that energy is the basis for everything. It's energy is the basis for everything. It's the basis for AI. It's the basis for all the basis for AI. It's the basis for all other kinds of growth. So by promoting other kinds of growth. So by promoting energy dominance, we also get AI energy dominance, we also get AI dominance. And we've talked on this show dominance. And we've talked on this show before about how we're going to need before about how we're going to need that energy to power the electricity of that energy to power the electricity of all these new AI data centers. So this all these new AI data centers. So this summit brought together all these summit brought together all these different groups. And the thing I different groups. And the thing I thought was really interesting, the thought was really interesting, the thing I learned from it was just how thing I learned from it was just how diverse the business interests are that diverse the business interests are that are going to participate in this whole are going to participate in this whole AI boom. It wasn't just big tech. Yes, AI boom. It wasn't just big tech. Yes, Ruth Porf from Google was there. It's Ruth Porf from Google was there. It's also small tech. There was hardware also small tech. There was hardware companies. There were robotics companies. There were robotics companies, but there were also these companies, but there were also these energy companies. There was nuclear. energy companies. There was nuclear. There was gas. The trade associations There was gas. The trade associations were there. It's construction. It's were there. It's construction. It's electricians. It's carpenters. And so electricians. It's carpenters. And so there's a huge diverse array of there's a huge diverse array of different parts of the economy that are different parts of the economy that are going to experience growth from this AI going to experience growth from this AI boom that's taking place. It's not just boom that's taking place. It's not just a Silicon Valley thing. So that was what a Silicon Valley thing. So that was what I took away from Pittsburgh and it was a I took away from Pittsburgh and it was a really cool experience being really cool experience being I thought there were two interesting I thought there were two interesting notes as well. Hydro, I saw Google was notes as well. Hydro, I saw Google was investing in hydro and upgrading some investing in hydro and upgrading some dams there. This is I think Gavin one of dams there. This is I think Gavin one of the great upshots of the AI boom is that the great upshots of the AI boom is that the AI companies whether it's Meta or the AI companies whether it's Meta or Google they're so motivated that they'll Google they're so motivated that they'll actually go and upgrade the actually go and upgrade the infrastructure they'll invest in the you infrastructure they'll invest in the you know small modular nuclear reactors that know small modular nuclear reactors that are coming are coming are coming and uh even gas turbines obviously and uh even gas turbines obviously natural gas as a major part of this as natural gas as a major part of this as well and you saw that up close and well and you saw that up close and personal with the buildout of Colossus. personal with the buildout of Colossus. TI gam. TI gam. TI gam. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, electrical Yeah, absolutely. I mean, electrical production is fundamental to AI. If we production is fundamental to AI. If we do not significantly increase kind of do not significantly increase kind of domestic energy production and domestic energy production and electricity generation, electricity generation, electricity generation, you know, we are already at a you know, we are already at a disadvantage to China and I do think we disadvantage to China and I do think we want to close that kind of electrical want to close that kind of electrical generation gap as quickly as we can. generation gap as quickly as we can. You know, and natural gas is great, You know, and natural gas is great, nuclear is great, solar's great, nuclear is great, solar's great, batteries are great. We need it all. batteries are great. We need it all. Yeah. all of it. Yeah. all of it. And Sachs, I saw your favorite governor, And Sachs, I saw your favorite governor, Josh Shapiro, was there and he was being Josh Shapiro, was there and he was being very positive about finding common very positive about finding common ground on energy, economic development, ground on energy, economic development, and uh saying, "Hey, this is like a and uh saying, "Hey, this is like a great example of bipart bipartisan great example of bipart bipartisan efforts to collaborate." So maybe you efforts to collaborate." So maybe you could talk a little bit about that could talk a little bit about that because you had two great moments of because you had two great moments of collaboration between the Trump collaboration between the Trump administration and the Democrats. This administration and the Democrats. This is uh this is good for the American is uh this is good for the American people. Yeah. both on the crypto project people. Yeah. both on the crypto project and on AI in Pennsylvania. and on AI in Pennsylvania. I've never met Shapiro. I did see him I've never met Shapiro. I did see him there at the event, but I didn't see him there at the event, but I didn't see him on the stage. I don't know if he was on the stage. I don't know if he was part of the round table, so I don't know part of the round table, so I don't know exactly what his status was. But exactly what his status was. But what's interesting about Pennsylvania what's interesting about Pennsylvania right now is that it's a state that's right now is that it's a state that's turning red. And so you see that turning red. And so you see that Federman, who's probably the most Federman, who's probably the most right-wing member of the Democrat party right-wing member of the Democrat party in the Senate, and Josh Shapiro in the Senate, and Josh Shapiro obviously is tacking towards the center obviously is tacking towards the center because they see the direction of travel because they see the direction of travel in Pennsylvania. So yeah, I think you've in Pennsylvania. So yeah, I think you've got some centrist Democrats in that got some centrist Democrats in that state. state. state. Yeah, working out pretty well. Yeah, working out pretty well. Josh Shapiro every two days tweets Josh Shapiro every two days tweets something about how he's deregulated something about how he's deregulated something. He's made it easier to do something. He's made it easier to do business. Like he is he's on the business. Like he is he's on the program. seems like a sensible man. program. seems like a sensible man. Yeah, 100%. Yeah, 100%. Yeah, 100%. I'll just give a final shout out to Bo I'll just give a final shout out to Bo here for all the work that he did on here for all the work that he did on Genius. I mean, he's kind of the unsung Genius. I mean, he's kind of the unsung hero. hero. hero. Bo, how are you uh how are you doing all Bo, how are you uh how are you doing all this while finishing up your degree? this while finishing up your degree? When do you when do you graduate from When do you when do you graduate from college? college? college? The kid looks like he's 20 years old. The kid looks like he's 20 years old. How old are you, Bo? How old are you, Bo? I have the baby face. I'm 29, turning 30 I have the baby face. I'm 29, turning 30 next month. next month. next month. Look at you. 29 in the White House Look at you. 29 in the White House leading and working with David Saxs. leading and working with David Saxs. This is a dream come true for you, huh? This is a dream come true for you, huh? It is. I mean, David's been incredible. It is. I mean, David's been incredible. I've learned so much from him. Just the I've learned so much from him. Just the way that he negotiates and the way that way that he negotiates and the way that his his brain works. It's been it's it's his his brain works. It's been it's it's been a blast just to be a part of it. been a blast just to be a part of it. But I have a 10-month-old now, so I But I have a 10-month-old now, so I should have bags under my eyes uh from should have bags under my eyes uh from lack of sleep. But Jason, I'll make one lack of sleep. But Jason, I'll make one more point before I jump off on on the more point before I jump off on on the Tether topic. Like the one thing that I Tether topic. Like the one thing that I think your viewers should know is think your viewers should know is this year they'll be the fourth largest this year they'll be the fourth largest purchaser of US treasuries. And I think purchaser of US treasuries. And I think that's something that, you know, we that's something that, you know, we should really contemplate. You know, I should really contemplate. You know, I agree with David's sentiment on this. agree with David's sentiment on this. I'm excited to see what they do here in I'm excited to see what they do here in the US. I'm glad they're going to be a the US. I'm glad they're going to be a part of our system under the regulatory part of our system under the regulatory regime, but so will everyone else. And I regime, but so will everyone else. And I think that's a great thing for our think that's a great thing for our country. It allows us to have control. country. It allows us to have control. That's great that you guys are backing That's great that you guys are backing them up because they've been banned so them up because they've been banned so many times by other governments. I'm many times by other governments. I'm glad you got their act together. I'm glad you got their act together. I'm going to keep on those going to I'm going to keep on those Tether guys until they get their act Tether guys until they get their act together. So, together. So, together. So, keep qualifying that you speak only for keep qualifying that you speak only for yourself. yourself. yourself. I only speak for myself. I've been I only speak for myself. I've been following that Tether story for a long following that Tether story for a long time and I think it's great. time and I think it's great. I want to make this point. I always know I want to make this point. I always know that our critics have never actually that our critics have never actually watched the pod when they start talking watched the pod when they start talking about the all-in point of view on about the all-in point of view on something, right? as if there's a something, right? as if there's a singular point of view uh from the singular point of view uh from the all-in pod. Like, you know, it's like all-in pod. Like, you know, it's like the all-in pros whoever think something the all-in pros whoever think something when anyone who's watched the show knows when anyone who's watched the show knows that we've been fighting like cats and that we've been fighting like cats and dogs for years dogs for years and there's four distinct points of view and there's four distinct points of view and sometimes we agree, but there's and sometimes we agree, but there's almost always some disagreement. So, almost always some disagreement. So, we we've disagreed about this issue. We we we've disagreed about this issue. We also uh Trump and I, as you know, are also uh Trump and I, as you know, are relentless supporters of Ukraine. We relentless supporters of Ukraine. We believe we should be giving them weapons believe we should be giving them weapons and support. And David, you happen to and support. And David, you happen to disagree with me and our president on disagree with me and our president on that. You've had a different position that. You've had a different position historically. historically. historically. So, here we are. So, here we are. I'm going to stay in my lane on that I'm going to stay in my lane on that one. one. one. David, can we talk about the H20s or David, can we talk about the H20s or would you rather not? cuz I feel like would you rather not? cuz I feel like you have been like so dead right about you have been like so dead right about this this this and I am you know I it seems like the and I am you know I it seems like the export um they're going to get the export um they're going to get the licenses and that is 100% the right licenses and that is 100% the right decision for America and I do give you decision for America and I do give you credit for championing that. I'm happy credit for championing that. I'm happy to talk about why I think it's great, to talk about why I think it's great, but we're just, you know, but we're just, you know, can you frame it for a second for the can you frame it for a second for the audience, Gavin, what we're talking audience, Gavin, what we're talking about here, Nvidia obviously was banned about here, Nvidia obviously was banned from selling their latest and greatest from selling their latest and greatest to China and even the last generation, to China and even the last generation, the H20s, the H20s, the H20s, and obviously that creates u an opening and obviously that creates u an opening for Huawei and and other players to for Huawei and and other players to create competitor products as opposed to create competitor products as opposed to using the standards built here in using the standards built here in America. Yeah. America. Yeah. America. Yeah. Well, I think I mean I think you said it Well, I think I mean I think you said it well, but first of all, it's not the well, but first of all, it's not the latest and greatest. latest and greatest. is not the latest and greatest. We're is not the latest and greatest. We're not gonna not gonna not gonna I don't think we're going to let the I don't think we're going to let the latest latest latest It's not even the last gen. It's a It's not even the last gen. It's a deprecated version of the last deprecated version of the last generation, generation, generation, right? right? right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, remnants. So, remnants. So, remnants. It's a less powerful version of the It's a less powerful version of the Hopper chip and now they're on to Hopper chip and now they're on to Blackwell. So, it's Anyway, Gavin can Blackwell. So, it's Anyway, Gavin can explain. Yeah, it is. It's many many explain. Yeah, it is. It's many many years behind. But while it's many years years behind. But while it's many years behind the kind of state-of-the-art here behind the kind of state-of-the-art here in America, it is I think kind of in America, it is I think kind of devilishly clever because let's call it devilishly clever because let's call it two years ahead of kind of the chips two years ahead of kind of the chips from Huawei. And so it kind of gives from Huawei. And so it kind of gives America an advantage while preventing America an advantage while preventing China from developing kind of a domestic China from developing kind of a domestic and biddy alternative. And the real and biddy alternative. And the real threat is cuz China they do have more threat is cuz China they do have more electricity. They can do things that we electricity. They can do things that we cannot do here in America. You know, the cannot do here in America. You know, the Blackwell racks are exquisitly designed Blackwell racks are exquisitly designed to be as power efficient as possible. If to be as power efficient as possible. If you don't care about power, you can make you don't care about power, you can make very different kind of design decisions. very different kind of design decisions. Huawei has something called the Cloud Huawei has something called the Cloud Matrix 384, which uses fiber optics Matrix 384, which uses fiber optics instead of copper to link the chips instead of copper to link the chips together. And while it's not nearly as together. And while it's not nearly as power efficient as the Blackwell and power efficient as the Blackwell and VL72, VL72, VL72, they have all the power they need. And they have all the power they need. And so I think it's very it's it's it's a so I think it's very it's it's it's a smart decision for America to sell this smart decision for America to sell this chip that gives America an advantage in chip that gives America an advantage in AI and keeps China from developing kind AI and keeps China from developing kind of their own domestic alternatives which of their own domestic alternatives which could eventually kind of challenge, you could eventually kind of challenge, you know, Nvidia, AMD, you know, other kind know, Nvidia, AMD, you know, other kind of American AI accelerator champions of American AI accelerator champions globally. globally. globally. We don't want that h that to happen. So We don't want that h that to happen. So I thought it was a mistake when they I thought it was a mistake when they banned the chips and I'm really happy banned the chips and I'm really happy and thinks it's really good for America and thinks it's really good for America if that is being reversed and kudos to if that is being reversed and kudos to you. David you. David you. David G, you said it so well. I don't think I G, you said it so well. I don't think I have anything to add. have anything to add. Can I just say one thing on crypto? You Can I just say one thing on crypto? You guys can put it in or not, but it I guys can put it in or not, but it I thought it was interesting. David, I was thought it was interesting. David, I was always worried about stable coins as a always worried about stable coins as a risk to the dollar, but I think you make risk to the dollar, but I think you make a very good point that when you are the a very good point that when you are the dominant currency, they entrench the dominant currency, they entrench the dominance. And I just had not thought of dominance. And I just had not thought of them that way. them that way. Well, I think what's going to happen Well, I think what's going to happen with these dollar-based stable coins is with these dollar-based stable coins is they'll start being used all over the they'll start being used all over the world. Let's say that you're in a world. Let's say that you're in a country, maybe it's a developing world country, maybe it's a developing world country where the fiat currency is not country where the fiat currency is not trusted trusted trusted and now all of a sudden you can transact and now all of a sudden you can transact in dollars using a wallet on a phone, in dollars using a wallet on a phone, you know, and the merchant also has a you know, and the merchant also has a wallet on a phone and now you can just wallet on a phone and now you can just transact in dollars. you could see a transact in dollars. you could see a large portion of these economies large portion of these economies dollarizing from the bottom up because dollarizing from the bottom up because again once you have your choice of fiat again once you have your choice of fiat currencies through stablecoin why currencies through stablecoin why wouldn't you just use the best one wouldn't you just use the best one and that that's what I think is really and that that's what I think is really interesting so I do think it extends the interesting so I do think it extends the the dollar's dominance internationally the dollar's dominance internationally into the online into the online realm yeah and previously people were realm yeah and previously people were basing their stable coins on a basket of basing their stable coins on a basket of assets some treasuries some real estate assets some treasuries some real estate investments because they were seeking investments because they were seeking yield Gavin So they would buy real yield Gavin So they would buy real estate or you know short-term long-term estate or you know short-term long-term treasuries. They might put equities into treasuries. They might put equities into it. They might keep some cash and none it. They might keep some cash and none of that was known. And so that's where of that was known. And so that's where this big fear came. Hey, these things this big fear came. Hey, these things are getting pretty big. There's are getting pretty big. There's obviously a demand to use this concept obviously a demand to use this concept of a stable coin. But what if there's a of a stable coin. But what if there's a run on the stable coins? And that was run on the stable coins? And that was always the big fear with various players always the big fear with various players was what if everybody wants to withdraw was what if everybody wants to withdraw their stable coins? Are there enough their stable coins? Are there enough dollars or liquid assets in there? And dollars or liquid assets in there? And that's where I think certain players that's where I think certain players have maybe, you know, moved the asset have maybe, you know, moved the asset allocation and in order to be in the US allocation and in order to be in the US market, Tether's going to have to be market, Tether's going to have to be 100% in treasuries, right? They're not 100% in treasuries, right? They're not going to be allowed to be, say, in real going to be allowed to be, say, in real estate. There was a, you know, concept estate. There was a, you know, concept that maybe they were buying Chinese that maybe they were buying Chinese paper for real estate back in the day paper for real estate back in the day and people were concerned about that. and people were concerned about that. So, this cleans all that up and they So, this cleans all that up and they have an easy path, but you can't make have an easy path, but you can't make interest on it. That's actually a very interest on it. That's actually a very interesting portion of this. So that interesting portion of this. So that will have to come at a later time so the will have to come at a later time so the banks don't lose anything here. Right. banks don't lose anything here. Right. Well, just just clarify one point on Well, just just clarify one point on that. One of the concessions that was that. One of the concessions that was made to community banks is not to have made to community banks is not to have an interest feature because the an interest feature because the community banks were worried that this community banks were worried that this new stable coin industry would put them new stable coin industry would put them out of business. I think that that fear out of business. I think that that fear was wildly overblown on their part. I was wildly overblown on their part. I don't think that's what's going to don't think that's what's going to happen remotely, but when you have a new happen remotely, but when you have a new technology like this and a very technology like this and a very established industry, you can see why established industry, you can see why maybe they'd be afraid. But the bill maybe they'd be afraid. But the bill allows for all sorts of marketing, allows for all sorts of marketing, promotions, rebates, that kind of stuff. promotions, rebates, that kind of stuff. So maybe it's not called interest, but So maybe it's not called interest, but it there there are mechanisms to create, it there there are mechanisms to create, let's say, rewards for stable coin let's say, rewards for stable coin holders. So it's not as like black and holders. So it's not as like black and white as just, oh, there's like nothing white as just, oh, there's like nothing a stable coin issuer can do to attract a stable coin issuer can do to attract or incentivize or reward one of their or incentivize or reward one of their holders. It is a dimension they could holders. It is a dimension they could compete on. So maybe if I were to buy compete on. So maybe if I were to buy $10,000 worth of a stable coin, I could $10,000 worth of a stable coin, I could get mileage like points or maybe a get mileage like points or maybe a loadin gift card or loadin gift card or maybe I don't know. Yeah, we have to maybe I don't know. Yeah, we have to interpret the language, but interpret the language, but the mechanism is there. the mechanism is there. Okay. Well, there you have it, folks. Okay. Well, there you have it, folks. All right. Reporting from our capital, All right. Reporting from our capital, David Saxs or Zar of AI and David Saxs or Zar of AI and cryptocurrency. I'll see you next cryptocurrency. I'll see you next Wednesday in DC for a very important Wednesday in DC for a very important summit. summit. summit. All right, besties. I'm here at the All right, besties. I'm here at the White House with Senator Bill Hagerty White House with Senator Bill Hagerty from Tennessee, the principal author of from Tennessee, the principal author of the Genius Act. He, I would say, along the Genius Act. He, I would say, along with the leadership of President Trump with the leadership of President Trump are the reason why this bill happened. are the reason why this bill happened. And we have stablecoin legislation just And we have stablecoin legislation just signed into law by President Trump. signed into law by President Trump. Bill, you did a phenomenal job. I got to Bill, you did a phenomenal job. I got to observe this whole process and you observe this whole process and you really played the critical role. You really played the critical role. You were a very skillful legislator crafting were a very skillful legislator crafting delicate compromises. You were kind of delicate compromises. You were kind of the glue that held the whole thing the glue that held the whole thing together. Congratulations on getting together. Congratulations on getting this done. Is this your first bill that this done. Is this your first bill that you've gotten done as a senator? It you've gotten done as a senator? It it is. Um I I've served in the Senate it is. Um I I've served in the Senate for over four years, but we were in the for over four years, but we were in the minority for the past four years. So, minority for the past four years. So, this is the first opportunity since the this is the first opportunity since the Senate uh was taken by the Republicans Senate uh was taken by the Republicans to actually drive legislation through. to actually drive legislation through. And the fact that we had the House of And the fact that we had the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the Representatives, the Senate, and the White House made this possible. It was White House made this possible. It was just a threshold concern. We worked so just a threshold concern. We worked so hard, as you know, to retake the Senate hard, as you know, to retake the Senate in 2024, to retake the White House in in 2024, to retake the White House in 2024, and hold on to the House of 2024, and hold on to the House of Representatives. It worked. And that's Representatives. It worked. And that's the only thing that's enabled us to the only thing that's enabled us to deliver this type of meaningful deliver this type of meaningful legislation. And I say this too, it's legislation. And I say this too, it's been a great team that has done this. I been a great team that has done this. I may be the author of the legislation, may be the author of the legislation, but the leadership that you've brought but the leadership that you've brought to bear from the White House coming in to bear from the White House coming in and, you know, donating your time from and, you know, donating your time from the private sector, working as a the private sector, working as a volunteer here, but making certain that volunteer here, but making certain that the leadership and the vision is present the leadership and the vision is present here in the executive branch. You've here in the executive branch. You've been absolutely great. And that vision, been absolutely great. And that vision, I think, has carried forward into the I think, has carried forward into the Senate, the House. More and more people Senate, the House. More and more people are understanding this and catching on. are understanding this and catching on. And I think what we've done today is And I think what we've done today is launch the catalyst for what's going to launch the catalyst for what's going to make America the crypto capital of the make America the crypto capital of the world. world. world. Yeah, it's been it's been really amazing Yeah, it's been it's been really amazing and interesting for me to watch this and interesting for me to watch this whole process. They say that you whole process. They say that you shouldn't watch legislation or sausages shouldn't watch legislation or sausages being made. But, you know, earlier in being made. But, you know, earlier in the week, the media was reporting that the week, the media was reporting that this bill was dead because there were a this bill was dead because there were a dozen hold outs and President Trump made dozen hold outs and President Trump made calls late into the night. He gathered calls late into the night. He gathered people into the Oval Office. He people into the Oval Office. He cajolled. He twisted arms and uh and he cajolled. He twisted arms and uh and he also persuaded and he he got us over the also persuaded and he he got us over the finish line. It was pretty incredible. finish line. It was pretty incredible. Well, I think the founding fathers made Well, I think the founding fathers made it actually quite difficult to legislate it actually quite difficult to legislate for a reason. But it is difficult. It's for a reason. But it is difficult. It's taken months upon months to get to this taken months upon months to get to this point and the legislation the the the point and the legislation the the the Genius Act has been killed a couple of Genius Act has been killed a couple of times in the media. Uh Elizabeth Warren times in the media. Uh Elizabeth Warren declared victory uh early on that she declared victory uh early on that she killed the bill. That didn't happen. She killed the bill. That didn't happen. She didn't have the juice to do it. But didn't have the juice to do it. But there have been many many there have been many many that's a big deal because until now the that's a big deal because until now the crypto community has been living under crypto community has been living under Elizabeth Warren's reign of terror. I Elizabeth Warren's reign of terror. I mean she basically was calling the shots mean she basically was calling the shots during the Biden administration on during the Biden administration on crypto and I was there when the Genius crypto and I was there when the Genius Act passed the Senate. I was up in the Act passed the Senate. I was up in the bleachers or whatever bleachers or whatever and she was not happy. I mean you there and she was not happy. I mean you there were photos of her and she she she did were photos of her and she she she did not like losing. not like losing. There's there's a fundamental reason for There's there's a fundamental reason for this David because Elizabeth Warren and this David because Elizabeth Warren and her crowd want to see a central bank her crowd want to see a central bank digital currency. What they want is digital currency. What they want is control of our transactions. They want control of our transactions. They want the ability, they're the ones that the ability, they're the ones that wanted to go to a $600 threshold for wanted to go to a $600 threshold for your Vinmo transactions, reporting your Vinmo transactions, reporting everything. They want the ability to do everything. They want the ability to do choke point 3.0, choke point 3.0, right? right? right? And if you think about it, they had And if you think about it, they had visibility in our transactions, the visibility in our transactions, the ability to centralize and control them. ability to centralize and control them. They could control our lives. That may They could control our lives. That may be okay for the Chinese Communist Party, be okay for the Chinese Communist Party, but that's not going to work here in but that's not going to work here in America. And this legislation put the America. And this legislation put the final nail in the coffin to that. final nail in the coffin to that. It's really amazing that you got it It's really amazing that you got it through. And to get this passed, the through. And to get this passed, the Senate, you had to have 60 votes, right? Senate, you had to have 60 votes, right? Because reconciliation, you only need 50 Because reconciliation, you only need 50 plus one. But for a regular order, I plus one. But for a regular order, I guess to get past the potential for a guess to get past the potential for a filibuster, you need 60. filibuster, you need 60. That's exactly right. That's exact. That's exactly right. That's exact. So, what demands did that put on you in So, what demands did that put on you in terms of getting Democrat votes? Because terms of getting Democrat votes? Because the Republicans have what, 53? the Republicans have what, 53? Yes. Yes. Yes. So, we didn't have all the Republicans. So, we didn't have all the Republicans. We lost Republicans. But, but what We lost Republicans. But, but what enabled me to get the other nine enabled me to get the other nine Democrats to come on board was really an Democrats to come on board was really an education process because at its core, education process because at its core, this shouldn't be a partisan issue. This this shouldn't be a partisan issue. This is about taking America's payment system is about taking America's payment system into the 21st century. This is about into the 21st century. This is about making our nation more competitive. This making our nation more competitive. This is about great, you know, expanding is about great, you know, expanding demand for the US Treasury securities demand for the US Treasury securities that we issue. This is about the that we issue. This is about the dominance of the US dollar. It's hard dominance of the US dollar. It's hard not to like it. But I I think there's a not to like it. But I I think there's a partisan bent here in Washington that's partisan bent here in Washington that's so strong that their objective is just so strong that their objective is just to keep Republicans or Donald Trump or to keep Republicans or Donald Trump or David Sachs from from getting a win David Sachs from from getting a win here. And and through education and here. And and through education and through listening, and frankly, I don't through listening, and frankly, I don't think it's my legislative skills. I think it's my legislative skills. I think it's the business skills that I think it's the business skills that I brought to the legislative branch. Uh I brought to the legislative branch. Uh I think it's through the business skills think it's through the business skills and the ability to negotiate that we've and the ability to negotiate that we've actually gotten to this point today. actually gotten to this point today. And so tell us about that. So before And so tell us about that. So before this, you were a businessman, then you this, you were a businessman, then you became ambassador of Japan. became ambassador of Japan. You met President Trump. You told him You met President Trump. You told him you wanted to run for center of town. He you wanted to run for center of town. He told the story up at the in his speech. told the story up at the in his speech. He said that uh you had learned Japanese He said that uh you had learned Japanese in like 6 months as in like 6 months as ambassador of Japan. It ambassador of Japan. It it was a little longer than that. it was a little longer than that. Okay. There's a there's a piece of the Okay. There's a there's a piece of the story missing because I I started my story missing because I I started my career at a place called the Boston career at a place called the Boston Consulting Group and they sent me to Consulting Group and they sent me to Tokyo for three years back in the late Tokyo for three years back in the late 80s early 90s. That's when I learned the 80s early 90s. That's when I learned the language. Um and to go back as US language. Um and to go back as US ambassador to Japan under President ambassador to Japan under President Trump in 2017, the honor of a lifetime. Trump in 2017, the honor of a lifetime. I can tell you representing the greatest I can tell you representing the greatest nation in the world, any place in the nation in the world, any place in the world is an honor. But particularly in a world is an honor. But particularly in a region like that that has so much region like that that has so much strategic uh you know so many strategic strategic uh you know so many strategic initiatives that are underway right now. initiatives that are underway right now. You think about this, Japan has more US You think about this, Japan has more US military station there than any place military station there than any place else in the world. Japan is one of the else in the world. Japan is one of the toughest environments in the world. If toughest environments in the world. If you think about the neighborhood that you think about the neighborhood that they're in, North Korea, Russia, China, they're in, North Korea, Russia, China, right at your doorstep. Uh the time that right at your doorstep. Uh the time that I spent in as ambassador really helped I spent in as ambassador really helped me dig in deeply in terms of the me dig in deeply in terms of the national security issues that our nation national security issues that our nation confronts and those that our allies confronts and those that our allies confront. At the same time, we did two confront. At the same time, we did two trade deals with Japan. Nobody thought trade deals with Japan. Nobody thought it could be done. Uh, and we were able it could be done. Uh, and we were able to navigate that, uh, with Jameson Greer to navigate that, uh, with Jameson Greer working right beside Bob Lighheiser. Um, working right beside Bob Lighheiser. Um, I loved working with those guys and we I loved working with those guys and we got two great trade deals done. Jameson got two great trade deals done. Jameson is back now as the US trade is back now as the US trade representative and I'm very optimistic representative and I'm very optimistic that we're going to see more trade that we're going to see more trade flourish. President Trump knows how to flourish. President Trump knows how to do this. I've been with him in the trade do this. I've been with him in the trade negotiations. He knows exactly how to negotiations. He knows exactly how to navigate this and I'm looking forward to navigate this and I'm looking forward to great results from our trade great results from our trade negotiations as well. negotiations as well. Excellent. And so, we're only 6 months Excellent. And so, we're only 6 months into this administration. It feels like into this administration. It feels like so much has happened, so much has been so much has happened, so much has been done. I mean, we just had the one big done. I mean, we just had the one big beautiful bill. Now we have this beautiful bill. Now we have this legislation. What's next in in your legislation. What's next in in your view? What do you think is is going to view? What do you think is is going to happen next? happen next? happen next? What what's happening right now in the What what's happening right now in the United States Senate? We just put United States Senate? We just put through a recisions package for a little through a recisions package for a little bit over $9 billion. That's a that's a bit over $9 billion. That's a that's a small amount. It's a large amount of small amount. It's a large amount of money, of course, but it's a small money, of course, but it's a small amount relative to the entire budget. amount relative to the entire budget. And the Democrats have had uh they And the Democrats have had uh they they've just uh gone apoplelectic over they've just uh gone apoplelectic over this. Any any effort to cut back on this. Any any effort to cut back on spending somehow they've got to be spending somehow they've got to be against that. They're only for spending against that. They're only for spending and we're trying to bring physical and we're trying to bring physical sanity back to America. So the focus is sanity back to America. So the focus is going to be to continue to find going to be to continue to find opportunities to basically legislate opportunities to basically legislate what has been found at Doge. The other what has been found at Doge. The other activities well beyond Doge. Every activities well beyond Doge. Every department head, every agency is looking department head, every agency is looking for ways to streamline regulations and for ways to streamline regulations and to cut cost and to operate more to cut cost and to operate more efficiently. And I've got to believe efficiently. And I've got to believe there are tremendous opportunities there there are tremendous opportunities there and many billions more dollars that'll and many billions more dollars that'll come out of the budget as a result. But come out of the budget as a result. But we we've gone into a fairly partisan we we've gone into a fairly partisan mode right now. And I think it's going mode right now. And I think it's going to be tough for the next little while. to be tough for the next little while. While we're in this sort of partisan uh While we're in this sort of partisan uh gap, I think what we should be doing is gap, I think what we should be doing is focusing on market structure for digital focusing on market structure for digital assets and and we're working on that. I assets and and we're working on that. I just talked to some of my colleagues in just talked to some of my colleagues in the House today about how we're going to the House today about how we're going to marshall that forward. I'm going to look marshall that forward. I'm going to look forward to your leadership there as well forward to your leadership there as well and many people in the industry. But and many people in the industry. But just so everyone knows what that is. So just so everyone knows what that is. So market structure is the legal framework. market structure is the legal framework. It's the rules for all the crypto tokens It's the rules for all the crypto tokens that are not stable coins. So the Genius that are not stable coins. So the Genius Act just passed that gave the legal Act just passed that gave the legal framework for stable coins. Now we got framework for stable coins. Now we got market structure for all the other market structure for all the other tokens tokens tokens and it deals with questions like what's and it deals with questions like what's a crypto security, what's a currency, a crypto security, what's a currency, what's a commodity, who regulates those what's a commodity, who regulates those things. Just providing clarity. things. Just providing clarity. That's the name of the bill. That's the name of the bill. So that market participants know what So that market participants know what the rules are because the last four the rules are because the last four years under Gender, they're basically years under Gender, they're basically prosecuted prosecuted prosecuted without knowing, you know, how to how to without knowing, you know, how to how to uh abide. uh abide. uh abide. Yeah. They called it regulation by Yeah. They called it regulation by enforcement. You don't know what the enforcement. You don't know what the rules are, but they just launched an rules are, but they just launched an enforcement proceeding against you. I enforcement proceeding against you. I mean, President Trump was funny today mean, President Trump was funny today because he looked at the audience. He because he looked at the audience. He said, "I guess half of you were being said, "I guess half of you were being prosecuted here about a year ago by the prosecuted here about a year ago by the previous administration. Things are previous administration. Things are going to change." going to change." He was uh he was on fire today. I mean, He was uh he was on fire today. I mean, people should go back and watch. I mean, people should go back and watch. I mean, he he spoke um off the cuff basically he he spoke um off the cuff basically like he normally does for 20 minutes and like he normally does for 20 minutes and was very funny. But part the reason why was very funny. But part the reason why he said that is when we did the crypto he said that is when we did the crypto summit at the White House back in March summit at the White House back in March the uh you know the Wlvoss brothers uh the uh you know the Wlvoss brothers uh Tyler and Cameron were there and they Tyler and Cameron were there and they told the story about how a year before told the story about how a year before they thought it would be more likely they thought it would be more likely that they'd be at in the big house in that they'd be at in the big house in the White House that that it was like the White House that that it was like the fact that they were at the White the fact that they were at the White House was House was House was in the big house in the big house because that's the way it was looking. I because that's the way it was looking. I mean they were dealing with so much mean they were dealing with so much unfair lawfare but any event we've we unfair lawfare but any event we've we moved past that. So, thank you for your moved past that. So, thank you for your leadership on this. And by the way, on leadership on this. And by the way, on the recisions, I know that this is the the recisions, I know that this is the one issue that I think all of the hosts, one issue that I think all of the hosts, the four hosts of the all-in pod all the four hosts of the all-in pod all agree on is that agree on is that deficit spending is out of control. deficit spending is out of control. Anything we can do to try and rein it in Anything we can do to try and rein it in and have more fiscal sanity is and have more fiscal sanity is appreciated. Even Calcanis can uh can appreciated. Even Calcanis can uh can agree with that one. He's sort of like agree with that one. He's sort of like the the token uh lib on the podcast. the the token uh lib on the podcast. I'm telling we're going to continue to I'm telling we're going to continue to work along those lanes that the the big work along those lanes that the the big beautiful bill is doing. It's oriented beautiful bill is doing. It's oriented toward growth stimulation, right? toward growth stimulation, right? Everything that that we can do to Everything that that we can do to stimulate more capital investment in the stimulate more capital investment in the United States is embodied in that in the United States is embodied in that in the tax law as part of that bill. So with tax law as part of that bill. So with the growth coming out of the big the growth coming out of the big beautiful bill and if we continue to go beautiful bill and if we continue to go through the cuts with recisions, I'm through the cuts with recisions, I'm very optimistic that we're going to get very optimistic that we're going to get back on the right path. That's the back on the right path. That's the objective. That's the goal. Meanwhile, objective. That's the goal. Meanwhile, uh taking us into the 21st century with uh taking us into the 21st century with our payments uh with digital assets, our payments uh with digital assets, we're going to continue to work along we're going to continue to work along those lanes as well. And I appreciate those lanes as well. And I appreciate your leadership in that regard. your leadership in that regard. Well, and we appreciate you. I think the Well, and we appreciate you. I think the state of Tennessee, where, by the way, I state of Tennessee, where, by the way, I grew up, I grew up in Memphis, uh, is grew up, I grew up in Memphis, uh, is very lucky to have you as their senator. very lucky to have you as their senator. Uh, the Republican party is really lucky Uh, the Republican party is really lucky to have you. The Senate is very lucky to to have you. The Senate is very lucky to have you, to have someone with your have you, to have someone with your business background, to have your skills business background, to have your skills who has now gotten through this first who has now gotten through this first piece of legislation through, again, piece of legislation through, again, this wasn't a budget bill. It took 60 this wasn't a budget bill. It took 60 votes in the Senate. I mean, when's the votes in the Senate. I mean, when's the last time that even happened? I mean, last time that even happened? I mean, it's been years. Uh, it's been years. Uh, I heard the Senate Bank Committee I I heard the Senate Bank Committee I mean, I heard they hadn't passed a bill mean, I heard they hadn't passed a bill in like 10 years, basically, because it in like 10 years, basically, because it takes 60. It's been over 10 years to get takes 60. It's been over 10 years to get out of the Senate Banking, but one of my out of the Senate Banking, but one of my friends wrote me yesterday and he said, friends wrote me yesterday and he said, "I I didn't think you could get the Ten "I I didn't think you could get the Ten Commandments passed out of the United Commandments passed out of the United States Senate." So, congratulations. And States Senate." So, congratulations. And I I I don't want to take the the credit I I I don't want to take the the credit for it because it's been a wonderful for it because it's been a wonderful team. As I said, your leadership in the team. As I said, your leadership in the White House and the executive branch, White House and the executive branch, our friends in the House of our friends in the House of Representatives, my great staff led by Representatives, my great staff led by Luke Pettit done just a terrific job. Luke Pettit done just a terrific job. Luke Pettit was amazing. We worked Luke Pettit was amazing. We worked closely with him. Um Bo, yeah, who's the closely with him. Um Bo, yeah, who's the director of the crypto council who was director of the crypto council who was on the show earlier today. on the show earlier today. Tyler was wonderful at Treasure. Tyler was wonderful at Treasure. Yep. Tyler Williams at at Treasury, who Yep. Tyler Williams at at Treasury, who was Secretary Besson's um staff person. was Secretary Besson's um staff person. The staff never get the credit they The staff never get the credit they deserve for all the work they do, right? deserve for all the work they do, right? But but Tyler, Luke, and um and Bo were But but Tyler, Luke, and um and Bo were amazing through this process. amazing through this process. And and in the Senate, too, we we've had And and in the Senate, too, we we've had great leadership. Our chairman for the great leadership. Our chairman for the Senate Banking Committee is Tim Scott. Senate Banking Committee is Tim Scott. He's been a true proponent of this. He's been a true proponent of this. Cynthia Lumis is is very focused on on Cynthia Lumis is is very focused on on on digital assets, was very supportive on digital assets, was very supportive of me as she chairs the digital asset of me as she chairs the digital asset subcommittee of our banking committee. subcommittee of our banking committee. So, we've had great support in the So, we've had great support in the Senate and I think it's going to Senate and I think it's going to continue to grow both sides of the continue to grow both sides of the aisle. aisle. aisle. Uh, Cynthia Lumis, she's been great. Uh, Cynthia Lumis, she's been great. I've met with her many times. Tim I've met with her many times. Tim Scott's been great. Um, I understand Scott's been great. Um, I understand that Kristen Gillibrand, the Democrat that Kristen Gillibrand, the Democrat from New York, great to work with. from New York, great to work with. She brought in a lot of Democrat votes. She brought in a lot of Democrat votes. I think you got 18. You know, I think you got 18. You know, the great thing about Kristen, too, is the great thing about Kristen, too, is she was a Wall Street lawyer at Davis she was a Wall Street lawyer at Davis Pulk. She understands the the markets Pulk. She understands the the markets and to have her level of technical and to have her level of technical expertise was a huge asset and she was expertise was a huge asset and she was able to to really convey to the Democrat able to to really convey to the Democrat side uh that we were here trying to get side uh that we were here trying to get the right thing done for the country. the right thing done for the country. This was not a partisan effort. This was This was not a partisan effort. This was something that really is aimed at growth something that really is aimed at growth uh leadership, technology leadership and uh leadership, technology leadership and frankly dollar dominance that we all frankly dollar dominance that we all should be for. should be for. Amazing. And so I think it's really Amazing. And so I think it's really amazing that we got this done. When you amazing that we got this done. When you compare this to where we were a year compare this to where we were a year ago, I mean it was non-stop. uh I guess ago, I mean it was non-stop. uh I guess regulation by enforcement is basically regulation by enforcement is basically regulation through prosecution lawfare regulation through prosecution lawfare and the crypto community was being and the crypto community was being driven offshore there there wouldn't driven offshore there there wouldn't have been a crypto community in the have been a crypto community in the United States and then President Trump United States and then President Trump won the election and now thanks to the won the election and now thanks to the efforts of Bill and and others it's law efforts of Bill and and others it's law the the Genius Act is now law we have a the the Genius Act is now law we have a legal framework for stable coins and legal framework for stable coins and market structure is next the Clarity market structure is next the Clarity bill is next we're going to try and do bill is next we're going to try and do that by October so it's really amazing that by October so it's really amazing that this is a you know I thought that that this is a you know I thought that working for President Trump would be a working for President Trump would be a once in a lifetime opportunity because once in a lifetime opportunity because he's a president who really wants to get he's a president who really wants to get things done and that's what's happening. things done and that's what's happening. It's really been amazing. It's really been amazing. So, thank you, Bill, for being here. So, thank you, Bill, for being here. Great. Appreciate it. Great. Appreciate it. We'll let your winners ride. We'll let your winners ride. Rainman David and it said, and it said, "We open sourced it to the fans and "We open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it." Love they've just gone crazy with it." Love you. Besties are gone. Besties are gone. That is my dog taking notice your That is my dog taking notice your driveways. Oh man, my appetiter will be up. Oh man, my appetiter will be up. We should all just get a room and just We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all have one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that we just need to release tension that we just need to release somehow. Your feet. Your feet. Your feet. We need to get mer. We need to get mer. I'm going all in.