================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: aY2ROQhWbl0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aY2ROQhWbl0
TITLE: The 25 Best Movies of the Century: No. 16 - ‘Oppenheimer’ | The Big Picture
CHANNEL: Ringer Movies
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-04
DURATION: 44m 22s
VIEWS: 24,974
LIKES: 506
COMMENTS: 364
TAGS: Movies, Film, Cinema, The Ringer, Ringer, Rewatchables, The Rewatchables, Big Pic, Big Picture, Bill Simmons

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sean and Amanda return to continue their yearlong project of listing the 25 best movies of the 21st century so far. Today, they discuss Christoper Nolan’s ‘Oppenheimer’, starring Cillian Murphy, one of the most iconic biopics of all time. They talk about their contentious decision to choose this film as the official Nolan selection for the list, wonder whether this will end up as the culmination of his career, and hypothesize what the film’s legacy will ultimately be.

Hosts: Sean Fennessey and Amanda Dobbins
Producer: Jack Sanders

THIS EPISODE IS SPONSORED BY THE STARBUCKS COFFEE COMPANY. ORDER NOW | STARBUCKS.COM/MENU

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RINGER CHANNELS
The Ringer-Verse YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@ringerverse
The Bill Simmons YouTube channel: youtube.com/billsimmons

CONNECT
Shop: https://theringer.com/shop
Website: http://theringer.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ringer
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ringer
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ringer

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 16,821

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
This episode of The Big Picture is This episode of The Big Picture is presented by Starbucks. The unofficial presented by Starbucks. The unofficial drink of summer is here and it's just as drink of summer is here and it's just as good as I remembered. Starbucks summer good as I remembered. Starbucks summer berry refresher is everything you'd want berry refresher is everything you'd want from a summer beverage. A blend of berry from a summer beverage. A blend of berry notes shaken with ice and poured over a notes shaken with ice and poured over a layer of new raspberry flavored pearls. layer of new raspberry flavored pearls. And personally, my favorite refresher is And personally, my favorite refresher is the summer berry lemonade. It just the summer berry lemonade. It just tastes like summer in a cup and adds a tastes like summer in a cup and adds a whole other level of fresh flavors. We whole other level of fresh flavors. We are on the brink of a major heat wave are on the brink of a major heat wave here in Los Angeles and nothing would be here in Los Angeles and nothing would be more refreshing than a Starbucks summer more refreshing than a Starbucks summer berry lemonade refresher. Available for berry lemonade refresher. Available for a limited time only. Your summer berry a limited time only. Your summer berry refresher is ready at Starbucks. I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobins. I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobins. And this is 25 for 25, a big picture And this is 25 for 25, a big picture special conversation show about special conversation show about Oppenheimer. And now I am become death, Oppenheimer. And now I am become death, destroyer of worlds. Okay, Amanda. Mhm. destroyer of worlds. Okay, Amanda. Mhm. Here we are. Oppenheimer. Yeah. This is Here we are. Oppenheimer. Yeah. This is the 12th feature film from Christopher the 12th feature film from Christopher Nolan. Now, Christopher Nolan, some Nolan. Now, Christopher Nolan, some would say, I'm not sure if I would say, would say, I'm not sure if I would say, maybe I would say, is the 21st century maybe I would say, is the 21st century filmmaker, the most successful and filmmaker, the most successful and significant maker of movies in this significant maker of movies in this century. Do you agree with that century. Do you agree with that suggestion? suggestion? suggestion? Certainly of movie culture as we know it Certainly of movie culture as we know it now and as we have been marveling that now and as we have been marveling that it you know it has died many deaths this it you know it has died many deaths this century and then seems seems to be back century and then seems seems to be back and he's played a big part in bringing and he's played a big part in bringing it back in advancing it and I guess it back in advancing it and I guess preserving it if you you know defending preserving it if you you know defending its honor. Sure. at least you know that its honor. Sure. at least you know that for him for and for canisters uh for him for and for canisters uh everywhere. everywhere. everywhere. So I think he's abs he's representative So I think he's abs he's representative if he is not like the so maybe signature if he is not like the so maybe signature is the right word. It's interesting you is the right word. It's interesting you know this show our intention with this know this show our intention with this show not just this series but the show show not just this series but the show is to kind of represent modern movies is to kind of represent modern movies and modern movie culture. Sure. We talk and modern movie culture. Sure. We talk about every new movie that comes out and about every new movie that comes out and yet you and I over the years have had yet you and I over the years have had complicated relationships to various complicated relationships to various Christopher Nolan movies. I did not Christopher Nolan movies. I did not think we could do this list without think we could do this list without finding a way to acknowledge Christopher finding a way to acknowledge Christopher Nolan. Right. Well, actually, at first Nolan. Right. Well, actually, at first you did because as listeners No, I you did because as listeners No, I didn't. I didn't. Oh, so here's here's didn't. I didn't. Oh, so here's here's Well, did did I did I not put The Dark Well, did did I did I not put The Dark Knight on the original list? I put it Knight on the original list? I put it on. Yes. But I but I went with it and on. Yes. But I but I went with it and then and then when we recorded this big then and then when we recorded this big debate, I took it off. You did? And I debate, I took it off. You did? And I was going to replace it with a film. I was going to replace it with a film. I won't reveal that film, but one film won't reveal that film, but one film came off of our list that was on as came off of our list that was on as recently as a month ago. And we have recently as a month ago. And we have replaced it because I ultimately just replaced it because I ultimately just didn't feel like we could do this didn't feel like we could do this activity without acknowledging Nolan. activity without acknowledging Nolan. Now, I thought the Dark Knight was Now, I thought the Dark Knight was right. And I thought The Dark Knight won right. And I thought The Dark Knight won So did I. I was I suggested The Dark So did I. I was I suggested The Dark Knight. So why aren't we doing The Dark Knight. So why aren't we doing The Dark Knight right now? I don't think it's as Knight right now? I don't think it's as good as this movie that we're talking good as this movie that we're talking about. That's really what it comes down about. That's really what it comes down to. I think that both movies have to. I think that both movies have incredibly high highs. You can argue incredibly high highs. You can argue which movie has lower lows. The Dark which movie has lower lows. The Dark Knight made sense to me as a Knight made sense to me as a representative of superhero culture. representative of superhero culture. Yeah, I can say now there are no Yeah, I can say now there are no superhero movies on our list. Don't once superhero movies on our list. Don't once again don't look at me. It's, you know, again don't look at me. It's, you know, you wanted Iron Man 2 and I said no. I you wanted Iron Man 2 and I said no. I said I would not. Maybe the Dark Mickey said I would not. Maybe the Dark Mickey one. That's the Mickey Ro one. Okay, we one. That's the Mickey Ro one. Okay, we see I've seen it. see I've seen it. I think Nolan's contributions and his I think Nolan's contributions and his individual films are incredibly individual films are incredibly meaningful, influential, powerful. meaningful, influential, powerful. Oppenheimer to me is the culmination of Oppenheimer to me is the culmination of everything that he's been working everything that he's been working towards. It feels right to me. Now, this towards. It feels right to me. Now, this movie is also for me your favorite Nolan movie is also for me your favorite Nolan a masterpiece. I think it is a masterpiece. I think it is extraordinary, like a breathtaking extraordinary, like a breathtaking movie. It's maybe a little bit less fun movie. It's maybe a little bit less fun to talk about this one because we just to talk about this one because we just talked about it two years ago. So it talked about it two years ago. So it came out almost exactly 2 years ago for came out almost exactly 2 years ago for like seven months because it was the uh like seven months because it was the uh best picture front runner and for the best picture front runner and for the entirety of its run and then just and entirety of its run and then just and cleaned up. It is one of the great cleaned up. It is one of the great bulldozers in modern awards history and bulldozers in modern awards history and it was also a a massive success at the it was also a a massive success at the box office and that so when I say box office and that so when I say culmination I think creatively it's in culmination I think creatively it's in fully realized but also fully realized but also it it did everything in a way that I'm it it did everything in a way that I'm not sure if I could think of a single not sure if I could think of a single comp for how big and I I guess Titanic comp for how big and I I guess Titanic is really the only comparison. Yeah. In is really the only comparison. Yeah. In the in the history of movies really. You the in the history of movies really. You know, you could say, oh, like the the know, you could say, oh, like the the Ten Commandments or some, you know, Ten Commandments or some, you know, there's occasional examples of these there's occasional examples of these massively scaled movies, but, you know, massively scaled movies, but, you know, we have like affection and appreciation we have like affection and appreciation for a lot of movies in the 2000s from for a lot of movies in the 2000s from Nolan. He's made um 11 movies this Nolan. He's made um 11 movies this century. Do you want to talk about those century. Do you want to talk about those 11 movies before we dig into 11 movies before we dig into Oppenheimer? Yeah. Do you want to like Oppenheimer? Yeah. Do you want to like go through and should we talk about why go through and should we talk about why it's not these movies and why it is it's not these movies and why it is Oenheimer? Because that was sort of the Oenheimer? Because that was sort of the I I agreed with you ultimately like we I I agreed with you ultimately like we we closed that list. There was no Nolan we closed that list. There was no Nolan on it. For me, that was kind of a fun on it. For me, that was kind of a fun month talking to people about it and month talking to people about it and like talking to a lot of people who were like talking to a lot of people who were like, "Oh, you know, I wonder which like, "Oh, you know, I wonder which Nolan you'll have and I wonder which Nolan you'll have and I wonder which whatever." And I chuckled to myself whatever." And I chuckled to myself like, "Haha, it's the answer is no, like, "Haha, it's the answer is no, Nolan." But you're right. Like I didn't Nolan." But you're right. Like I didn't want to troll people though. It felt want to troll people though. It felt like a troll. Well, to me it felt fun. like a troll. Well, to me it felt fun. But uh I cuz you are a troll at heart. But uh I cuz you are a troll at heart. No, I'm not. But I I you know and I I No, I'm not. But I I you know and I I liked the pure that's not fair because liked the pure that's not fair because the original version of this list had the original version of this list had the dark knight on it. It did. So and the dark knight on it. It did. So and and I and I still am kind of like I I and I and I still am kind of like I I don't know why it's not that one. But we don't know why it's not that one. But we spent a lot of time trying to figure out spent a lot of time trying to figure out which Nolan it should be. And we which Nolan it should be. And we basically like couldn't agree. And we basically like couldn't agree. And we have finally agreed on this one because have finally agreed on this one because I do think that twothirds of this movie I do think that twothirds of this movie are like truly sublime. Mhm. And I guess are like truly sublime. Mhm. And I guess I sort of feel that way about The Dark I sort of feel that way about The Dark Knight, like the first twothirds of that Knight, like the first twothirds of that movie are like the most incredible thing movie are like the most incredible thing you've ever seen and then the movie kind you've ever seen and then the movie kind of keeps going. So if I can make space of keeps going. So if I can make space for Dark Knight, like I can agree on for Dark Knight, like I can agree on Oppenheimer where when it gets it right Oppenheimer where when it gets it right and it gets it right a lot of time, it and it gets it right a lot of time, it is breathtaking and exciting. and even is breathtaking and exciting. and even re-watching it, just like the the pace re-watching it, just like the the pace of it and the editing and and the score, of it and the editing and and the score, the the actual like craft decisions plus the the actual like craft decisions plus Murphy's performance. Like, it's really Murphy's performance. Like, it's really it is it's it's very very good. I do it is it's it's very very good. I do think there are a few other Nolan movies think there are a few other Nolan movies on this list that that I could have made on this list that that I could have made a pitch for. I could have too. I know, a pitch for. I could have too. I know, but they weren't the same ones. I I but they weren't the same ones. I I agree. That's part of what makes it fun. agree. That's part of what makes it fun. I agree. That's part of what makes it I agree. That's part of what makes it fun. I think let's just start with 2000. fun. I think let's just start with 2000. Momento comes out in 2000. Momento, as Momento comes out in 2000. Momento, as I've said many times on the show, a I've said many times on the show, a great dawning moment for me, a movie I great dawning moment for me, a movie I love. I don't know if I think it's a love. I don't know if I think it's a five-star flawless film, but given the five-star flawless film, but given the expectation of not knowing anything expectation of not knowing anything about this filmmaker, I had not seen about this filmmaker, I had not seen following when it came out and the following when it came out and the intricacy of the design and the intricacy of the design and the execution around the plotting and the execution around the plotting and the way that it looks and feels. It's just a way that it looks and feels. It's just a very sophisticated, mature thriller, very sophisticated, mature thriller, right? Very smart movie. Great guy. right? Very smart movie. Great guy. Pierce performance at the center of it. Pierce performance at the center of it. There could have been a case for this. There could have been a case for this. It would have been that would have felt It would have been that would have felt a little trolly to say like no, no, no, a little trolly to say like no, no, no, not Interstellar not. No, it's like kind not Interstellar not. No, it's like kind of cute. A little cute. Yeah, a little of cute. A little cute. Yeah, a little cute. Um, which I I rewatched it for cute. Um, which I I rewatched it for because I thought it was eligible for because I thought it was eligible for our 2000 draft. So, I rewatched it. Uh, our 2000 draft. So, I rewatched it. Uh, great movie and that real like just what great movie and that real like just what am I watching sort of in a way that is am I watching sort of in a way that is is engrossing rather than off-putting. is engrossing rather than off-putting. There is like a little bit too much like There is like a little bit too much like Jonathan Nolan puzzle box aspect to it Jonathan Nolan puzzle box aspect to it for my personal tastes, but it's for my personal tastes, but it's arresting for sure. arresting for sure. 2002 Insomnia, a remake and kind of an 2002 Insomnia, a remake and kind of an outlier now when we look at his career. outlier now when we look at his career. A movie that he didn't write that I A movie that he didn't write that I think has good performances but is a think has good performances but is a fairly wrote cat and mouse serial killer fairly wrote cat and mouse serial killer thriller. Yeah. um that was not really thriller. Yeah. um that was not really in consideration. Batman Begins, I've in consideration. Batman Begins, I've always thought is a good and not great always thought is a good and not great movie. I think it it sets a new template movie. I think it it sets a new template for a kind of superhero storytelling. Um for a kind of superhero storytelling. Um I think it is like basically a leadup I think it is like basically a leadup movie in the way that a lot of 2000 movie in the way that a lot of 2000 superhero movies were kind of like the superhero movies were kind of like the first one is just set in the table for first one is just set in the table for the second one which is going to rock. the second one which is going to rock. Well, sure. That's the Star Wars method. Well, sure. That's the Star Wars method. Yeah, that's true. That's true. But, you Yeah, that's true. That's true. But, you know, without the originality of the the know, without the originality of the the building the entire world, Spider-Man building the entire world, Spider-Man does a similar thing in the 2000s. Um, does a similar thing in the 2000s. Um, including this would have been sort of including this would have been sort of like the we're not building a hall of like the we're not building a hall of fame, right? You know, and you you Sean fame, right? You know, and you you Sean always want to include like the one that always want to include like the one that starts it, but in this case, we're not starts it, but in this case, we're not doing the one that starts it. No. 2006, doing the one that starts it. No. 2006, the prestige among my boys at home being the prestige among my boys at home being like, "What about the prestige?" It's like, "What about the prestige?" It's good. What about girls? What about the good. What about girls? What about the girls? Sorry, I don't mean to exclude girls? Sorry, I don't mean to exclude them. Yeah. who love the them. Yeah. who love the characterization of uh Scarlett characterization of uh Scarlett Johansson's character in this movie. You Johansson's character in this movie. You know, is it not sophisticated? Is it not know, is it not sophisticated? Is it not a strong woman? Um, The Prestige, I a strong woman? Um, The Prestige, I think, is very good. Yeah, very good. A think, is very good. Yeah, very good. A more than above average movie. The Dark more than above average movie. The Dark Knight. Knight. Knight. Well, Well, Well, it's quite something. It like excellent it's quite something. It like excellent film when it's going. It is rocking. It film when it's going. It is rocking. It is. I think I have a hard time not is. I think I have a hard time not nitpicking Nolan movies from this era to nitpicking Nolan movies from this era to death. Okay. And that's just a fact death. Okay. And that's just a fact about me. Okay. this movie and then about me. Okay. this movie and then Inception. Yeah. And then The Dark Inception. Yeah. And then The Dark Knight Rises and then I'm not going to Knight Rises and then I'm not going to go I'm not going to blow past it. I'm go I'm not going to blow past it. I'm not I won't I promise I won't. I promise not I won't I promise I won't. Okay. I'll just say the form I won't. Okay. I'll just say the form from 2008 to 2014, I have a hard time from 2008 to 2014, I have a hard time not nitpicking those movies. I don't not nitpicking those movies. I don't know why flaw of mine, fact about me, know why flaw of mine, fact about me, whatever you want to say. Like it just whatever you want to say. Like it just is something that when I watch these is something that when I watch these movies, I don't feel this way all the movies, I don't feel this way all the time and I'm usually quite forgiving of time and I'm usually quite forgiving of this, but when I feel someone getting this, but when I feel someone getting close to greatness and from my close to greatness and from my perception missing, right, I can't help perception missing, right, I can't help but claw at what's missing to me. And but claw at what's missing to me. And even though The Dark Knight had me even though The Dark Knight had me vibrating in the theater at times, vibrating in the theater at times, it's a few decisions I don't love. And it's a few decisions I don't love. And as I afraid to speak on them right now as I afraid to speak on them right now for fear that people no will start for fear that people no will start yelling at you again. No, I I think it yelling at you again. No, I I think it just um I think this movie kind of just um I think this movie kind of concludes awkwardly. And I think once concludes awkwardly. And I think once Heath Ledger is no longer at the center Heath Ledger is no longer at the center of the story, of the story, the air goes out of the balloon in a lot the air goes out of the balloon in a lot of ways, you know, and I I think that of ways, you know, and I I think that charact that characterization is charact that characterization is extraordinary. I think the rendering of extraordinary. I think the rendering of Two-Face and Aaron Ehart is at first Two-Face and Aaron Ehart is at first intriguing and then kind of goofy. Um, intriguing and then kind of goofy. Um, and I don't totally buy and I don't totally buy his transformation, you know, him being his transformation, you know, him being kind of like redpilled into being a kind of like redpilled into being a chaos agent. Um, so there's just a chaos agent. Um, so there's just a couple things I don't love about it. couple things I don't love about it. It's so funny you could say all of those It's so funny you could say all of those things about Oppenheimer like like like things about Oppenheimer like like like copy and paste them, but well, one one copy and paste them, but well, one one could, but one is not apparently being could, but one is not apparently being given the opportunity to do that on this given the opportunity to do that on this podcast. Anyway, the Inception one. I I podcast. Anyway, the Inception one. I I this would be your number one pick. this would be your number one pick. Well, I think maybe I think if we want I Well, I think maybe I think if we want I the Dark Knight. If we're not going to the Dark Knight. If we're not going to do Dark Knight, then Inception is I do Dark Knight, then Inception is I think the signature. It was like the think the signature. It was like the real real real He does Dark Knight. And then he's like, He does Dark Knight. And then he's like, "But wait, I got Leo and a top spinning "But wait, I got Leo and a top spinning and people like shooting each other in and people like shooting each other in some snow for a long period of time." some snow for a long period of time." And And And it was that first real like Nolan it was that first real like Nolan Reddit, can you believe this, man? Like Reddit, can you believe this, man? Like what happened in this movie? We were all what happened in this movie? We were all in it together way. And it really did in it together way. And it really did work for me. I just I bought in to to work for me. I just I bought in to to the absurdity of it. And I don't know the absurdity of it. And I don't know why Michael Kane couldn't just bring the why Michael Kane couldn't just bring the kids to France, but like also I didn't kids to France, but like also I didn't care, you know? Yeah. Just a really good care, you know? Yeah. Just a really good example to the US from France. Yeah. example to the US from France. Yeah. just but like a a movie that just did just but like a a movie that just did not stand up to like any examination not stand up to like any examination from from me personally and I know that from from me personally and I know that giving yourself over to movies is a big giving yourself over to movies is a big part of enjoying movies for again for part of enjoying movies for again for whatever reason I really like this movie whatever reason I really like this movie people think I hate it I don't hate it I people think I hate it I don't hate it I like it and there are moments the like it and there are moments the hallway fight in particular where I'm hallway fight in particular where I'm like I've not seen anything like this like I've not seen anything like this before and I think that because of the before and I think that because of the way that he was kind of narrativeized as way that he was kind of narrativeized as Spielberg meets Kubri you know that that Spielberg meets Kubri you know that that is who this guy is it's like imagine if is who this guy is it's like imagine if Kubric directed in an Indiana Jones Kubric directed in an Indiana Jones movie. Um, I just don't see it that way. movie. Um, I just don't see it that way. And I think I've actually come to And I think I've actually come to understand better like who he is and understand better like who he is and what he represents in movie culture cuz what he represents in movie culture cuz he he's not like either of those guys. he he's not like either of those guys. And it's useful to be removed from that And it's useful to be removed from that period in time and look back at the period in time and look back at the movies. In fairness to these movies that movies. In fairness to these movies that we're talking about right now, I have we're talking about right now, I have revisited all of them at least once and revisited all of them at least once and usually twice since kind of like usually twice since kind of like arriving at my annoying guy attitude arriving at my annoying guy attitude about them. Mhm. Um, and they I I kind about them. Mhm. Um, and they I I kind of still I still feel the same way about of still I still feel the same way about The Dark Knight Rises, which we did The Dark Knight Rises, which we did Rises was not going to it was not on any Rises was not going to it was not on any of our list. Very silly movie. A lot of of our list. Very silly movie. A lot of fun. I think it's actually easier to fun. I think it's actually easier to enjoy that for me cuz I'm like nobody is enjoy that for me cuz I'm like nobody is trying to tell me this is the greatest trying to tell me this is the greatest movie ever made. It's it's definitely a movie ever made. It's it's definitely a like this rocks kind of movie. Um, but like this rocks kind of movie. Um, but it's very silly and it kind of reveals I it's very silly and it kind of reveals I think a lot of the silliness in a lot of think a lot of the silliness in a lot of Christopher Nolan's movies like his kind Christopher Nolan's movies like his kind of his conception of good versus evil of his conception of good versus evil and what man is battling it certainly and what man is battling it certainly they're deep themes but they're rendered they're deep themes but they're rendered strangely at times I would say you know strangely at times I would say you know like his relationship to female like his relationship to female characters is pretty complicated and characters is pretty complicated and maybe not the most acutely understood. maybe not the most acutely understood. Yeah, he's a he's a a man on an island Yeah, he's a he's a a man on an island who is is, you know, literal or who is is, you know, literal or figurative, who's just trying to figurative, who's just trying to he sees the way, but he can't get there. he sees the way, but he can't get there. But, you know, he really is probably the But, you know, he really is probably the only person who could get there if only person who could get there if anyone could. But then no one can anyone could. But then no one can because life is terrible. So, now we because life is terrible. So, now we just have to use a lot of guns. The just have to use a lot of guns. The generation directly beneath us believes generation directly beneath us believes that Interstellar is the one. And if that Interstellar is the one. And if this were a podcast hosted by 32 year this were a podcast hosted by 32 year olds, right? You know, I think there are olds, right? You know, I think there are many of those out there. Um, go check many of those out there. Um, go check out that show, you know, and there's a out that show, you know, and there's a pickup podcast or 12 that you can find pickup podcast or 12 that you can find outside many of the Interstellar Rep outside many of the Interstellar Rep screenings. So, listen, find your people screenings. So, listen, find your people if that is what you want. I I think if that is what you want. I I think Timmy Shalom is very good in this. Timmy Shalom is very good in this. That's your first note on Interstellar. That's your first note on Interstellar. I don't I like don't know what's going I don't I like don't know what's going on in this movie. I mean, I do, but I I on in this movie. I mean, I do, but I I think it might be a MCA thing for me. think it might be a MCA thing for me. Oh, wow. This this only really falls Oh, wow. This this only really falls apart for me at the end. Yeah. Um I apart for me at the end. Yeah. Um I think I think that it kind of is um an think I think that it kind of is um an indulgence of explanation. And one thing indulgence of explanation. And one thing that I have appreciated about the way that I have appreciated about the way that his filmmaking style has changed that his filmmaking style has changed since this movie in Dunkirk, Tenant, and since this movie in Dunkirk, Tenant, and Oppenheimer, which is the era I have Oppenheimer, which is the era I have enjoyed the most. Sure. is that he has enjoyed the most. Sure. is that he has gotten less self-conscious about making gotten less self-conscious about making us feel comfortable in his heady ideas us feel comfortable in his heady ideas that he is comfortable letting us sort that he is comfortable letting us sort through it which is the thing I was through it which is the thing I was always banging my gavvel about with him always banging my gavvel about with him which is like stop telling me how every which is like stop telling me how every single thing works I find it obnoxious single thing works I find it obnoxious and in this movie the collision of that and in this movie the collision of that the sort of like I have read all the the sort of like I have read all the science plus love is actually the answer science plus love is actually the answer which to me is the most saccharine lame which to me is the most saccharine lame conclusion to an otherwise like quite conclusion to an otherwise like quite fascinating and sophisticated fascinating and sophisticated examination of like the distance between examination of like the distance between us, the distance across the world, the us, the distance across the world, the um the inability for people to connect um the inability for people to connect really like I think that's what really like I think that's what ultimately interstellar is about that ultimately interstellar is about that what we put between us and why we can't what we put between us and why we can't stay together and say what we really stay together and say what we really need to say to each other. That's a need to say to each other. That's a great and deep idea and the way that he great and deep idea and the way that he concludes those things never really made concludes those things never really made sense to me. So, I was never really sense to me. So, I was never really going to seriously put Interstellar on going to seriously put Interstellar on it, even though I do think it's a it's a it, even though I do think it's a it's a great achievement. And Interstellar great achievement. And Interstellar Inter Inception being original movies at Inter Inception being original movies at at a grand scale from one of our best at a grand scale from one of our best directors should be applauded, just not directors should be applauded, just not in this countdown. Okay. Um, in this countdown. Okay. Um, Dunkerk, should I should we have more Dunkerk, should I should we have more strongly considered this? Yes. You want strongly considered this? Yes. You want to do it? You want to throw an elbow? We to do it? You want to throw an elbow? We did. I threw them all at you and you did. I threw them all at you and you said no. That was all I said. I had no said no. That was all I said. I had no other responses. You basic it was on other responses. You basic it was on text message and everybody just text message and everybody just basically like nah I think that's like basically like nah I think that's like literally what happened. I like Dunkerk. literally what happened. I like Dunkerk. I like Dunkirk. I think it's quite good. I like Dunkirk. I think it's quite good. It's really really good. I think it's It's really really good. I think it's quite good. And I think maybe it doesn't quite good. And I think maybe it doesn't get me emotionally the same way it does get me emotionally the same way it does you or Chris or or Quinton Tarantino. you or Chris or or Quinton Tarantino. You know clearly like it has an effect You know clearly like it has an effect on people. My trinity. Yeah. My team. Um on people. My trinity. Yeah. My team. Um I think Dunkerk is very very good. I I think Dunkerk is very very good. I thought it was very good when it was thought it was very good when it was released. I think it's very good now. released. I think it's very good now. It's not my favorite. Um I think it's It's not my favorite. Um I think it's clever and I do feel like he had, like I clever and I do feel like he had, like I said, I think he unlocked something, said, I think he unlocked something, right, in his willingness to take right, in his willingness to take chances with that um triple time chances with that um triple time structure that he's doing to unfold that structure that he's doing to unfold that story that is tremendously complicated story that is tremendously complicated if you try to unpack it, but doesn't if you try to unpack it, but doesn't feel that way when you're watching it. I feel that way when you're watching it. I didn't feel confused watching that didn't feel confused watching that movie. No, not at all. And I think he movie. No, not at all. And I think he also does figure something out also does figure something out emotionally emotionally emotionally in all three stories without having to in all three stories without having to really without hammering home the this really without hammering home the this is about you know your feelings over is about you know your feelings over time and space and like love is the time and space and like love is the answer. it they are more character based answer. it they are more character based grounded in the moments but I you know grounded in the moments but I you know the um the um the um the Barry Keegan character the Tom Hardy the Barry Keegan character the Tom Hardy character like it's all really character like it's all really heart-rending even like Kenneth Brana heart-rending even like Kenneth Brana just like standing on a dock like using just like standing on a dock like using Kenneth Brana voice like he he hits the Kenneth Brana voice like he he hits the like tonal frequency I do also think like tonal frequency I do also think that you know this is a movie about like that you know this is a movie about like a really important and serious stuff and a really important and serious stuff and it is like a war movie. Um, but it is it is like a war movie. Um, but it is and and on like a a grand scale or even and and on like a a grand scale or even on three grand scales because of the on three grand scales because of the three timelines, but it is not saying three timelines, but it is not saying this is about the most important thing this is about the most important thing that has ever happened in the history of that has ever happened in the history of the world. So the the gravity of the the world. So the the gravity of the situation and the gravity of the situation and the gravity of the emotions is communicated like through emotions is communicated like through the film itself as opposed to the the film itself as opposed to the dialogue which I think is something that dialogue which I think is something that speaks in its favor. I I I I agree. I speaks in its favor. I I I I agree. I don't have very many bad things to say don't have very many bad things to say about the movie. It just doesn't hit me about the movie. It just doesn't hit me the same way that honestly the next two the same way that honestly the next two do. Now well I I made a push for Tenant do. Now well I I made a push for Tenant too. Tenant would have been interesting too. Tenant would have been interesting and also would have felt like a troll. and also would have felt like a troll. Now we said we love Tenant on this show. Now we said we love Tenant on this show. I think ten I don't understand it and I think ten I don't understand it and every time we talk about it I understand every time we talk about it I understand it less but I love it. It's a lot of it less but I love it. It's a lot of fun. Yeah. I don't know if it's really fun. Yeah. I don't know if it's really very thematically deep at all. Like at very thematically deep at all. Like at all. What is it about? Uh the the all. What is it about? Uh the the immutability of friendship buds. Yeah. immutability of friendship buds. Yeah. Bros hanging. But it's not that's not Bros hanging. But it's not that's not something that occurs to you until you something that occurs to you until you get to the very end of the movie, you get to the very end of the movie, you know? Like it's not clear. Is is the is know? Like it's not clear. Is is the is Elizabeth Ziki's son Robert Patson? Uh, Elizabeth Ziki's son Robert Patson? Uh, no. I believe that was debunked. Oh, no. I believe that was debunked. Oh, that's sad. But so then why they're bros that's sad. But so then why they're bros because John David Washington just knows because John David Washington just knows that he's going to find Robert Patson that he's going to find Robert Patson again in some timeline. Correct. And again in some timeline. Correct. And then are they going to have to save the then are they going to have to save the world again? Probably. And like they're world again? Probably. And like they're just going to do the opera house just going to do the opera house forever. I think so. But it's cool forever. I think so. But it's cool because you know you got a pal. This is because you know you got a pal. This is like me and your husband, you know? It's like me and your husband, you know? It's like we don't have to talk. We could go like we don't have to talk. We could go two months not talk and we'll just pick two months not talk and we'll just pick right up. We're good. Am I Elizabeth right up. We're good. Am I Elizabeth Tobiki in that situation? Um, in so far Tobiki in that situation? Um, in so far as we're going to have Kenneth Bronna as we're going to have Kenneth Bronna murder you. Yes, sure. Well, listen, as murder you. Yes, sure. Well, listen, as long as I can dive off the yacht, you long as I can dive off the yacht, you know, that was very elegant. There's a know, that was very elegant. There's a lot to live up to. Yeah. Thank you. Uh, lot to live up to. Yeah. Thank you. Uh, Tenant is a ton of fun and I was so Tenant is a ton of fun and I was so Freeports. I was Free Ports. I forgot Freeports. I was Free Ports. I forgot about that. I was very happy to have about that. I was very happy to have that movie in that time in history. that movie in that time in history. Yeah. And I really really like that Yeah. And I really really like that movie. Uh, it's not it's to me it's just movie. Uh, it's not it's to me it's just not as good as Oppenheimer and that's not as good as Oppenheimer and that's that brings us to this moment. Okay. that brings us to this moment. Okay. Now, your notes on Oppenheimer are have Now, your notes on Oppenheimer are have been acknowledged in time. There is an been acknowledged in time. There is an entire episode of this podcast in which entire episode of this podcast in which you shared those notes. There are you shared those notes. There are multiple. Uh let's talk about what's multiple. Uh let's talk about what's good about it. Yeah. And why it's here. good about it. Yeah. And why it's here. I mean, here's I've made a couple of I mean, here's I've made a couple of notes. I feel like these are important notes. I feel like these are important things to state around Nolan. One is things to state around Nolan. One is this is like an oporadic humanist. this is like an oporadic humanist. It's a person who really believes in the It's a person who really believes in the theory of the great man and it's a theory of the great man and it's a synthesis of a lot of those ideas and a synthesis of a lot of those ideas and a little bit of a self-recrimination. Like little bit of a self-recrimination. Like the movie is very metatitual because the movie is very metatitual because it's about kind of like what happens it's about kind of like what happens when someone with good ideas gets to when someone with good ideas gets to follow through on those ideas. I've follow through on those ideas. I've always enjoyed the reading of always enjoyed the reading of Christopher Nolan watching the Marvel Christopher Nolan watching the Marvel industrial complex rise in the aftermath industrial complex rise in the aftermath of his Batman movies and him thinking of his Batman movies and him thinking like, "Oh my god, what have I done to like, "Oh my god, what have I done to the thing I love?" That may be a little the thing I love?" That may be a little too It's actually like a little too It's actually like a little offensive when then you if to like it's offensive when then you if to like it's probably not fair to Christopher Nolan probably not fair to Christopher Nolan to be like he looked at Marvel and then to be like he looked at Marvel and then was like well I must tell my story with was like well I must tell my story with J. Robert Henry. But it's not my J. Robert Henry. But it's not my responsibility to be fair to him. It's responsibility to be fair to him. It's my responsibility to read movies and my responsibility to read movies and movie culture and like it is undeniable movie culture and like it is undeniable that obviously this world historic that obviously this world historic significant event that has that like significant event that has that like speaks to the loss of hundreds of speaks to the loss of hundreds of thousands of lives over time and also thousands of lives over time and also just to like a complete realignment of just to like a complete realignment of how we live and like the the fear and how we live and like the the fear and anxiety and like mortal danger that the anxiety and like mortal danger that the entire world is now in. But but this is entire world is now in. But but this is something that I think it's fair to say something that I think it's fair to say like artists do, you know, like they like artists do, you know, like they take the world's events, they take our take the world's events, they take our experiences, and they think about how experiences, and they think about how they're filtered through themselves. they're filtered through themselves. Like that is I think that's ultimately Like that is I think that's ultimately okay. It doesn't have to be as glib as okay. It doesn't have to be as glib as superhero movie bad. But the thing that superhero movie bad. But the thing that I think makes him kind of the heir to I think makes him kind of the heir to Spielberg, the heir to James Cameron, Spielberg, the heir to James Cameron, the heir to these handful of filmmakers the heir to these handful of filmmakers that get you no matter what they're that get you no matter what they're doing to just be like, I got to see it. doing to just be like, I got to see it. I got to see what he's going to do with I got to see what he's going to do with this. A movie about J. Robert this. A movie about J. Robert Oppenheimer could have been really Oppenheimer could have been really boring. Um, and in fact, like if you've boring. Um, and in fact, like if you've ever seen uh what's the Paul Newman ever seen uh what's the Paul Newman movie, I I um Fat Man and Little Boy. movie, I I um Fat Man and Little Boy. Yes. If you've ever seen Fat Man and Yes. If you've ever seen Fat Man and Little Boy, the 1989 dramatization of Little Boy, the 1989 dramatization of the creation of the atomic bomb, which the creation of the atomic bomb, which starred Paul Newman as Groves, the Matt starred Paul Newman as Groves, the Matt Damon character in Oppenheimer, and Damon character in Oppenheimer, and Dwight Schultz as J. Robert Oenheimer, Dwight Schultz as J. Robert Oenheimer, you know, like you know, like it takes something special to make this it takes something special to make this truly exciting and to make it truly like truly exciting and to make it truly like an event film. And I think he does that. an event film. And I think he does that. And I was trying to think of in my head, And I was trying to think of in my head, who are the true ursours that can do who are the true ursours that can do spectacle, like spectacle, like spectacle, like you know, it's really it's Francis Ford you know, it's really it's Francis Ford Copela who is like writer first then Copela who is like writer first then filmmaker, right? The same way that filmmaker, right? The same way that Nolan is where Nolan writes almost Nolan is where Nolan writes almost everything he does. Sometimes he bases everything he does. Sometimes he bases it on material just like Copelo based uh it on material just like Copelo based uh the Godfather on a best-selling novel. the Godfather on a best-selling novel. But creating this world kind of by But creating this world kind of by yourself as the author and doing it at yourself as the author and doing it at that scale there's not a huge tradition that scale there's not a huge tradition of it in Hollywood. Cameron writes um of it in Hollywood. Cameron writes um yeah but he is he writes in a different yeah but he is he writes in a different way and and and with different like way and and and with different like visual goals as well as thematic visual goals as well as thematic undertakings. Yeah. I think the level of undertakings. Yeah. I think the level of prestige it's only it's only Titanic prestige it's only it's only Titanic where he has attempted something that where he has attempted something that has that kind of import. He's mostly an has that kind of import. He's mostly an entertainer. Um and he's sure about the entertainer. Um and he's sure about the world. He is. Yeah. Cameron knows what world. He is. Yeah. Cameron knows what he thinks is wrong. Yeah. And he thinks he thinks is wrong. Yeah. And he thinks and he knows where he believes he stands and he knows where he believes he stands in it. Our timing is really interesting in it. Our timing is really interesting because he's just lodged some complaints because he's just lodged some complaints for sure against Oppenheimer because he for sure against Oppenheimer because he is intending to make a nuclear film, you is intending to make a nuclear film, you know, an atomic movie about the power of know, an atomic movie about the power of the bomb and he was frustrated by what the bomb and he was frustrated by what was not in Oppenheimer, which is a was not in Oppenheimer, which is a complaint that we heard that I never complaint that we heard that I never understood and I don't agree with where understood and I don't agree with where Cameron comes from on this either. Well, Cameron comes from on this either. Well, I think that I think that Nolan's response was always that this Nolan's response was always that this was like a quote unquote subjective was like a quote unquote subjective movie. Um, but I think I the complaint movie. Um, but I think I the complaint was this is a in many ways a movie about was this is a in many ways a movie about this per the decision that was made and this per the decision that was made and how it changed our world and the people how it changed our world and the people who were affected by it are not who were affected by it are not represented in any way in the movie. And represented in any way in the movie. And you know like I get it. I think it would you know like I get it. I think it would have been disastrous if Nolan had tried have been disastrous if Nolan had tried to to to bring like that death and destruction bring like that death and destruction into it wouldn't fit with the rest of into it wouldn't fit with the rest of this movie and it would feel gratuitous this movie and it would feel gratuitous and um I think it was smart for him not and um I think it was smart for him not to do it but I understand that it's you to do it but I understand that it's you know this is one side of the story very know this is one side of the story very much so and it's not attempting to be much so and it's not attempting to be representative of anything other than representative of anything other than the perspective specifically of the perspective specifically of Oenheimer but I think mostly of the Oenheimer but I think mostly of the people who are kind of sympathetic right people who are kind of sympathetic right to his experience as the leading being a to his experience as the leading being a scientist in America at a certain time scientist in America at a certain time in history, but subject matter is really in history, but subject matter is really perfect for what he's interested in. He perfect for what he's interested in. He is interested in formulas and theories is interested in formulas and theories and this idea of what if what would and this idea of what if what would happen if something like this happened, happen if something like this happened, but this is a real historical event that but this is a real historical event that he can use to kind of analyze that he can use to kind of analyze that context. Conspiracy and paranoia and the context. Conspiracy and paranoia and the idea of loyalty all being kind of idea of loyalty all being kind of frictive points like it's a big part of frictive points like it's a big part of Inception. It's a big part of the Dark Inception. It's a big part of the Dark Knight films. like this idea that you Knight films. like this idea that you are bound to these oaths that you've are bound to these oaths that you've taken, but those taking those oaths then taken, but those taking those oaths then makes you every day think that like makes you every day think that like something is wrong and a miss. There's a something is wrong and a miss. There's a great moment in this movie great moment in this movie that is basically where the movie turns that is basically where the movie turns and might be where you kind of lose a and might be where you kind of lose a little bit of your tether to it. But the little bit of your tether to it. But the moment itself is so special, which is moment itself is so special, which is immediately after the Trinity test, immediately after the Trinity test, there's a moment when Oenheimer the there's a moment when Oenheimer the following day it seems or after the following day it seems or after the order has been made um walks outside at order has been made um walks outside at Los Alamos, watches the bomb leave in Los Alamos, watches the bomb leave in trucks. Yeah. I know. That's a great trucks. Yeah. I know. That's a great And that moment when he That's a great And that moment when he realizes like this is essentially no realizes like this is essentially no longer under not only not under my longer under not only not under my control. Yeah. But was never under my control. Yeah. But was never under my control. Right. I am just a tool toward control. Right. I am just a tool toward this and Killian Murphy's performance this and Killian Murphy's performance with no words. Right. And also I mean with no words. Right. And also I mean like the shot itself is so beautiful like the shot itself is so beautiful with the mountains in the background and with the mountains in the background and like there you know away it goes. It is like there you know away it goes. It is like a painting. Um it's just it's an like a painting. Um it's just it's an amazing act of uh thematic storytelling. amazing act of uh thematic storytelling. Yeah. And conveys a ton. And it is Yeah. And conveys a ton. And it is absent I think a lot of the political absent I think a lot of the political minations that kind of dominate the minations that kind of dominate the final third of the movie. It it is final third of the movie. It it is doesn't have anything to do with this doesn't have anything to do with this idea that Oppenheimer was a idea that Oppenheimer was a controversial figure in any way. It's controversial figure in any way. It's like it's pure human drama. It's a like it's pure human drama. It's a person who thought he was one thing and person who thought he was one thing and then realized he was something else. And then realized he was something else. And I saw that as like a really incredibly I saw that as like a really incredibly mature moment for Nolan who's been kind mature moment for Nolan who's been kind of like working towards something and it of like working towards something and it really really stuck out to me. And then really really stuck out to me. And then there's all the other stuff too that he there's all the other stuff too that he likes like conquering the metaphysical likes like conquering the metaphysical world having an idea of what you could world having an idea of what you could do and then using science do and then using science to make it real which is like what to make it real which is like what Interstellar wants to do Interstellar wants to do but can't do. Like it can't ultimately but can't do. Like it can't ultimately get you to the explanation point. That's get you to the explanation point. That's the point. Yeah. You know, I know it's the point. Yeah. You know, I know it's so you don't have to understand, you so you don't have to understand, you just have to feel. Do you think love just have to feel. Do you think love conquers all and then it's also kind of a detective and then it's also kind of a detective story, which is something I like about story, which is something I like about it. I know you're a little bit more it. I know you're a little bit more mixed on that. No, I listen. So, I I mixed on that. No, I listen. So, I I rewatched it again and everything The rewatched it again and everything The Trinity Test is like one of the most Trinity Test is like one of the most extraordinary things that I've ever seen extraordinary things that I've ever seen put on screen. And and what's so amazing put on screen. And and what's so amazing about it is that well obviously like about it is that well obviously like they don't set off an atomic bomb but they don't set off an atomic bomb but sure feels like they do. It does. It sure feels like they do. It does. It feels like they do but actually what is feels like they do but actually what is being filmed is just like dudes looking being filmed is just like dudes looking in wonder somewhere and dudes looking in wonder somewhere and dudes looking stressed out. There's very little stressed out. There's very little movement in it. Um you know there is the movement in it. Um you know there is the I guess there's a lot of cutting. Again I guess there's a lot of cutting. Again the editing in this movie is incredible. the editing in this movie is incredible. Jennifer Lame won an Oscar for it. um Jennifer Lame won an Oscar for it. um welldeserved but it is it's just like welldeserved but it is it's just like images and sus and suspense and an images and sus and suspense and an absolutely incredible score which also absolutely incredible score which also won an Oscar Lorson right so it you know won an Oscar Lorson right so it you know what he can do what he can do it's it's intuitive what it's it's intuitive what counterintuitive what he does with it counterintuitive what he does with it even with the final explosion that's even with the final explosion that's just like cutting to silence you know just like cutting to silence you know which is also amazing so it looks great which is also amazing so it looks great I think also the Killian Murphy I think also the Killian Murphy performance, you just can't look away performance, you just can't look away from it. But my complaints are mostly from it. But my complaints are mostly with the the third hour and more with the the third hour and more generally with the the um Robert Downey generally with the the um Robert Downey Jr. plot line with Straws. Even though I Jr. plot line with Straws. Even though I don't love how all that's handled, the don't love how all that's handled, the moment when it comes together from a moment when it comes together from a pure pure structural perspective and you pure pure structural perspective and you see how all of these different timelines see how all of these different timelines and things that you've been working on, and things that you've been working on, it like it clicks together and you're it like it clicks together and you're like aha and there is that moment of like aha and there is that moment of like of we have the solution and it's like of we have the solution and it's like this person. So I agree with you at like this person. So I agree with you at least formally. It's really really least formally. It's really really impressive. The Faber and Faber impressive. The Faber and Faber publishes um a lot of great screenplays. publishes um a lot of great screenplays. They published the Nolan screenplays. They published the Nolan screenplays. They published the Wes Anderson They published the Wes Anderson screenplays. They sent me um the last screenplays. They sent me um the last couple of Nolan uh screenplay books. And couple of Nolan uh screenplay books. And so I was going through the Oppenheimer so I was going through the Oppenheimer screenplay as I was revisiting it last screenplay as I was revisiting it last night and it is all there. Yeah. Yeah, night and it is all there. Yeah. Yeah, you know, he has conceived of not just you know, he has conceived of not just the dynamic kind of um meeting points of the dynamic kind of um meeting points of the plotting, but of all of the cuts of the plotting, but of all of the cuts of all of the visions that Oppenheimer is all of the visions that Oppenheimer is having of this film making style like having of this film making style like and the fact that he has aligned and the fact that he has aligned Jennifer Lame Le Gorensson Hoyan Hoit Jennifer Lame Le Gorensson Hoyan Hoit like all of the craft teams in this like all of the craft teams in this movie if none of them is their first movie if none of them is their first time working with Nolan, they've all time working with Nolan, they've all kind of figured out what his energies kind of figured out what his energies are and what he needs and what he wants. are and what he needs and what he wants. When you think about the act of making When you think about the act of making the movie with using these IMAX cameras, the movie with using these IMAX cameras, shooting in 65 shooting in 65 and then that's another thing about the and then that's another thing about the movie is that maybe much to your movie is that maybe much to your chagrin, but it did kind of kickstart in chagrin, but it did kind of kickstart in a real way. Yeah. I think a like the a real way. Yeah. I think a like the IMAX club a mass cult. Yeah. Yeah. Like IMAX club a mass cult. Yeah. Yeah. Like canister on film 70 mm eventizing of a canister on film 70 mm eventizing of a certain kind of a movie. And this is an certain kind of a movie. And this is an R-rated adult three-hour drama that made R-rated adult three-hour drama that made a billion dollars. No, that that part is a billion dollars. No, that that part is insane. Like it it it's basic insane. Like it it it's basic achievement just in terms of getting achievement just in terms of getting people to like turn out and be psyched people to like turn out and be psyched about a threehour about a threehour like almost entirely talking like and like almost entirely talking like and and beautifully talking and I love it and beautifully talking and I love it when people talk. But the set pieces in when people talk. But the set pieces in this though they are incredibly this though they are incredibly difficult to pull off like they're not difficult to pull off like they're not people punching each other you know people punching each other you know they're not shoot it's just it's a lot they're not shoot it's just it's a lot of like technical orchestration of of like technical orchestration of people and timelines and you know and people and timelines and you know and trying to make something that never trying to make something that never happened look like it happened. So as I happened look like it happened. So as I was watching it last night and thinking was watching it last night and thinking about the relationships the characters about the relationships the characters have in the movie I think that the film have in the movie I think that the film is very I I think especially for Nolan is very I I think especially for Nolan very well written. I think the dialogue very well written. I think the dialogue is like very sharp. Yes. And is like very sharp. Yes. And it reminded me a lot of Aaron Sorcin it reminded me a lot of Aaron Sorcin for sure. Maybe a little bit less for sure. Maybe a little bit less saccharine than Sorcin gets at the end saccharine than Sorcin gets at the end of his stories, but because there's a of his stories, but because there's a kind of like embittered quality to where kind of like embittered quality to where we landed in Oppenheimer's arc in we landed in Oppenheimer's arc in American history, but the character of American history, but the character of Robbie that David Crumboltz plays and Robbie that David Crumboltz plays and his relationship and his kind of his relationship and his kind of protective quality over in Oppenheimer, protective quality over in Oppenheimer, the way that um there is a kind of a the way that um there is a kind of a interrogative approach to many of the interrogative approach to many of the characters who are constantly like characters who are constantly like confronting each other with their own confronting each other with their own ideas and then another person comes back ideas and then another person comes back with their ideas. so many great scenes with their ideas. so many great scenes where all the scientists are in Los where all the scientists are in Los Alamos and they're pinging back and Alamos and they're pinging back and forth about why something will work or forth about why something will work or won't work. It does have that frictive won't work. It does have that frictive quality which we were just talking about quality which we were just talking about with Sorcin where we're like when he was with Sorcin where we're like when he was good he was so good at this stuff where good he was so good at this stuff where you had you can kind of support both you had you can kind of support both positions as you hear people positions as you hear people passionately go through their ideas passionately go through their ideas that's this doesn't happen at the movies that's this doesn't happen at the movies a lot you know it's very rare it's a lot you know it's very rare it's remarkable and there was something remarkable and there was something re-watching it even when you you know it re-watching it even when you you know it takes on that quality of like oen like takes on that quality of like oen like this movie has existed forever and I've this movie has existed forever and I've seen it a thousand times and so I want seen it a thousand times and so I want to start I'm like oh it's this part and to start I'm like oh it's this part and oh it's so funny that they did that oh it's so funny that they did that which is a relationship you can only which is a relationship you can only build with a movie when it's like it's build with a movie when it's like it's fully like realized and designed and fully like realized and designed and intentional and that you can nitpick it intentional and that you can nitpick it that you can start or even dissect it in that you can start or even dissect it in the way that you can. It's just because the way that you can. It's just because it is like it it's so fully achieved. It it is like it it's so fully achieved. It is it's like remark it is a remarkable is it's like remark it is a remarkable movie. I you know you must turn yourself movie. I you know you must turn yourself over to it. I actually I really loved over to it. I actually I really loved revisiting it last night. I had a lot of revisiting it last night. I had a lot of fun with it. It's It's a It is a fun with it. It's It's a It is a three-hour movie. It was my fifth time three-hour movie. It was my fifth time seeing it. Yeah, I saw it on the big seeing it. Yeah, I saw it on the big screen three times. Um I would happily screen three times. Um I would happily watch it on a big screen again. I do watch it on a big screen again. I do think it's going to be a movie to your think it's going to be a movie to your point about it like it had been around point about it like it had been around forever. It is I think Mhm. it's going forever. It is I think Mhm. it's going to have that feeling for a long time. to have that feeling for a long time. But one of the things I want to talk to But one of the things I want to talk to you about is the legacy. So all those you about is the legacy. So all those are all the reasons why this movie made are all the reasons why this movie made the list and they are myriad. Flaws be the list and they are myriad. Flaws be damned. There's a ton of incredible damned. There's a ton of incredible things about the movie. The legacy is things about the movie. The legacy is interesting because this is I I can say interesting because this is I I can say now the most recent movie on our list, now the most recent movie on our list, right? There's nothing from 2024 on our right? There's nothing from 2024 on our list. list. list. Yeah, I tried. You tried. I did. I said Yeah, I tried. You tried. I did. I said no. Um I said we will not put Deadpool no. Um I said we will not put Deadpool Wolverine on this list. Oh, no. I didn't Wolverine on this list. Oh, no. I didn't try. My pick was from 2022 try. My pick was from 2022 that I wanted to replace this with. Yes. that I wanted to replace this with. Yes. We can reveal that at a later date. We can reveal that at a later date. Yeah. Um, it's not over yet. So, Yeah. Um, it's not over yet. So, seven Oscars, 13 nominations, second seven Oscars, 13 nominations, second most nominations of all time, most nominations of all time, immediately enshrined in film history as immediately enshrined in film history as a best picture winner, right? Very rare. a best picture winner, right? Very rare. Best actor, Best actor, Best actor, screenplay, screenplay, screenplay, supporting actor, director film. Or did supporting actor, director film. Or did it get screenplay? Maybe it did not win it get screenplay? Maybe it did not win screenplay. No, because it would have screenplay. No, because it would have been adapted, right? And I think C been adapted, right? And I think C Jefferson won. You're right. Jefferson won. You're right. Americaniction. American fiction. So, it Americaniction. American fiction. So, it did not get the screenplay. Um, did not get the screenplay. Um, so here's my question for you. Yeah. I so here's my question for you. Yeah. I have two possible roads for this movie have two possible roads for this movie historically. One is this is Lawrence of historically. One is this is Lawrence of Arabia, right? This is an alltime Arabia, right? This is an alltime classic historical drama that should classic historical drama that should consistently be seen in the format it consistently be seen in the format it was intended. You can watch it on TV at was intended. You can watch it on TV at home, but it's never going to work as home, but it's never going to work as well as if you get a chance to see it on well as if you get a chance to see it on the big screen. And people will always the big screen. And people will always say that about it. And people will say that about it. And people will always say, "When I saw it, it was so always say, "When I saw it, it was so majestic. like it took my breath away majestic. like it took my breath away because that's how people 60 years later because that's how people 60 years later they still talk about Lawrence of Arabia they still talk about Lawrence of Arabia this way. That's one way to view it. The this way. That's one way to view it. The alternative way and this is possible alternative way and this is possible is is this how green was my valley which is is this how green was my valley which in 1941 in 1941 in 1941 won best picture right and it was a won best picture right and it was a master in his prime coming off of master in his prime coming off of beloved classic. So John Ford had beloved classic. So John Ford had directed many films in the 1910s and 20s directed many films in the 1910s and 20s and 30s but then he goes on this run of and 30s but then he goes on this run of stage coach young Mr. Lincoln, Drums stage coach young Mr. Lincoln, Drums Along the Mohawk, and Grapes of Wrath. Along the Mohawk, and Grapes of Wrath. And he's sort of getting recognized And he's sort of getting recognized after all of those movies, which are all after all of those movies, which are all canonical greats for a sprawling epic in canonical greats for a sprawling epic in this like he's arrived moment, this like he's arrived moment, but but but he beat Citizen Kane. And Citizen Kane he beat Citizen Kane. And Citizen Kane is the more aesthetically is the more aesthetically and intellectually daring movie. And and intellectually daring movie. And Citizen Kane is the movie that is Citizen Kane is the movie that is remembered. And How Green Was My Valley remembered. And How Green Was My Valley is not. And the comp I will make is is is not. And the comp I will make is is the zone of interest. Yeah. Yeah, the the zone of interest. Yeah. Yeah, the citizen can in this scenario and citizen can in this scenario and Oppenheimer will be understood as a Oppenheimer will be understood as a great movie that people liked, but the great movie that people liked, but the zone of interest is the movie zone of interest is the movie that matters more now and forever. that matters more now and forever. Well, I think you know that I lean Well, I think you know that I lean towards towards option B, but that towards towards option B, but that doesn't and another argument of being doesn't and another argument of being like, are are we sure that Oenheimer is like, are are we sure that Oenheimer is what we want to pick as like in general, what we want to pick as like in general, are you sure the best picture winner is are you sure the best picture winner is the one that you want? More often than the one that you want? More often than not, the Academy gets it wrong with, you not, the Academy gets it wrong with, you know, respect to our tastes and to know, respect to our tastes and to history. And we don't have that many history. And we don't have that many best picture winners on this list. Mhm. best picture winners on this list. Mhm. So I I think I'm just more historically So I I think I'm just more historically inclined to say, you know, that it's inclined to say, you know, that it's it's always be. But but Lawrence of it's always be. But but Lawrence of Arabia was a best picture winner. That's Arabia was a best picture winner. That's my every like every generation gets its my every like every generation gets its Yeah. Like Titanic did win best picture. Yeah. Like Titanic did win best picture. Yeah. But like it's not like how Green Yeah. But like it's not like how Green Was My Valley is like looked down upon. Was My Valley is like looked down upon. No, that's my point. That's my point. No, that's my point. That's my point. And I do I mean ultimately that really And I do I mean ultimately that really comes that that's a conversation about comes that that's a conversation about zone of interest and not Oppenheimer you zone of interest and not Oppenheimer you know um they are thematically linked in know um they are thematically linked in some ways they are and I but and I think some ways they are and I but and I think Zone of Interest does have the um Zone of Interest does have the um like you know the structural and just like you know the structural and just like the film making innovation like the film making innovation that Citizen Kain you know makes sense that Citizen Kain you know makes sense as a comp and it's also I They're all as a comp and it's also I They're all pretty dark looks at at the world, but pretty dark looks at at the world, but you know, Zone of Interest, well, it you know, Zone of Interest, well, it will be harder to revisit Zone of will be harder to revisit Zone of Interest from a pure film watching Interest from a pure film watching enjoyment perspective. It has a little enjoyment perspective. It has a little bit less of the thrill that sits right bit less of the thrill that sits right in the like the end of the second act of in the like the end of the second act of this movie where you get to the Trinity this movie where you get to the Trinity test and all of the powers of the movie test and all of the powers of the movie are colliding literally and are colliding literally and figuratively. Right. Zone of Interest, figuratively. Right. Zone of Interest, I've seen it a couple of times now. You I've seen it a couple of times now. You know, it's it's a challenging movie. It know, it's it's a challenging movie. It is. It's a deep movie. It's a powerful is. It's a deep movie. It's a powerful movie. It is like amazingly rendered and movie. It is like amazingly rendered and designed and it is more relevant now designed and it is more relevant now than it was when it came out. But um I than it was when it came out. But um I think I think about like something think I think about like something lasting in the culture. You know, it's lasting in the culture. You know, it's all subjective, but it's an interesting all subjective, but it's an interesting thing to think about in the context of thing to think about in the context of this. Then the other thing is what about this. Then the other thing is what about Nolan's future? Will this actually not Nolan's future? Will this actually not be the culmination of his career? Is he be the culmination of his career? Is he actually going to do something even actually going to do something even greater or even better? or will he have greater or even better? or will he have a precipitous fall and will this out on a precipitous fall and will this out on the Odyssey? No, I'm I'm merely Yeah. the Odyssey? No, I'm I'm merely Yeah. crafting questions for Shakespeare and crafting questions for Shakespeare and now Homer. I have never left Shakespeare now Homer. I have never left Shakespeare and I never will. Thank you, Billy. Um and I never will. Thank you, Billy. Um Homer, I like the Odyssey as a story. Homer, I like the Odyssey as a story. It's a good story. It's you know, It's a good story. It's you know, definitely works. It's a guy and he's definitely works. It's a guy and he's just looking for stuff. Is that not a just looking for stuff. Is that not a journey? Yeah, let's go on a journey. journey? Yeah, let's go on a journey. What is home? And and what is home? What is home? And and what is home? Yeah, I've asked myself that before. Uh, Yeah, I've asked myself that before. Uh, is it possible that he is still going is it possible that he is still going up? up? up? Sure, anything's possible. What do you Sure, anything's possible. What do you think? Well, I you know, it's it he did think? Well, I you know, it's it he did kickstart like a pretty interesting kickstart like a pretty interesting moment both in like IMAX Mania and we moment both in like IMAX Mania and we knew Nolan Mania was there, but like the knew Nolan Mania was there, but like the Odyssey is being covered regularly on Odyssey is being covered regularly on Dumo. Like I don't know what else to say Dumo. Like I don't know what else to say to you about that. you know, like it has to you about that. you know, like it has this Christopher Nolan phase has gone this Christopher Nolan phase has gone past Reddit and movie lovers. Um, and I past Reddit and movie lovers. Um, and I think he's been quite cany about that, think he's been quite cany about that, right? Like he is just collecting all right? Like he is just collecting all the movie stars and putting them all in the movie stars and putting them all in his ensemble. his ensemble. his ensemble. So I So I So I I maybe as many people will go see it. I maybe as many people will go see it. That is like hard for me to imagine, you That is like hard for me to imagine, you know, like I just can't. But we couldn't know, like I just can't. But we couldn't believe that people would sign up for a believe that people would sign up for a three-hour epic about J. Robert three-hour epic about J. Robert Oenheimer. $975 million Oenheimer made. Oenheimer. $975 million Oenheimer made. I know the Odyssey has battles in it and I know the Odyssey has battles in it and monsters. That's true. Though the monsters. That's true. Though the Odyssey, like they did try to make Odyssey, like they did try to make people read it or at least read an a people read it or at least read an a bridged version of it in school once bridged version of it in school once upon a time, you know. So there's some upon a time, you know. So there's some like homework distaste. Oh, interesting. like homework distaste. Oh, interesting. Yeah. As opposed to all the fun of the Yeah. As opposed to all the fun of the the atomic bomb. Well, I don't really the atomic bomb. Well, I don't really like, you know, history classes don't like, you know, history classes don't ever get to that point, right? Like all ever get to that point, right? Like all history classes, they just run out of history classes, they just run out of time. It's like May 31st and you've like time. It's like May 31st and you've like made it to World War II. We did get to made it to World War II. We did get to World War II in my AP. But like I have World War II in my AP. But like I have to tell you like yada yada like they to tell you like yada yada like they like they D-Day and then everything else like they D-Day and then everything else they yada yada. They're like, we don't they yada yada. They're like, we don't really have time to get into the really have time to get into the complexities of this. Sounds like your complexities of this. Sounds like your teachers didn't know how to put together teachers didn't know how to put together a syllabus. They should call me. Um I a syllabus. They should call me. Um I haven't mentioned that this movie is haven't mentioned that this movie is based on a book, a very good book called based on a book, a very good book called American Prometheus, the triumph and American Prometheus, the triumph and tragedy of Jay. Robert Oppenheimer tragedy of Jay. Robert Oppenheimer written by Kai Bird and the late Martin written by Kai Bird and the late Martin Sherwin. And he did have that to work Sherwin. And he did have that to work from, but that's also part of why the from, but that's also part of why the movie is so good to me is because movie is so good to me is because there's that's a dense 600page book there's that's a dense 600page book about the man's entire life and he's had about the man's entire life and he's had to synthesize that way down. So, a huge to synthesize that way down. So, a huge achievement. Um, any any final thoughts achievement. Um, any any final thoughts you want to share about Oppenheimer you want to share about Oppenheimer before we do recommend it if you like? before we do recommend it if you like? I I like this movie. Okay. You have some I I like this movie. Okay. You have some misgivings. No, no, no. I don't. I misgivings. No, no, no. I don't. I don't. Um, this is so this is a don't. Um, this is so this is a collaborative act. This list has been an collaborative act. This list has been an interesting process. This is where this interesting process. This is where this is where we met and I think I everything is where we met and I think I everything that we talked about that is amazing that we talked about that is amazing about this movie is amazing about this about this movie is amazing about this movie. Um, I the Dark Knight thing not movie. Um, I the Dark Knight thing not having a superhero movie on this list is having a superhero movie on this list is interesting and like I I say that to interesting and like I I say that to you. I don't I don't think that there you. I don't I don't think that there are any fivestar masterpiece superhero are any fivestar masterpiece superhero movies. Okay. I just don't I I I like a movies. Okay. I just don't I I I like a lot of them a lot. I mean, I I lot of them a lot. I mean, I I definitely don't, but The Dark Knight is definitely don't, but The Dark Knight is pretty good. And I It could serve double pretty good. And I It could serve double as the Nolan as the Nolan entrance and the superhero entrance to entrance and the superhero entrance to me would have, you know, it could if if me would have, you know, it could if if you were, you know, my convictions. You you were, you know, my convictions. You have a weekly podcast about Batman, have a weekly podcast about Batman, which is one of the best shows here at which is one of the best shows here at the Ringer Podcast Network. It's called the Ringer Podcast Network. It's called The Dark Knight Tests, and it's a The Dark Knight Tests, and it's a woman's perspective on Bruce Wayne, and woman's perspective on Bruce Wayne, and I'm a huge fan of the I'm an executive I'm a huge fan of the I'm an executive producer on that podcast and I've been producer on that podcast and I've been happy to help you along the way. And for happy to help you along the way. And for your 25 for 25 Batman related media list your 25 for 25 Batman related media list that you're doing, you could put Dark that you're doing, you could put Dark Knight in number one if you want. Sure. Knight in number one if you want. Sure. But unfortunately, I have to do Ben But unfortunately, I have to do Ben Affleck's cameo as Batman and the Flash Affleck's cameo as Batman and the Flash at number one cuz I really thought he at number one cuz I really thought he brought some emotional resonance. What brought some emotional resonance. What about George Clooney's cameo as Batman about George Clooney's cameo as Batman in the Flash? Honestly, I didn't I saw in the Flash? Honestly, I didn't I saw the Flash and I don't remember that. the Flash and I don't remember that. Like was I in the bathroom? We have gone Like was I in the bathroom? We have gone a far a field here on this podcast. a far a field here on this podcast. Recommend it if you like. Um, Citizen Recommend it if you like. Um, Citizen Kane. Yeah, seems okay. Appropriate. Kane. Yeah, seems okay. Appropriate. Great man. Maybe not everything he was Great man. Maybe not everything he was cracked up to be. Some second thoughts cracked up to be. Some second thoughts on his life. Uh, Amadeus. Yeah, but on his life. Uh, Amadeus. Yeah, but Amadeus was pretty good. This was like Amadeus was pretty good. This was like kind of the best one I came up with kind of the best one I came up with where I was like the same energy, the where I was like the same energy, the same sense of grand drama and scope and same sense of grand drama and scope and boring factions and Yes. Um, Lincoln. boring factions and Yes. Um, Lincoln. Yeah, sure. Not a fan of Lincoln. Well, Yeah, sure. Not a fan of Lincoln. Well, I don't know whether Lincoln is really I don't know whether Lincoln is really taking like a are we sure approach to taking like a are we sure approach to Lincoln. You know what I mean? Lincoln. You know what I mean? Are we sure? Are we sure? Uh, Interstellar. Are we sure it's good? Uh, Interstellar. Are we sure it's good? Sure. Um, if you like any Christopher Sure. Um, if you like any Christopher Nolan movies, then you will like the Nolan movies, then you will like the film Oenheimer if you haven't seen it. film Oenheimer if you haven't seen it. Steve Jobs. Yeah, this is a good one. I Steve Jobs. Yeah, this is a good one. I mean, like the sort of That's a real Are mean, like the sort of That's a real Are we sure? Is it good? No. Like a we sure? Is it good? No. Like a suspicious like this is a great person suspicious like this is a great person with great ideas, but is he a great with great ideas, but is he a great person? Well, but you know, he makes the person? Well, but you know, he makes the iPod for his daughter, so he does. Thank iPod for his daughter, so he does. Thank God for that. Hopefully one day I can God for that. Hopefully one day I can make an iPod for my daughter. And then I make an iPod for my daughter. And then I put The Brutalist on here. Yeah, of put The Brutalist on here. Yeah, of course. Seen The Brutalist? Yeah. Good course. Seen The Brutalist? Yeah. Good movie. Very good. Very good film. Um, movie. Very good. Very good film. Um, any other thoughts? any other thoughts? Well, it's really fun to make a make a Well, it's really fun to make a make a show with you and to also to learn about show with you and to also to learn about what your definition of compromises. what your definition of compromises. What do you mean? That's not fair. I've What do you mean? That's not fair. I've been very generous in this process. What been very generous in this process. What if I just started doing like the whole if I just started doing like the whole kitty like you know correcting the tense kitty like you know correcting the tense of the interrogator speech right now of the interrogator speech right now just to close this out. I wish you luck just to close this out. I wish you luck but in the meantime I would have you but in the meantime I would have you take in the sheets. That's what I would take in the sheets. That's what I would like you to do. Thanks to our producer like you to do. Thanks to our producer Jack Sanders for his work on this Jack Sanders for his work on this episode. Not a coincidence. Happy Fourth episode. Not a coincidence. Happy Fourth of July weekend. That's good. I'll tell of July weekend. That's good. I'll tell you something. But you you figured out you something. But you you figured out the schedule just so today is our the schedule just so today is our Independence Day. There you go. Good Independence Day. There you go. Good job, Sean Benning. We'll be back next job, Sean Benning. We'll be back next week with part two of our 2025 movie week with part two of our 2025 movie auction. We'll see you then.