================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: K2I96G7mqc8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K2I96G7mqc8
TITLE: The 25 Best Movies of the Century: No. 19 - ‘Spirited Away’ | The Big Picture
CHANNEL: Ringer Movies
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-26
DURATION: 38m 6s
VIEWS: 14,251
LIKES: 398
COMMENTS: 87
TAGS: Movies, Film, Cinema, The Ringer, Ringer, Rewatchables, The Rewatchables, Big Pic, Big Picture, Bill Simmons

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sean and Amanda return to continue their yearlong project of listing the 25 best movies of the 21st century so far. Today, they discuss Hayao Miyazaki’s masterpiece, ‘Spirited Away’: the wonderful 2002 animated fantasy film, which features an unbound representation of what it feels like to be a child. They talk about what they make of Chihiro as an unusual main character figure, celebrate the huge technical achievement in its stunning animation, and explore how its “perfect movie status" is defined by its singularity.

Hosts: Sean Fennessey and Amanda Dobbins
Producer: Jack Sanders

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RINGER CHANNELS
The Ringer-Verse YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@ringerverse
The Bill Simmons YouTube channel: youtube.com/billsimmons

CONNECT
Shop: https://theringer.com/shop
Website: http://theringer.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ringer
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ringer
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ringer

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 14,519

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobins. I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobins. And this is 25 for 25, a big picture And this is 25 for 25, a big picture special conversation show about Spirited special conversation show about Spirited Away. We finally have an animated film Away. We finally have an animated film on our list. Amanda, how are you feeling on our list. Amanda, how are you feeling about that fact? I feel great. Jack, our about that fact? I feel great. Jack, our producer, was like, "I don't know what producer, was like, "I don't know what the argument against Spirit Away would the argument against Spirit Away would be." And that's not the point of this be." And that's not the point of this series that we're doing because this is series that we're doing because this is there are no arguments. What a what a there are no arguments. What a what a beautiful film. We've had some beautiful film. We've had some complicated conversations about complicated conversations about animation on this show over the years, animation on this show over the years, but um recently Well, it means that but um recently Well, it means that Chris doesn't watch them and you you Chris doesn't watch them and you you will watch them, but not but not with will watch them, but not but not with intensity. intensity. intensity. Yeah, it's I mean it's not my Yeah, it's I mean it's not my preferred like format, what would we preferred like format, what would we call it, of you know style of genre? call it, of you know style of genre? Yeah. Style of film making. Um but I Yeah. Style of film making. Um but I think it's pretty hard to argue with think it's pretty hard to argue with this as a as a visual masterpiece and as this as a as a visual masterpiece and as a you a you a you know a a a way of telling a story that know a a a way of telling a story that could only be told through animation. could only be told through animation. That's I think the biggest reason why I That's I think the biggest reason why I will I'll spoil the fact that this is will I'll spoil the fact that this is our only animated film on the list. And our only animated film on the list. And so you've been getting a little like so you've been getting a little like nervous about spoilers in the last few. nervous about spoilers in the last few. Well, some things I want to share and Well, some things I want to share and some things I don't. So, anybody who's some things I don't. So, anybody who's earmarking a space for a film like earmarking a space for a film like Wall-E or a film like Up or um The Wall-E or a film like Up or um The Incredibles, you know, like all the Coco Incredibles, you know, like all the Coco out, you know, never even on the short out, you know, never even on the short list or the long list. M I I have a soft list or the long list. M I I have a soft spot for Ratatouille and I think there spot for Ratatouille and I think there was a version of this list where I would was a version of this list where I would have made a bid for it but I would never have made a bid for it but I would never have made it at the expense of a have made it at the expense of a Miyazaki film and Miyazaki's made a few Miyazaki film and Miyazaki's made a few movies in this century. Um if I had my movies in this century. Um if I had my brothers I think my neighbor Totoro and brothers I think my neighbor Totoro and Princess Manoke would be your pick my Princess Manoke would be your pick my alltime Miyazaki picks but those are alltime Miyazaki picks but those are those are films that predate the 21st those are films that predate the 21st century. Those Yeah, those are not century. Those Yeah, those are not eligible for this. I do think when we eligible for this. I do think when we were putting the list together, I my were putting the list together, I my inclusion was any Mia Zaki film that you inclusion was any Mia Zaki film that you want, but I assume it will be spiritual. want, but I assume it will be spiritual. That is what you wrote and that is where That is what you wrote and that is where we landed and that was where that was we landed and that was where that was like the only animation slot that was like the only animation slot that was available. uh Miyazaki, one of the maybe available. uh Miyazaki, one of the maybe at the top of the inarguable leaderboard at the top of the inarguable leaderboard of filmmakers along with like Spielberg of filmmakers along with like Spielberg and Copala and a very short list of and Copala and a very short list of filmmakers for whom the industry has filmmakers for whom the industry has kind of rallied around him over the last kind of rallied around him over the last 40 or so years since he's been making 40 or so years since he's been making films. somebody who um is widely films. somebody who um is widely acknowledged to have pushed the style of acknowledged to have pushed the style of film making forward, storytelling film making forward, storytelling forward, but also somebody who's heavily forward, but also somebody who's heavily indebted to the 100 plus year history of indebted to the 100 plus year history of cinema and even the hundreds of years cinema and even the hundreds of years history, centuries history of history, centuries history of storytelling. And I think he's kind of storytelling. And I think he's kind of an interesting person in the aftermath an interesting person in the aftermath of our classics conversation classics of our classics conversation classics because this movie is very indebted to because this movie is very indebted to the story the history of fairy tale. Um the story the history of fairy tale. Um so Spirited Away is a film that came out so Spirited Away is a film that came out in 2001 but not in America in Japan. It in 2001 but not in America in Japan. It came out in 2001 and was very quickly came out in 2001 and was very quickly became the highest grossing movie in the became the highest grossing movie in the history of Japanese cinema. It only history of Japanese cinema. It only recently I think in 2020 got knocked off recently I think in 2020 got knocked off by a Demon Slayer film which I know you by a Demon Slayer film which I know you saw in theaters during co um and um this saw in theaters during co um and um this movie was an absolute phenomenon which movie was an absolute phenomenon which on the one hand I think makes sense on the one hand I think makes sense because it's arriving at that moment. because it's arriving at that moment. You could probably compare it to sort of You could probably compare it to sort of like the Jurassic Park moment in Stephen like the Jurassic Park moment in Stephen Spielberg's career where it's like he's Spielberg's career where it's like he's done this five or six times in a row now done this five or six times in a row now and there's a lot of anticipation for and there's a lot of anticipation for the film. The film's also hugely defined the film. The film's also hugely defined by its point of view on Japan at that by its point of view on Japan at that time in history and its relationship to time in history and its relationship to sort of like where it was in the 80s and sort of like where it was in the 80s and 90s and what it was becoming in the 21st 90s and what it was becoming in the 21st century. Um, and it's also a movie that century. Um, and it's also a movie that appeals widely to very young people all appeals widely to very young people all the way to very old people. It's a movie the way to very old people. It's a movie literally about life and death and literally about life and death and everything in between those spaces. So everything in between those spaces. So this was a huge movie in Japan and I this was a huge movie in Japan and I think it's a fitting movie to add to our think it's a fitting movie to add to our list because even though it is not the list because even though it is not the first film that was brought to America, first film that was brought to America, Miyazaki film that was brought to Miyazaki film that was brought to America is kind of the signature movie America is kind of the signature movie that was brought to America. Um you know that was brought to America. Um you know John Lacader who was working at Pixar at John Lacader who was working at Pixar at the time was a massive fan of Miyazaki the time was a massive fan of Miyazaki and a friend and Michael Eisner and a friend and Michael Eisner encouraged him hey maybe we should encouraged him hey maybe we should distribute this movie and they did. They distribute this movie and they did. They brought it over to America and made a brought it over to America and made a good amount of money and it won the best good amount of money and it won the best animated feature at the Academy Awards. animated feature at the Academy Awards. And I think that not that win And I think that not that win specifically, but that conversion is specifically, but that conversion is makes it a nice tidy entry into our list makes it a nice tidy entry into our list because I think it without a movie like because I think it without a movie like this, I'm not sure if we get to the this, I'm not sure if we get to the place where um Parasite wins best place where um Parasite wins best picture, for example. You know, I I see picture, for example. You know, I I see it as an interesting link in the chain it as an interesting link in the chain of the globalization or of the globalization or internationalization of cinema in the internationalization of cinema in the United States because even though this United States because even though this movie was dubbed when it was released movie was dubbed when it was released here, the storytelling style, the way here, the storytelling style, the way that it looks, the names of the that it looks, the names of the characters, this was an introduction to characters, this was an introduction to a lot of people at a very young age to a lot of people at a very young age to Japanese. I was going to say the other Japanese. I was going to say the other part of it is really the generational part of it is really the generational aspect because I do think like Miyazaki aspect because I do think like Miyazaki films became so huge to kids about 10 to films became so huge to kids about 10 to 15 years younger than us. Hi Jack, you 15 years younger than us. Hi Jack, you know, hi Bobby. Hi everyone who were know, hi Bobby. Hi everyone who were experiencing them um at a at a at a very experiencing them um at a at a at a very particular age and an age where many of particular age and an age where many of the characters are that you know their the characters are that you know their age as well. But so it opens up not just age as well. But so it opens up not just animation to them but also world cinema animation to them but also world cinema and and even a little bit like you know and and even a little bit like you know being a film bro you know that you're being a film bro you know that you're like that you're going in like with a like that you're going in like with a those culty qualities movies. Yeah. those culty qualities movies. Yeah. Yeah. And and I mean that that persists Yeah. And and I mean that that persists Miyazaki and the Studio Ghibli films I Miyazaki and the Studio Ghibli films I think exist in this unusual liinal space think exist in this unusual liinal space between Disney and Film Bro cult. like between Disney and Film Bro cult. like there is an entire amusement park there is an entire amusement park dedicated to the world of Studio Ghibli. dedicated to the world of Studio Ghibli. There is all kinds of merchandise that There is all kinds of merchandise that you can buy. And yet these are still you can buy. And yet these are still sort of boutique films and they're not sort of boutique films and they're not um serialized in any way. They're um serialized in any way. They're inspired by stories, but they're not inspired by stories, but they're not necessarily adaptations of stories. It's necessarily adaptations of stories. It's not Marvel or um Aladdin and Aladdin 2 not Marvel or um Aladdin and Aladdin 2 and then the live action Aladdin. There and then the live action Aladdin. There is something, you know, contained about is something, you know, contained about the individual movie experiences of the individual movie experiences of them. And yet there is a stylistic thing them. And yet there is a stylistic thing about Miyazaki's handrawn animation and about Miyazaki's handrawn animation and even the animation of the other even the animation of the other filmmakers who work at Jibli that um filmmakers who work at Jibli that um does feel like it is part of like an does feel like it is part of like an industrialized machine, you know, even industrialized machine, you know, even though it's humans that are making this though it's humans that are making this work for the most part, right? But it's work for the most part, right? But it's like it is a house style that has become like it is a house style that has become readily identifiable and like forgive me readily identifiable and like forgive me for bringing corporate terminology into for bringing corporate terminology into this but like a brand on its own. And this but like a brand on its own. And there are people there like they are there are people there like they are heavy into the merchandising. Speaking heavy into the merchandising. Speaking of the the Disney of it all, but it is of the the Disney of it all, but it is it it is like boutique or like artouse it it is like boutique or like artouse merchandising for for whatever reason. merchandising for for whatever reason. It's a it's a funny it's a funny It's a it's a funny especially given the topic of most of especially given the topic of most of the films. Yes. you know that it's that the films. Yes. you know that it's that they're straddling those worlds just so they're straddling those worlds just so yeah I mean the the why of this film on yeah I mean the the why of this film on the list is is pretty wide ranging. I do the list is is pretty wide ranging. I do think that this happened after we think that this happened after we determined that this movie would make determined that this movie would make the list but the AI Studio Ghibli right the list but the AI Studio Ghibli right um style that emerged just a few weeks um style that emerged just a few weeks ago. We're recording this in May of ago. We're recording this in May of 2025. 2025. 2025. um was a reminder of how these like the um was a reminder of how these like the co-optation I think of art into these co-optation I think of art into these like machine-like systems like machine-like systems persists is relevant is obviously a persists is relevant is obviously a little bit gross and dangerous. The idea little bit gross and dangerous. The idea of like the pre the office of the of like the pre the office of the president using the Studio Ghibli AI president using the Studio Ghibli AI transmitter to create versions of the transmitter to create versions of the stories that he wants to tell is kind of stories that he wants to tell is kind of unfortunate and probably would make unfortunate and probably would make Miyazaki want to kill himself. But is Miyazaki want to kill himself. But is also kind of an inevitability of the also kind of an inevitability of the power of the work that he was making power of the work that he was making that it found its way across the world, that it found its way across the world, across generations. Yeah. All over the across generations. Yeah. All over the place. And I find that really place. And I find that really fascinating because while I've always, fascinating because while I've always, you know, enjoyed Miyazaki films since you know, enjoyed Miyazaki films since the first ones I saw, and I would the first ones I saw, and I would imagine this is one of, if this is imagine this is one of, if this is probably the first one that I saw, I probably the first one that I saw, I probably saw this in college, but not in probably saw this in college, but not in a movie theater, but since I've been a movie theater, but since I've been watching these watching these watching these movies, I don't mean this in a pjorative movies, I don't mean this in a pjorative way at all, but these are weird movies. way at all, but these are weird movies. Um, yeah. Yeah. You know, I I know that Um, yeah. Yeah. You know, I I know that you were getting more acquainted with you were getting more acquainted with them when The Boy in the Heron came out them when The Boy in the Heron came out and Miyazaki had this kind of sec huge and Miyazaki had this kind of sec huge second wave in America and won another second wave in America and won another Oscar and then Porco Roso came into my Oscar and then Porco Roso came into my house. You know, I like I live in the house. You know, I like I live in the world and that is a far less weird movie world and that is a far less weird movie than than this movie. Yes. Which is like than than this movie. Yes. Which is like fantastical. And like it's I think it's fantastical. And like it's I think it's okay that it's weird. It is supposed to okay that it's weird. It is supposed to be a like a a strange and exciting fairy be a like a a strange and exciting fairy tale. And so all of the creatures and tale. And so all of the creatures and the things that the creatures do and the the things that the creatures do and the way that they way that they um the way that the main characters make um the way that the main characters make their decisions or interact in the world their decisions or interact in the world is like supposed to be a a little uh is like supposed to be a a little uh unusual you know it has some like you unusual you know it has some like you know Grim's fairy tale you know those know Grim's fairy tale you know those things are weird too like the the things are weird too like the the imaginary world does not always have to imaginary world does not always have to be this you know Disney Disney pink like be this you know Disney Disney pink like everything's happy things. They, you everything's happy things. They, you know, your imagination can get funky, know, your imagination can get funky, too. It's true. I think the film is too. It's true. I think the film is really firmly rooted in a handful of really firmly rooted in a handful of other Disney classics. Alice in other Disney classics. Alice in Wonderland, of course, and Louisis Wonderland, of course, and Louisis Carol's writing is obviously a huge Carol's writing is obviously a huge influence on this movie. Uh, Pinocchio, influence on this movie. Uh, Pinocchio, and the kind of transmogriication of and the kind of transmogriication of children, the like the the thin line children, the like the the thin line between human and and and beast that between human and and and beast that that movie really explores. Uh Peter Pan that movie really explores. Uh Peter Pan I think is obviously also hugely I think is obviously also hugely important just in terms of kind of important just in terms of kind of flying the transporting to a never flying the transporting to a never neverland kind of space and also the neverland kind of space and also the sort of sort of sort of um uh creatures that can communicate in um uh creatures that can communicate in ways that you would never expect them to ways that you would never expect them to in the human world. The one thing that in the human world. The one thing that separates I think those movies from this separates I think those movies from this one in particular is this is a movie one in particular is this is a movie that even if it is not explicitly about that even if it is not explicitly about death, it is very much about the space death, it is very much about the space between life and death in the spirit between life and death in the spirit world. And that is very heady. And as world. And that is very heady. And as the the parent of a toddler, you know, the the parent of a toddler, you know, we've had a couple of death we've had a couple of death conversations recently. And a movie like conversations recently. And a movie like this kind of confronts you with some of this kind of confronts you with some of those concepts because of the loss of those concepts because of the loss of parents early in the story. And we parents early in the story. And we should say that this is a story about a should say that this is a story about a young 10-year-old girl named Chihiro who young 10-year-old girl named Chihiro who um is moving with her parents to a new um is moving with her parents to a new home in a new town. She's left her home in a new town. She's left her school. She's left her friends. They're school. She's left her friends. They're on a car trip at the beginning of the on a car trip at the beginning of the movie. They pass by this sort of movie. They pass by this sort of collection of stones that represent past collection of stones that represent past lives and they're headed off to their lives and they're headed off to their new house and on their way her father new house and on their way her father takes a shortcut and they go into this takes a shortcut and they go into this kind of backwoods area and they come kind of backwoods area and they come upon an abandoned amusement park. But upon an abandoned amusement park. But then strangely at the abandoned then strangely at the abandoned amusement park there's food, right? amusement park there's food, right? Right. Seems like food that has recently Right. Seems like food that has recently been prepared and her parents as been prepared and her parents as representatives of the metaphorical representatives of the metaphorical greedy westernized. Her parents driving greedy westernized. Her parents driving out. Yes. Post80s Japanese um gorge out. Yes. Post80s Japanese um gorge themselves and transform into pigs. And themselves and transform into pigs. And when they transform into pigs, this when they transform into pigs, this world becomes a a new world. It world becomes a a new world. It transforms into the spirit world. And transforms into the spirit world. And Chihiro is goes on a magical adventure, Chihiro is goes on a magical adventure, right? Um that is sometimes gross, right? Um that is sometimes gross, sometimes scary, sometimes beautiful, sometimes scary, sometimes beautiful, sometimes profound. sometimes profound. sometimes profound. Um, but sometimes random. It It's odd. I Um, but sometimes random. It It's odd. I mean, I think it's very very I think mean, I think it's very very I think that's sort of what I'm getting at is that's sort of what I'm getting at is that Yeah. that the the rules don't that Yeah. that the the rules don't follow any sort of basic real life logic follow any sort of basic real life logic and you're like, "Oh, so that's how this and you're like, "Oh, so that's how this is like, okay." Yeah. And that's also is like, okay." Yeah. And that's also true. Yeah. It's also true in other true. Yeah. It's also true in other Miyazaki movies, but this one in Miyazaki movies, but this one in particular, I think, feels like a head particular, I think, feels like a head trip. It feels like someone is having a trip. It feels like someone is having a dream. You know what I mean? Where dream. You know what I mean? Where there's like there's there's blank spots there's like there's there's blank spots in the dream. There's blank spots in the in the dream. There's blank spots in the logic of how the world works. And the logic of how the world works. And the more times that you watch it, the more more times that you watch it, the more you can kind of see how what the you can kind of see how what the connective tissue is for each storyline connective tissue is for each storyline and what each character represents. And and what each character represents. And it can be understood as a deeply it can be understood as a deeply metaphorical movie. But Miyazaki has metaphorical movie. But Miyazaki has said that this is a movie for said that this is a movie for 10-year-old girls. He wrote it for 10-year-old girls. He wrote it for 10-year-old girls that he knew at a at a 10-year-old girls that he knew at a at a certain time in his life, that he was certain time in his life, that he was inspired by the manga books that those inspired by the manga books that those girls were reading, and that he wanted girls were reading, and that he wanted to kind of transport some of his to kind of transport some of his interest in fairy tale to those interest in fairy tale to those girls. But Chihiro is not like a typical girls. But Chihiro is not like a typical girl character, I would say. Like, what girl character, I would say. Like, what do you make of her as a figure in this do you make of her as a figure in this story? story? story? I I you know I just want to hug her the I I you know I just want to hug her the whole time because as the parent of whole time because as the parent of toddlers you immediately put yourself toddlers you immediately put yourself into this but into this but she's she is willful but like she means she's she is willful but like she means she was a little less um she was a she was a little less um she was a little more scared and a little more little more scared and a little more uncertain than the like typical hearty uncertain than the like typical hearty like YA protagonist that like we've been like YA protagonist that like we've been sold for the the last 15 years. like she sold for the the last 15 years. like she is she's, you know, vulnerable even at is she's, you know, vulnerable even at the same time as she is like really the same time as she is like really focused on getting her parents back and focused on getting her parents back and and doing whatever task she needs to do and doing whatever task she needs to do and um observing the world and making and um observing the world and making the connections and but and and like I the connections and but and and like I guess sticking up for herself in the guess sticking up for herself in the right moment, but there's a lot of like right moment, but there's a lot of like I can't and I don't know how to do that I can't and I don't know how to do that and what am I supposed to do and this and what am I supposed to do and this sense that this really is a like a small sense that this really is a like a small kid who doesn't totally know how to kid who doesn't totally know how to function without herm parents. Yeah, function without herm parents. Yeah, she's kind of has some of the the she's kind of has some of the the defiance and petulence that you'll find defiance and petulence that you'll find in a young girl, you know, like I really in a young girl, you know, like I really identify closely some of the stuff that identify closely some of the stuff that she is doing, but also that sense of she is doing, but also that sense of confusion. Yes. And um some frustration confusion. Yes. And um some frustration and being taken advantage of in certain and being taken advantage of in certain experiences and basically like learning experiences and basically like learning what it's like in the real world even what it's like in the real world even while it's happening inside of a fantasy while it's happening inside of a fantasy world. One of the things that world. One of the things that distinguishes the movie is Miyazaki's distinguishes the movie is Miyazaki's animation style is widely acclaimed, but animation style is widely acclaimed, but this movie maybe more than any other is this movie maybe more than any other is like the pinnacle of what he does in like the pinnacle of what he does in terms of like color things that are terms of like color things that are happening. I wanted to talk to you about happening. I wanted to talk to you about this specifically. this specifically. this specifically. You have identified athletic film making You have identified athletic film making as like potentially a bit of a crutch as like potentially a bit of a crutch for certain filmmakers, right? Um too for certain filmmakers, right? Um too showy. Well, they're showy. Well, they're like the camera is their toy and they're like the camera is their toy and they're more interested in like what they can do more interested in like what they can do with their toy and like where the camera with their toy and like where the camera can zoom and go than actually using it can zoom and go than actually using it to create an image or to further a story to create an image or to further a story in like a meaningful way. Like the the in like a meaningful way. Like the the camera is the story, right? And camera is the story, right? And animation is different in that respect. animation is different in that respect. Obviously, the camera can move and does Obviously, the camera can move and does move animated features, but in move animated features, but in handdrawn, he he's more often focused on handdrawn, he he's more often focused on the frame, on the still space and then the frame, on the still space and then everything that he can fit inside of it. everything that he can fit inside of it. So, you can watch this movie a few times So, you can watch this movie a few times and see something different in every and see something different in every corner of every action. And this isn't corner of every action. And this isn't essential to enjoying the movie, but essential to enjoying the movie, but when you think about the amount of work when you think about the amount of work that goes into making a movie that feels that goes into making a movie that feels that way, that is drawn by hand, right? that way, that is drawn by hand, right? This is like a huge achievement. You This is like a huge achievement. You know, most animated movies that you know, most animated movies that you watch in the pre uh computerenerated watch in the pre uh computerenerated era, it's a it's a flat surface. It's era, it's a it's a flat surface. It's almost a 2D surface with characters almost a 2D surface with characters moving inside of it. And this is one moving inside of it. And this is one that feels like it is like background, that feels like it is like background, foreground, life in every frame. Yeah. I foreground, life in every frame. Yeah. I mean, the thing about it, it's obviously mean, the thing about it, it's obviously a huge like technical a huge like technical like application of skill achievement, like application of skill achievement, but like whatever it is absolutely but like whatever it is absolutely beautiful like that. It is just straight beautiful like that. It is just straight up art. like the color especially and um up art. like the color especially and um but you know either the the handstrokes but you know either the the handstrokes or the the brush strokes the the or the the brush strokes the the creatures it is a feat of imagination it creatures it is a feat of imagination it is a feat of composition it is a feat of is a feat of composition it is a feat of just something that you want to look at just something that you want to look at and because an animator I guess has like and because an animator I guess has like even more control over the frame I guess even more control over the frame I guess you could then term it as like athletic you could then term it as like athletic film making cuz he's like really showing film making cuz he's like really showing off but like I don't care if you can do off but like I don't care if you can do this it's not showing off it's just this it's not showing off it's just making something beautiful. Yeah, I making something beautiful. Yeah, I think it it is also useful in terms of think it it is also useful in terms of pushing the story forward cuz it's kind pushing the story forward cuz it's kind of showing us whether it's an like a of showing us whether it's an like a literalization of the spirit world or literalization of the spirit world or just a literalization of everything that just a literalization of everything that is in Chihiro's head where she can kind is in Chihiro's head where she can kind of like imagine right what would be in a of like imagine right what would be in a space like this that this is a true space like this that this is a true story. My daughter woke up this morning story. My daughter woke up this morning and she came out of her bedroom and she and she came out of her bedroom and she said, "Dad, I think I had a dream." And said, "Dad, I think I had a dream." And I said, "What was what did you dream I said, "What was what did you dream about?" And she said, "I dreamed that about?" And she said, "I dreamed that you got me a you got me a present." I was like, "I know this game. present." I was like, "I know this game. I know what she's doing here." And then I know what she's doing here." And then I was like, "Well, what was the I was like, "Well, what was the present?" Yeah. And then she started present?" Yeah. And then she started describing something. Uhhuh. That is not describing something. Uhhuh. That is not possible, not logical, not real. You possible, not logical, not real. You know, it would be like, "It was an know, it would be like, "It was an alligator, but it was alive, but it was alligator, but it was alive, but it was friendly." You know, like that kind of friendly." You know, like that kind of thing. And the movie is like a thing. And the movie is like a representation of that. You know, you representation of that. You know, you see these creatures, you see um the see these creatures, you see um the little soot bugs or you see the eight little soot bugs or you see the eight armed men or you see uh all of the armed men or you see uh all of the various like frogs and walrus people and various like frogs and walrus people and all the various creatures. Is it a all the various creatures. Is it a turnup or a radish spirit? It's a good turnup or a radish spirit? It's a good question. Who hides her in the elevator? question. Who hides her in the elevator? A turnup. Um I always get those confused A turnup. Um I always get those confused as well. He's whoever he is or or she. I as well. He's whoever he is or or she. I guess I shouldn't. There's also a uh a guess I shouldn't. There's also a uh a critical figure in this movie which critical figure in this movie which feels like the most childlike logic of feels like the most childlike logic of all time that is a dashing young man. all time that is a dashing young man. Mhm. But that is also uh a dragon. Yeah. Mhm. But that is also uh a dragon. Yeah. But that is also a river spirit. Yeah. But that is also a river spirit. Yeah. And the spirit of a river that has been And the spirit of a river that has been um damaged in some way. Mhm. has been uh um damaged in some way. Mhm. has been uh toxified and it doesn't realize it's a toxified and it doesn't realize it's a river spirit anymore because of what we river spirit anymore because of what we have done to this planet. Yeah, it's a have done to this planet. Yeah, it's a pretty tangled metaphor. Um but it also pretty tangled metaphor. Um but it also is weirdly representative of how it is weirdly representative of how it feels to be a kid. I think I think feels to be a kid. I think I think that's one of the things I like about that's one of the things I like about the movie is is that it's just unbound. the movie is is that it's just unbound. It feels like it feels It feels like it feels un unstuck on a lot of the things that un unstuck on a lot of the things that we come to expect when we're watching a we come to expect when we're watching a movie and we're like why does this not movie and we're like why does this not connect to this and why does that not connect to this and why does that not connect to that and in some ways I think connect to that and in some ways I think that can be frustrating for some viewers that can be frustrating for some viewers but for the most part I think if you but for the most part I think if you turn yourself over to it um it can be turn yourself over to it um it can be very beautiful yeah but there's very beautiful yeah but there's something it doesn't in insist upon its something it doesn't in insist upon its own logic also it gives into that own logic also it gives into that fantastical quality and there is fantastical quality and there is something that is like much like a child something that is like much like a child like the the movie or Miyazaki, you like the the movie or Miyazaki, you know, whoever really believes that what know, whoever really believes that what you're seeing is the way that it is and you're seeing is the way that it is and this is just like this is what's going this is just like this is what's going on. And so you find yourself more on. And so you find yourself more willing just to kind of be like, I like willing just to kind of be like, I like I'm in this this dream world and I'm and I'm in this this dream world and I'm and I'm going with it. Yeah, I think that's I'm going with it. Yeah, I think that's a good way of putting it. There's no a good way of putting it. There's no smuggness. There's no irony. No smuggness. There's no irony. No characters turn and look at the camera characters turn and look at the camera and wink. Um, the other thing is that and wink. Um, the other thing is that even though this film and all of his even though this film and all of his films are very influential on the Pixar films are very influential on the Pixar storytelling style, this isn't a kids storytelling style, this isn't a kids movie made for adults and it isn't a movie made for adults and it isn't a kids movie made for kids. It's like a kids movie made for kids. It's like a movie that Miyazaki made for himself. movie that Miyazaki made for himself. Yeah. That is somehow universally Yeah. That is somehow universally understood, which is, I think, actually understood, which is, I think, actually the way that we tend to locate like our the way that we tend to locate like our favorite, like our favorite filmmakers, favorite, like our favorite filmmakers, people that are important to us on the people that are important to us on the show. were kind of like this person made show. were kind of like this person made this cuz it mattered to their soul, not this cuz it mattered to their soul, not because they were like, I have to meet because they were like, I have to meet the expectations of what the Disney the expectations of what the Disney board wants in Q4 and and we'll be able board wants in Q4 and and we'll be able to sell this little widget guy or also I to sell this little widget guy or also I this is what I think of 10-year-olds or this is what I think of 10-year-olds or 8-year-olds. What makes them laugh 8-year-olds. What makes them laugh versus what makes me feel something. versus what makes me feel something. Mhm. And like K we as you and I know Mhm. And like K we as you and I know that kids also actually they know when that kids also actually they know when they're being talked down to and they they're being talked down to and they actually respond much more to just actually respond much more to just someone's expression of what they want someone's expression of what they want to say. to say. to say. I don't know if the brave is not the I don't know if the brave is not the right word, but it's cool that Miyazaki right word, but it's cool that Miyazaki is so committed. I mean, he's famously is so committed. I mean, he's famously like a very a kmagin and sort of like like a very a kmagin and sort of like very difficult and very like I have my very difficult and very like I have my idea and we're sticking to my idea. You idea and we're sticking to my idea. You can tell that too, right? Like it's it's can tell that too, right? Like it's it's singular. Yeah, it's just like you are singular. Yeah, it's just like you are in someone's very very specific and and in someone's very very specific and and playful and uh soulful and and and playful and uh soulful and and and strange in a great way specific brain strange in a great way specific brain and it can only if it if it were, and it can only if it if it were, you know, farmed out to a lot of you know, farmed out to a lot of different people, you would feel it. different people, you would feel it. There is something about the like one There is something about the like one person's journey of it that that makes person's journey of it that that makes it work. It's funny because pre the boy it work. It's funny because pre the boy and the heron he hadn't made a movie for and the heron he hadn't made a movie for a very long time and during that time I a very long time and during that time I think his cult grew pretty significantly think his cult grew pretty significantly and we you know I think I think the and we you know I think I think the episode we did around boy and the heron episode we did around boy and the heron was Bobby Andy and Charles and that's was Bobby Andy and Charles and that's really like yes you know different um really like yes you know different um age experiences different life age experiences different life experiences people from different parts experiences people from different parts of the country and they all had really of the country and they all had really really strong feelings about his films really strong feelings about his films but I think that we had forgotten but I think that we had forgotten and a little bit like how dug in he is and a little bit like how dug in he is on his Strong Point of View until we saw on his Strong Point of View until we saw The Boy in the Her because a lot of The Boy in the Her because a lot of people who saw it, it's a wonderful people who saw it, it's a wonderful movie. It's not one of my favorites of movie. It's not one of my favorites of his, but that it's it's um it's kind of his, but that it's it's um it's kind of aggressively him. He wasn't trying aggressively him. He wasn't trying to satisfy his audience or he hadn't to satisfy his audience or he hadn't like softened in his old age. He was like softened in his old age. He was like, I'm going to make the teeth on like, I'm going to make the teeth on this Aaron disgusting and you're going this Aaron disgusting and you're going to be forced to look at it for 35 to be forced to look at it for 35 minutes. And this movie has the same minutes. And this movie has the same thing where there's like a sludge thing where there's like a sludge monster and Noace is kind of vomiting up monster and Noace is kind of vomiting up living creatures. Like there's something living creatures. Like there's something quite quite gnarly, quite gross about quite quite gnarly, quite gross about his vision of a child's mind or these his vision of a child's mind or these fantastical worlds that he builds, which fantastical worlds that he builds, which is great. Like you don't there's no I've is great. Like you don't there's no I've I've now watched every Disney animated I've now watched every Disney animated feature ever made with my daughter and feature ever made with my daughter and there really goes there. It never really there really goes there. It never really goes there. No. And we talk a lot about goes there. No. And we talk a lot about how and now we just sound like two how and now we just sound like two really old parents. So, you know, put us really old parents. So, you know, put us on the glacier. But back in our day, you on the glacier. But back in our day, you know, you walked uphill both ways. And know, you walked uphill both ways. And they did make kids entertainment that they did make kids entertainment that was like slightly gnarly. It was never was like slightly gnarly. It was never this this this well sometimes it was this gnarly in its well sometimes it was this gnarly in its own way like that. Not this particular own way like that. Not this particular favor cuz only Miyazaki is Miyazaki. Um, favor cuz only Miyazaki is Miyazaki. Um, again the the kids know when they are again the the kids know when they are being condescended too and it like being condescended too and it like flattens like the world is is wild and flattens like the world is is wild and and children need art to help them and children need art to help them understand it as much as we do. I understand it as much as we do. I totally agree. I I find Lacier to be an totally agree. I I find Lacier to be an interesting character in this story in interesting character in this story in part because I never really feel as much part because I never really feel as much Miyazaki specifically in his movies. Miyazaki specifically in his movies. Like in Cars I don't really feel Like in Cars I don't really feel Miyazaki. maybe a little bit in terms of Miyazaki. maybe a little bit in terms of the kind of generational the generation the kind of generational the generation gaps which is a big theme as well in gaps which is a big theme as well in Miyazaki movies. But if you look at some Miyazaki movies. But if you look at some of the later Pixar movies, you know, of the later Pixar movies, you know, certainly the some of the soulful stuff certainly the some of the soulful stuff in Up, some of the soulful stuff in in Up, some of the soulful stuff in Ratatouille and Wall-E, but even more Ratatouille and Wall-E, but even more specifically in Soul and in Turning Red, specifically in Soul and in Turning Red, those are the movies that are these like those are the movies that are these like existential crisis films, right? one existential crisis films, right? one about a 13-year-old girl, one about um a about a 13-year-old girl, one about um a much older guy, but their explorations much older guy, but their explorations of something deep and they're trying to of something deep and they're trying to use like basically a child's format to use like basically a child's format to convey something really powerful. convey something really powerful. They're not quite on this level, but you They're not quite on this level, but you know, you know what I'm trying to say. know, you know what I'm trying to say. No, I do. I mean, I think but they are a No, I do. I mean, I think but they are a little bit stuck in that. Is this a little bit stuck in that. Is this a movie for kids? Is this a movie for movie for kids? Is this a movie for adults? you know, they and and some of adults? you know, they and and some of that is just because in 2022 or that is just because in 2022 or whatever, you have uh you have to whatever, you have uh you have to satisfy 18 different audiences and and satisfy 18 different audiences and and and corporate boards. But um they I and corporate boards. But um they I they're definitely influenced by I mean they're definitely influenced by I mean Domi, the uh director of Turning Red, Domi, the uh director of Turning Red, was like this is my favorite film or one was like this is my favorite film or one of my favorite films of all time. Yeah. of my favorite films of all time. Yeah. So I mean and that's another thing where So I mean and that's another thing where like we said all all of the kids all of like we said all all of the kids all of the young people who are into movies the young people who are into movies grew up on Spirited Away and then all grew up on Spirited Away and then all the rest of the Miyazaki films. So the the rest of the Miyazaki films. So the influence of this movie is not just in influence of this movie is not just in like the other animated films but in how like the other animated films but in how all the young people watch movies. It's all the young people watch movies. It's very true and that idea of the perfect very true and that idea of the perfect movie Yeah. is one that we haven't movie Yeah. is one that we haven't birked too much so far in our birked too much so far in our conversations came up during Children of conversations came up during Children of Men. That was probably the last time we Men. That was probably the last time we were like god damn. Yeah, this is really were like god damn. Yeah, this is really tight, you know, like there's not a lot tight, you know, like there's not a lot to quibble with. There's favorite and to quibble with. There's favorite and then there's like a mastery, right? And then there's like a mastery, right? And we've got a lot of favorites on this we've got a lot of favorites on this list and we've got a lot of masters. I'm list and we've got a lot of masters. I'm not I'm not making any critical not I'm not making any critical judgments in this conversation judgments in this conversation specifically about other films and I specifically about other films and I think Kiana Reeves and Something's Got think Kiana Reeves and Something's Got to Give is a well-developed and perfect to Give is a well-developed and perfect character. character. character. I'm I'm not litigating anything with I'm I'm not litigating anything with you. I promise we stand together on this you. I promise we stand together on this list. However, I'm interested in the list. However, I'm interested in the idea of the perfect movie of the way idea of the perfect movie of the way that people will identify something and that people will identify something and say this is say this is magnificent magnificent magnificent because I don't know like what is the because I don't know like what is the imperfect version of Spirited Away, you imperfect version of Spirited Away, you know, like what's the version that know, like what's the version that fails? Like it's I think it's singular fails? Like it's I think it's singular and that's probably like the more and that's probably like the more appropriate way to define the fawning appropriate way to define the fawning admiration for it is that there's just admiration for it is that there's just nothing like you know Stephen Spielberg nothing like you know Stephen Spielberg very famously said I think this is very famously said I think this is better than any Disney movie ever made. better than any Disney movie ever made. And that's high praise. Yeah. From And that's high praise. Yeah. From somebody who understands what it's like somebody who understands what it's like to reach for a perfect movie. And I find to reach for a perfect movie. And I find that interesting that it has gotten to that interesting that it has gotten to this place in this 25 year period. It this place in this 25 year period. It may have gotten to this place more than may have gotten to this place more than almost any movie on our list. Can you almost any movie on our list. Can you think of another movie that's even think of another movie that's even coming that you think would be defined coming that you think would be defined in that way? in that way? Well, for us, yes. I can think of a Well, for us, yes. I can think of a couple on the list. Think of the think couple on the list. Think of the think of the unknowable universal cannon. I of the unknowable universal cannon. I can think of a couple on our list. Yeah, can think of a couple on our list. Yeah, I can think of a couple that we I can think of a couple that we purposefully excluded. Well, sure. That purposefully excluded. Well, sure. That would be deemed as such. That's fine. would be deemed as such. That's fine. But once you're asking me to speak for But once you're asking me to speak for the people, you know, that becomes the people, you know, that becomes dangerous. Complicated. dangerous. Complicated. dangerous. Complicated. Uh I'm trying. I mean, it is so Uh I'm trying. I mean, it is so generational. You know, there are some generational. You know, there are some movies that we think are perfect and the movies that we think are perfect and the and the younger kids are like, "What are and the younger kids are like, "What are you doing?" You know, um you doing?" You know, um like The Princess Diaries. Sure. It's like The Princess Diaries. Sure. It's It's a great great film. Sure. And It's a great great film. Sure. And Princess Diaries 2 is very early in Princess Diaries 2 is very early in Chris Pine's career. We wouldn't have Chris Pine's career. We wouldn't have him without it. Haven't seen it. So, how him without it. Haven't seen it. So, how does it stack up to Spirited Away? does it stack up to Spirited Away? They do have to go to a fictional place. They do have to go to a fictional place. Uh and then learn its rules and Uh and then learn its rules and regulations. Okay. Or is everyone there regulations. Okay. Or is everyone there dead? Um well, it's really dead. How dead? Um well, it's really dead. How many of them dead on the inside? Good many of them dead on the inside? Good point. Yeah. Yeah. No, no parents have point. Yeah. Yeah. No, no parents have been turned into pigs in that film. I been turned into pigs in that film. I actually don't know what happens to Anne actually don't know what happens to Anne Hathaway's parents in Well, I guess her Hathaway's parents in Well, I guess her mom's in the first one. I don't know mom's in the first one. I don't know whether she makes the trip to Govia. I whether she makes the trip to Govia. I don't remember that. Her her grandmother don't remember that. Her her grandmother is uh is Julie Anders. Jack, am I right? is uh is Julie Anders. Jack, am I right? No idea. Oh, come on. Does Govia border No idea. Oh, come on. Does Govia border Skovia in the Marvel Cinematic Universe? Skovia in the Marvel Cinematic Universe? Okay, good to know. Okay, good to know. Uh this film the part of what is amusing Uh this film the part of what is amusing to me about some of that like to me about some of that like merchandising and the iconography of the merchandising and the iconography of the movie is like what is being the memeing movie is like what is being the memeing of this movie you know which is what of this movie you know which is what re-watching it I was like oh that still re-watching it I was like oh that still and that still you know and that still and that still you know there's the famous Shihiro and and No there's the famous Shihiro and and No Face on the subway boat that's like them Face on the subway boat that's like them sitting together that's it that's the sitting together that's it that's the one there's I didn't even know that was one there's I didn't even know that was uh that was the image but that image of uh that was the image but that image of the sort of like Yeah. Um me and my uh the sort of like Yeah. Um me and my uh my NYX fandom, you know, sitting my NYX fandom, you know, sitting together on the train, which is funny together on the train, which is funny because, you know, this character is because, you know, this character is complex and mysterious and indebted to complex and mysterious and indebted to like 1960s like 1960s like 1960s horror spirits in in Shenoda films. horror spirits in in Shenoda films. Like, it's it's very unusual kind of Like, it's it's very unusual kind of figures for them to have been like figures for them to have been like subsumed into our internet life, but subsumed into our internet life, but they very much have been. And to me, they very much have been. And to me, they're not the same. Like in My they're not the same. Like in My Neighbor Totoro, there's a a Neighbor Totoro, there's a a light-heartedness to the imagery to Cat light-heartedness to the imagery to Cat Bus, right? This movie is much more Bus, right? This movie is much more severe in terms of the story yet. No, severe in terms of the story yet. No, she's never I just feel like it's too she's never I just feel like it's too soon. Yeah, I think it's way too early. soon. Yeah, I think it's way too early. Um and and and I think it's instructive Um and and and I think it's instructive that Miyazaki says that I made it for 10 that Miyazaki says that I made it for 10 year olds. Um and I'm sure if you were year olds. Um and I'm sure if you were seven, eight, and nine, you could watch seven, eight, and nine, you could watch a movie like this, but it's not for a movie like this, but it's not for toddlers, you know? It's not Ponyo. It's toddlers, you know? It's not Ponyo. It's not even Porco Roso, which is like, hey, not even Porco Roso, which is like, hey, that pig is flying a plane. any kid like that pig is flying a plane. any kid like that. Just also the planes, right? Yes. that. Just also the planes, right? Yes. Um I mean this does have rivercraft um Um I mean this does have rivercraft um of a kind. It's got flying dragons. of a kind. It's got flying dragons. Things kids like, but it has so many Things kids like, but it has so many things that I think would be confusing things that I think would be confusing to extremely young kids. But it's it'll to extremely young kids. But it's it'll be interesting like revisiting all of be interesting like revisiting all of the Miyazaki films with her. Like she the Miyazaki films with her. Like she did watch um what did she watch? How's did watch um what did she watch? How's Moving Castle and I think it was a Moving Castle and I think it was a little too soon for that. Okay. You little too soon for that. Okay. You know, that's a fierce story about know, that's a fierce story about warriors. And Miyazaki also excels at warriors. And Miyazaki also excels at those kinds of stories. Those are really those kinds of stories. Those are really the there's three strands. There's like the there's three strands. There's like grouchy old men, you know, like the wind grouchy old men, you know, like the wind rises. Porco Roso is like this some guy rises. Porco Roso is like this some guy smoking a butt who needs to like get on smoking a butt who needs to like get on a mission. Lives in a beautiful, a mission. Lives in a beautiful, beautiful lagoon. Absolutely. Um, and beautiful lagoon. Absolutely. Um, and then then then there's young girl or young boy who's there's young girl or young boy who's been confronted by a traumatic been confronted by a traumatic experience and needs to find their way experience and needs to find their way through a complex emotional through a complex emotional world. world. world. Um, and then the third one is like young Um, and then the third one is like young guy with a sword who meets another young guy with a sword who meets another young gal who needs to like climb a castle in gal who needs to like climb a castle in the sky, right? Um, this one falls into the sky, right? Um, this one falls into that that young childlike zone, but it that that young childlike zone, but it is arguably the most adult of his is arguably the most adult of his movies, Short of The Wind Rises. So it movies, Short of The Wind Rises. So it occupies a very unusual space. It's a occupies a very unusual space. It's a coming of age story in a lot of ways as coming of age story in a lot of ways as well as being a like a fantasy story. well as being a like a fantasy story. And so those are technically about And so those are technically about younger people, but we consume them younger people, but we consume them through all ages of life. You never through all ages of life. You never moved as a kid, right? I moved houses, moved as a kid, right? I moved houses, but not cities. Okay. Um I never moved but not cities. Okay. Um I never moved as a child, but I I had certainly had as a child, but I I had certainly had friends who moved and kids who moved friends who moved and kids who moved like into my life from other places. M like into my life from other places. M and you often hear of this movie that and you often hear of this movie that this is one of the most profound this is one of the most profound representations of the emotional representations of the emotional turmoil, right, of being torn out of turmoil, right, of being torn out of your adolescence in one way and placed your adolescence in one way and placed into another environment and being into another environment and being forced to look at what your future could forced to look at what your future could be and just how disorienting it is and be and just how disorienting it is and how upsetting it can feel. And there's how upsetting it can feel. And there's something amazing about this. I mean, at something amazing about this. I mean, at the time he made this movie, he would the time he made this movie, he would think he was in his late 50s and for him think he was in his late 50s and for him to tap into that sensibility is very to tap into that sensibility is very powerful. He seems to maintain a powerful. He seems to maintain a childlike wonder. He does. He does. childlike wonder. He does. He does. While also like smoking a lot of butts While also like smoking a lot of butts and being mad about everything, you and being mad about everything, you know, we all contain multitudes. We do. know, we all contain multitudes. We do. Um, what what else? Anything else you'd Um, what what else? Anything else you'd like to share about Spirited Away? Uh, I like to share about Spirited Away? Uh, I had forgotten that I basically have a had forgotten that I basically have a big baby of my own now. Like I mean, Sai big baby of my own now. Like I mean, Sai and the and Bo are really um they got a and the and Bo are really um they got a lot in common. Yeah. Sigh is allowed to lot in common. Yeah. Sigh is allowed to go outside though, but otherwise I was go outside though, but otherwise I was like, "Oh, I I see what's happening like, "Oh, I I see what's happening here." Yeah. Yeah. Do you have any here." Yeah. Yeah. Do you have any thoughts about um Yubaba in this film or thoughts about um Yubaba in this film or or her twin sister? or her twin sister? Uh her twin sister seemed nice. Yeah, Uh her twin sister seemed nice. Yeah, it's kind of Zeneba. Yeah. Yeah. Zane. it's kind of Zeneba. Yeah. Yeah. Zane. What happened there between them? Some What happened there between them? Some sort of falling out. There's I think sort of falling out. There's I think there's some Wicked Witch of the West, there's some Wicked Witch of the West, Wicked Witch of the East stuff going on Wicked Witch of the East stuff going on there. Okay. But it's not like it's not there. Okay. But it's not like it's not really explained in a way that um No, really explained in a way that um No, that's the other thing is we're not too that's the other thing is we're not too bound up in the lore. You know, we don't bound up in the lore. You know, we don't need to understand too much about how need to understand too much about how this stuff works. I don't know if we this stuff works. I don't know if we need that many rings on our fingers need that many rings on our fingers would be my styling note to her, but would be my styling note to her, but obviously it it communicates a lot. How obviously it it communicates a lot. How do you feel about her as a do you feel about her as a representation of the kind of representation of the kind of westernized grotesquery of like fabrics westernized grotesquery of like fabrics and prints and all of these the the and prints and all of these the the colorful style that is kind of in colorful style that is kind of in opposition to the, you know, more opposition to the, you know, more historically stage Japanese style. I historically stage Japanese style. I mean, respectfully, I think she has a mean, respectfully, I think she has a pretty sick like penthouse apartment. pretty sick like penthouse apartment. Um, yeah, I thought it was tough on Um, yeah, I thought it was tough on grandma's. Yeah. Yeah. You know, well, grandma's. Yeah. Yeah. You know, well, grandmas, they can be tough. I like I I grandmas, they can be tough. I like I I was like I I see both sides. Weird was like I I see both sides. Weird grandma stuff. Sure. Yeah. But, uh I was grandma stuff. Sure. Yeah. But, uh I was more thinking about it's like a tough more thinking about it's like a tough day for grandmas. Um what are your day for grandmas. Um what are your thoughts on becoming a grandma? Uh not thoughts on becoming a grandma? Uh not anytime soon, you know. So, when do I anytime soon, you know. So, when do I start giving those speeches? Chat with start giving those speeches? Chat with Nox about that. Nox about that. Um, you know, I think that as I said at Um, you know, I think that as I said at the beginning, this movie is a really the beginning, this movie is a really important bridge for generations of important bridge for generations of movie fans to be more open to movie fans to be more open to international stories, but I think it's international stories, but I think it's also a huge bridge for animation at also a huge bridge for animation at large being accepted beyond your typical large being accepted beyond your typical Disney storytelling style. Now, there's Disney storytelling style. Now, there's obviously huge other studios that exist. obviously huge other studios that exist. DreamWorks, Illumination, those they've DreamWorks, Illumination, those they've released dozens of huge movies over the released dozens of huge movies over the last 25 years. um those are usually last 25 years. um those are usually movies for the masses, for really young movies for the masses, for really young children. But then in in addition to children. But then in in addition to that, you've got Bardman in England and that, you've got Bardman in England and the Wallace and Grommet films and um the Wallace and Grommet films and um Chicken Run and all of those stories. Chicken Run and all of those stories. And then you've also got Leica and the And then you've also got Leica and the stopotion animation style that they use. stopotion animation style that they use. And th this film maybe more than any And th this film maybe more than any other like signals the dawn of a new other like signals the dawn of a new golden age whatever a platinum age you golden age whatever a platinum age you know if you think like the 30s and the know if you think like the 30s and the 40s with Disney and then you get this 40s with Disney and then you get this fascinating kind of like midcentury all fascinating kind of like midcentury all the way through the mid80s it's not a the way through the mid80s it's not a period for Disney but it's not as strong period for Disney but it's not as strong as you would want it to be and in fact as you would want it to be and in fact most of the interesting animation work most of the interesting animation work that's happening is usually like on the that's happening is usually like on the outer edge of culture like Ralph Bakshi outer edge of culture like Ralph Bakshi or folks like that. And then in the 90s or folks like that. And then in the 90s and the late 80s, they were like Disney and the late 80s, they were like Disney really takes the crown back with like really takes the crown back with like Little Mermaid and Aladdin and The Lion Little Mermaid and Aladdin and The Lion King. And then this is the this is the King. And then this is the one that kind of kicks down the door for one that kind of kicks down the door for anybody who isn't Disney to be anybody who isn't Disney to be mainstream in some ways. And I really mainstream in some ways. And I really like that about it. I think it makes it like that about it. I think it makes it a really elegant inclusion in this list. a really elegant inclusion in this list. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And Miyazaki, we got to appreciate him And Miyazaki, we got to appreciate him when we got him. So apparently he's when we got him. So apparently he's making another movie, right? Well, it making another movie, right? Well, it was one of those he's retiring and then was one of those he's retiring and then reports of my retirement have, you know, reports of my retirement have, you know, been greatly been greatly been greatly overestimated. Um, this seems to be a overestimated. Um, this seems to be a pattern with him, right, of just being pattern with him, right, of just being like, I'll never do this again and then like, I'll never do this again and then like here's another masterpiece. Yeah. like here's another masterpiece. Yeah. Same with me in podcasting. You know, Same with me in podcasting. You know, every time I'm like, I'm done. I can't every time I'm like, I'm done. I can't do anymore. And then next week, banger do anymore. And then next week, banger after this is Final Destination week, after this is Final Destination week, you know, and got to step up. Got to you know, and got to step up. Got to make my The wind rises. Um, recommend it make my The wind rises. Um, recommend it if you like. So, we've already mentioned if you like. So, we've already mentioned a handful of these titles. I mentioned a handful of these titles. I mentioned Alice in Wonderland. I feel like that's Alice in Wonderland. I feel like that's the most significant companion. the most significant companion. Pinocchio up. I would recommend The Pinocchio up. I would recommend The Secret World of Arietti if folks haven't Secret World of Arietti if folks haven't seen it. It's a Studio Ghibli movie that seen it. It's a Studio Ghibli movie that um I believe he wrote. I think he's the um I believe he wrote. I think he's the screenwriter on that film and has a screenwriter on that film and has a somewhat similar tone. I also added Into somewhat similar tone. I also added Into the Spider-Verse. I Yeah, you know what the Spider-Verse. I Yeah, you know what I mean? That's the first one, right? I mean? That's the first one, right? That kind of the first one. Yeah. That That kind of the first one. Yeah. That sort of like almost like the noisiness sort of like almost like the noisiness of the frame, the idea of so many things of the frame, the idea of so many things happening at once in the movie feels happening at once in the movie feels super informed by the design. colors and super informed by the design. colors and like the relationship of like the like the relationship of like the to like to classical art for lack of you to like to classical art for lack of you know of like of all but Japanese as well know of like of all but Japanese as well as um you know the western cannon but um as um you know the western cannon but um that that I do think it it looks like that that I do think it it looks like something recognizable that you would something recognizable that you would see hanging on a wall in a museum 100% a see hanging on a wall in a museum 100% a lot of the images are taken directly lot of the images are taken directly from historical Japanese art from this from historical Japanese art from this film and you can see the huge influence film and you can see the huge influence on that in all modern animation on that in all modern animation Um, I also mentioned Waters Down, which Um, I also mentioned Waters Down, which I think just the sort of like I think just the sort of like mournfulness of that story, like the mournfulness of that story, like the gravity of that story, which is so gravity of that story, which is so unusual in animation to convey that and unusual in animation to convey that and also just like a whole like a whole also just like a whole other world of creatures who have like a other world of creatures who have like a life and rules of their own, how they life and rules of their own, how they live. I added um Narnia and The Golden live. I added um Narnia and The Golden Compass. And I'm like, the books are Compass. And I'm like, the books are probably closer than whatever film probably closer than whatever film adaptations exist. I'm, you know, I adaptations exist. I'm, you know, I haven't seen Greta's yet, so I'm not haven't seen Greta's yet, so I'm not going to pass judgment. recommend it if going to pass judgment. recommend it if you like Greta's Unmade Chronicles of you like Greta's Unmade Chronicles of Narnia trilogy. Um, but both places, you Narnia trilogy. Um, but both places, you know, instances of a young person know, instances of a young person passing passing passing through like a doorway or a cabinet door through like a doorway or a cabinet door or some physical structure into another or some physical structure into another spiritual world. Great spiritual world. Great recommendations. Okay, that's the only recommendations. Okay, that's the only animated film. That That's it on the animated film. That That's it on the list. Well, you got anything else that list. Well, you got anything else that you want? Gratitude is like I'm sorry but I I like Gratitude is like I'm sorry but I I like it a lot. It's a wonderful film about it a lot. It's a wonderful film about that's great. The act of creation. that's great. The act of creation. Sure. So is this. Sure. And yeah. Yeah. Sure. So is this. Sure. And yeah. Yeah. I don't think they're redundant. Okay. I don't think they're redundant. Okay. But I'm sure there are some listeners But I'm sure there are some listeners who may be disappointed. We won't we who may be disappointed. We won't we won't speak too much about Pixar. Okay. won't speak too much about Pixar. Okay. I feel okay with I feel okay with that. I know they're very important, but that. I know they're very important, but this seems more important. This is more this seems more important. This is more in line with the ourist nature of this in line with the ourist nature of this project. And our tastes. project. And our tastes. Yeah. Miyasaki and Pixar are pretty neck Yeah. Miyasaki and Pixar are pretty neck andneck for me in terms of like what andneck for me in terms of like what kind of a movie do I want to watch if kind of a movie do I want to watch if I'm going to watch Toy Story is not I'm going to watch Toy Story is not eligible. eligible. eligible. Toy Story is not eligible. And if it Toy Story is not eligible. And if it were, yeah, then we would be having that were, yeah, then we would be having that conversation. But it's not, you know. conversation. But it's not, you know. Yeah. I think there is something to that Yeah. I think there is something to that that there was like a wild act of that there was like a wild act of creation in the making of Toy Story creation in the making of Toy Story because there had never been a movie because there had never been a movie like that before. That isn't true like that before. That isn't true specifically of this Miyazaki movie, but specifically of this Miyazaki movie, but it felt like the culmination. So, that's it felt like the culmination. So, that's our pick. Um, I can't even remember what our pick. Um, I can't even remember what 18 is. What's 18? Don't say it. What is 18 is. What's 18? Don't say it. What is it? It's a good one. Is it? Yeah, it's it? It's a good one. Is it? Yeah, it's Imagine if you were like, "It sucks." Imagine if you were like, "It sucks." One of the worst ones we've picked. It's One of the worst ones we've picked. It's one where it's a director where there one where it's a director where there could have been several entries, I could have been several entries, I think. Prolific uh filmography, think. Prolific uh filmography, but for us, there was never a question. but for us, there was never a question. I like that tease. I can't even remember I like that tease. I can't even remember what the film is. Uh, stay tuned to the what the film is. Uh, stay tuned to the big picture if you want to find out. big picture if you want to find out. Thanks to our producer Jack Sanders for Thanks to our producer Jack Sanders for his work on this episode. Later this his work on this episode. Later this week, we'll be talking about Lilo and week, we'll be talking about Lilo and Stitch. Speaking of animation, come to Stitch. Speaking of animation, come to life and a world of wonder. We'll see life and a world of wonder. We'll see you then.