================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: r0gfcb4WYXU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0gfcb4WYXU
TITLE: Recovering the Lost Indosphere
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-07
DURATION: 55m 2s
VIEWS: 653
LIKES: 16
COMMENTS: 0
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The Golden Road: How Ancient India Transformed the World is the new book by the celebrated historian William Dalrymple. For listeners of Grand Tamasha, Dalrymple surely needs no introduction. He is the bestselling author of nine books, including The Last Mughal, The Anarchy, and City of Djinns. He is cofounder of the Jaipur Literature Festival and cohost of the wildly popular podcast, “Empire,” with Anita Anand.

His new book, The Golden Road, highlights India’s often forgotten role as a crucial economic fulcrum, and civilizational engine, at the heart of the ancient and early medieval worlds. It tells the story of the forgotten Indosphere and its multiple legacies.

To talk more about his new book, William joins Milan from our studio in Washington, D.C. They discuss the reasons the Indosphere has been obscured from history, the alluring narrative of the Sinocentric “Silk Road,” and Buddhism’s extraordinary journey around the world. Plus, the two discuss the deep penetration of the Hin
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 8,681

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. Welcome to Granthamasha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Hindustan Times. I'm your host Milan Bashnov. The Golden Road, how ancient India transformed the world is the new book by the celebrated historian William Drimple. For listeners of this podcast, Dal Rimple surely needs no introduction. He's the best-selling author of nine books, including The Last Mogul, The Anarchy, and my personal favorite, City of Gins. He is co-founder of the Jour Literature Festival and co-host of the wildly popular podcast empire with Anita Anand. His new book, The Golden Road, highlights India's often forgotten role as a crucial economic and civilizational engine sitting at the heart of the ancient and early medieval worlds. Above all, it tells the story of the forgotten endosphere and its multiple legacies. To talk more about his new book, William Del Rimple joins me from our studio in Washington DC. William Del Rimple, congrats on the book and thank you so much for taking the time. Thank you. We're speaking on publication day for the US which is very exciting. So very appropriate. So this is a a very big day indeed. I I an apicious day. I I I got a headache just from looking at your busy calendar which is taking you to exotic places like Houston and Dallas and St. Louis and and elsewhere but um not none of them places I know well. So it's all very exciting. You're from Houston. I'm from Houston. So after the show I'll give you give you my personal favorites of of of food and art. Um I want to start by asking you about the metathe of this book and I want to quote uh a passage that you have right at the beginning where you say the following. You say for most of the late medieval and modern history India was on the receiving end of a great deal of cultural influence from beyond its borders. But for a millennium and a half before then from about 250 B.CE CE to 1200 CE, India was a confident exporter of its own diverse civilizational uh creating what what you call in the book the endosphere and we're going to get into this in some detail but if you just kind of step back at a macro level describe for us if you could you know what constitutes in your mind the endosphere. I first became aware um of India's extraordinary influence over so wide an area particularly of Asia but also of Europe um when I traveled um 20 years ago to anchor what uh and um I was with small kids and we were going around and there was this extraordinary realization the sort of dropping of the penny that all the scenes being carved D uh on the walls of Ankorwat in the middle of the Mikong Delta in Cambodia were stories which actually took place or which were first uh told on the banks of the Yaman near where we lived in Delhi. Um stories like Krishna and the Gopies which takes place in Vindavan just to the south of Delhi. stories of the great battle of Kurukhetra, the climax of the Mahabarat. Um, which is today a railway station just an hour north of Delhi. Um, and also stories of the Ramayana which is slightly further away in uh the the climax of which is obviously the battle of Lanca uh in in what's now Sri Lanka. It was an extraordinary thing to wander around a part of the world I didn't know at all then, Cambodia, and see all these familiar stories from my adopted home of India. And the wider I I traveled, the more I became aware this was not um just a fluke that you you come across statues of Ganesh in Buddhist temples in Japan. you come across obviously the full pan penalopey of of Buddhism all over China and even as far as Siberia to the west um this realization which is something I deal a lot with in the book that the number system that we all use every day without thinking uh and particularly the the the numeral zero um these are all Indian inventions though I grew up calling them Arabic numbers because obviously the west got them from the Arabs but the Arabs got them from the Indians. And once you start putting it all together, it it it comes as what suddenly came to me as a very startling revelation of quite how wide in so many spheres of life the influence of India was. And a lot of it comes from this sort of early period between the time of Ashoka around 250 BC till the foundations of the different Turkish sultanates in in India in the sort of 12th century. And between those two dates, you got about 1,400 years when India is exporting not just religions like Hinduism and Buddhism, not just intellectual ideas like mathematics, zero and uh uh place value in in numerals, but a whole range of art, architecture, mythology, uh uh theology ology uh stories of um of a million different Sanskrit classics and uh uh and these spread out over a wide area. um so much so that you find Sanskrit being used as the language of um diplomacy of courtly language and of poetry all the way from Kandahar in Afghanistan uh to Bali or uh or or the shores of Japan. Uh and this is something which I think Indians are sometimes vaguely aware of but I think the rest of uh the human race is not. Um and even Indians are a bit confused. I mean I I I've often encountered I've been many times subsequently to Cambodia and Ankorwatt and there's always the confused Daisy wondering what uh all these Indian stories are doing in the middle of Ket. Yeah, exactly. What are these guys doing? So in the course of um lockdown when we were all uh uh locked into our homes and and in my case my library in Delhi uh I I began to read very very widely uh and to try and put all these things which are often siloed in different containers. So there's a huge amount written about Buddhism uh but that tends to be restricted to Buddhist studies uh and doesn't connect with the world of Sanskrit and Sanskrit studies which is a different um shelf of the library, a different university department and a different room often in museums. Uh and these again are quite different from those that deal with maths. And in the end I I've divided this book into three areas. The first is the story of Buddhism and how that spread over a vast area uh from Afghanistan through Pakistan right through Mongolia, Siberia, the Philippines um changing Asia forever. The second portion of the book is about Hinduism and Sanskrit and that whole uh uh bag of of culture and civilization which totally transformed Southeast Asia between the 5th and the 12th centuries. And then the third section is the story of how Indian numbers and mathematics moved westwards through the Arab world where they were adopted in the 8th century um to Europe where they came as late as the 12th century uh and these are three distinct stories but between them they tell uh an extraordinary tale and I think I mean certainly the reception this book has had in India uh and elsewhere shows that I think these are things that people haven't often connected that they these jots these dots have not been joined before and and um it's a very nice exercise to try and pull them all together into one story. So, you know, you alluded to something a second ago that I want to follow up on, which is this question of uh you know why we don't know more about this story. Right? Early on in the book you say look if India's uh transformative effect on religions and civilizations around it was so central to world history why is this kind of extraordinary diffusion of its influence not better known and now you've done this exhaustive amount of research on the endosphere. What is your best answer to this question of why it is not better and more widely known? Well, it's a very curious thing that it's not known even now. I mean, in a sense, you can understand how historically, particularly when when India was under uh British colonialism that you know, the British in a sense had a had a uh inherent interest in not trumpeting Indian achievement. Um, you can't bring you can't be a civilizing mission bringing civilization to a country that's already been civilized for 5,000 years. So you have instead figures like McCauley who who famously in his min of education says a single shelf of a good English library is worth more than the entire native literature of India and Arabia. So attitudes like that did down Indian literature and it's at this period that the Indian number system which to this day is known as the Hindi numbers in the Arab world uh and when they were introduced to Europe was known as the modus andorum the the Indian method they suddenly become Arabic numbers and and India's sort of influence is is diminished appropriately. Um, so my job I thought was to was to was to try and pull these all together. And the contrast I always had in my mind was was with the very successful job that I think the Chinese have done recently to uh to trumpet their achievements and and good on them. Um, and and the principal organ by which they've really done this is in the whole story of the Silk Road. Now I'd always assumed and I'm sure you had too that silk road is something which has always been there that uh is referred to in ancient sources in in China and in the west and and is a fact of history. Turns out actually that the term the silk road was invented by a German geographer in 1877. He calls it the German Baron Bon Richtoven comes up with this. It enters the English language as late as 1936 when a Nazi sympathizing Swede called Sven Heddin writes his travel memoirs under the title the Silk Roads and um it's only really in my sort of when I was at university in the 1980s that this term really gets out into the world and and you find exhibitions in the in the National Gallery of Art and the Metropolitan Museum uh and uh suddenly there's you know carpet shops and bars all over was Pakistan and Turkey all called the Silk Road this or the Silk Road that. Uh and it becomes a thing. Uh uh and and now it's not only a thing, it's a sort of geopolitical fact because the Chinese have built their belt and road on this myth. Um, in reality, uh, the the truth which I'm trying to bring out in this book, uh, is that the Silk Road didn't exist in any form until the Mongols created a single polity. Uh, when Genghaskhan knocks through Persia, destroys Baghdad, he does create a single borderless empire that stretches from the Mediterranean to the South China Sea. At that point in 1271, Maripello does walk a horizontal line from the Mediterranean and ends up at Shangu known later as Zanadu uh Kublakhan's pleasure dome of Korage's poem. Um but in the classical period it was impossible to uh cross uh Asia from from China to uh Rome simply because the ch the the the Persian and the Roman empires were millennial rivals who for 800 years had a very hostile border that was almost always at war leading to numerous um uh battle uh campaigns in both directions with Romans invading Persia and Persians invading Rome. than by Zantin. And it's very clear if you look at the classical sources from the earlier period from the date from the time of Rome onwards that the biggest trading partner of the Roman Empire is absolutely not China. In fact, there's no evidence that China and Rome had the slightest uh awareness of each other's existence. We don't have a single name of anyone who traveled from China to Rome or anyone from Rome who went to China. uh there's a complete uh absence of evidence for any direct contact. But we have a huge body of evidence which has been sort of not suppressed but certainly forgotten and people have not sort of taken it certainly into uh into their mindset that there was annual um trading fleets directly traveling from the Red Sea coast of Egypt which from the time of the death of Cleopatra when Octavius Augustus um uh absorbs Egypt into the Roman empire on the death of Cleopatra. From that point, Rome has a border with India and and you can travel from the Red Sea uh down through uh past Yemen um past the Kotra and get to the mouth of the Indis as little as two months uh maybe quicker with the winds in the right direction. Uh and you can reach Gujarat and you can reach particularly the great uh entropo of Kerala Mazerus uh which is a major center of east west trade. And if you start looking at the classical sources, it's all there. Uh Plenny not only says that there are direct fleets traveling backwards and forwards, but that he's worried that um well, he says India is the drain of all the precious metals in the world. uh he's very clear it's a sort of Trumpian analysis of India as this sort of uh sort of dodgy place that that that uh uh has a trade surplus with with the west as it does today and um as is the case recently the Romans imposed 30% tariffs uh wow literally uh it is literally the case it's the same figure uh and um Uh we have the details of that from a document called Mazerus Papyrus where you've got one uh invoice of a shipping container uh which has a a sort of freak survival in the desert from Egypt. Uh and we have all the details of the goods being exported from Mazerus from Kerala which are mainly ivory and nard which is a highly priced uh uh uh Himalayan product used musk used in perfumery. um amber grease which is sort of veil whale vomit which is also used in perfmery and is and is sort of extremely expensive. Uh cotton silks and particularly pepper uh and these products um are sailing from this single container and the big surprise of this invoice is the amount the Romans were paying for it. Your Indian ancestors were ripping off my western ancestors something something rotten. uh and uh um Plenny is outraged by this. He says these are not things we need, you know, they're not necessities. They are uh exotic luxuries that only degenerate women in Rome would would want to wear. And he goes on on a great rant about um silk, which he sort of regards as almost sort of porno wear. He he he says it's semi-transparent and women appear almost naked in public when they wear it. Uh and he's also very put out by Pepper, which he thinks is disgusting. can't understand why people pay to put this pungency on their food. Um, and he's a sort of conservative naval commander harumping about uh what he sees this new new fangled fad for Indian things. But it was a big deal and we know people like for example Lolina Paulina who is a mistress of Nero who wanders into parties in Rome covered with hair light with Indian diamonds with Indian garnets over her breasts with pearls on her shoes. uh and she carries the receipts to parties to show people how much it costs in first century Rome. A very nice sort of Punjabi touch. So you know when you go back to the kind of framing of the book where you you have these three pillars right the kind of spread of Buddhism the spread of Hinduism and Sanskrit and then of course the expansion of kind of mathematical scientific concepts that originated in India. Let me ask you about the first because what I found so interesting in your book is that you say look for the first 200 years or so from about the 5th to the 3rd century BC Buddhism is completely invisible in the archaeological record but then things begin to change first gradually and then quite suddenly. How did the ideas of Buddhism begin their extraordinary journey around the world out of India? So unlike Islam which you know uh appears and very quickly spreads and um even Christianity you get you know we have records of Christians appearing uh in Rome and in Asia Minor by the end of the uh first century. Uh Buddhism is a much slower grower. Um there are a few possibly Buddhist remains in the places associated with the Buddha's own life. Lumbini for example, uh Bodgaya where he where he has his uh enlightenment, Shaat where he preaches his first sermon. Uh and um Rajgeir which was the capital of of that area of of of northeast India at the time. The what would later become sort of um Patna but uh Rajgeir is is is nearer Nanda and Bodgaya uh and was the capital at that time. And um there are a few remains that are probably Buddhist monasteries and Buddhist structures from that period. But it's only when Ashoka comes into the scene in the in the 3rd century BCE that suddenly Buddhism spreads everywhere right through the rest of India through Ajanta through the uh the great Buddhist monasteries of the Dean to Sri Lanka and then we have these inscriptions left by Ashoka on his pillars and and uh rock uh edicts that uh he sends what he calls Dharma ministers which what we would call missionaries as far as Sirene. Now, Sireni is Libya. It's a long way from India. Um, it's a long way even from Egypt. Even if you're landing a a missionary um expedition at the Red Sea coast, it's still a long way to get to Sirei from there. Um, and so we have this this active promulgation by the the Morian state. Shoka was the emperor of the Morian Empire uh of this uh Buddhist faith. Uh and the result in 500 years is this extraordinary spread. It's the greatest achievement of Indian soft power ever. Buddhism spreads through what's now Pakistan and Afghanistan to Pakistan. It travels through Tibet, through China to Mongolia and Siberia. It goes through Southeast Asia, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Burma, uh, uh, and gets as far as the Philippines. And it does this, as I say, within about 500 years, you have this sudden eruption. And it's not just religious ideas. It's not just uh that um the idea of the Buddha's Dharma is passing. with it comes a whole bag of Indian philosophical and geographical and temporal uh perceptions. So how do you measure time? How do you measure geography? What are the different continents? These are all ideas from India which travel with Buddhism into China, into Central Asia, into Southeast Asia and are still there in most cases that you know Southeast Asia go there today. It is still profoundly altered by the Buddha's ideas. And I think because there are so few Buddhists in India today and because it's sort of regarded almost as a foreign faith because it's now the weight of it is in Southeast Asia or China. Um Indians don't claim it for themselves the way that they have a right to do and it's not seen as a great achievement of Indian civilization. Um and then you've got the whole second bag of of Indian influence. Um the first it's very important to realize travels with merchants. Indian merchants are leaving India from a very early period and we have modest Indian trading uh ports and uh evidence of Indian traders moving from two or three millennium BC. Uh there are early Indian traders within this valley getting to Iraq. There's Indian pepper up Rammeses II's nose in his mummification. Um there is um uh edicts about uh Indians having a brawl in Assyria. But it really gets going in the in the Buddhist period after Ashoka and and you get the strong impression that the Buddhist monasteries are major organs facilitating this expansion. So not only do they provide sort of caravansai accommodation for traveling merchants and monks, they also lend money. We have inscriptions where there's one guy who says his father was a rice farmer, but he became a Mahan navika. In other words, a great sailor and he borrows money from the monks and sails off to Southeast Asia to what's now Malaysia. Uh and his inscription says, "I came back and gave the money back with interest." uh and these monasteries are often on sites of mineral resources. So the great monastery of Mesinak in Afghanistan is on top of the biggest copper uh deposit uh in in in Central Asia, which is why there's now a Chinese mining company destroying the remains of meak as we speak. Um but there's similar iron or deposits in Malaysia that have very early Buddhist stupers around them. So these guys were quite although we have an idea of of the Buddhists as very otherworldly um uh and in Hollywood they're a sort of touchstone for the mystical and sort of almost supernatural. uh these guys are hard-headed businessmen and uh yeah I mean this was what was so fascinating to me is that you know you write that Buddhism resonated with the merchant classes of early India uh to to such an extent that it really came to thrive within their kind of urban view right so there was something about Buddhism that really gelled with the merchant and trading classes very much so and what you find is that Hinduism gels particularly with the warrior classes. So Hinduism is often something associated with the rulers while the merchants are embracing Buddhism. Uh obviously in the long run Buddhism triumphs in Southeast Asia, Hinduism triumphs in India. Uh uh uh but for a long time they're coexisting and competing uh with each other. uh and both of them have a role to play in in in the diffusion of Indian ideas and Hinduism's moment comes slightly later if if if the Buddhist expansion and the Buddhist monasteries uh if all this is taking place from you know 250 BC onwards uh the great age of Buddhist expansion sort of comes to a close with the fall of Rome um and suddenly India has to wake up because no more gold is arriving with Roman trading fleets who are um stopping in Kerala and Gujarat and buying ivory and spices and pepper and silks and cotton. Uh suddenly um there they you know everyone has to work twice as hard because the Roman gold is not uh happening. So what you see with the fall of Rome is that the Indian trading guilds particularly this extraordinary group called the 500 who are like the iron bank in Game of Thrones uh or even a bit like the East India Company though I don't say that out loud in India um with their own soldiers and their own even a core of assassins which is incredibly cool. They take anyone they think has taken out a merchant they send someone after them. Uh so these guys uh the 500 pivot eastwards and you find them setting up trading settlements all over Malaysia, the Malaka Straits, the Mikong Delta, uh Somatra, Borneo, uh the whole region um from the fifth and sixth century onwards becomes a major center of Hindu influence. So uh as a second wave you get suddenly Sanskrit names appearing uh king uh chieftains who or local kings who had previously been called a name like kadunga um suddenly renamed themselves mulavan or suryavan. Uh and this is the great age of Sanskrit and you find these wonderful Sanskrit inscriptions all over Southeast Asia in perfect grammar. It's not like they're speaking a sort of provincial pigeon Sanskrit that that doesn't cut cut the mustard with the with the intellectuals in India. Uh the Camair inscriptions are perfectly formed in their grammar and orthography. Uh and you get the impression that the Camar showing off in fact their mastery in Sanskrit. There's one little temple called Bante where the prime minister writes down his reading list that he's given to his his younger brother. Um uh and it has all you know basic piranhas and the vadas but it also has quite obscure sort of south Indian texts about uh arm cults and so on. Um and these are uh things that his son is or his brother sorry is reading. Um so we have this second wave of Indian influence spreading with Hindu kingship with Sanskrit language and this is the time that um Sanskrit scholars talk begin to talk about the the Sanskrit cosmopolis this moment when every court between Kandahar in Afghanistan through to Bali in Southeast Asia uh are using Sanskrit as their diplomatic language rather like in medieval Europe everyone used Latin as their medieval language another sacred langage which becomes uh uh associated with with diplomacy over a large area. Um and it's an incredible legacy. You you find now the whole landscape of Southeast Asia being renamed. Uh you find a new Iodia associated with of course in India with Lord Ram and and his his capital Iodia. You get a new iodia popping up outside Bangkok. you get a new kurukhetra named after the battle in Laos. Even the central river of Southeast Asia. Uh it the mikong is according to some ethmologies just at the camair pronunciation of maranga. Mar ganga mikong. Hey Grandmaster listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granthamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform, so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. I mean, you know, one of the things that you you point out is that, you know, Brahmans bought brought with them these crucial gifts that were in some ways irresistible across Asia, particularly in Southeast Asia. You had Sanskrit, you had the art of writing and you had the stories of these great Indian epics, right? And and what was remarkable in reading the book is just the power of the diffusion and the extent of the diffusion right to places that you know today would seem so far-flung but in fact all three of these things had enormous ability to kind of penetrate deeply into the grassroots of society. The script is a particularly important part of the story. So in north India you have the you Sanskrit is written like with Hindi with uh you know a straight line at the top and and the letters come off it like a washing line. Um now you can't do that sort of writing on palm leaf because those straight lines rip the palm. So they develop a circular script that goes round and round. uh uh and and and that form of of of southern Brahmi uh palava granta um is not only the basis for modern Tamil and malam in India but the basis for every pre-Islamic script in Southeast Asia mon kam pew uh uh all of them are derived which is why if you are a tambul or a malle you can begin to understand elements of of Thai or or or mon or kh because the script that the the the the lettering is related. They're not the same. Um and um this is a obviously a major unifying factor. people can uh are are writing in an indic script uh and uh and all are speaking uh in in in in the courtly circles all are speaking Sanskrit as a universal lingua frana that extends all the way from Afghanistan to to the far distant parts of Indonesia. Um and it seems to be extraordinary that people have forgotten this because this is such a vast and important thing. Also, you know, just put it down there. Ankorwat is not just the biggest Hindu temple in the world. Uh the Camar Empire is the biggest Hindu empire. Uh don't tell Mr. Modi, but it's not the Guptas. Uh the Cam Empire occupies the whole of what's now Southeast Asia at one point. Not just Cambodia, but uh a lot of Thailand, a lot of Laos, a lot of Vietnam. Um, and anchor itself, greater Anchor, has about 1.2 million people at a time when London has about 20,000. Uh, it's three harvests a year. It's incredibly rich, incredibly sophisticated. And I think one of the reasons this is not better known is that Indian historians of the 1930s slightly overplayed their hands. You had these nationalist historians like RC Majuna who would talk about uh what was going on in Southeast Asia as Hindu colonies. Now we know that to be wrong. Now there were no political colonies. You never had boatloads of Indian warriors jumping off their boats and taking control of Cambodia or uh or Thailand. You did have brief raids by the by the Cholers into Indonesia at one point in 1016 and 1025, but there was never a permanent conquest and no part of Indonesia was ever ruled directly from India. Um but what you do have is a much more remarkable thing which is soft power. You have um in you know in a sense history is full of empires of the sword, empires of the jack boot who armies march in impose their ideas on other people. What is much rarer is a diffusion of literature, the arts, dance, music, architecture, sculpture which takes place solely by virtue of its sophistication that the people around you want to be part of this. It's so attractive. It's so sophisticated that they want to be part of it too. So they're no longer kadunga then mulavan. Uh they they're now writing in this new script. They've got brahinss who are do who are joining you the local king to Lord Brahma or or Lord Vishnu or Lord Shiva or the great goddess. Um they're reading you the Mahabharata. uh and we have these great libraries associated with the temples in Southeast Asia where we know that there were readings out loud of both the Ramayana and the and the Mahabarata from the sixth seventh century but again it's quite important it's Indian seeds being planted in Southeast Asian soil but the the often the the flowers that grow there are subtly different from what's going on in India for example Um, there are women brahmids in Southeast Asia officiating in temples. Everyone eats pork. Everyone drinks beer. It's It's quite a nice version of Hinduism, right? That's pretty good. Sign me up. I think we I think there's a lot to learn from Southeast Asian Hinduism. But you also get these weird institutions like the god king. Um for example we know that Javan II the founder of the ankor dynasty had himself presented in sculpture holding the conch and the discus of Vishnu. Now that seems to be saying I am Lord Vishnu. I am the same as him. I am a version of him. I channel his authority. Now what you get in Tamil sculpture is for example Raja Raja Chola with Lord Shiva right uh standing beside him and and Lord Shiva's got his hand on him in blessing but you don't have Rajar Raja as Lord Shiva that would I think be considered highly blasphemous also you get other weird things like in the middle of anchor you've got the central tower is contains the ashes of Surivan II who built it. Now you never have ashes in the middle of a Hindu temple. You have the guts outside where the the ashes are put into the water and uh if you have a senotar somewhere in the desert like in Rajasthan um it's it's outside the town. It's down by the guts or uh next to a lake or outside the city. Uh you never have uh cremations within a sacred space. But in uh in the in the in the Southeast Asian temples, you do. Also, you have no cast in Southeast Asia. You have Hinduism without cast again. You know, it's it's a it's an intriguingly different, but you know, it's it's remarkable as you're talking. I mean, I'm just imagining, you know, uh you're recording this from our Carnegie studio in Dupont Circle. If you were to cross the circle and move west, you would come upon the uh two embassies, the embassy of Indonesia and the embassy of India. Outside of the embassy of India, you'll have a statue of Mahatma Gandhi. Outside of the embassy of Indonesia, you have a giant statue of Satisfati, the goddess, directly opposite one another. Right. It's kind of staring at and what's and what's the name of the the airline of Indonesia? Ga. Right. Exactly. You know, I I want to ask you about this year that you mark out as being a particular inflection point um which was the year 664. And you say that this was the moment that the endosphere kind of reached its its zenith or its apex of its influence and it's also the year when kind of everything began to change. Why why was this year 664 CE such a monumental year? So at one point I thought I might try and build the whole book around this one year and there was an earlier version of the book where I tried to do that. Uh it is a extraordinary moment. So in south India it's the year that the palas who are these these Hindu kings based in Kipuram uh and who create some of the first great Hindu sculpture in the south mostly most notably in Mahabali Purum Arjuna's penants and so on. These guys and you say by the way that this these are some of the most extraordinary creations in all of Indian art. Yeah, I certainly stand by that. Um, anyone that's been to see Arjuna's penants in in Mal Malapuram is dazzled by it. It's a whole hillside carved away. It's a sort of Indian Mount Rushmore if you like. Um, except prettier. And uh um the Palas in 664 are about to invade Sri Lanka and expand their influence out. In China, the Empress Wu Zetan, who is the only woman in uh woman emperor in Chinese history, turns China into a Buddhist kingdom. Buddhist. She is a fascinating fascinating character. Kickass. She is fantastic. Yes. Uh so Ward Zetan is a former concubine who had somehow managed to jump from the bed of the great emperor Taong, the founder of the Tong dynasty to his son Gaizong, get rid of her empress, take her place and eventually become first regent and then actually empress. And she uses a rather sort of sinister think tank of exond trained uh uh monks and priests called the scholars of the northern gate which sounds a bit like one of those sort of sinister Tory think tanks that plotted Brexit in Britain. Um and she some of them are Indians, some of them are ethnic Chinese studied in Nanda. And these guys pull off an extraordinary moment in history when China uh a great civilization never known to be overimpressed with anything that foreigners do because it is so uh uh rightly proud of everything that's happening in China. China at this moment in 664 embraces Buddhism uh and it becomes the state religion briefly uh it's the high watermark of Indian influence uh and so that is an extraordinary moment again I think Indians often are not aware of how extraordinary the spread of Buddhism is they sort of take it for granted that it's something that's always been there in China but it you know it has a history it it spreads to first to western China then to central China to Gansu and then through the Gansu corridor or eventually taking over the court under Wetia. Um and finally in 664 there's the third great earthquake because this is this the period when in West Asia in the Middle East uh the armies of the prophet are on the march and in uh two generations the armies of Islam expand as far as uh the Pyrenees uh in Europe crossing from Islamic Spain into France uh and um in the east they get as far as the Indas. Now in the course of all this they also um take over uh the monastery of uh the Buddhist monastery of Balk in um what's now uh northern Afghanistan. Uh and this is this like Nanda is one of the great universities of uh the Buddhist world. It has extraordinary library. the great Chinese traveler monk Schwan Zang uh talks very warmly about what's going on in the the monastery of Nabah. Now what's interesting is that the monks of the abbot in charge of Nabah who is from a family called the pramoks now that's just Sanskrit for boss the pramoks convert to Islam Arabicize their name prammuk becomes barmak and these guys end up as the vizers of Baghdad and it's these extraordinary Sanskrit educated uh former monks now converted to Islam now vizers of Baghdad then the largest city in the world. Uh it's these guys who called to India for a copy of the great mathematical texts of Aryabata and Brahagupta. The two the Pythagoras and uh uh uh Archimedes if you like of ancient India. um names that should be as famous as Pythagoras and Archimedes because for example Aryabata in about whatever 300 AD comes up with the exact circumference of the earth comes up with a version of pi and comes up with the exact distance of the earth to the moon and a thousand years before Galileo is telling us about the how we are a heliocentric world and and we are evolving around the sun. Now Aribata does all that. He then passes the flame to his pupil brahagupta who's sitting on a mountain in Mount Abu in Rajasthan. Uh and Brahag Gupta defines zero comes up with a whole load of really sophisticated mathematics. Uh which turns zero from just a placeholder or an abstraction an absence into a number with properties. And this then allows place value tens, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands. It allows you to do uh algebra. allows you to do um a whole range of fancy mathematical tricks. Uh and so these joint works first arabata then pupil brahagupta uh the Brahma kids call for their text to be brought from sind in India to Baghdad. They are translated by an extraordinary guy called Alqurismi uh who is a originally an ethnic Persian from near the Arrol Sea from Quarazzum which is modern Kea inspeistan uh and um Alurismi produces this beautiful translation of the two texts which he um it's not a translation it's really a reworking uh and and he adds some Uklid and adds some other Greek ideas and produces a book with a long titled the book of completion and balancing by Hindu calculation. Now that's a mouthful in English. A page turner. Um well just wait for it. So it uh it actually is because uh although it's a mouthful uh it's known by a nickname which is algebra and algebra is the basis of course of our word algebra. uh and equally um alurismi is the origin of our word algorithm. So algorithms and algebra are part of this package of Indian ideas which are passing west of us and um the next thing that happens is that it spreads right through algorithm's uh algebra spreads right through this world and becomes a basic educational text that every uh well-educated teenager learns on uh as part of his education. Uh and so while the in Northern Europe the you know the Brits and the French and the Italians are still fiddling around with Roman numbers MCVXV1 divided by CCM VXI try doing that I hope um the Indian number system has passed into the Arab world through the the works of Alismi and reached Islamic Spain and reached beyond Islamic Spain to Barcelona where Christian monks are using it by the 10th century. Now it's only in the 12th century that it finally takes root in Northern Europe. And what happens is that the state of Pisa, which is an independent trading city where the Leaning Tower is uh uh in northern Tuscanany, um founds a trading colony and a warehouse in Algeria and a man is sent to run it. Uh and he brings this kid and the kid goes to look school. He learns Arabic. And when that kid returns to Pisa and finds that all his friends are still trying to do long multiplication with MCVXV1, he writes a helpful book called the Liba Abaci um explaining the what he calls the modusorum, the Indian number system to Europeans. And that kid is Fibonacci. So Fibonacci is the guy who who transfers the learning of algorithmi and before it brahmagupta and arabata to uh uh to Europe but it doesn't end there. There's two more stages which are fun. So the works of Fibonacci then inspire the painter Pierro de la Franchesca one of the great painters of the Renaissance who writes three mathematical treatises. He's particularly concerned with perspective and the mathematics of perspective which lies behind the great advances of Renaissance painting. And his book after his death is taken by his friend Faluca Pachi uh who's a frier to Milan where he shares it with his flatmate who is painting a picture of the last supper in Milan and that man is Leonardo da Vinci. So you get this very neat movement from Leonardo to Fibonacci, Fibonacci to Alcarismi, Alcarismi to Brahagupta, Brahmagupta to Arabat. So in five stages you move from Leonardo doing helicopters in Milan to Aryabata uh discovering the heliocentric nature of the universe in Patalibutra in 300 AD. But there is a kind of irony here and it's one that you point out in the book because you know the 11th 12th 13th centuries this is when the endosphere suddenly and dramatically imploded. Somewhat ironic because at the same time Indian scientific and mathematical ideas were finally catching hold all the way from Europe to the Middle East you know. So there is a bit of a disjuncture here between these sort of two things happening simultaneously. Yes. I mean the the Indosphere doesn't completely die. I mean you still you still get for example Indian export textiles passing in the 13th 14th and 15th century all the way to Southeast Asia and inspiring a lot of the batique and the other art in textiles there and in a sense the last great Indian export to Southeast Asia is Islam because it's Gujarati Muslims who take Islam to Southeast Asia which is why you now have more Muslims east of the Himalayas than you do West the extraordinary fact the whole of Indonesia is is becomes a great Muslim metropolis. Um but yes two things destroy the self-confidence of Indian civilization. First is the establishment of a series of Turkish Islamic sultenates across India. It reaches as far south as Majurai by the 14th century. And then equally important and and less well known in India is what the Mongols do. the Mongols come and they are fended off by the Kes. So you get a hostile border uh in the Punjab separating the Mongol world from the Indic world. So cutting off India from the old trade routes going north and at the same time you get thousands of Persian speaking refugees pouring down from the destroyed cities of Central Asia like Balk and uh and MV and all these cities that Genghaskhan lays waste. The refugees end up in Delhi and they turn Delhi into a Persian speaking city. So for the next 800 years, India becomes part of the Persian world and I think of India as a kind of three layered cake if you like. You've got at the bottom this whole Sanskritic world with the Mahabarata, the Ramayana and that whole body of learning. You then have from the 13th century the Persian world where stories of uh Hafis and Roomie and uh uh the great uh Persian classics become very popular across India and Persian becomes the language of civilization in Indian courts. often Sanskrit runs alongside it and so the moguls do a lot of translations of for example the Mahabarat into Persian which is called the Razam Nama in Persian and so on but then finally in the 18th century the East India Company turns up the East India Company incidentally you could argue might have been impossible without the importation of Indian numbers so another further irony uh and the East India Company imposes English in the mid-9th century so the top layer if you like of Indian civilization is the English learn and you know so many people in certainly the middle class in India are now largely English- speakaking. So you can look at it two ways. You can look at it as some in the ruling party do as uh a great loss a destruction of a civilization what uh what VS Nipool called a wounded civilization. You could also look at it as I frankly do as something which is has left an incredibly rich historical legacy with India having all the complexity of three major civilizations the Sanskritic the Persian and the and the English and giving Indians references from language and literature which span all these different worlds and when I go around India you know I'm as interested to visit Vij Agura as I am to visit the Taj Mahal. I'm as I get as much pleasure from seeing the extraordinary ruins of Nanda, the great university, as I do from visiting Bijapur and seeing the the wonderful mosques of the Dean or Hyderabbad. Um equally, you know, there's some extraordinary British era uh remains too in Kolkata and New Delhi and so on. So you know I it's not for me to dictate how people look on this and there are many uh in India who do mourn the passing of this period of cultural dominance when India was its own master and Indian ideas were spreading in all directions but I think from my point of view a lot of what I love about the complexity of Indian civilization has come from this this triple layering um so it's certainly not all loss there is there is a great deal uh which has been gained in in the process Well, this is uh I think an apt place to end. You know, at the very uh last page of the book, you have this very evocative passage and I just want to read it for our listeners. You say, "History shows that India has always been at its most creative and influential. When it is at its most connected, plural, hybrid, open and receptive to new ideas from its neighbors. When it represents the cohabitation, not a clash of civilizations." And you know we you can read into it what you will about the current political moment. But I guess the question I'd like to end with is you know is one about the future. I mean are you optimistic about whether this mindset of cultural absorption and synthesis and kind of you know India as this kind of mosaic rather than monolith can that be recovered? Well I'm certainly an optimist for India economically. uh I I don't think there's any way that India can avoid becoming the third economic power in the world behind America and China at the moment but who knows by the end of the century whether they'll be leaprogging one or both of those will India again have a moment like the Indosphere when India is exporting its philosophical religious and cultural ideas it's not impossible and that's how I end the book uh with the question mark it's certainly not you know a given um but I think we're seeing India ever more influential uh internationally it's no you know at no point since the 12th century has India been more important than it is now at no point has India been richer than it is now um so you know it's early days yet in this story it's only 75 years since the British marched out of the gateway of India uh who knows where India will be in 25 years when the the centinery of independent India takes place but uh uh I mean there will be many road bumps along the way and we're talking in a week when you know India and Pakistan are rattling sabers at each other again after a horrific massacre in Pahal um and you know that is exactly the sort of thing some stupid massacre some uh malign terrorist act uh and and uh a saber rattling response that's exactly the sort of thing which can throw this whole project uh arai. Uh but with a fair win, I you know I am I am definitely a a genuine optimist for the Indian 21st century. My guest on the show this week is the historian William Del Rimple. He's the author of the brand new book, The Golden Road: How Ancient India Transformed the World. We're recording this conversation on Tuesday, April 29th. An auspicious date is the release date for the book in the United States. He's about to embark on a head spinning tour uh of the US uh when we'll be back later this fall to tour the West Coast. Uh William Dimple, it's such a pleasure to to read you, to talk to, to learn from you. Thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you, Bill. Grand is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hindus times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Granthamasha. And to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mera Verge is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart glass.