================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: gtmJi8LbAts
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gtmJi8LbAts
TITLE: Iran War Debate: Nuclear Weapons, Trump, Peace, Power & the Middle East | Lex Fridman Podcast #473
CHANNEL: Lex Fridman
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-26
DURATION: 4h 5m 16s
VIEWS: 592,170
LIKES: 8,457
COMMENTS: 5,412
TAGS: Iran-Israel Debate, alex friedman, lex ai, lex debate, lex freedman, lex fridman, lex friedman, lex interview, lex lecture, lex mit

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Debate on Iran war between Scott Horton and Mark Dubowitz. Scott Horton is the author and director of the Libertarian Institute, editorial director of Antiwar.com, host of The Scott Horton Show, and for the past three decades, a staunch critic of U.S. foreign policy and military interventionism. Mark Dubowitz is the chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, host of the Iran Breakdown podcast, and a leading expert on Iran and its nuclear program for over 20 years. This debate was recorded on Tuesday, June 24, after the Iran-Israel ceasefire was declared.
Thank you for listening ❤ Check out our sponsors: https://lexfridman.com/sponsors/ep473-sb
See below for timestamps, transcript, and to give feedback, submit questions, contact Lex, etc.

*Transcript:*
https://lexfridman.com/iran-israel-debate-transcript

*CONTACT LEX:*
*Feedback* - give feedback to Lex: https://lexfridman.com/survey
*AMA* - submit questions, videos or call-in: https://lexfridman.com/ama
*Hiring* - j
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 92,774

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
If we want to avoid wars, we have to If we want to avoid wars, we have to have serious deterrence because our have serious deterrence because our enemies need to understand we will use enemies need to understand we will use selective, focused, overwhelming selective, focused, overwhelming military power when we are facing military power when we are facing threats like an Iranian nuclear weapon. threats like an Iranian nuclear weapon. I'm not seeing the peace through I'm not seeing the peace through strength. I'm saying permanent strength. I'm saying permanent militarism and permanent war through militarism and permanent war through strength. Do you ever ever hold our strength. Do you ever ever hold our adversaries responsible or do you just adversaries responsible or do you just don't think we have any adversaries? The don't think we have any adversaries? The easiest kind of nuke to make out of easiest kind of nuke to make out of uranium is a simple gun type nuke. Are uranium is a simple gun type nuke. Are you saying that Mossad fabricated it? you saying that Mossad fabricated it? That's what you're claiming. Here's the That's what you're claiming. Here's the offer. Take it or leave it. Zero offer. Take it or leave it. Zero enrichment. Full dismantlement. The enrichment. Full dismantlement. The Iranians told the IAEA, "You can inspect Iranians told the IAEA, "You can inspect any five out of 10 facilities here. Cart any five out of 10 facilities here. Cart Blanch, go ahead." And they did and Blanch, go ahead." And they did and found nothing. Experts in in Iran's found nothing. Experts in in Iran's nuclear program, including David nuclear program, including David Albbright, who actually saw the archive, Albbright, who actually saw the archive, went in there, wrote a whole book on it, went in there, wrote a whole book on it, and there's a lot of detail about how and there's a lot of detail about how Iran had an active nuclear weapons Iran had an active nuclear weapons program called the Mad to build five program called the Mad to build five nuclear weapons. I have to refute nuclear weapons. I have to refute virtually everything he just said, which virtually everything he just said, which is completely false. I mean, really is completely false. I mean, really everything. There was There was not one everything. There was There was not one thing I said that was true. Just one thing I said that was true. Just one thing. I mean, Iran is a nation over thing. I mean, Iran is a nation over there somewhere. You got that part there somewhere. You got that part right. 22 years of working on Iran, and right. 22 years of working on Iran, and I got that right. But do you know the I got that right. But do you know the population of 92 million? Okay, give me population of 92 million? Okay, give me a pound, dude. There we go. Agreement. a pound, dude. There we go. Agreement. The following is a debate between Scott The following is a debate between Scott Horton and Mark Dubowitz on the topic of Horton and Mark Dubowitz on the topic of Iran and Israel. Iran and Israel. Scott Horton is author and editorial Scott Horton is author and editorial director of anti-war.com, host of the director of anti-war.com, host of the Scott Horton Show, and for the past Scott Horton Show, and for the past three decades, a staunch critic of US three decades, a staunch critic of US foreign policy and military foreign policy and military interventionism. interventionism. interventionism. Mark Dubitz is a chief executive of the Mark Dubitz is a chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, Foundation for Defense of Democracies, host of the Iran Breakdown podcast, and host of the Iran Breakdown podcast, and he has been a leading expert on Iran and he has been a leading expert on Iran and its nuclear program for over 20 years. its nuclear program for over 20 years. This is the Lex Freedman podcast. To This is the Lex Freedman podcast. To support it, please check out our support it, please check out our sponsors in the description and consider sponsors in the description and consider subscribing to this channel. If you do, subscribing to this channel. If you do, I promise to work extremely hard to I promise to work extremely hard to always bring you nuanced, long- form always bring you nuanced, long- form conversations with a very wide range of conversations with a very wide range of interesting people from all walks of interesting people from all walks of life. And now, dear friends, here's life. And now, dear friends, here's Scott Horton and Mark Dubitz. Scott Horton and Mark Dubitz. Gentlemen. All right. It's great to have Gentlemen. All right. It's great to have you here. Uh let's try to have a nuanced you here. Uh let's try to have a nuanced discussion slashdebate and uh maybe even discussion slashdebate and uh maybe even steel man opposing perspectives as much steel man opposing perspectives as much as possible. All right. As it stands as possible. All right. As it stands now, there's a barely stable ceasefire now, there's a barely stable ceasefire between Iran and Israel. Let's uh maybe between Iran and Israel. Let's uh maybe rewind a little bit. Uh can we first lay rewind a little bit. Uh can we first lay out the context for this Iran Israel war out the context for this Iran Israel war and try to describe the key events that and try to describe the key events that happened over the past two weeks? maybe happened over the past two weeks? maybe even the uh a bit of the deep roots of even the uh a bit of the deep roots of the conflict. Sure. Like first of all, the conflict. Sure. Like first of all, thanks so much for having me on. Great thanks so much for having me on. Great to be on with Scott. I know he and I to be on with Scott. I know he and I don't agree on a lot, but I certainly don't agree on a lot, but I certainly admire the passion and and the admire the passion and and the dedication to stopping wars. So that's dedication to stopping wars. So that's that's something we want to talk about. that's something we want to talk about. So let's talk about how we got to this So let's talk about how we got to this war. So, President Trump comes into war. So, President Trump comes into office and immediately lays out that his office and immediately lays out that his Iran strategy is maximum pressure on the Iran strategy is maximum pressure on the regime and he will not allow Iran have a regime and he will not allow Iran have a nuclear weapon and he and he makes that nuclear weapon and he and he makes that clear consistently. I think made it very clear consistently. I think made it very clear during his first term made a clear clear during his first term made a clear throughout his career and thus beguns throughout his career and thus beguns this process with the Iranians which has this process with the Iranians which has kind of multiple tracks but the one that kind of multiple tracks but the one that Trump sees most interested in at the Trump sees most interested in at the time is the diplomatic track and he time is the diplomatic track and he makes it very clear from the beginning makes it very clear from the beginning in a sort of Oval Office remark. He says in a sort of Oval Office remark. He says the Iranians can either blow up their the Iranians can either blow up their nuclear program under US supervision or nuclear program under US supervision or someone's going to blow it up for them. someone's going to blow it up for them. And even though, you know, at the time And even though, you know, at the time we think Netanyahu is really trying to we think Netanyahu is really trying to push the president into a military push the president into a military campaign, well, I'm sure we'll talk campaign, well, I'm sure we'll talk about that throughout the podcast, the about that throughout the podcast, the president authorizes his lead negotiator president authorizes his lead negotiator and close friend Steve Witkoff to begin and close friend Steve Witkoff to begin outreach to the Iranians and and thus outreach to the Iranians and and thus begun the Oman round. And it's Oman begun the Oman round. And it's Oman round because it's taking place in Oman round because it's taking place in Oman with mediation efforts by the Omanis. with mediation efforts by the Omanis. There are five rounds of negotiations There are five rounds of negotiations with the Iranians. And through the with the Iranians. And through the course of those negotiations, the US course of those negotiations, the US finally puts on the table an offer for finally puts on the table an offer for Iran. We'll talk about the details of Iran. We'll talk about the details of that. The Iranians reject that offer and that. The Iranians reject that offer and we're now into the sixth round which is we're now into the sixth round which is supposed to take place on a Sunday. Uh supposed to take place on a Sunday. Uh on the Thursday before the Sunday, the on the Thursday before the Sunday, the Israelis strike and they go after in a Israelis strike and they go after in a rather devastating campaign over a rather devastating campaign over a matter of now 12 days. They go over and matter of now 12 days. They go over and go after Iran's nuclear program, the key go after Iran's nuclear program, the key nuclear sites. Um, going after weapon nuclear sites. Um, going after weapon scientists who are responsible for scientists who are responsible for building Iran's nuclear weapons program, building Iran's nuclear weapons program, and also go after top IRGC, Islamic and also go after top IRGC, Islamic Revolutionary Guard commanders as well Revolutionary Guard commanders as well as top military commanders. as top military commanders. And yet, there's still this one site And yet, there's still this one site that is the most fortified site. It's that is the most fortified site. It's called Foraux. It's an enrichment called Foraux. It's an enrichment facility. It's buried under a mountain, facility. It's buried under a mountain, goes about 80 m deep. It's encased in goes about 80 m deep. It's encased in concrete. It has advanced centrifuges concrete. It has advanced centrifuges and highly enriched uranium. The and highly enriched uranium. The Israelis can do damage to it, but it's Israelis can do damage to it, but it's clear it's going to take the United clear it's going to take the United States and our military power in order States and our military power in order to severely to severely to severely degrade this facility. And Trump orders degrade this facility. And Trump orders the United States Air Force to fly B2 the United States Air Force to fly B2 bombers and drop 12 massive Ordinance bombers and drop 12 massive Ordinance penetrators, which are these 30,000 penetrators, which are these 30,000 pound bombs on Fordo in order to, as he pound bombs on Fordo in order to, as he said, obliterate it more realistically, said, obliterate it more realistically, to severely degrade it. So that happens. to severely degrade it. So that happens. Um, and then he offers the Iranians, as Um, and then he offers the Iranians, as he's been offering all the way through, he's been offering all the way through, you have an option. You can go back to you have an option. You can go back to Oman. I told you Oman and you decided to Oman. I told you Oman and you decided to force me to go to Fordo but now we can force me to go to Fordo but now we can go back for negotiations go back for negotiations and he forces a ceasefire on the and he forces a ceasefire on the Iranians gets the Israelis to agree and Iranians gets the Israelis to agree and that's where we are today like we're at that's where we are today like we're at a as you say a tentative ceasefire that a as you say a tentative ceasefire that just came into effect and we'll see now just came into effect and we'll see now if the Iranians decide to take President if the Iranians decide to take President Trump on his repeated offers join him in Trump on his repeated offers join him in Aman for another round of negotiations. Aman for another round of negotiations. Scott, is there some stuff you want to Scott, is there some stuff you want to add to that? Sure. Well, he started with add to that? Sure. Well, he started with uh January, right? Trump's second term uh January, right? Trump's second term here and the maximum pressure campaign. here and the maximum pressure campaign. Essentially, as should be clear to Essentially, as should be clear to everyone now, all these negotiations everyone now, all these negotiations were just a pretext for war. Trump and were just a pretext for war. Trump and his entire cabinet must have known that his entire cabinet must have known that the Ayatollah is not going to give up the Ayatollah is not going to give up all enrichment. That is their latent all enrichment. That is their latent nuclear deterrent. Their posture has nuclear deterrent. Their posture has been heavily implied. don't attack us been heavily implied. don't attack us and we won't make a nuke. While and we won't make a nuke. While America's position was if you make a America's position was if you make a nuke, if you start to, we'll attack you. nuke, if you start to, we'll attack you. So, it was the perfect standoff. But So, it was the perfect standoff. But what happened was, and you might what happened was, and you might remember a few weeks ago, there was some remember a few weeks ago, there was some talk about, well, maybe we could find a talk about, well, maybe we could find a way to compromise on some enrichment. way to compromise on some enrichment. Maybe they could do a consortium with Maybe they could do a consortium with the Saudis. Maybe there's some way that the Saudis. Maybe there's some way that we And then, nope, the pressure came we And then, nope, the pressure came down. No enrichment. Zero enrichment. down. No enrichment. Zero enrichment. But that's a red line. Everyone knows But that's a red line. Everyone knows that there's and even now uh it's that there's and even now uh it's probably less likely than ever that probably less likely than ever that they're going to give up enrichment. they're going to give up enrichment. Sure, they bombed Porto, but they didn't Sure, they bombed Porto, but they didn't destroy every last centrifuge in that destroy every last centrifuge in that place. And the Iranians are already place. And the Iranians are already announcing that they're already begun announcing that they're already begun construction on another facility under a construction on another facility under a taller mountain buried even deeper. And taller mountain buried even deeper. And you know, they figured out how to enrich you know, they figured out how to enrich uranium hexaflloride gas, you know, what uranium hexaflloride gas, you know, what 20 years ago now. And uh they will 20 years ago now. And uh they will always be able to. And this is the always be able to. And this is the slippery slope that we're on with these slippery slope that we're on with these wars is in fact um I saw our friend here wars is in fact um I saw our friend here on TV the other day as he almost pretty on TV the other day as he almost pretty much just implied there saying well now much just implied there saying well now Trump has to go in. You know we were Trump has to go in. You know we were told it's just Israel doing it. Don't told it's just Israel doing it. Don't worry. But then no Trump has to hit worry. But then no Trump has to hit Fordo or else now they'll break out Fordo or else now they'll break out toward a nuclear weapon. So, in for a toward a nuclear weapon. So, in for a penny, in for a pound, in for a ton, and penny, in for a pound, in for a ton, and now once we bomb Fordo again and Natans now once we bomb Fordo again and Natans again and the new facility again, then again and the new facility again, then it'll be decided that no, as Benjamin it'll be decided that no, as Benjamin Netanyahu said the other day, you know Netanyahu said the other day, you know what would really solve this problem? If what would really solve this problem? If we just kill the Ayatollah, then we just kill the Ayatollah, then everything will be fine. Then we'll have everything will be fine. Then we'll have a regime change. And then what? Then a regime change. And then what? Then we'll have a civil war with bin Laden we'll have a civil war with bin Laden again in the catbird seat just like again in the catbird seat just like George Bush put them in Iraq and Barack George Bush put them in Iraq and Barack Obama put them in Libya and in Syria and Obama put them in Libya and in Syria and we'll have Azeris and Belooki suicide we'll have Azeris and Belooki suicide bombers and Shiite uh you know bombers and Shiite uh you know revolutionaries and whoever all vying revolutionaries and whoever all vying for power in the new absolute chaos for power in the new absolute chaos stand. If you listen to the stand. If you listen to the administration and Mr. to do was they're administration and Mr. to do was they're essentially just implying that like, oh essentially just implying that like, oh yeah, mission accomplished. We did it. yeah, mission accomplished. We did it. Their nuclear program is destroyed. Now Their nuclear program is destroyed. Now we don't have to worry about that we don't have to worry about that anymore. But that's not true. Now it anymore. But that's not true. Now it there's every reason to believe and we there's every reason to believe and we don't know for sure. There's every don't know for sure. There's every reason to believe that at least is much reason to believe that at least is much more likely now that the Ayatollah will more likely now that the Ayatollah will change his mind about God changing his change his mind about God changing his mind and we'll say that actually maybe mind and we'll say that actually maybe we do need a nuclear deterrent. That's we do need a nuclear deterrent. That's really what it's been for this whole really what it's been for this whole time is a bluff. We have bullets in one time is a bluff. We have bullets in one pocket, revolver in another. Let's not pocket, revolver in another. Let's not you and me fight and escalate this you and me fight and escalate this thing. It's the same position, by the thing. It's the same position, by the way, as Japan and Germany and Brazil. way, as Japan and Germany and Brazil. Two of the three of those are under Two of the three of those are under America's nuclear umbrella, I admit. But America's nuclear umbrella, I admit. But still, where they've proven they've still, where they've proven they've mastered the fuel cycle and they can mastered the fuel cycle and they can make nuclear weapons. But hey, since make nuclear weapons. But hey, since nobody's directly threatening them now, nobody's directly threatening them now, why escalate things and go ahead and why escalate things and go ahead and make atom bombs? That has been their make atom bombs? That has been their position the whole time because after position the whole time because after all, they could not break out and make a all, they could not break out and make a nuke without everyone in the world nuke without everyone in the world knowing about it. And that's why, Lex, knowing about it. And that's why, Lex, and I'm sure you can vouch for me on and I'm sure you can vouch for me on this, if you've been watching TV over this, if you've been watching TV over the past few weeks, you'll hear Marco the past few weeks, you'll hear Marco Rubio and all the government officials Rubio and all the government officials and all the Warhawks say, "Oh yeah, 60%, and all the Warhawks say, "Oh yeah, 60%, 60%. What do you think they need with 60%. What do you think they need with that 60%." Implying that, oh yeah, see, that 60%." Implying that, oh yeah, see, they're racing toward a bomb. But you they're racing toward a bomb. But you see how they always just imply that. see how they always just imply that. They They won't come right out and say They They won't come right out and say that cuz it's a ridiculous lie. They've that cuz it's a ridiculous lie. They've been they could have enriched up to 90 been they could have enriched up to 90 plus% uranium 235 this whole time. The plus% uranium 235 this whole time. The reason they were enriching up to 60% was reason they were enriching up to 60% was in reaction to Israeli sabotage. First in reaction to Israeli sabotage. First of all, assassinating their nuclear of all, assassinating their nuclear scientists and then their sabotage at scientists and then their sabotage at Natans. They started enriching up to 60% Natans. They started enriching up to 60% just like they did in the Obama years to just like they did in the Obama years to have a bargaining chip to negotiate have a bargaining chip to negotiate away. Under the JCPOA, they shipped out away. Under the JCPOA, they shipped out every bit of their enriched uranium to every bit of their enriched uranium to France to be turned into fuel rods and France to be turned into fuel rods and then shipped back into the country to be then shipped back into the country to be used in their reactors. And so, they're used in their reactors. And so, they're just trying to get us back in that deal. just trying to get us back in that deal. It is an illusion. It is. And I don't It is an illusion. It is. And I don't know exactly what's in this man's mind, know exactly what's in this man's mind, but it's just not true that they're but it's just not true that they're making nuclear weapons. And it has been making nuclear weapons. And it has been a lie of Benjamin Netanyahu and his lood a lie of Benjamin Netanyahu and his lood party regime and for that matter the party regime and for that matter the Kadima regime of Ahudmer before him that Kadima regime of Ahudmer before him that this is a threat that has to be this is a threat that has to be preempted when in fact it never was preempted when in fact it never was anything more than a latent nuclear anything more than a latent nuclear deterrent. Maybe a good question to ask deterrent. Maybe a good question to ask here is what is the goal for the United here is what is the goal for the United States in Iran in relation to the States in Iran in relation to the nuclear nuclear nuclear uh Iran's nuclear program? What is the uh Iran's nuclear program? What is the red line here? Does Iran have this uh red line here? Does Iran have this uh need for a latent nuclear deterrent and need for a latent nuclear deterrent and what what is the thing that's acceptable what what is the thing that's acceptable to the United States and to the rest of to the United States and to the rest of the world? What should be acceptable? the world? What should be acceptable? Yeah, L. So, there was a lot to unpack Yeah, L. So, there was a lot to unpack there. So let's sort of just back up a there. So let's sort of just back up a little bit. Let's talk about first of little bit. Let's talk about first of all the regime itself. Islamic Republic all the regime itself. Islamic Republic of Iran came into power in 1979. Um it of Iran came into power in 1979. Um it has been declared a leading state has been declared a leading state sponsor of terrorism by multiple sponsor of terrorism by multiple administrations dating back to the administrations dating back to the Clinton administration um by Obama, by Clinton administration um by Obama, by Biden, by Trump and it is a regime that Biden, by Trump and it is a regime that has killed and maimed thousands of has killed and maimed thousands of Americans, not not to mention obviously Americans, not not to mention obviously uh hundreds of thousands of Middle uh hundreds of thousands of Middle Easterners. Um it is a regime that has Easterners. Um it is a regime that has lied about its nuclear program. It never lied about its nuclear program. It never actually disclosed its nuclear sites. actually disclosed its nuclear sites. All these sites were discovered by um All these sites were discovered by um Iranian opposition groups, by western Iranian opposition groups, by western intelligence agencies. And the intelligence agencies. And the International Atomic Energy Agency, International Atomic Energy Agency, which is the UN agency responsible for which is the UN agency responsible for preventing proliferation, has come out preventing proliferation, has come out again and again over many, many years in again and again over many, many years in reports, very detailed reports reports, very detailed reports describing Iran's nuclear weapons describing Iran's nuclear weapons program. Um, there have been multiple program. Um, there have been multiple attempts at diplomacy with with Iran. attempts at diplomacy with with Iran. I'm sure we're going to talk about it. I'm sure we're going to talk about it. Scott mentioned the JCPOA, so we should Scott mentioned the JCPOA, so we should certainly talk about the JCPOA, which certainly talk about the JCPOA, which was the 2015 deal that Barack Obama was the 2015 deal that Barack Obama reached with Iran. Um, but multiple reached with Iran. Um, but multiple attempts to to actually get the Iranians attempts to to actually get the Iranians to negotiate away their nuclear weapons to negotiate away their nuclear weapons program. I mean, it's worth mentioning program. I mean, it's worth mentioning that if Iran wanted to have civilian that if Iran wanted to have civilian nuclear energy, there are 23 countries nuclear energy, there are 23 countries in the world that have it, but they in the world that have it, but they don't have enrichment and they don't don't have enrichment and they don't have reprocessing. uh we we sign these have reprocessing. uh we we sign these deals called the gold standard with the deals called the gold standard with the South Koreans, with the Amiradis, with South Koreans, with the Amiradis, with others and we say if you want civilian others and we say if you want civilian energy, you can have power plants, you energy, you can have power plants, you can buy your fuel rods from abroad, but can buy your fuel rods from abroad, but there's no reason to have enrichment or there's no reason to have enrichment or plutonium reprocessing because those are plutonium reprocessing because those are the key capabilities you need to develop the key capabilities you need to develop nuclear weapons. Now the five countries nuclear weapons. Now the five countries that have those capabilities and don't that have those capabilities and don't have nuclear weapons are Argentina, have nuclear weapons are Argentina, Brazil, Holland, Germany, and Japan. And Brazil, Holland, Germany, and Japan. And I think it's the view of many I think it's the view of many administrations over many years, administrations over many years, including many European leaders, that including many European leaders, that that the Islamic Republic of Iran is that the Islamic Republic of Iran is very different from those aforementioned very different from those aforementioned countries, because that it is been countries, because that it is been dedicated to terrorism. It's been dedicated to terrorism. It's been killing Americans and other Westerners killing Americans and other Westerners and other Middle Easterners, and it is a and other Middle Easterners, and it is a dangerous regime. You don't want to have dangerous regime. You don't want to have that dangerous regime retaining the key that dangerous regime retaining the key capabilities and needs to develop capabilities and needs to develop nuclear weapons. But I but I want to nuclear weapons. But I but I want to kind of get back more to the present kind of get back more to the present mentioned this was around negotiations mentioned this was around negotiations out of Oman. Scott saying that President out of Oman. Scott saying that President Trump had said here's the offer. Take Trump had said here's the offer. Take her to leave it. Zero enrichment full her to leave it. Zero enrichment full dismantlement. Well, in fact, that dismantlement. Well, in fact, that wasn't the offer that was presented to wasn't the offer that was presented to the Iranians at Oman. The offer was a the Iranians at Oman. The offer was a one-page offer and it said you can one-page offer and it said you can temporarily enrich above ground. You've temporarily enrich above ground. You've got to render your below ground got to render your below ground facilities quote nonoperational and then facilities quote nonoperational and then at some time in the future three four at some time in the future three four years as Scott said there'll be a years as Scott said there'll be a consortium that'll be built not on consortium that'll be built not on Iranian territory. It'll be a Iranian territory. It'll be a partnership with the Saudis and the partnership with the Saudis and the Amiradis. It'll be under IAEA Amiradis. It'll be under IAEA supervision and that enrichment facility supervision and that enrichment facility will create fuel rods for your nuclear will create fuel rods for your nuclear reactors. So that was the offer reactors. So that was the offer presented to Iran and that offer would presented to Iran and that offer would come with significant sanctions relief. come with significant sanctions relief. Billions of dollars that would go to the Billions of dollars that would go to the regime. Obviously the economy there has regime. Obviously the economy there has been suffering. The regime is has not been suffering. The regime is has not had the resources that it's had in the had the resources that it's had in the past to fund its its what I call its past to fund its its what I call its axis of misery, its proxy terror armies axis of misery, its proxy terror armies around the world. And it was a good around the world. And it was a good offer. And I was shocked that Kame offer. And I was shocked that Kame rejected it. Um he did reject it. And I rejected it. Um he did reject it. And I think he rejected it because I think he think he rejected it because I think he believed that he could continue to do to believed that he could continue to do to President Trump what he had done to President Trump what he had done to President Obama, which is just continue President Obama, which is just continue to squeeze and squeeze and squeeze the to squeeze and squeeze and squeeze the Americans at the table in order to Americans at the table in order to ensure that he could keep all these ensure that he could keep all these nuclear facilities, all these nuclear nuclear facilities, all these nuclear capabilities so that at a time of his capabilities so that at a time of his choosing when President Trump is gone, choosing when President Trump is gone, he can develop nuclear weapons. Now, it he can develop nuclear weapons. Now, it it is a bit interesting to say that Iran it is a bit interesting to say that Iran has no intention to develop nuclear has no intention to develop nuclear weapons. and let let's examine the weapons. and let let's examine the nuclear program and and ask, does this nuclear program and and ask, does this sound like a regime that's not sound like a regime that's not interested in building nuclear weapons? interested in building nuclear weapons? So, they they built deeply buried So, they they built deeply buried underground enrichment facilities that underground enrichment facilities that they hid from the international they hid from the international community and they didn't disclose. community and they didn't disclose. They had an active nuclear warhead They had an active nuclear warhead program called Ahmad, which ended in program called Ahmad, which ended in 2003 formally when the United States 2003 formally when the United States invaded Iraq. And we know that because invaded Iraq. And we know that because not only has that been detailed by the not only has that been detailed by the IAEA, but actually Mossad in a daring IAEA, but actually Mossad in a daring operation in Thran took out a nuclear operation in Thran took out a nuclear archive and brought it back to the West. archive and brought it back to the West. And then the IAEA, the United States and And then the IAEA, the United States and the intelligence communities went after the intelligence communities went after this detailed archive went into it and this detailed archive went into it and discovered that this supreme leader discovered that this supreme leader Ayatoll Ayatoll Ayatoll had an active program to build five had an active program to build five atomic warheads and was a very detailed atomic warheads and was a very detailed program with blueprints and designs all program with blueprints and designs all of which was designed under Ahmad to of which was designed under Ahmad to build a nuclear weapons program. So build a nuclear weapons program. So again, it's it's interesting to say that again, it's it's interesting to say that he doesn't have the intention to build he doesn't have the intention to build nuclear weapons when he actually had an nuclear weapons when he actually had an active nuclear weapons program. U and we active nuclear weapons program. U and we can talk about what happened to that can talk about what happened to that program after 2003 and there's a lot of program after 2003 and there's a lot of interesting details. So when you when interesting details. So when you when you combine the fact that he has an you combine the fact that he has an active nuclear weapons program, he has active nuclear weapons program, he has sites that are buried deep underground. sites that are buried deep underground. He has weapon scientists who whose who He has weapon scientists who whose who come out of the Ahmad program and come out of the Ahmad program and continued to work on the initial uh continued to work on the initial uh metallergy work and computer modeling metallergy work and computer modeling designed to actually begin that process designed to actually begin that process of building a warhead. And all of this of building a warhead. And all of this has been hidden from the international has been hidden from the international community. He has spent estimates of a community. He has spent estimates of a half a trillion dollars on his nuclear half a trillion dollars on his nuclear program uh in direct costs and in program uh in direct costs and in sanctions costs. And one has to ask and sanctions costs. And one has to ask and I think it's an interesting question to I think it's an interesting question to compare the UAE and Iran, right? The UAE compare the UAE and Iran, right? The UAE signed the gold standard. They said signed the gold standard. They said we'll have no enrichment capability or we'll have no enrichment capability or reprocessing. They spent about $20 reprocessing. They spent about $20 billion on that and it supplies 25% of billion on that and it supplies 25% of their electrical generation. Kame spent their electrical generation. Kame spent a half a trillion and that program a half a trillion and that program supplies maybe 3% of their electrical supplies maybe 3% of their electrical needs. In fact, they have a reactor that needs. In fact, they have a reactor that they b they bought from the Russians they b they bought from the Russians called Bucher. And there that reactor, called Bucher. And there that reactor, it's exactly what you'd want in a it's exactly what you'd want in a proliferation proof reactor. They buy proliferation proof reactor. They buy fuel rods from the Russians. They use it fuel rods from the Russians. They use it and they send the spent fuel back to and they send the spent fuel back to Russia so it cannot be reprocessed into Russia so it cannot be reprocessed into plutonium. So, I just think it's plutonium. So, I just think it's important for your listeners to important for your listeners to understand just some of the technical understand just some of the technical nuclear history here in order to unpack nuclear history here in order to unpack this question of did Kam want nuclear this question of did Kam want nuclear weapons? What was his goal here? And weapons? What was his goal here? And then we can talk about was this the then we can talk about was this the right operation in order to for the right operation in order to for the United States to order the B2 bombers to United States to order the B2 bombers to strike these facilities in what again strike these facilities in what again was a limited operation as President was a limited operation as President Trump has said and in order to drive the Trump has said and in order to drive the Iranians back to the negotiating table Iranians back to the negotiating table and finally do the deal that President and finally do the deal that President Trump has asked them to do since he came Trump has asked them to do since he came into office in January. Yeah, that is into office in January. Yeah, that is one of the fascinating questions whether one of the fascinating questions whether this operation midnight hammer increased this operation midnight hammer increased or decreased the chance that uh the Iran or decreased the chance that uh the Iran will develop a nuclear uh weapon. Before will develop a nuclear uh weapon. Before you ask any more questions, I have to you ask any more questions, I have to refute virtually everything he just refute virtually everything he just said, which is completely false. I mean, said, which is completely false. I mean, really everything. There was there was really everything. There was there was not one thing I said that was true. Just not one thing I said that was true. Just one thing. I mean, Iran is a nation over one thing. I mean, Iran is a nation over there somewhere. You got that part there somewhere. You got that part right. All right. 22 years of working on right. All right. 22 years of working on Iran and I got that right. But do you Iran and I got that right. But do you know the population of Iran? 92 million. know the population of Iran? 92 million. Okay. So, first of all, they were trying Okay. So, first of all, they were trying to buy a lightwater reactor from the to buy a lightwater reactor from the Europeans or the Chinese in the 1990s, Europeans or the Chinese in the 1990s, and Bill Clinton wouldn't let them. And and Bill Clinton wouldn't let them. And put tremendous pressure on China to put tremendous pressure on China to prevent them from selling them a prevent them from selling them a lightwater reactor, a turnkey reactor lightwater reactor, a turnkey reactor that produces waste that's so polluted that produces waste that's so polluted with impurities that you can't make with impurities that you can't make nuclear weapons fuel out of it. By the nuclear weapons fuel out of it. By the way, they never have to this day had a way, they never have to this day had a reprocessing facility for reprocessing reprocessing facility for reprocessing plutonium, even their current plutonium plutonium, even their current plutonium waste for their he from their heavy waste for their he from their heavy water reactor at Bucher to make weapons water reactor at Bucher to make weapons fuel out of that. They have no plutonium fuel out of that. They have no plutonium route to the bomb under the JCPOA. Iraq, route to the bomb under the JCPOA. Iraq, not Bucher. There's a difference between not Bucher. There's a difference between Iraq. Iraq is a Iraq is where they pour Iraq. Iraq is a Iraq is where they pour concrete into the reactor and shut it concrete into the reactor and shut it down. And the reason they poured down. And the reason they poured concrete under the JCPOA, not they, but concrete under the JCPOA, not they, but the Obama administration, he's right, the Obama administration, he's right, under the JCPOA poured concrete into under the JCPOA poured concrete into Kindria in order to prevent them from Kindria in order to prevent them from using that reactor to reprocess using that reactor to reprocess plutonium. So there's a distinction plutonium. So there's a distinction between Iraq and Bucher. Scott's exactly between Iraq and Bucher. Scott's exactly right. Busher is a reactor, a heavy right. Busher is a reactor, a heavy water reactor provided by the Russians, water reactor provided by the Russians, as I described, for the generation of as I described, for the generation of electricity. It's proliferation proof. electricity. It's proliferation proof. Iraq has is the opposite. It's a heavy Iraq has is the opposite. It's a heavy water reactor that was built for a water reactor that was built for a plutonium pathway to nuclear weapons, plutonium pathway to nuclear weapons, which is exactly why under the JCPOA, which is exactly why under the JCPOA, they literally had to pour concrete into they literally had to pour concrete into the into the middle of it to prevent it the into the middle of it to prevent it from reprocessing plutonia. I think from reprocessing plutonia. I think we're going to need uh a scientist to we're going to need uh a scientist to come in here and split the difference. come in here and split the difference. Or maybe we need to uh go and look up Or maybe we need to uh go and look up some IAEA documents cuz I don't believe some IAEA documents cuz I don't believe that Iraq ever had a reprocessing that Iraq ever had a reprocessing facility for their plutonium waste. And facility for their plutonium waste. And the deal under the JCPOA, the Russians the deal under the JCPOA, the Russians would come and get all their plutonium would come and get all their plutonium waste, which the waste comes out all waste, which the waste comes out all polluted and not useful. You need the polluted and not useful. You need the reprocessing facility to get all of the reprocessing facility to get all of the impurities to clarify. It could be that impurities to clarify. It could be that I'm wrong about that, but I don't I'm wrong about that, but I don't believe that they ever had a believe that they ever had a reprocessing facility at Iraq that they reprocessing facility at Iraq that they could use to remove all those impurities could use to remove all those impurities and then have weapons plutonium fuel as and then have weapons plutonium fuel as the North Koreans do. So the Obama the North Koreans do. So the Obama administration was very clear under the administration was very clear under the JCPOA, we are going to pour concrete JCPOA, we are going to pour concrete into the into the Iraq facility as as into the into the Iraq facility as as Scott acknowledged because we are Scott acknowledged because we are concerned that Iraq can be used for concerned that Iraq can be used for reprocessing plutonium for plutonium reprocessing plutonium for plutonium pathway to a nuclear weapon can be used pathway to a nuclear weapon can be used but we don't know if it was used. Oh, we but we don't know if it was used. Oh, we know it never was. There never was any know it never was. There never was any reprocessing of weapons fuel there. But reprocessing of weapons fuel there. But there was concrete. I'm I'm happy to there was concrete. I'm I'm happy to there's no indication for your viewers there's no indication for your viewers who are interested and not to plug my who are interested and not to plug my own podcast so I apologize but it is a own podcast so I apologize but it is a very good podcast. I just recently had very good podcast. I just recently had David Albbright on my podcast who is David Albbright on my podcast who is actually a physicist and a weapons actually a physicist and a weapons inspector and goes into a lot of detail inspector and goes into a lot of detail about the Iranian nuclear program. about the Iranian nuclear program. Please listen to the podcast. Iran Please listen to the podcast. Iran breakdown by the way is the name of the breakdown by the way is the name of the podcast. Yeah. And David's the president podcast. Yeah. And David's the president of the Institute for Science and of the Institute for Science and International Security, by the way, International Security, by the way, spent decades on this. And to his spent decades on this. And to his credit, he was one of the deep skeptics credit, he was one of the deep skeptics of the Bush administration's rush to war of the Bush administration's rush to war with Iraq. And that's not true. He with Iraq. And that's not true. He vouched for claims that there were vouched for claims that there were chemical weapons in Iraq and later said chemical weapons in Iraq and later said he was sorry for it. Again, I mentioned he was sorry for it. Again, I mentioned the Bush administration's rush to war the Bush administration's rush to war based on their claims that Saddam was based on their claims that Saddam was building nuclear weapons. He did debunk building nuclear weapons. He did debunk the aluminum tubes, though. He he he the aluminum tubes, though. He he he debunked it and he was a deep skeptic debunked it and he was a deep skeptic again of the of the Russia war in Iraq. again of the of the Russia war in Iraq. You know the argument today, Lex, which You know the argument today, Lex, which I think is the more interesting argument I think is the more interesting argument because there are very few people left because there are very few people left today who don't believe that the today who don't believe that the Iranians were building the nuclear Iranians were building the nuclear weapons capability that gave them the weapons capability that gave them the option to build nuclear weapons. I option to build nuclear weapons. I already said that we we can debate we already said that we we can debate whether they had decided to can debate whether they had decided to and and we I'm interested to hear and and we I'm interested to hear Scott's opinion on this, but the recent Scott's opinion on this, but the recent intelligence that has come out that the intelligence that has come out that the Iranian nuclear weapons scientists have Iranian nuclear weapons scientists have begun preliminary work on building a begun preliminary work on building a warhead came out from where this warhead came out from where this intelligence that came out who put that intelligence that came out who put that int Israeli claims not verified by the int Israeli claims not verified by the US and the Wall Street Journal anywhere US and the Wall Street Journal anywhere right let's talk about let's talk about right let's talk about all of my list of reputations of all all of my list of reputations of all your false claims can the Wall Street your false claims can the Wall Street Journal did verify this Lawrence Norman Journal did verify this Lawrence Norman to refute one time. Lawrence Norman to refute one time. Lawrence Norman actually wrote a piece. This was during actually wrote a piece. This was during the Biden administration. Um because the the Biden administration. Um because the Biden uh DNI had actually come out and Biden uh DNI had actually come out and for the first time in their annual for the first time in their annual threat assessment had removed a line threat assessment had removed a line that said Iran is not working currently that said Iran is not working currently working on developing any capabilities working on developing any capabilities that would put it in a position to to that would put it in a position to to actually deliver um a nuclear warhead. actually deliver um a nuclear warhead. And what be what became the Lawrence And what be what became the Lawrence Norman piece in the Wall Street Journal Norman piece in the Wall Street Journal was that there actually was initial work was that there actually was initial work done on metallurgy and on computer done on metallurgy and on computer modeling. And so those actually were modeling. And so those actually were defined terms in section T of the 2015 defined terms in section T of the 2015 JCPOA which defined weaponization in JCPOA which defined weaponization in that section. And metallergy and that section. And metallergy and computer modeling were some of the computer modeling were some of the initial steps. So that the DNI was very initial steps. So that the DNI was very concerned under Biden that these initial concerned under Biden that these initial steps meant that either Kame had given steps meant that either Kame had given the green lights or nuclear weapons the green lights or nuclear weapons scientists in order to get ahead of the scientists in order to get ahead of the boss so they could be in a position if boss so they could be in a position if he decided to move forward on this were he decided to move forward on this were in a position and their timelines were in a position and their timelines were therefore expedited. So it's therefore expedited. So it's interesting. I mean, again, you've got interesting. I mean, again, you've got the DNI under Biden, you've got the CIA the DNI under Biden, you've got the CIA director, John Ratcliffe, you've got director, John Ratcliffe, you've got Israeli intelligence, you've got the Israeli intelligence, you've got the Wall Street Journal, and you've got the Wall Street Journal, and you've got the IAEA asking questions of Iran on its IAEA asking questions of Iran on its past weaponization activities. Why are past weaponization activities. Why are you denying us? Who's the dog that you denying us? Who's the dog that didn't bark there? the current director didn't bark there? the current director of national intelligence who issued her of national intelligence who issued her threat assessment, Trump's director of threat assessment, Trump's director of national intelligence, Tulsi Gabbard, national intelligence, Tulsi Gabbard, who issued her threat assessment in who issued her threat assessment in February, that repeated the exact same February, that repeated the exact same language that from the national language that from the national intelligence estimate of 2007 and that intelligence estimate of 2007 and that the CIA and the NIE, the National the CIA and the NIE, the National Intelligence Council have reaffirmed Intelligence Council have reaffirmed repeatedly ever since then, which is repeatedly ever since then, which is that Supreme Leader has not decided to that Supreme Leader has not decided to pursue nuclear weapons. He has not made pursue nuclear weapons. He has not made the political decision to pursue nuclear the political decision to pursue nuclear weapons. She testified uh in fact in in weapons. She testified uh in fact in in under oath in front of the Senate in under oath in front of the Senate in March. And then according to CNN and the March. And then according to CNN and the New York Times, there was a brand new New York Times, there was a brand new that uh uh assessment that was uh put that uh uh assessment that was uh put together the week before the attack uh together the week before the attack uh was launched reaffirming the same thing. was launched reaffirming the same thing. And at least in history, if you read it And at least in history, if you read it in Harets, MSAD agreed with the CIA. I'd in Harets, MSAD agreed with the CIA. I'd like to just sort of quote CIA director like to just sort of quote CIA director John Radcliffe because Scott brought John Radcliffe because Scott brought brought up the CIA and the intelligence brought up the CIA and the intelligence community. I think Radcliffe had a good community. I think Radcliffe had a good way of looking at this is and that he way of looking at this is and that he said is, you know, when you're in the 99 said is, you know, when you're in the 99 yard line as a football team, you have yard line as a football team, you have the intention to score a goal, quote the intention to score a goal, quote unquote. And what what he was what he unquote. And what what he was actually pointing to is let's not was actually pointing to is let's not talk about this debate about whether talk about this debate about whether Kame had given the order or not given Kame had given the order or not given the order because Kame knows that if he the order because Kame knows that if he gives an order, the US and Israeli gives an order, the US and Israeli intelligence community will pick up on intelligence community will pick up on that order and that will be the trigger that order and that will be the trigger for strikes. What what Rackcliffe is for strikes. What what Rackcliffe is saying is that Kame had built the saying is that Kame had built the nuclear weapons capability, he's at the nuclear weapons capability, he's at the 99 yard line and both the CIA and 99 yard line and both the CIA and European leaders, European intelligence European leaders, European intelligence community has said for years that if community has said for years that if Iran has that capability and they're on Iran has that capability and they're on the 99 yard line, at that point it's the 99 yard line, at that point it's going to be too late to stop them once going to be too late to stop them once that decision is made to to assemble the that decision is made to to assemble the final warhead, which by the way is the final warhead, which by the way is the final piece of what you need for a final piece of what you need for a deliverable nuclear weapon. That's not deliverable nuclear weapon. That's not true at all. Right. They have to resort true at all. Right. They have to resort to a crude analogy about football yard to a crude analogy about football yard lines because they can't say the truth, lines because they can't say the truth, which is that they had zero weapons which is that they had zero weapons grade uranium. They were not producing grade uranium. They were not producing it. They were trying to get the United it. They were trying to get the United States back in the deal that they are States back in the deal that they are still officially within the JCPOA with still officially within the JCPOA with the rest of the UN Security Council the rest of the UN Security Council wherein they shipped all of their wherein they shipped all of their enriched uranium stockpile out of the enriched uranium stockpile out of the country to France to be transferred to country to France to be transferred to fuel rods. their insistence was on their fuel rods. their insistence was on their continued ability to enrich uranium. And continued ability to enrich uranium. And so this goes to one of the things that so this goes to one of the things that uh he at least sort of brought up that uh he at least sort of brought up that deserves addressing. When Trump came deserves addressing. When Trump came into power in 2017, into power in 2017, he decided on this Israeli influence he decided on this Israeli influence maximum pressure campaign and he said maximum pressure campaign and he said the JCPOA was the worst deal in the the JCPOA was the worst deal in the history of any time any two men ever history of any time any two men ever shook hands and all these kinds of shook hands and all these kinds of things in his hyperbolic way, which of things in his hyperbolic way, which of course made it very difficult for him to course made it very difficult for him to figure out a way to stay in the thing or figure out a way to stay in the thing or to to compromise along its lines. Uh but to to compromise along its lines. Uh but the fact of the matter is if he had just the fact of the matter is if he had just played it straight and said, "Listen, played it straight and said, "Listen, Ayatollah, we don't have to be friends, Ayatollah, we don't have to be friends, but we do have a deal here, which my but we do have a deal here, which my predecessor struck with you, but I don't predecessor struck with you, but I don't like these sunset provisions, and I want like these sunset provisions, and I want to send my guys over there and see if we to send my guys over there and see if we can figure out a way to convince you can figure out a way to convince you that we really wish you'd shut down that we really wish you'd shut down commto together or this or that or the commto together or this or that or the other thing." And tried to approach them other thing." And tried to approach them in good faith. We talk about yard lines in good faith. We talk about yard lines and things. We had a JCPOA. and things. We had a JCPOA. Okay. So toward peace, we were past the Okay. So toward peace, we were past the 50yard line. Donald Trump could have 50yard line. Donald Trump could have gone to Tyrron and shook hands with the gone to Tyrron and shook hands with the Ayatollah. As Dick Cheney complained Ayatollah. As Dick Cheney complained that we had cold relations with Iran that we had cold relations with Iran back in 1998 when he was the head of back in 1998 when he was the head of Allebertton and said, "We can do Allebertton and said, "We can do business with these guys." Um, Donald business with these guys." Um, Donald Trump could have gone right over there Trump could have gone right over there and done business and instead he gave and done business and instead he gave into Netanyahu's lies in this ridiculous into Netanyahu's lies in this ridiculous hoax that they had uncovered all these hoax that they had uncovered all these Iranian nuclear documents, which he Iranian nuclear documents, which he pretends is legit, where all they did pretends is legit, where all they did was recycle the fake Israeli forged was recycle the fake Israeli forged smoking laptop of 2005, which they lied smoking laptop of 2005, which they lied and pretended was the laptop of an and pretended was the laptop of an Iranian scientist that was smuggled out Iranian scientist that was smuggled out of Iran by his wife and had all this of Iran by his wife and had all this proof of a secret Iranian nuclear proof of a secret Iranian nuclear weapons program on it. But every bit of weapons program on it. But every bit of that was refuted, including the thing that was refuted, including the thing about the warhead, he said, was refuted about the warhead, he said, was refuted by David Albbright and his friend David by David Albbright and his friend David Sanger in the New York Times that all Sanger in the New York Times that all those sketches of the uh warhead for the those sketches of the uh warhead for the missile were wrong because when MSAD missile were wrong because when MSAD forged the documents, they were making a forged the documents, they were making a good educated guess, but they didn't good educated guess, but they didn't know that Iran had completely redesigned know that Iran had completely redesigned the nose cone of their mid-range the nose cone of their mid-range missiles and had an entirely different missiles and had an entirely different nose cone that would require an entirely nose cone that would require an entirely different warhead than that described in different warhead than that described in the documents. and why would they have the documents. and why would they have been designing a warhead to fit in a been designing a warhead to fit in a nose cone that they were abandoning? And nose cone that they were abandoning? And so that was refuted. David Albbright so that was refuted. David Albbright completely discredited your claims completely discredited your claims there, pal. And then uh they later there, pal. And then uh they later admitted that it was a CIA laptop. There admitted that it was a CIA laptop. There was no laptop. And they later admitted was no laptop. And they later admitted Ali Hinonin admitted uh who was a very Ali Hinonin admitted uh who was a very hawkish uh uh one of the not director hawkish uh uh one of the not director but a high level executive at the but a high level executive at the international atomic energy agency international atomic energy agency admitted that that intelligence was admitted that that intelligence was brought into the stream by the mujaheden brought into the stream by the mujaheden eculk communist terrorist cult that used eculk communist terrorist cult that used to work for the Ayatollah during the to work for the Ayatollah during the revolution then turned on him and he revolution then turned on him and he turned on them and kicked them out. Then turned on them and kicked them out. Then they went to work for Saddam Hussein they went to work for Saddam Hussein where they helped crush the Shiite and where they helped crush the Shiite and Kurdish insurrection of 1991 and then Kurdish insurrection of 1991 and then they became America. Donald Rumsfeld's they became America. Donald Rumsfeld's and Ariel Chiron's sock puppets and and Ariel Chiron's sock puppets and later Ahoud Almer sock puppets when the later Ahoud Almer sock puppets when the United States uh invaded Iraq and took United States uh invaded Iraq and took possession of them. They're now under possession of them. They're now under American protection in Albania. And American protection in Albania. And these are the same cooks who just a few these are the same cooks who just a few weeks ago, you might remember said, weeks ago, you might remember said, "Look, new satellite pictures of a whole "Look, new satellite pictures of a whole new uh nuclear facility in Iran." Isn't new uh nuclear facility in Iran." Isn't it funny how no one ever brought that up it funny how no one ever brought that up again? Didn't bomb it. It was nothing. again? Didn't bomb it. It was nothing. It was fake. Just like before when they It was fake. Just like before when they said, "Hey, look, here's a picture of a said, "Hey, look, here's a picture of a vault door." And behind that is where vault door." And behind that is where the secret nuclear weapons program is. the secret nuclear weapons program is. Except turned out that vault door was a Except turned out that vault door was a stock photo from a vault company. It stock photo from a vault company. It meant nothing. And they had repeatedly meant nothing. And they had repeatedly uh you know made claims that were uh you know made claims that were totally refuted. Just like I'm about to totally refuted. Just like I'm about to refute his claim that they ever were the refute his claim that they ever were the ones who revealed for example Natants. ones who revealed for example Natants. He was implying that Natans and K were He was implying that Natans and K were both buried and hidden until revealed I both buried and hidden until revealed I think you said by dissident groups. That think you said by dissident groups. That is the mek sock puppets of the Israelis. is the mek sock puppets of the Israelis. But it was your friend David Albbright, But it was your friend David Albbright, not the Israeli MSAD through the MEK who not the Israeli MSAD through the MEK who revealed Natant's facility. Ask him, revealed Natant's facility. Ask him, he'll fist fight you over it. He claims he'll fist fight you over it. He claims credit. He was first and said, "This is credit. He was first and said, "This is a facility." However, they were not in a facility." However, they were not in violation of their safeguards agreement violation of their safeguards agreement with the IAEA. They were still 6 months with the IAEA. They were still 6 months away from introducing any nuclear away from introducing any nuclear material to that facility. And so when material to that facility. And so when it was revealed, they weren't in it was revealed, they weren't in violation of anything. And uh and then violation of anything. And uh and then on comm we had a huge fight about this on comm we had a huge fight about this at the time. The party line came down in at the time. The party line came down in from all the government officials and from all the government officials and the media that they had just exposed the the media that they had just exposed the facility there. Comm is foro same thing. facility there. Comm is foro same thing. Uh when in fact that wasn't true. The IA Uh when in fact that wasn't true. The IA the the Iranians had announced to the the the Iranians had announced to the IAEA that we have built a new facility IAEA that we have built a new facility here and we are going to introduce here and we are going to introduce nuclear material into it within six nuclear material into it within six months. So here's your official months. So here's your official notification. and then a few days later notification. and then a few days later they just pretended to expose it when it they just pretended to expose it when it was the Iranians themselves who had was the Iranians themselves who had admitted to it in in uh going along with admitted to it in in uh going along with their uh uh obligations under their their uh uh obligations under their safeguards agreement. So it's just safeguards agreement. So it's just completely wrong. Why do they bury him? completely wrong. Why do they bury him? They buried them for protection because They buried them for protection because clearly the Israelis have indicated clearly the Israelis have indicated since the 1990s that they consider any since the 1990s that they consider any nuclear program in Iran to be the same nuclear program in Iran to be the same thing as an advanced nuclear weapons thing as an advanced nuclear weapons program. You're hearing that today. for program. You're hearing that today. for them to have a nuclear facility at all them to have a nuclear facility at all is is equivalent to them going ahead and is is equivalent to them going ahead and breaking out and making a nuclear breaking out and making a nuclear weapon. And so, of course, they know weapon. And so, of course, they know that they have to have it buried to that they have to have it buried to protect it from Israel. That doesn't protect it from Israel. That doesn't mean that they are trying to get nukes. mean that they are trying to get nukes. It does mean, as I already said, that It does mean, as I already said, that they wanted to prove to the world that they wanted to prove to the world that they know how to enrich uranium and that they know how to enrich uranium and that they have facilities buried deeply they have facilities buried deeply enough where if we attack them, that enough where if we attack them, that would incentivize them to making nukes would incentivize them to making nukes and then we would might be unable to and then we would might be unable to stop them without going all the way stop them without going all the way toward a regime change, which they're toward a regime change, which they're bluffing, basically betting that we bluffing, basically betting that we won't go that far considering how won't go that far considering how gigantic their country is and how gigantic their country is and how mountainous and populous it is compared mountainous and populous it is compared to Iraq next door. Now, here's some more to Iraq next door. Now, here's some more things that he said that weren't true. things that he said that weren't true. So, he said, "Iran has been killing So, he said, "Iran has been killing Americans all this time." Well, that's Americans all this time." Well, that's almost always a reference to Beirut almost always a reference to Beirut 1983, which you can read in the book by 1983, which you can read in the book by Way of Deception by Victor Ostroski, the Way of Deception by Victor Ostroski, the former MSAD officer, that the Israelis former MSAD officer, that the Israelis knew that they were building that truck knew that they were building that truck bomb to bomb the Marines with and bomb to bomb the Marines with and withheld that information from the withheld that information from the United States and said that's what they United States and said that's what they get for sticking their big noses in. And get for sticking their big noses in. And uh that is in the book by way of uh that is in the book by way of deception by Victor Ostroski. And by the deception by Victor Ostroski. And by the way, the Israelis were friends with them way, the Israelis were friends with them at with Iran at the time in uh all at with Iran at the time in uh all through the 1980s. And it was just a through the 1980s. And it was just a couple of years later when Ronald Reagan couple of years later when Ronald Reagan sold Iran missiles and using the sold Iran missiles and using the Israelis as cutouts to do so when he Israelis as cutouts to do so when he switched sides temporarily in the Iran switched sides temporarily in the Iran Iraq war. And so that's just and that Iraq war. And so that's just and that was in 1983. If Ronald re if Ronald was in 1983. If Ronald re if Ronald Reagan can sell a missiles a year or two Reagan can sell a missiles a year or two years after that, three years after years after that, three years after that, then surely the United States and that, then surely the United States and the Ayatollah can bury the hatchet from the Ayatollah can bury the hatchet from that. And no one's ever even, I don't that. And no one's ever even, I don't believe, ever really proven that Tyrron believe, ever really proven that Tyrron ordered that. It was a Shiite militia ordered that. It was a Shiite militia backed by Iran that sort of proto backed by Iran that sort of proto Hezbala that did that attack that killed Hezbala that did that attack that killed those Marines. Um, and if there's some those Marines. Um, and if there's some responsibility for then damn them, like responsibility for then damn them, like if there's direct responsibility for if there's direct responsibility for that, not just their support for the that, not just their support for the group, then damn them for that. But group, then damn them for that. But that's still no reason in the world to that's still no reason in the world to say that we can't get along with them say that we can't get along with them now when that was in the same year now when that was in the same year Return of the Jedi came out. Okay. And Return of the Jedi came out. Okay. And then uh the other one, and this is then uh the other one, and this is always referred to, you'll see this on always referred to, you'll see this on TV news today. Anyone watching this, TV news today. Anyone watching this, turn on TV news and you'll hear them say turn on TV news and you'll hear them say Iran killed 600 Americans in Iraq War Iran killed 600 Americans in Iraq War II. But that's a lie. There was a II. But that's a lie. There was a gigantic propaganda campaign by Dick gigantic propaganda campaign by Dick Cheney and his co-conspirators David Cheney and his co-conspirators David Petraeus and Michael Gordon of the New Petraeus and Michael Gordon of the New York Times, now at the Wall Street York Times, now at the Wall Street Journal, where they lied and lied like Journal, where they lied and lied like the devil for about five six months in the devil for about five six months in early 2007, that every time a Shiite set early 2007, that every time a Shiite set off a roadside bomb, these new improved off a roadside bomb, these new improved copper cord enhanced uh uh they're copper cord enhanced uh uh they're called EFPs, explosively formed called EFPs, explosively formed penetrators. Now, anytime that happened, penetrators. Now, anytime that happened, Iran did it, which is what George Bush Iran did it, which is what George Bush called shorthanding it. Yeah. In other called shorthanding it. Yeah. In other words, just implying the lie. What words, just implying the lie. What they're saying is Iran backed Mktata they're saying is Iran backed Mktata also also also also who actually they were fighting the also who actually they were fighting the whole war for him. He remains a powerful whole war for him. He remains a powerful kingmaker in that country this day. He kingmaker in that country this day. He was part of the United Iraqi alliance. was part of the United Iraqi alliance. And in fact, as long as we're taking a And in fact, as long as we're taking a long form here, he was the least Iran long form here, he was the least Iran tide of the three major factions in the tide of the three major factions in the United Iraqi alliance in Iraq War II. United Iraqi alliance in Iraq War II. The other two major factions were Dawa The other two major factions were Dawa and the Supreme Islamic Council and they and the Supreme Islamic Council and they had been living in Iran for the last 20 had been living in Iran for the last 20 years. They're the ones who came and years. They're the ones who came and took over Baghdad. Muttad als Shiite and took over Baghdad. Muttad als Shiite and close to Iran, but he's also an Iraqi close to Iran, but he's also an Iraqi nationalist and at times he allied with nationalist and at times he allied with the Sunnis and tried to in tried to the Sunnis and tried to in tried to limit American and Iranian influence in limit American and Iranian influence in the country was more of an Arab and an the country was more of an Arab and an Iraqi nationalist. And the Americans Iraqi nationalist. And the Americans decided they hated him the most, not decided they hated him the most, not because he was the most Iran tied, but because he was the most Iran tied, but because he was willing to tell us and because he was willing to tell us and them to to get the hell out. And America them to to get the hell out. And America was betting that if we backed the same was betting that if we backed the same parties that Iran backed in Iraq War, parties that Iran backed in Iraq War, that they would eventually end up that they would eventually end up needing our money and guns more than needing our money and guns more than they would need their Iranian friends they would need their Iranian friends and co-religionists and sponsors next and co-religionists and sponsors next door, which of course did not work out. door, which of course did not work out. And America's had minimal influence in And America's had minimal influence in supermajority Shiite Iraq ever since the supermajority Shiite Iraq ever since the end of Iraq War II. And we can get back end of Iraq War II. And we can get back later in the show to how Israel helped later in the show to how Israel helped lie us into that horrific war as well. lie us into that horrific war as well. But the fact of the matter is it was not But the fact of the matter is it was not Iranians setting off those bombs. And it Iranians setting off those bombs. And it was not even Iranians making those was not even Iranians making those bombs. And I show in my book enough bombs. And I show in my book enough already. I have a solid dozen sources. already. I have a solid dozen sources. Enough already. Thank you. I have a Enough already. Thank you. I have a solid dozen sources including uh Michael solid dozen sources including uh Michael Gordon's own colleague Alyssa Rubin at Gordon's own colleague Alyssa Rubin at the New York Times and many others where the New York Times and many others where they found these bomb factories in they found these bomb factories in Shiite Iraq. They were being made by Shiite Iraq. They were being made by Shiite Arab Iraqis. And when they David Shiite Arab Iraqis. And when they David Petraeus was going to have a big press Petraeus was going to have a big press conference and they laid out all the conference and they laid out all the components, all the reporters gathered components, all the reporters gathered around and they started noticing that around and they started noticing that the components said made in UAE, made in the components said made in UAE, made in Haditha, that is Iraq. In other words, Haditha, that is Iraq. In other words, there was no evidence whatsoever that there was no evidence whatsoever that these came from Iran. And then they these came from Iran. And then they called off the press conference and called off the press conference and Steven Hadley, George Bush's second Steven Hadley, George Bush's second secret uh national security adviser, secret uh national security adviser, admitted that yeah, we didn't have the admitted that yeah, we didn't have the evidence that we needed to uh present evidence that we needed to uh present that. And I also quote two one Marine that. And I also quote two one Marine and one highle army intelligence officer and one highle army intelligence officer in there uh who were deeply involved in in there uh who were deeply involved in Iraq war uh reconfirming that that there Iraq war uh reconfirming that that there was never any evidence that these bombs was never any evidence that these bombs were coming across uh from Iran or were coming across uh from Iran or especially that then even if they were especially that then even if they were that that was at the direction of the that that was at the direction of the goods force or the Ayatollah. This was goods force or the Ayatollah. This was all just a propaganda campaign because all just a propaganda campaign because Dick Cheney and David Petraeus were Dick Cheney and David Petraeus were trying to give George Bush a reason to trying to give George Bush a reason to hit IRGC bases and start the war in hit IRGC bases and start the war in 2007. And this sounds crazy, but there's 2007. And this sounds crazy, but there's like four major confirming sources for like four major confirming sources for it. Dick Cheny's national security it. Dick Cheny's national security adviser, David Wormser, who was the adviser, David Wormser, who was the author of the clean break strategy, author of the clean break strategy, which we're going to talk about today. which we're going to talk about today. David Wormser in 2007 was saying, "We David Wormser in 2007 was saying, "We want to work with the Israelis to start want to work with the Israelis to start the war with Iran to force George Bush the war with Iran to force George Bush to do an end run around George Bush and to do an end run around George Bush and force him into the war." And that was force him into the war." And that was reported originally by Steven Clemens in reported originally by Steven Clemens in the Washington note, but it was later the Washington note, but it was later confirmed in the New York Times and by confirmed in the New York Times and by the Washington Post reporter Barton the Washington Post reporter Barton Gelman in his book Angler on Dick Cheney Gelman in his book Angler on Dick Cheney that there was this huge this was the that there was this huge this was the end that they were going for was they end that they were going for was they were trying so hard to force a war in were trying so hard to force a war in 2007. And it was the commander of 2007. And it was the commander of Sentcom, Admiral Fallon, who said over Sentcom, Admiral Fallon, who said over my dead body, we are not doing this. And my dead body, we are not doing this. And then a few months later, the National then a few months later, the National Intelligence Council put out their NIE Intelligence Council put out their NIE saying that there is no nuclear weapons saying that there is no nuclear weapons program at all. And W. Bush complained program at all. And W. Bush complained in his memoir lect that in in his story, in his memoir lect that in in his story, it's the Saudi king, his royal highness it's the Saudi king, his royal highness Abdullah rather than um Ahoud Dolmer, Abdullah rather than um Ahoud Dolmer, but he's saying, "I'm sorry, your but he's saying, "I'm sorry, your highness majesty. I can't attack Iran's highness majesty. I can't attack Iran's nuclear program cuz my own intelligence nuclear program cuz my own intelligence agency says they don't have a military agency says they don't have a military program. So, how am I supposed to start program. So, how am I supposed to start a war with him when my own intelligence a war with him when my own intelligence agencies say that? This is what Donald agencies say that? This is what Donald Trump just did. Start it anyway. Had his Trump just did. Start it anyway. Had his man Rubio say, "Well, screw the man Rubio say, "Well, screw the intelligence. I don't care what it says. intelligence. I don't care what it says. We can just do this if we want to." So, We can just do this if we want to." So, first, let me say on the cover of Enough first, let me say on the cover of Enough Already, devastating. Daniel Ellburg, Already, devastating. Daniel Ellburg, outstanding. Daniel L. Davis, essential outstanding. Daniel L. Davis, essential Ron Paul, you are respected by a very Ron Paul, you are respected by a very large number of people. You have decades large number of people. You have decades of experience in this. Same thing with of experience in this. Same thing with Mark, extremely respected by a very Mark, extremely respected by a very large number of people, experts. There's large number of people, experts. There's a lot of disagreements here. and we're a lot of disagreements here. and we're going to unfortunately leave a lot of going to unfortunately leave a lot of the disagreements on the table for the the disagreements on the table for the uh aforementioned nuclear scientists to uh aforementioned nuclear scientists to to deconstruct later. So let's not like to deconstruct later. So let's not like try to every single claim does not have try to every single claim does not have to be perfectly refuted. Let's just to be perfectly refuted. Let's just leave it on the table the statements as leave it on the table the statements as they stand and let's try to also find they stand and let's try to also find things we kind of agree on and try I things we kind of agree on and try I know this might be difficult but to know this might be difficult but to steel man the other side that's the steel man the other side that's the thing I would love to ask you uh maybe thing I would love to ask you uh maybe give Mark a chance to speak a little bit give Mark a chance to speak a little bit but to to try to for both of you to try but to to try to for both of you to try to steal man the other side so people to steal man the other side so people who are concerned about uh Iran who are concerned about uh Iran developing a nuclear program can you developing a nuclear program can you steal man that case and the same the steal man that case and the same the people I did in my opening statement people I did in my opening statement quite frankly I I'm I don't carry any quite frankly I I'm I don't carry any brief for the Ayatollah. I'm a Texan. I brief for the Ayatollah. I'm a Texan. I don't give a damn about what some Shiite don't give a damn about what some Shiite theocrat says about nothing. Right? My theocrat says about nothing. Right? My interest is the people of this country interest is the people of this country and its future and what's true. And so I and its future and what's true. And so I don't mind telling you, even though the don't mind telling you, even though the Iranians never said, "We're building a Iranians never said, "We're building a latent nuclear weapons capability." latent nuclear weapons capability." That's clearly what they're doing is That's clearly what they're doing is showing that they can make a nuke, so showing that they can make a nuke, so don't make me make a nuke. That has been don't make me make a nuke. That has been their position. Their position has not their position. Their position has not been, "I'm making a nuke so I can wipe been, "I'm making a nuke so I can wipe Israel off the map." Their position has Israel off the map." Their position has been, "Look, if you guys don't attack been, "Look, if you guys don't attack us, we could just keep this civilian us, we could just keep this civilian program the way it is." And again, program the way it is." And again, there's always the implication that there's always the implication that they're just building up this uranium they're just building up this uranium stockpile, but no, they're not. That was stockpile, but no, they're not. That was in reaction to one, Donald Trump leaving in reaction to one, Donald Trump leaving the deal in 2018. Two, the assassination the deal in 2018. Two, the assassination in December of 2020 of the Iranian uh in December of 2020 of the Iranian uh nuclear scientist Far Cazada or however nuclear scientist Far Cazada or however you say that, and then in April of 21, you say that, and then in April of 21, the sabotage at Natans. And there's a the sabotage at Natans. And there's a Reuters story that says right after they Reuters story that says right after they sabotaged Natans, that's when the sabotaged Natans, that's when the Ayatollah decided let's enrich up to Ayatollah decided let's enrich up to 60%. Which why stop 30% short of 90% 60%. Which why stop 30% short of 90% 235? 235? 235? It's because they're not even making a It's because they're not even making a threat. They're built they're making threat. They're built they're making like the most laten up threat a like the most laten up threat a bargaining chip to negotiate away. bargaining chip to negotiate away. They're trying to put pressure on the They're trying to put pressure on the United States to come back to the table. United States to come back to the table. That's not the same as racing to the That's not the same as racing to the bomb. That's why Marco Rubio says never bomb. That's why Marco Rubio says never mind the intelligence cuz the mind the intelligence cuz the intelligence says what I just said. intelligence says what I just said. Yeah. Point made. Let's try let's try if Yeah. Point made. Let's try let's try if possible to keep it to like a minute and possible to keep it to like a minute and two of back and forth. except you know two of back and forth. except you know the problem is we're talking about the problem is we're talking about nuclear stuff which is all very nuclear stuff which is all very complicated and most people don't know complicated and most people don't know much about it which is what the war much about it which is what the war party is relying on that people just party is relying on that people just hear nuclear afraid and mushroom cloud hear nuclear afraid and mushroom cloud and and give the benefit of the doubt to and and give the benefit of the doubt to the hawks and so we got to get into the the hawks and so we got to get into the details of this stuff details 100% but I details of this stuff details 100% but I like the tension between two people with like the tension between two people with different perspectives exploring those different perspectives exploring those details and the more we can go back and details and the more we can go back and forth the better and there's a lot of forth the better and there's a lot of disagreement on the table I personally disagreement on the table I personally enjoy learning from the disagreement I enjoy learning from the disagreement I think that was a very long list of think that was a very long list of claims that he made though where I felt claims that he made though where I felt like I had to go down the list as much like I had to go down the list as much as I could cuz there was a lot. I think as I could cuz there was a lot. I think you addressed like maybe one or two you addressed like maybe one or two claims and it took 15 minutes. So that's claims and it took 15 minutes. So that's what I'm just commenting on. Let's do what I'm just commenting on. Let's do one at a time. I like the tension of the one at a time. I like the tension of the debate of back and forth. That's that's debate of back and forth. That's that's all. Mark, do you want to all. Mark, do you want to comment on stuff a little bit here? comment on stuff a little bit here? Which pick pick whichever topic you want Which pick pick whichever topic you want to go with here. Yeah, there's a lot to go with here. Yeah, there's a lot there. So um just a couple things I there. So um just a couple things I think that are worth your viewers think that are worth your viewers knowing because Scott's right. I mean knowing because Scott's right. I mean the nuclear physics is complicated and the nuclear physics is complicated and it's also important. Um so the Iranians it's also important. Um so the Iranians have assembled about they say about 15 have assembled about they say about 15 to 17 bombs worth of 60% enriched to 17 bombs worth of 60% enriched uranium. And I think it's always uranium. And I think it's always important for your listeners to important for your listeners to understand what does this all mean understand what does this all mean enriched to 3.67% to 20% to 60% and then enriched to 3.67% to 20% to 60% and then to 90% weapons grade uranium like what to 90% weapons grade uranium like what what does this actual process mean? Um what does this actual process mean? Um first of all obviously enriched uranium first of all obviously enriched uranium is a key capability to develop a nuclear is a key capability to develop a nuclear weapon. It can also be used for other weapon. It can also be used for other purposes, civilian purposes and research purposes, civilian purposes and research purposes. You can use it to power a purposes. You can use it to power a nuclear submarine. So let let's just if nuclear submarine. So let let's just if you don't mind if I could just break it you don't mind if I could just break it down. That's fascinating. Yes. Yeah. down. That's fascinating. Yes. Yeah. Just just I think it's again important Just just I think it's again important just to understand the the sort of just to understand the the sort of basics before we jump into the the basics before we jump into the the allegations and claims and counter allegations and claims and counter claims. So if you're going to enrich to claims. So if you're going to enrich to 3.67% 3.67% 3.67% enrich uranium um that's for civilian enrich uranium um that's for civilian nuclear power, right? But when you do nuclear power, right? But when you do that, you've basically 70% of what you that, you've basically 70% of what you need to get to weapons grade. Right? So need to get to weapons grade. Right? So you you've done all the steps, 70% of you you've done all the steps, 70% of the steps in order to get to weapons the steps in order to get to weapons grade uranium. If you enrich to 20%, you grade uranium. If you enrich to 20%, you are now at 90% of what you need to get are now at 90% of what you need to get to weapons grade uranium. Now why would to weapons grade uranium. Now why would you need 20%, you may need it for you need 20%, you may need it for something like a research reactor, something like a research reactor, right? And so medical isotopes. Iran has right? And so medical isotopes. Iran has correct. Iran has uh a tan research correct. Iran has uh a tan research reactor for medical isotopes. Now you reactor for medical isotopes. Now you can by the way you can buy those can by the way you can buy those isotopes from abroad or you can or you isotopes from abroad or you can produce them at home. If you're can produce them at home. If you're going to enrich to 60% going to enrich to 60% right then you've done 99% of what you right then you've done 99% of what you need to get to weapons grade uranium and need to get to weapons grade uranium and then n% is quote weapons grade uranium. then n% is quote weapons grade uranium. By the way you can use 60% to actually By the way you can use 60% to actually deliver a crude nuclear device. Um that deliver a crude nuclear device. Um that that has been done in the past but you that has been done in the past but you want to get to quote 90% that's that's want to get to quote 90% that's that's weapons grade uranium as Scott's weapons grade uranium as Scott's defining it. But just again clarify the defining it. But just again clarify the these huge stock piles of 60% that Iran these huge stock piles of 60% that Iran has accumulated right this 1617 bombs has accumulated right this 1617 bombs worth of 60% is 99% of what they need worth of 60% is 99% of what they need for weapons grade. So I I just wanted to for weapons grade. So I I just wanted to explain that. Yeah. But when you say explain that. Yeah. But when you say you're saying if you include the mining, you're saying if you include the mining, the refining of the ore into yellow the refining of the ore into yellow cake, the transformation of that into cake, the transformation of that into uranium hexaflloride gas, the driving of uranium hexaflloride gas, the driving of it in a truck over to the uh centrifuge it in a truck over to the uh centrifuge and then spinning it. This is where we and then spinning it. This is where we get this 90% number from, right? In in get this 90% number from, right? In in place of 90% enriched uranium or or 80% place of 90% enriched uranium or or 80% enriched uranium, it's 90% of the way on enriched uranium, it's 90% of the way on some chart that includes picking up a some chart that includes picking up a shovel and beginning to mine, right? shovel and beginning to mine, right? Like so again, just to clarify, I I just Like so again, just to clarify, I I just think it's important to understand the think it's important to understand the definition of terms um to get what once definition of terms um to get what once you have 60% enrich uranium, you've done you have 60% enrich uranium, you've done 99% of all the steps, including some of 99% of all the steps, including some of the steps that Scott's talking about. the steps that Scott's talking about. You've done 99% of what you need to have You've done 99% of what you need to have weapons grade uranium. That's just weapons grade uranium. That's just meaningless. Why is that meaningless? meaningless. Why is that meaningless? Well, as I've already established Well, as I've already established numerous times here under the JCPOA, numerous times here under the JCPOA, they shipped out every bit of their they shipped out every bit of their enriched uranium stockpile. The French enriched uranium stockpile. The French turned it into fuel rods and then turned it into fuel rods and then shipped it back. That's the deal they're shipped it back. That's the deal they're trying to get the US back into and were trying to get the US back into and were obviously clearly willing to do. And obviously clearly willing to do. And again, the only reason they were again, the only reason they were enriching up to 60% was to put the enriching up to 60% was to put the pressure on the Americans to go ahead pressure on the Americans to go ahead and get back into the deal. And bad bet. and get back into the deal. And bad bet. It gave him an excuse to bomb based on It gave him an excuse to bomb based on the idea that people are going to listen the idea that people are going to listen to him. Pretend that somehow that's 99% to him. Pretend that somehow that's 99% of the way to the bomb when you're of the way to the bomb when you're including Yeah. driving to the mine and including Yeah. driving to the mine and mining it and converting it to yellow mining it and converting it to yellow cake and all these other things. I you cake and all these other things. I you have a deliverable nuclear weapon. So have a deliverable nuclear weapon. So you need the weapons grade uranium. And you need the weapons grade uranium. And just to repeat, they have multiple bombs just to repeat, they have multiple bombs worth of the 60% enriched uranium, which worth of the 60% enriched uranium, which again is 99% of the steps you need to again is 99% of the steps you need to take for weapons grade. So they're take for weapons grade. So they're they're very close to to weapons grade. they're very close to to weapons grade. It's that's 1% more that they need to do It's that's 1% more that they need to do to enrich to weapons grade. The second to enrich to weapons grade. The second aspect of a deliverable nuclear weapon aspect of a deliverable nuclear weapon is obviously the delivery vehicle and is obviously the delivery vehicle and those are the missiles. And according to those are the missiles. And according to the DNI and and other credible sources, the DNI and and other credible sources, Iran has got the largest missile Iran has got the largest missile infantry in the Middle East. um 3,000 infantry in the Middle East. um 3,000 missiles before the war began and uh at missiles before the war began and uh at least the ballistic missiles 2,000 least the ballistic missiles 2,000 capable of reaching Israel. So there's capable of reaching Israel. So there's no doubt that Iran has the ability once no doubt that Iran has the ability once they have the weapons grade uranium and they have the weapons grade uranium and the warhead to fix that to a missile and the warhead to fix that to a missile and deliver that uh certainly to hit Israel, deliver that uh certainly to hit Israel, hit our Gulf neighbors, hit southern hit our Gulf neighbors, hit southern Europe. They also have a active Europe. They also have a active intercontinental ballistic missile intercontinental ballistic missile program, an ICBM program which program, an ICBM program which ultimately is designed not to hit the ultimately is designed not to hit the Israelis or the Gulfies, but to hit Israelis or the Gulfies, but to hit deeper into Europe and ultimately to deeper into Europe and ultimately to target the United States. So, so let's target the United States. So, so let's just understand the missile program. I just understand the missile program. I think it's an important part of it. The think it's an important part of it. The third leg of the stool and and Scott has third leg of the stool and and Scott has already alluded to this and we've had already alluded to this and we've had some debate on this and I think we some debate on this and I think we should talk about it what it really should talk about it what it really means in detail is you've got to develop means in detail is you've got to develop a warhead right or a crude nuclear a warhead right or a crude nuclear device. And according to estimates from device. And according to estimates from both US government sources and uh both US government sources and uh nuclear experts, it would take about nuclear experts, it would take about four to 6 months for Iran to develop a four to 6 months for Iran to develop a crude nuclear device. Right? This is crude nuclear device. Right? This is something that you wouldn't use a something that you wouldn't use a missile to deliver, but you would use a missile to deliver, but you would use a plane or a ship. uh and it would take plane or a ship. uh and it would take somewhere in the neighborhood of about a somewhere in the neighborhood of about a year and a half to deliver or to develop year and a half to deliver or to develop a warhead. And that's to affix to the a warhead. And that's to affix to the missile. So sort of the three legs of missile. So sort of the three legs of the nuclear stool, right? The weapons the nuclear stool, right? The weapons grade uranium, the missiles to deliver grade uranium, the missiles to deliver it, and the uh and the warhead. So I it, and the uh and the warhead. So I just want to sort of define terms so just want to sort of define terms so that when we're having this big debate, that when we're having this big debate, your listeners kind of understand what your listeners kind of understand what we're talking about. If I can jump in we're talking about. If I can jump in here on this point too and I'll turn it here on this point too and I'll turn it back over to you, but I actually have a back over to you, but I actually have a bit of a correction to make for anyone bit of a correction to make for anyone who's seen me on Pierce Morgan or Sager who's seen me on Pierce Morgan or Sager and Crystal. I actually oversimplified and Crystal. I actually oversimplified and made a mistake. I've been off of the and made a mistake. I've been off of the Iran nuclear beat for a little while Iran nuclear beat for a little while doing other things and um and so I'd doing other things and um and so I'd like to take this opportunity to clarify like to take this opportunity to clarify and I'm going to try to clarify with and I'm going to try to clarify with them on their shows too was um I have an them on their shows too was um I have an old friend of mine used to make nuclear old friend of mine used to make nuclear bombs, Gordon Prather, and I only just bombs, Gordon Prather, and I only just found out that he died two years ago. uh found out that he died two years ago. uh unfortunately he used to write for us at unfortunately he used to write for us at anti-war.com and a brilliant uh nuclear anti-war.com and a brilliant uh nuclear physicist and hbomb developer uh and he physicist and hbomb developer uh and he had really taught me all about this had really taught me all about this stuff and um so I'm not correcting stuff and um so I'm not correcting anything you said what what he said anything you said what what he said essentially is right I maybe add a essentially is right I maybe add a little more detail the easiest kind of little more detail the easiest kind of nuke to make out of uranium is a simple nuke to make out of uranium is a simple gun type nuke like they dropped on gun type nuke like they dropped on Hiroshima was a little boy it's Hiroshima was a little boy it's essentially a shotgun firing a uranium essentially a shotgun firing a uranium slug into a uranium target and that's slug into a uranium target and that's enough they didn't even test it. They enough they didn't even test it. They knew it would work. Uh it was so easy to knew it would work. Uh it was so easy to do to do the Hiroshima bomb. The do to do the Hiroshima bomb. The Nagasaki bomb was a plutonium implosion Nagasaki bomb was a plutonium implosion bomb. It's virtually always plutonium bomb. It's virtually always plutonium that's used in implosion bombs. Um and that's used in implosion bombs. Um and and in miniaturized nuclear warheads and in miniaturized nuclear warheads that can be married to missiles, right? that can be married to missiles, right? As opposed to a bomb you can drop out of As opposed to a bomb you can drop out of the belly of a plane. That's what he was the belly of a plane. That's what he was saying, right? So gun type nuke, you saying, right? So gun type nuke, you can't put that on a missile. That is by can't put that on a missile. That is by far the easiest kind of nuclear weapon far the easiest kind of nuclear weapon for Iran to make if they broke out and for Iran to make if they broke out and made one, right? But it' essentially be made one, right? But it' essentially be useless to them, right? What are they useless to them, right? What are they gonna do? Drive it to Israel in a gonna do? Drive it to Israel in a flatbed truck, right? They they got no flatbed truck, right? They they got no way to to deliver that. They could drop way to to deliver that. They could drop it as a Yeah, they could test it in the it as a Yeah, they could test it in the desert and beat their chest, but desert and beat their chest, but essentially that's all they could do. Or essentially that's all they could do. Or you could drop it from a plane like we you could drop it from a plane like we did as as Scott said in with Hiroshima did as as Scott said in with Hiroshima Nagasaki. Yeah. Well, very slim chance Nagasaki. Yeah. Well, very slim chance of Iranian heavy bombers getting through of Iranian heavy bombers getting through Israeli airspace. But anyway, um, but to Israeli airspace. But anyway, um, but to make an implosion bomb, they would have make an implosion bomb, they would have to do years worth of experiments unless to do years worth of experiments unless the Chinese or the Russians just gave the Chinese or the Russians just gave them the software or gave them the them the software or gave them the finished blueprints or something, which finished blueprints or something, which there's no indication of that there's no indication of that whatsoever. The only people who gave whatsoever. The only people who gave them blueprints for a nuclear bomb was them blueprints for a nuclear bomb was the CIA. Remember Operation Merlin where the CIA. Remember Operation Merlin where they just changed one little thing and they just changed one little thing and gave them nuclear bomb blueprints, but gave them nuclear bomb blueprints, but the Iranians didn't take the bait. The the Iranians didn't take the bait. The blueprints were given just just to blueprints were given just just to clarify, it's just interesting just in clarify, it's just interesting just in the terms of the history of the terms of the history of proliferation. Um so Iran's initial proliferation. Um so Iran's initial nuclear program right which is built on nuclear program right which is built on centrifuges as Scott and I have been centrifuges as Scott and I have been talking about um that was actually given talking about um that was actually given to the designs of that were given to to the designs of that were given to them by Akan who was really the father them by Akan who was really the father of the Pakistani nuclear program. Um and of the Pakistani nuclear program. Um and he actually stole those designs from the he actually stole those designs from the Dutch and handed it to the Iranians. He Dutch and handed it to the Iranians. He also handed it to the North Koreans and also handed it to the North Koreans and the Libyans and others. So they were the Libyans and others. So they were able to illicitly acquire this able to illicitly acquire this technology or at least the blueprints technology or at least the blueprints for this technology from the father of for this technology from the father of the Pakistani bomb. So I think that's an the Pakistani bomb. So I think that's an interesting point. But if you but it was interesting point. But if you but it was as I said earlier because Bill Clinton as I said earlier because Bill Clinton clamped down on the Chinese and wouldn't clamped down on the Chinese and wouldn't let them sell or anyone else wouldn't let them sell or anyone else wouldn't let them sell them lightwater reactors. let them sell them lightwater reactors. So then they went to AQCon and bought So then they went to AQCon and bought the stuff on the black market. Yeah. And the stuff on the black market. Yeah. And and they obviously bought heavy water and they obviously bought heavy water reactors from the Russians which they've reactors from the Russians which they've been using for electricity. Um I want to been using for electricity. Um I want to just get to the the second thing. I just get to the the second thing. I think it's just important for listeners think it's just important for listeners to know and then I want to get to JCPOA. to know and then I want to get to JCPOA. I was in the middle of saying though I was in the middle of saying though when you're trying to make a uranium when you're trying to make a uranium implosion bomb or a plutonium implosion implosion bomb or a plutonium implosion bomb. It's a much more difficult task bomb. It's a much more difficult task than putting together a gun type nuke than putting together a gun type nuke takes an extraordinary amount of takes an extraordinary amount of testing. And that's why he repeated testing. And that's why he repeated probably unknowingly some false probably unknowingly some false propaganda about Iran having this propaganda about Iran having this advanced testing facility. I think he advanced testing facility. I think he was implying, correct me if I'm wrong, was implying, correct me if I'm wrong, he was I'm pretty sure you're implying he was I'm pretty sure you're implying at Parchin that they were testing these at Parchin that they were testing these implosion systems, but that's completely implosion systems, but that's completely debunked. It's completely false. What debunked. It's completely false. What they were testing, what they were doing they were testing, what they were doing at Partin with that implosion chamber uh at Partin with that implosion chamber uh um was making nano diamonds and the um was making nano diamonds and the scientist in charge of it was a scientist in charge of it was a Ukrainian who had studied in the Soviet Ukrainian who had studied in the Soviet Union at this uh military university Union at this uh military university where they said, "Oh, see they study where they said, "Oh, see they study nuclear stuff there." But that wasn't nuclear stuff there." But that wasn't his specialtity. His name was Dan Leno his specialtity. His name was Dan Leno and he was a specialist in making nano and he was a specialist in making nano diamonds. And that facility was vouched diamonds. And that facility was vouched by Robert Kelly in the Christian Science by Robert Kelly in the Christian Science Monitor. told um Scott Peterson of the Monitor. told um Scott Peterson of the Christian Science Monitor that that Christian Science Monitor that that stuff was nonsense that that that stuff was nonsense that that that facility that implosion chamber could facility that implosion chamber could not be used for in testing uh for not be used for in testing uh for testing an implosion system for nuclear testing an implosion system for nuclear weapons. And I know from Dr. Pray weapons. And I know from Dr. Pray they're telling me that when the they're telling me that when the Americans were doing this and the Americans were doing this and the Russians too that they test all their Russians too that they test all their implosion systems outside and you have implosion systems outside and you have to do it over and over and over again to do it over and over and over again with lead instead of uranium in the core with lead instead of uranium in the core and then you take all this high-speed and then you take all this high-speed X-ray film of the thing and it's this X-ray film of the thing and it's this huge and drawn out and incredibly huge and drawn out and incredibly complicated engineering process. And complicated engineering process. And this is probably why the week before the this is probably why the week before the war, the CIA said, "Not only do we think war, the CIA said, "Not only do we think that they're a year away from having that they're a year away from having enough nuclear material to make one enough nuclear material to make one bomb, we think they're three years away bomb, we think they're three years away from having a finished warhead." That from having a finished warhead." That must have been assuming that they would must have been assuming that they would try to make an implosion system that you try to make an implosion system that you could put on uh in other words could put on uh in other words miniaturize and put on a missile as miniaturize and put on a missile as opposed in in other words skipping a gun opposed in in other words skipping a gun type nuke that would be useless to them. type nuke that would be useless to them. So it's very important to understand So it's very important to understand then that if if they have a uranium then that if if they have a uranium route to the bomb, if they withdraw from route to the bomb, if they withdraw from the treaty and kick out the IAEA the treaty and kick out the IAEA inspectors and and announce that now inspectors and and announce that now we're making nuclear bombs, they can we're making nuclear bombs, they can either one race to a gun type nuke either one race to a gun type nuke that's essentially useless to them or that's essentially useless to them or they can take their ponderous as time they can take their ponderous as time trying to figure out how to make an trying to figure out how to make an implosion system work. First of all, I'm implosion system work. First of all, I'm glad Scott knows about what's going on glad Scott knows about what's going on at Partridge because the IAEA doesn't at Partridge because the IAEA doesn't and they've been asking the Iranians and they've been asking the Iranians That's not true. The Iranians told the That's not true. The Iranians told the IAEA, "You can inspect any five out of IAEA, "You can inspect any five out of 10 facilities here, cart blanch, go 10 facilities here, cart blanch, go ahead." And they did and found nothing. ahead." And they did and found nothing. Then they made up the lies about the Then they made up the lies about the implosion chamber later. And the IAEA, implosion chamber later. And the IAEA, again, Robert Kelly is the American IAEA again, Robert Kelly is the American IAEA guy, debunked that in the Christian guy, debunked that in the Christian Science Monitor. All right. So, uh, I I Science Monitor. All right. So, uh, I I want to just again just put it out there want to just again just put it out there for your listeners. They they should for your listeners. They they should just Google Ahmad A program and they just Google Ahmad A program and they should learn about the Ahmad program should learn about the Ahmad program because it's it's detailed in US because it's it's detailed in US government documents, experts in in government documents, experts in in Iran's nuclear program, including David Iran's nuclear program, including David Albbright, who actually saw the archive, Albbright, who actually saw the archive, went in there, wrote a whole book on it, went in there, wrote a whole book on it, and there's a lot of detail about how and there's a lot of detail about how Iran had an active nuclear weapons Iran had an active nuclear weapons program called the MOD to build five program called the MOD to build five nuclear weapons. But I want to get to nuclear weapons. But I want to get to the JCPOA because I actually think the JCPOA because I actually think that's an interesting discussion for that's an interesting discussion for Scott and I to have um because I think Scott and I to have um because I think there are things that we agree on there there are things that we agree on there and things that we disagree on. Right. and things that we disagree on. Right. So this is the 2015 nuclear deal that So this is the 2015 nuclear deal that Obama reaches. Um it's negotiated Obama reaches. Um it's negotiated painstakingly over two years between painstakingly over two years between 2013 and 2015. And it follows the 2013 and 2015. And it follows the interimm agreement that United States interimm agreement that United States negotiated with Iran. And it's it's it's negotiated with Iran. And it's it's it's in that interimm agreement in 2013 where in that interimm agreement in 2013 where the United States for the first time the United States for the first time actually gives Iran the the right to actually gives Iran the the right to enrich uranium. There were five UN enrich uranium. There were five UN Security Council resolutions passed with Security Council resolutions passed with the support of Russia and China that the support of Russia and China that said Iran should have no enrichment said Iran should have no enrichment capability and no plutonium reprocessing capability and no plutonium reprocessing capability because of the fears that capability because of the fears that Iran would turn that into a nuclear Iran would turn that into a nuclear weapons program. But in 2013 they give weapons program. But in 2013 they give up they give that up. 2015 we reached up they give that up. 2015 we reached the JCPOA and under the JCPOA Iran is the JCPOA and under the JCPOA Iran is allowed to retain enrichment capability allowed to retain enrichment capability and reprocessing capability but over and reprocessing capability but over time so Scott mentioned these sunsets time so Scott mentioned these sunsets and just want your listeners to and just want your listeners to understand what these sunsets are understand what these sunsets are essentially the restrictions that are essentially the restrictions that are placed on Iran's nuclear program right placed on Iran's nuclear program right and there's some really serious and there's some really serious restrictions placed on it especially in restrictions placed on it especially in the short term and Scott's right the the short term and Scott's right the enriched material has to be shipped out enriched material has to be shipped out not to the French but to the Russians um not to the French but to the Russians um and there's restrictions on Iran's and there's restrictions on Iran's ability to operate these facilities at ability to operate these facilities at ATANS and Foraux. They're not closed. ATANS and Foraux. They're not closed. They're still remain open, but they're They're still remain open, but they're restrictions on what they can do with restrictions on what they can do with it. There's also restrictions on Iran's it. There's also restrictions on Iran's ability to test and install advanced ability to test and install advanced centrifuges. Now, the reason you'd want centrifuges. Now, the reason you'd want an advanced centrifuge rather than the an advanced centrifuge rather than the first generation centrifuge that Akan, first generation centrifuge that Akan, the father of Pakistan's nuclear bomb, the father of Pakistan's nuclear bomb, gave to the Iranians is you need a gave to the Iranians is you need a smaller number of these centrifuges to smaller number of these centrifuges to produce weapons grade uranium. If it's produce weapons grade uranium. If it's smaller less, it's easier to hide, smaller less, it's easier to hide, right? You can put it in clandestine right? You can put it in clandestine facilities without this large enrichment facilities without this large enrichment centrifuge footprint. So there's centrifuge footprint. So there's restrictions on these advanced restrictions on these advanced centrifuge R&amp;D. And Iran gets centrifuge R&amp;D. And Iran gets significant sanctions relief as part of significant sanctions relief as part of this. But the whole assumption here from this. But the whole assumption here from both an Iranian and American perspective both an Iranian and American perspective is these restrictions are going to is these restrictions are going to sunset. They're going to disappear over sunset. They're going to disappear over time. In fact, 2025 is the year where time. In fact, 2025 is the year where some of the significant restrictions on some of the significant restrictions on Iran's capabilities begin to sunset and Iran's capabilities begin to sunset and all of them are effectively gone by all of them are effectively gone by 2031. Okay? So, in 2031, Iran can emerge 2031. Okay? So, in 2031, Iran can emerge with an industrial size enrichment with an industrial size enrichment capability. They can they can emerge capability. They can they can emerge with advanced centrifuges that they can with advanced centrifuges that they can install in as many enrichment facilities install in as many enrichment facilities as they want to build. as they want to build. And Iran can enrich to higher and higher And Iran can enrich to higher and higher levels. So, they can go from 3.67 six, levels. So, they can go from 3.67 six, seven to 20%, they can go to 60%. Um, seven to 20%, they can go to 60%. Um, there's nothing in the JCPOA that there's nothing in the JCPOA that actually prohibits them from going to actually prohibits them from going to 90% in Richmondia. And I think at the 90% in Richmondia. And I think at the time, the Obama administration's theory time, the Obama administration's theory of the case was, yeah, sure, in 15 years of the case was, yeah, sure, in 15 years time, but in 15 years time, we'll be time, but in 15 years time, we'll be gone. Hopefully, there'll be a different gone. Hopefully, there'll be a different government in Iran and maybe we can government in Iran and maybe we can renegotiate a different agreement with renegotiate a different agreement with that government that will extend the that government that will extend the sunsets. So, that that's the JCPOA. The sunsets. So, that that's the JCPOA. The reason that critics of the JCPOA, and I reason that critics of the JCPOA, and I was one of them, we objected to the was one of them, we objected to the deal, is not because it didn't have some deal, is not because it didn't have some short-term temporary restrictions that short-term temporary restrictions that were useful, but that if you got it were useful, but that if you got it wrong and there was the same regime in wrong and there was the same regime in power in 15 years, that regime could power in 15 years, that regime could emerge with this huge nuclear program emerge with this huge nuclear program with the capabilities to develop nuclear with the capabilities to develop nuclear weapons in these multiple hardened weapons in these multiple hardened sites. Iran, we estimated, would have a sites. Iran, we estimated, would have a trillion dollars in sanctions relief trillion dollars in sanctions relief over that 15-year period. And if you got over that 15-year period. And if you got it wrong, that it was the same regime in it wrong, that it was the same regime in power as it been in power in 2015, then power as it been in power in 2015, then you had some difficulties. Okay? I just you had some difficulties. Okay? I just wanted to lay out the case against the wanted to lay out the case against the JCPO. Now, to steal man uh Scott's JCPO. Now, to steal man uh Scott's argument, right, I think there's a argument, right, I think there's a legitimate argument because I actually legitimate argument because I actually didn't support the withdrawal from the didn't support the withdrawal from the agreement. Uh President Trump withdrew agreement. Uh President Trump withdrew in 2018. I did a similar version of what in 2018. I did a similar version of what Scott was suggesting was I thought that Scott was suggesting was I thought that the United States should negotiate with the United States should negotiate with the Europeans, the French, the Germans, the Europeans, the French, the Germans, and the UK who were part of the original and the UK who were part of the original deal, extend the sunsets as an agreement deal, extend the sunsets as an agreement between the United States and Europe, between the United States and Europe, and then collectively go to the Iranians and then collectively go to the Iranians and say, "Let's renegotiate this and say, "Let's renegotiate this agreement to extend the sunsets." If you agreement to extend the sunsets." If you if you don't want a nuclear weapons if you don't want a nuclear weapons program, then you should agree that you program, then you should agree that you would you don't need these capabilities would you don't need these capabilities and let's extend the sunsets for another and let's extend the sunsets for another 15 20 30 years. President, somebody give 15 20 30 years. President, somebody give me a screenshot of this. Give me a me a screenshot of this. Give me a pound, dude. There we go. Agreement. pound, dude. There we go. Agreement. There we go. That makes my heart feel so There we go. That makes my heart feel so And I think the hole would have gone for And I think the hole would have gone for it too. Well, so I'm not sure if he it too. Well, so I'm not sure if he would have, but but let's just a little would have, but but let's just a little bit of history. I think it's just useful bit of history. I think it's just useful for the viewers to know again the for the viewers to know again the context, especially when Scott and I context, especially when Scott and I agree. Yeah. Um, so a process was begun, agree. Yeah. Um, so a process was begun, I'm loving this by the Trump I'm loving this by the Trump administration. They, uh, Trump administration. They, uh, Trump appointed, uh, Brian Hook, or Secretary appointed, uh, Brian Hook, or Secretary Pompeo actually appointed Brian Hook, Pompeo actually appointed Brian Hook, who's the lead Iran envoy, and he began who's the lead Iran envoy, and he began a process of talking to the Europeans. a process of talking to the Europeans. Now, the Europeans actually rejected Now, the Europeans actually rejected this idea. Um, and so at some point, this idea. Um, and so at some point, Trump said, "Look, if the Europeans Trump said, "Look, if the Europeans aren't prepared to get on side, then I'm aren't prepared to get on side, then I'm out of the deal. I'm out of the deal." out of the deal. I'm out of the deal." And if you're interested, I can talk And if you're interested, I can talk about why I thought we should have about why I thought we should have stayed in the deal because I thought you stayed in the deal because I thought you gave us some important restrictions in gave us some important restrictions in the short term, certain leverage. But the short term, certain leverage. But Trump decides to withdraw from that Trump decides to withdraw from that agreement because he recognizes that the agreement because he recognizes that the fatal flaw of the agreement, the fatal fatal flaw of the agreement, the fatal flaws of the agreement are one, giving flaws of the agreement are one, giving them any enrichment capability, them any enrichment capability, especially at an industrial size within especially at an industrial size within 15 years, right? and two are these 15 years, right? and two are these sunsets as Scott said which under which sunsets as Scott said which under which these restrictions are going to go away these restrictions are going to go away and Iran's going to end up with a and Iran's going to end up with a massive nuclear program. So I think massive nuclear program. So I think that's just important. We can talk about that's just important. We can talk about the JCPOA the process and everything the JCPOA the process and everything else if you're interested. I'd like to else if you're interested. I'd like to go ahead and quickly accuse the FBI and go ahead and quickly accuse the FBI and the CIA of framing Trump for treason the CIA of framing Trump for treason with Russia and pushing the Russia gate with Russia and pushing the Russia gate hoax. I'm trying to agree with my friend hoax. I'm trying to agree with my friend here because what it is is that that here because what it is is that that completely ruined Donald Trump's ability completely ruined Donald Trump's ability to engage in real diplomacy with Russia to engage in real diplomacy with Russia for his entire first term. Certainly for for his entire first term. Certainly for the first three years of it, he was the first three years of it, he was completely handcuffed. It was it was it completely handcuffed. It was it was it was it was terrible as I'm sure you're was it was terrible as I'm sure you're well aware for the future now our past well aware for the future now our past and current history of Ukraine as well and current history of Ukraine as well as for this deal too. Why couldn't Trump as for this deal too. Why couldn't Trump pick up the phone? I don't know the pick up the phone? I don't know the details here, but I'll take his word for details here, but I'll take his word for it. That the British and the French and it. That the British and the French and the Germans weren't being nice to Trump. the Germans weren't being nice to Trump. They didn't like him. They didn't want They didn't like him. They didn't want to do it. Why couldn't he pick up pick to do it. Why couldn't he pick up pick up the phone and say, "Hey, Putin, I up the phone and say, "Hey, Putin, I need you to call the Ayatollah for me need you to call the Ayatollah for me and tell him, "Hey, you'd like to see and tell him, "Hey, you'd like to see him lift these sunsets, too, and this him lift these sunsets, too, and this and that." Why? Because they framed him and that." Why? Because they framed him for treason. So, he was completely for treason. So, he was completely unable to engage in real diplomacy with unable to engage in real diplomacy with Russia. And I bet that he'd agree with Russia. And I bet that he'd agree with me on that one, too. So, next, actually, me on that one, too. So, next, actually, could I just say one thing interesting? could I just say one thing interesting? And again, I think it's going to be a And again, I think it's going to be a later topic and so it it's going to be a later topic and so it it's going to be a provocative statement, but I think let's provocative statement, but I think let's put it on the table. I absolutely agree put it on the table. I absolutely agree with Scott. I mean, I think it was a with Scott. I mean, I think it was a travesty that the of the accusations travesty that the of the accusations against Donald Trump as a Russian agent. against Donald Trump as a Russian agent. I mean, completely debunked, but it it I mean, completely debunked, but it it did it I think it paralyzed his did it I think it paralyzed his presidency for two two and a half years. presidency for two two and a half years. I I agree with Scott. The idea that you I I agree with Scott. The idea that you would accuse the president of the United would accuse the president of the United States of being a foreign agent for States of being a foreign agent for Vladimir Putin, I think is Vladimir Putin, I think is unfounded and I I I thought at the time unfounded and I I I thought at the time disgraceful and I thought it was really disgraceful and I thought it was really important. I think Scott did really good important. I think Scott did really good work in in debunking that. I would say work in in debunking that. I would say that just a couple days ago I was that just a couple days ago I was watching a podcast Scott was on and he watching a podcast Scott was on and he accused uh Trump of being an agent for accused uh Trump of being an agent for Netanyahu and the Israeli government. So Netanyahu and the Israeli government. So I think again the accusations that the I think again the accusations that the president of the United States is a president of the United States is a foreign agent for some foreign foreign agent for some foreign government. I think we should just put government. I think we should just put all of that aside in any discussion and all of that aside in any discussion and just say President Trump makes his own just say President Trump makes his own decisions whether we agree with him or decisions whether we agree with him or agree with him. But he's not working for agree with him. But he's not working for the FSB and he's not working for Mossad. the FSB and he's not working for Mossad. President Trump makes his own decisions President Trump makes his own decisions based on American national security. Now based on American national security. Now I was making a point. That's hyperbole I was making a point. That's hyperbole making a point. But he did. In fact, making a point. But he did. In fact, could you Google this for me because I could you Google this for me because I always forget exactly how many hundreds always forget exactly how many hundreds of millions of dollars that he took from of millions of dollars that he took from Sheldon add Sheldon add Sheldon add who are Americans, by the way, who are who are Americans, by the way, who are Americans who Sheldon Allison said his Americans who Sheldon Allison said his only regret in life is that he served in only regret in life is that he served in the American army instead of the IDF and the American army instead of the IDF and said America should nuke Iran in order said America should nuke Iran in order to get them to give up their nuclear to get them to give up their nuclear weapons. He said, "I have one issue, one weapons. He said, "I have one issue, one Israel." And they gave Trump hundreds of Israel." And they gave Trump hundreds of millions of dollars over three millions of dollars over three campaigns. That's not just a gez. I campaigns. That's not just a gez. I really hope you'll think of me in the really hope you'll think of me in the future. Scott, first of all, a couple future. Scott, first of all, a couple things. So, one, there's a lot of people things. So, one, there's a lot of people that are friends with Trump and try to that are friends with Trump and try to gain influence. I believe that Trump as gain influence. I believe that Trump as an American is making his own decisions. an American is making his own decisions. Let's for the purpose of this Let's for the purpose of this conversation just focus on that and see conversation just focus on that and see what are the right decisions and what what are the right decisions and what are the wrong decisions. And uh maybe I are the wrong decisions. And uh maybe I wonder what decisions I could get you to wonder what decisions I could get you to make if I gave you hundreds of millions make if I gave you hundreds of millions of dollars. Well, me personally, you of dollars. Well, me personally, you couldn't give me It doesn't matter. I couldn't give me It doesn't matter. I couldn't even get you I couldn't get you couldn't even get you I couldn't get you to drop in on a vert ramp or nothing for to drop in on a vert ramp or nothing for 100 million bucks. Nothing. You cannot 100 million bucks. Nothing. You cannot control my decisions with money. It's control my decisions with money. It's the American system, Lex. That's how it the American system, Lex. That's how it works. It's money. They appreciate. works. It's money. They appreciate. Yeah, we can we can go down that. It's Yeah, we can we can go down that. It's the same if we were talking about Archer the same if we were talking about Archer Daniels Midland Company throwing Daniels Midland Company throwing hundreds of millions of dollars around. hundreds of millions of dollars around. They get policies based on their They get policies based on their hundreds of millions of dollars. The hundreds of millions of dollars. The squeaky wheel gets the grease, right? squeaky wheel gets the grease, right? All that. So, Lex, I think you're right. All that. So, Lex, I think you're right. I mean, I think Elon Mus spent what, I mean, I think Elon Mus spent what, $400 million helping Trump get elected. $400 million helping Trump get elected. Um, and obviously there a number of Um, and obviously there a number of philanthropists. I think clearly his son philanthropists. I think clearly his son Don Junior has had a lot of influence in Don Junior has had a lot of influence in who gets selected in these positions in who gets selected in these positions in the Pentagon, the NC. I think Tucker the Pentagon, the NC. I think Tucker Coulson has had a lot of influence. So I Coulson has had a lot of influence. So I think as you say, he surrounds himself think as you say, he surrounds himself with people who have certain ideas, with people who have certain ideas, ideologies, policies. The president ideologies, policies. The president makes his own decision. I just want to makes his own decision. I just want to touch on just one thing because I I I touch on just one thing because I I I don't want to leave this alone. Um just don't want to leave this alone. Um just out of respect for for the victims of out of respect for for the victims of Iranbacked terrorism and hostage taking Iranbacked terrorism and hostage taking and assassinations since 1979. Um, you and assassinations since 1979. Um, you know, this is the regime that took our know, this is the regime that took our took hostages in 79, took our diplomats took hostages in 79, took our diplomats hostage. Um, Scott says, you know, 83 hostage. Um, Scott says, you know, 83 was really the only thing that happened was really the only thing that happened and and throws out a lot of information. and and throws out a lot of information. Certainly some some pretty breathtaking Certainly some some pretty breathtaking accusations that somehow the Israelis accusations that somehow the Israelis knew about this and didn't tell the knew about this and didn't tell the Americans and and it's an Assad Americans and and it's an Assad officer's accusation. Yeah, Victor officer's accusation. Yeah, Victor Ostroski is his name. Yeah, I know Ostroski is his name. Yeah, I know exactly who he is and and he has been exactly who he is and and he has been widely discredited um and having an axe widely discredited um and having an axe to grind with with Mossad. But anyway, to grind with with Mossad. But anyway, um not only 83 but all through the 90s, um not only 83 but all through the 90s, the 2000s, 2010s, 20120s, the 2000s, 2010s, 20120s, um there have been hundreds of attacks, um there have been hundreds of attacks, of um assassinations, of hostage taking. of um assassinations, of hostage taking. Um there are thousands of Americans who Um there are thousands of Americans who have been killed and maimed by the have been killed and maimed by the regime. Can you be specific what you're regime. Can you be specific what you're talking Yeah, I mean I I can give you a talking Yeah, I mean I I can give you a whole list and Sure. literally I'm happy whole list and Sure. literally I'm happy to pull it up. Lex, I shared it with to pull it up. Lex, I shared it with you. It's a long list of attacks all you. It's a long list of attacks all through the 80s and 90s. Um I mean through the 80s and 90s. Um I mean everything from the you know Kobar everything from the you know Kobar Towers Kobar towers was al Qaeda. That Towers Kobar towers was al Qaeda. That was Osama bin Laden and Khali Shake was Osama bin Laden and Khali Shake Muhammad. Let him lay it out. All right, Muhammad. Let him lay it out. All right, let's hear him. Oh, I got my pen in my let's hear him. Oh, I got my pen in my hand. Go ahead. Yeah. And again, hand. Go ahead. Yeah. And again, according again, according to US according again, according to US intelligence findings, it was actually intelligence findings, it was actually Hzbala that worked with al-Qaeda, Hzbala that worked with al-Qaeda, trained al-Qaeda in that attack in the trained al-Qaeda in that attack in the Cobra Towers. Um they were they were Cobra Towers. Um they were they were kidnapping our diplomats in Beirut. Um kidnapping our diplomats in Beirut. Um they were they launched attacks against they were they launched attacks against our um our soldiers while in Iraq. The our um our soldiers while in Iraq. The notion that somehow you debunked that. notion that somehow you debunked that. No, I don't I don't think Well, you you No, I don't I don't think Well, you you say you debunked it. You just made your say you debunked it. You just made your claim. Um but those were Iranbacked claim. Um but those were Iranbacked militias. militias. militias. um backed by the by Kasum Solommani who um backed by the by Kasum Solommani who Scott referred to who was the commander Scott referred to who was the commander of the RGC goods force who supplied them of the RGC goods force who supplied them with those IEDs or those EFPs actually with those IEDs or those EFPs actually those explosive well again this has been those explosive well again this has been all confirmed by why don't you search all confirmed by why don't you search Alyssa Rubin New York Times EFP factory Alyssa Rubin New York Times EFP factory or you can look in the Christian Science or you can look in the Christian Science Monitor for Operation Eagleclaw where Monitor for Operation Eagleclaw where they found these things you can it's they found these things you can it's it's easy to find in my book you can it's easy to find in my book you can flip right to soda straws and EFPs. And flip right to soda straws and EFPs. And you see where I I have all my citations you see where I I have all my citations for the solid dozen American newspaper for the solid dozen American newspaper reporters who were embedded with reporters who were embedded with American soldiers who found these American soldiers who found these factories in Iraqi Shiastan, okay? With factories in Iraqi Shiastan, okay? With Iraqi Arabs working the machines, not Iraqi Arabs working the machines, not Iran. So I' I'd like your viewers to to Iran. So I' I'd like your viewers to to Google not just a couple of sources, but Google not just a couple of sources, but actually Google the US government actually Google the US government reports. They did a whole afteraction reports. They did a whole afteraction report on the Iraq war. all the mistakes report on the Iraq war. all the mistakes were made in the Iraq war and there and were made in the Iraq war and there and there were legion of mistakes made. Um there were legion of mistakes made. Um but it was very clear that Iran had but it was very clear that Iran had actually provided the technology, the actually provided the technology, the training, the funding for these training, the funding for these Iranbacked militias to kill Americans. I Iranbacked militias to kill Americans. I mean I I could see Scott method from mean I I could see Scott method from Lebanese Hezbala that got it from the Lebanese Hezbala that got it from the IRA. They didn't even get the technique IRA. They didn't even get the technique from the Iranians at all. Yeah. So from the Iranians at all. Yeah. So Lebanese asbal as I'm sure all your Lebanese asbal as I'm sure all your listeners know has been trained financed listeners know has been trained financed true but they got supported by Iran for true but they got supported by Iran for the copper core for many years and that the copper core for many years and that design did not come from Persia. Yeah. design did not come from Persia. Yeah. So again I think we all admit Scott So again I think we all admit Scott admits as well that Hisbala was trained admits as well that Hisbala was trained financed and uh supported by Iran. financed and uh supported by Iran. Hisbala has been responsible for many of Hisbala has been responsible for many of these terrorists. Where does Hisbala these terrorists. Where does Hisbala come from? It's a reaction to the come from? It's a reaction to the Israeli invasion of Lebanon where they Israeli invasion of Lebanon where they went after the PLO and horribly went after the PLO and horribly mistreated the poor local Iraqi Shiites mistreated the poor local Iraqi Shiites until they rose up and created these until they rose up and created these militias to fight in self-defense. militias to fight in self-defense. That's where Hezbollah comes from. That's where Hezbollah comes from. Hisbala was actually created by the RGC Hisbala was actually created by the RGC before the Israeli invasion. This was before the Israeli invasion. This was the CIA's Bin Laden unit. Michael Shyer the CIA's Bin Laden unit. Michael Shyer says it was Osama bin Laden and says it was Osama bin Laden and colleague Shake Muhammad that did the colleague Shake Muhammad that did the Cobar Towers attack. And who did they Cobar Towers attack. And who did they kill? They killed 19 American airmen who kill? They killed 19 American airmen who were stationed there to bomb Iraq from were stationed there to bomb Iraq from bases of Saudi Arabia under the Israeli bases of Saudi Arabia under the Israeli insisted upon dual containment policy. insisted upon dual containment policy. Bill Clinton came from Yeetsak Shamir Bill Clinton came from Yeetsak Shamir who had who had uh sent his man Martin who had who had uh sent his man Martin Indic to work for Bill Clinton and push Indic to work for Bill Clinton and push the dual containment policy is where the dual containment policy is where that comes from in the first place. the that comes from in the first place. the main reason al Qaeda turned against the main reason al Qaeda turned against the United States and the Kobar Towers United States and the Kobar Towers attack was bin Laden and he bragged attack was bin Laden and he bragged about it himself to um Abdel Bari Atwan about it himself to um Abdel Bari Atwan the uh reporter from Alud's Alarabi in the uh reporter from Alud's Alarabi in London and spent days with him and London and spent days with him and bragged all about it and blessed the bragged all about it and blessed the martyrs and the rest of that and uh is martyrs and the rest of that and uh is widely uh discredited the claim that it widely uh discredited the claim that it was Iranianbacked Shiite Hezbala that was Iranianbacked Shiite Hezbala that did the Kobar towers attack. That was did the Kobar towers attack. That was what the Saudi government told the US. what the Saudi government told the US. In fact, there's a great documentary In fact, there's a great documentary about John O'Neal, who was the head of about John O'Neal, who was the head of FBI counterterrorism, who told Louisie FBI counterterrorism, who told Louisie Free, "Boss, the Saudis are blowing Free, "Boss, the Saudis are blowing smoke up your ass about this Hezbala smoke up your ass about this Hezbala thing. It was Al Qaeda that did it." And thing. It was Al Qaeda that did it." And then Louis Free got all upset cuz he then Louis Free got all upset cuz he used the a word. Um he was a very used the a word. Um he was a very conservative Catholic guy, Louis Free, conservative Catholic guy, Louis Free, and then uh refused to listen to another and then uh refused to listen to another word from John O'Neal about it. So, what word from John O'Neal about it. So, what we know now from Scott, because he's we know now from Scott, because he's he's given certainly a lot of context to he's given certainly a lot of context to how he actually sees things, is um how he actually sees things, is um here's who lies to you and here's who here's who lies to you and here's who doesn't. Um, US government lies to you. doesn't. Um, US government lies to you. Israeli government lies to you. Uh, the Israeli government lies to you. Uh, the Israelis clearly lie to you. Menacious Israelis clearly lie to you. Menacious bunch. Saudis lie to you. Um, you know, bunch. Saudis lie to you. Um, you know, but you know who doesn't lie to you? but you know who doesn't lie to you? Actually, doesn't lie to you. Al-Qaeda Actually, doesn't lie to you. Al-Qaeda doesn't lie to you. I didn't cite al doesn't lie to you. I didn't cite al Qaeda or I himself and the Iran. I cited Qaeda or I himself and the Iran. I cited Michael Shawyer, the chief of the CIA's Michael Shawyer, the chief of the CIA's Bin Laden unit, didn't make it clear Bin Laden unit, didn't make it clear here. The Iranian trusting Hezbollah, here. The Iranian trusting Hezbollah, Scott, straight up, I hear you, but Scott, straight up, I hear you, but you're interrupting. And like, please you're interrupting. And like, please just honestly, it's not about the just honestly, it's not about the content, but like honestly, how come content, but like honestly, how come you're not saying him? Isn't that weird you're not saying him? Isn't that weird that you just said he trusts Hezbollah that you just said he trusts Hezbollah even though he didn't say anything about even though he didn't say anything about trusting Hezbollah? I'm not calling out trusting Hezbollah? I'm not calling out the content. I'm calling out the the content. I'm calling out the interruptions. He hasn't interrupted interruptions. He hasn't interrupted you. It's great. I'm loving the back and you. It's great. I'm loving the back and forth. It's great, but just a little forth. It's great, but just a little less talking over each other, that's less talking over each other, that's all. Yeah. So I mean again the the sort all. Yeah. So I mean again the the sort of view of the regime in Iran and and I of view of the regime in Iran and and I think Scott wisely said at the beginning think Scott wisely said at the beginning of this discussion like what did you of this discussion like what did you say? I I don't have any love for the say? I I don't have any love for the Ayatollah. I'm a Texan. I don't have any Ayatollah. I'm a Texan. I don't have any love for the Ayatollah in Iran. And yet love for the Ayatollah in Iran. And yet despite the fact Scott doesn't have love despite the fact Scott doesn't have love for the Ayatollah and I I agree with him for the Ayatollah and I I agree with him and I think he's being sincere in every and I think he's being sincere in every discussion that we've had on every discussion that we've had on every topic. It's always about everyone's topic. It's always about everyone's lying except the Ayatollah in Iran. He's lying except the Ayatollah in Iran. He's not lying about having a nuclear weapons not lying about having a nuclear weapons program. program. program. He he didn't actually support all of He he didn't actually support all of these terrorist organizations that he these terrorist organizations that he founded, financed, and supported to kill founded, financed, and supported to kill Americans. It wasn't the Ayatollah and Americans. It wasn't the Ayatollah and Iran. He's he's not lying about his um Iran. He's he's not lying about his um his deception campaign against the his deception campaign against the United States. He's not lying about United States. He's not lying about negotiations with the Americans. It's negotiations with the Americans. It's Americans fault all the time. So he he's Americans fault all the time. So he he's presented all the time in Scott's presented all the time in Scott's conception here as a sincere actor who conception here as a sincere actor who doesn't want to develop nuclear weapons, doesn't want to develop nuclear weapons, who doesn't actually want to kill who doesn't actually want to kill Americans. He is just always a victim of Americans. He is just always a victim of American and Israeli aggression. I I American and Israeli aggression. I I think it's an interesting conception. I think it's an interesting conception. I think let's talk about it. And I I mean think let's talk about it. And I I mean I'm I'm fascinated by the conception I'm I'm fascinated by the conception because it it's very contrary to mine. because it it's very contrary to mine. Obviously, it's very contrary to, I Obviously, it's very contrary to, I think, decades of overwhelming evidence think, decades of overwhelming evidence that the Islamic Republic has been war that the Islamic Republic has been war with the United States since 1979. And, with the United States since 1979. And, you know, I I don't take too much stock you know, I I don't take too much stock in what people say. I take stock in what in what people say. I take stock in what they do. So, you know, death to America, they do. So, you know, death to America, death to Israel could just be a slogan. death to Israel could just be a slogan. It could be just propaganda. But when It could be just propaganda. But when it's actually operationalized, it's actually operationalized, then you start to ask, well, maybe it's then you start to ask, well, maybe it's not just propaganda. Maybe it's not just propaganda. Maybe it's intention operation operationalized into intention operation operationalized into capabilities. You know, we what we're capabilities. You know, we what we're forgetting here and again it's it's this forgetting here and again it's it's this causal relationship. It's we aggress causal relationship. It's we aggress against Iran and the Israelis aggress against Iran and the Israelis aggress against Iran and Iran is always against Iran and Iran is always reacting. I mean, let's give the reacting. I mean, let's give the Iranians their due because Comedy made Iranians their due because Comedy made it very clear when he established the it very clear when he established the Islamic Republic that there will be a Islamic Republic that there will be a revolutionary and expansionist revolutionary and expansionist regime and they will expand their power regime and they will expand their power through the Middle East. And so he built through the Middle East. And so he built and to his credit was very successful and to his credit was very successful until October 7th. This axis of until October 7th. This axis of resistance as he calls it which are resistance as he calls it which are these terror proxy armies, Hamas, these terror proxy armies, Hamas, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the Iraqi Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the Iraqi Shiite militias, the Houthis in Yemen Shiite militias, the Houthis in Yemen that and certainly supporting the Assad that and certainly supporting the Assad regime in Syria. He built a very very regime in Syria. He built a very very impressive and deadly axis that he impressive and deadly axis that he turned against the United States and turned against the United States and against Israel which saw its culmination against Israel which saw its culmination on October 7th. I think after October on October 7th. I think after October 7th that was a huge miscalculation for 7th that was a huge miscalculation for Kame and we've seen the results of Kame and we've seen the results of what's happened to his axis of what's happened to his axis of resistance through quite devastating resistance through quite devastating Israeli military capabilities over the Israeli military capabilities over the past number of months but he has an past number of months but he has an ideology and I think where I agree with ideology and I think where I agree with Scott is I'm not sure if Kam would Scott is I'm not sure if Kam would actually use a nuclear weapon against actually use a nuclear weapon against Israel the United States because I don't Israel the United States because I don't think Kame is suicidal but I think what think Kame is suicidal but I think what Kame wants is he wants a nuclear weapon Kame wants is he wants a nuclear weapon as a backs stop for his conventional as a backs stop for his conventional power. Right? He's it's very the it's power. Right? He's it's very the it's very much the Kim Jong-un model of North very much the Kim Jong-un model of North Korea, right? I'm going to have nuclear Korea, right? I'm going to have nuclear weapons with ICBMs to threaten America, weapons with ICBMs to threaten America, but what I'm actually going to do is but what I'm actually going to do is threaten South Korea with having massive threaten South Korea with having massive conventional capabilities on the DMZ conventional capabilities on the DMZ that I could take South Korea in a week. that I could take South Korea in a week. I could destroy in a week. So, you the I could destroy in a week. So, you the United States and South Korea have no United States and South Korea have no military option. That's Kame's view. he military option. That's Kame's view. he can actually building up this massive can actually building up this massive ballistic missile arsenal that he's ballistic missile arsenal that he's unleashed in the past 12 days that unleashed in the past 12 days that according to again the US and Israel was according to again the US and Israel was going to go from 2,000 to 6,000 to going to go from 2,000 to 6,000 to 20,000 that from Kame's perspective he 20,000 that from Kame's perspective he didn't need to drop a nuclear bomb on didn't need to drop a nuclear bomb on Tel Aviv. What he needed to do was use Tel Aviv. What he needed to do was use the threat of nuclear escalation in the threat of nuclear escalation in order to use his conventional order to use his conventional capabilities his missiles to destroy Tel capabilities his missiles to destroy Tel Aviv. And you've already seen the damage Aviv. And you've already seen the damage from just uh a few dozen ballistic from just uh a few dozen ballistic missiles getting through the kind of missiles getting through the kind of damage that he's wrought on Tel Aviv damage that he's wrought on Tel Aviv already. That is the conception that already. That is the conception that Kame has. It's a revolutionary regime. Kame has. It's a revolutionary regime. It aggresses and I I do think it's It aggresses and I I do think it's interesting and I think we should talk interesting and I think we should talk about it. Actually, that's a good cue. about it. Actually, that's a good cue. Take a bath. Let's take a bath. Take a bath. Let's take a bath. Okay, we took a quick break and now uh Okay, we took a quick break and now uh Scott. Yeah. Okay. So, a few things Scott. Yeah. Okay. So, a few things there. First of all, uh on Ahmad, the there. First of all, uh on Ahmad, the pre203 pre203 pre203 nuclear weapons research, um the CIA nuclear weapons research, um the CIA estimate in 2007 concluded that all estimate in 2007 concluded that all research had stopped in 2003 and Seymour research had stopped in 2003 and Seymour Hirs reported that the reasoning behind Hirs reported that the reasoning behind that was uh mainly that America had that was uh mainly that America had gotten rid of Saddam Hussein for them. gotten rid of Saddam Hussein for them. Now, in Gareth Porter's book, Now, in Gareth Porter's book, Manufactured Crisis, he shows that the Manufactured Crisis, he shows that the major conclusion that the uh DIA had major conclusion that the uh DIA had made, that the Iranians were researching made, that the Iranians were researching nuclear weapons was based on some nuclear weapons was based on some invoices that they had intercepted for invoices that they had intercepted for some dual use materials, some specialty some dual use materials, some specialty magnets and things that they thought, magnets and things that they thought, boy, this looks like this could be part boy, this looks like this could be part of a weaponization program, a secret of a weaponization program, a secret program here. And you know, Gareth program here. And you know, Gareth Porter, who's a really great critic of Porter, who's a really great critic of all of these policies and claims, says, all of these policies and claims, says, "Hey, this was a good faith "Hey, this was a good faith misunderstanding by DIA. They were doing misunderstanding by DIA. They were doing their job." But it turned out the IAEA their job." But it turned out the IAEA later when America gave them that later when America gave them that information, the IAEA went and verified, information, the IAEA went and verified, oh, there's the magnet and there's this oh, there's the magnet and there's this and there's that and all those dual use and there's that and all those dual use items actually were being used for items actually were being used for civilian purposes. And so then um as civilian purposes. And so then um as Gareth writes in his book, the only real Gareth writes in his book, the only real reason um that the NIE said that they reason um that the NIE said that they even had a program before 2003 was even had a program before 2003 was essentially because they didn't want to essentially because they didn't want to dispute their last mistaken conclusion. dispute their last mistaken conclusion. So they said, "Okay, well that was right So they said, "Okay, well that was right up until then." But that was when that up until then." But that was when that changed. And then the other half of changed. And then the other half of their reason for accepting that there their reason for accepting that there ever was a nuclear weapons research ever was a nuclear weapons research program uh in the country before 2003 program uh in the country before 2003 was the smoking laptop. And I'm sorry, I was the smoking laptop. And I'm sorry, I think I misspoke earlier when I said think I misspoke earlier when I said that the laptop was in 2005. That was that the laptop was in 2005. That was just the Washington Post story that had just the Washington Post story that had a bunch of stuff about it. That was in a bunch of stuff about it. That was in 2003 as well or 2004 possibly. So this 2003 as well or 2004 possibly. So this was why the um but it was still all was why the um but it was still all again forged by the Israelis and again forged by the Israelis and funneled through the MEK cult um but was funneled through the MEK cult um but was obsolete essentially and had nothing in obsolete essentially and had nothing in it. At least the accusations and it it. At least the accusations and it weren't past 03. And so there's really weren't past 03. And so there's really no reason to believe that there was no reason to believe that there was actually a nuclear weapons research actually a nuclear weapons research program even before 03 which then again program even before 03 which then again the National Intelligence Council says the National Intelligence Council says ended in 2003 and hasn't been restored. ended in 2003 and hasn't been restored. A question just not a comment by me but A question just not a comment by me but a question just your perspective. So a question just your perspective. So just so I understand this. the the the just so I understand this. the the the nuclear archive, this this massive nuclear archive, this this massive archive that the Israelis were able to archive that the Israelis were able to take out of Tyrron, bring to the United take out of Tyrron, bring to the United States, bring to the IAEA, which is very States, bring to the IAEA, which is very detailed blueprints. It's just the detailed blueprints. It's just the alleged studies documents again. It's alleged studies documents again. It's the same stuff from the smoking laptop. the same stuff from the smoking laptop. Yeah. So, let me just ask you because Yeah. So, let me just ask you because it's it's it's huge and it's very it's it's it's huge and it's very detailed and it shows clearly that the detailed and it shows clearly that the Iran had an active nuclear weapons Iran had an active nuclear weapons program certainly until 2003 and then we program certainly until 2003 and then we can have a discussion about what can have a discussion about what happened after that. Are are you happened after that. Are are you suggesting that that's all been forged suggesting that that's all been forged by by Israel? Yes. Nothing in this by by Israel? Yes. Nothing in this smoking lot held up. Not not the laptop, smoking lot held up. Not not the laptop, but this entire archive that they pulled but this entire archive that they pulled out with this you're you're thinking of out with this you're you're thinking of like the big photo op with all the do like the big photo op with all the do all the full documents behind I've seen all the full documents behind I've seen it. I've seen many many of the it. I've seen many many of the documents. There's thousands of pages. documents. There's thousands of pages. I'm asking this is not what I'm I'm asking this is not what I'm claiming. Is that all forged by Israel? claiming. Is that all forged by Israel? Is that not all about the uranium Is that not all about the uranium tetraflloride and the warhead that David tetraflloride and the warhead that David Albbright debunked and all the same Albbright debunked and all the same claims that were in the smoking laptop claims that were in the smoking laptop from the Bush years? David David from the Bush years? David David Albbright actually wrote an entire book. Albbright actually wrote an entire book. It's a very detailed book. Your It's a very detailed book. Your listeners should Google it's it's David listeners should Google it's it's David Albbright and the archive where he goes Albbright and the archive where he goes in he went in in detail and he confirms in he went in in detail and he confirms the information in that archive that the information in that archive that Iran had an active program under Iran had an active program under something called Ahmad to develop five something called Ahmad to develop five atomic weapons. So again, you and I can atomic weapons. So again, you and I can debate this all day, but now this would debate this all day, but now this would have been before Natans was even dug and have been before Natans was even dug and before a single centrifuge, right? Got before a single centrifuge, right? Got all that. I'm just making sure everybody all that. I'm just making sure everybody understands assuming that was true. We understands assuming that was true. We were talking about a piece of paper. But were talking about a piece of paper. But you you it's not a piece of paper. It's you you it's not a piece of paper. It's a massive archive. I'm just asking the a massive archive. I'm just asking the question. You you believe Mossad question. You you believe Mossad fabricated all of this as a lie to fabricated all of this as a lie to deceive the United States, the IAEA, and deceive the United States, the IAEA, and the international community? That's just the international community? That's just my question. My understanding is that my question. My understanding is that there is nothing significant in the 2018 there is nothing significant in the 2018 archive that was not already in the archive that was not already in the debunked claims from the laptop. But my debunked claims from the laptop. But my question is is not that it's debunked question is is not that it's debunked because we can argue about whether it because we can argue about whether it was debunked or not, but are you saying was debunked or not, but are you saying that Mossad fabricated it? That's what that Mossad fabricated it? That's what you're claiming. Yeah, because the CIA you're claiming. Yeah, because the CIA admitted that there was no laptop and admitted that there was no laptop and Olli Heinan admitted that he got it from Olli Heinan admitted that he got it from the laptop. He got it from the MEK and the laptop. He got it from the MEK and where did the MEK get it? The MEK got it where did the MEK get it? The MEK got it from the Israelis. Scott, I'm not asking from the Israelis. Scott, I'm not asking about the laptop. I'm asking about this about the laptop. I'm asking about this huge archive that was sitting in a huge archive that was sitting in a warehouse in Tyrron. Full I don't know warehouse in Tyrron. Full I don't know the truth behind those documents. I the truth behind those documents. I don't believe Israeli claims of what don't believe Israeli claims of what they were and where they came from they were and where they came from without, for example, reading Albright's without, for example, reading Albright's book and seeing what he has to say about book and seeing what he has to say about all of that. I don't take Netanyahu's uh all of that. I don't take Netanyahu's uh claims and and Okay. So, what's so claims and and Okay. So, what's so significant in there? You say that significant in there? You say that there's a document that has a plan to to there's a document that has a plan to to make five bombs, but isn't the rest of make five bombs, but isn't the rest of the proof the same green salt the proof the same green salt experiments and the warhead for the experiments and the warhead for the missile that David Albbright showed was missile that David Albbright showed was obviously fake because the warhead was obviously fake because the warhead was purportedly being designed for a missile purportedly being designed for a missile that was now going to have an entirely that was now going to have an entirely different nose cone on it. No. So David different nose cone on it. No. So David Albbright again, you know, we should Albbright again, you know, we should bring David Albbright here. David bring David Albbright here. David Albbright is a prominent physicist, Albbright is a prominent physicist, nuclear proliferation expert known for nuclear proliferation expert known for his detailed research and publications his detailed research and publications on nuclear weapons. Yeah, he has a bunch on nuclear weapons. Yeah, he has a bunch of books. Peddling Peril, Iran's of books. Peddling Peril, Iran's Perilous Pursuit of Nuclear Weapons, Perilous Pursuit of Nuclear Weapons, Plutonium, and Highly Enriched Uranium, Plutonium, and Highly Enriched Uranium, 1996, and so on. Yeah. So, so folks 1996, and so on. Yeah. So, so folks should should read the book on the on should should read the book on the on the archive because David had um full the archive because David had um full access to the archive, all the all the access to the archive, all the all the detailed documents and blueprints, and detailed documents and blueprints, and he writes a book that again, the he writes a book that again, the conclusion of which is Iran had an conclusion of which is Iran had an active nuclear weapons program. No, no, active nuclear weapons program. No, no, no. The conclusion of which was they no. The conclusion of which was they were researching it right before 2003. were researching it right before 2003. They had no nuclear material to They had no nuclear material to introduce into a single machine. Right. introduce into a single machine. Right. Well, they they active program meaning Well, they they active program meaning they had a piece. They had already built they had a piece. They had already built a covert enrichment facility which was a covert enrichment facility which was only No, they hadn't. It was closed. only No, they hadn't. It was closed. Natans was empty by till the end of Natans was empty by till the end of 2006, right? They didn't even start 2006, right? They didn't even start spinning centrifuges in gotten spinning centrifuges in gotten centrifuge for AQ. They'd built a deeply centrifuge for AQ. They'd built a deeply buried underground facility at Natans. buried underground facility at Natans. They were putting in place the component They were putting in place the component parts for a nuclear weapons capability parts for a nuclear weapons capability and Ahmad showed conclusively unless you and Ahmad showed conclusively unless you believe Mossad fabricated it all that believe Mossad fabricated it all that they actually had the plan to build they actually had the plan to build nuclear warheads. Again, Seymour Hirs nuclear warheads. Again, Seymour Hirs says that it was when Seymour Hirs is says that it was when Seymour Hirs is not a nuclear weapons expert. David not a nuclear weapons expert. David Albbright has you saw the archive Albbright has you saw the archive Hersh's sources said America invaded Hersh's sources said America invaded Iraq and overthrew Saddam Hussein for Iraq and overthrew Saddam Hussein for them. That was when they gave up even them. That was when they gave up even considering the need for it. Remember, considering the need for it. Remember, the Iranians held a million man vigil the Iranians held a million man vigil for the Americans on September 11th. The for the Americans on September 11th. The Iranians hated the Taliban. In fact, the Iranians hated the Taliban. In fact, the Americans thought Iran might invade Americans thought Iran might invade Afghanistan earlier in 2001. And they Afghanistan earlier in 2001. And they hated Saddam Hussein. So, they had every hated Saddam Hussein. So, they had every reason in the world to want to work with reason in the world to want to work with the United States September 11. the United States September 11. It's a distraction. My question is, It's a distraction. My question is, let's not go to al-Qaeda, the Taliban, let's not go to al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and 9/11, and the Iranians and a million and 9/11, and the Iranians and a million people. Let's just stay on the topic. people. Let's just stay on the topic. asking me what I already answered. You asking me what I already answered. You believe Mossad fabricated that entire I believe Mossad fabricated that entire I already told you I don't take their word already told you I don't take their word for anything and I' have as far as I for anything and I' have as far as I understand the accusations in there are understand the accusations in there are the same ones from the laptop that are the same ones from the laptop that are already discredited and I haven't read already discredited and I haven't read David Albbright's book. You're David Albbright's book. You're distracting from me refuting this giant distracting from me refuting this giant list of false claims that you made list of false claims that you made previously that let's all agree you're previously that let's all agree you're going to read the book. Maybe Lex, going to read the book. Maybe Lex, you're going to read the book. Viewers, you're going to read the book. Viewers, you should read the book. I think David you should read the book. I think David Albbright has done a meticulous job. Albbright has done a meticulous job. It's a by the way just just warning it's It's a by the way just just warning it's a big book. very detailed, hundreds of a big book. very detailed, hundreds of pages, and he goes through it in pages, and he goes through it in meticulous detail in analyzing this meticulous detail in analyzing this archive and showed again that Iran had archive and showed again that Iran had an active nuclear weapons program an active nuclear weapons program designed to build five atomic warheads. designed to build five atomic warheads. Now, we can talk about what happened Now, we can talk about what happened after 2003 and did they make the after 2003 and did they make the decision to totally stop it? Yeah, God decision to totally stop it? Yeah, God changed his mind after the changed his mind after the neoconservatives lied America into war neoconservatives lied America into war with Iraq for Ariel Chiron. So just to with Iraq for Ariel Chiron. So just to clarify, you Mark and David Albbright uh clarify, you Mark and David Albbright uh believe that Iran was developing a believe that Iran was developing a nuclear weapon and you Scott are saying nuclear weapon and you Scott are saying they were not before 2003. That's just they were not before 2003. That's just just to summarize what we were just just to summarize what we were just talking about. Well, I I can tell you talking about. Well, I I can tell you that. So Gareth's book came out in 2014, that. So Gareth's book came out in 2014, which is before this archive was which is before this archive was supposedly revealed in Tyrron. But in in supposedly revealed in Tyrron. But in in Garris book, he shows that the CIA and Garris book, he shows that the CIA and national intelligence estimate of 2007 national intelligence estimate of 2007 that said that there was a program that said that there was a program before 2003 and was halted after America before 2003 and was halted after America invaded Iraq was based on one the the invaded Iraq was based on one the the DIA's mistaken but sincere uh DIA's mistaken but sincere uh interpretation of these invoices uh for interpretation of these invoices uh for these dual use technologies and then the these dual use technologies and then the smoking laptop which was completely fake smoking laptop which was completely fake and funneled into the stream by the and funneled into the stream by the Mujahaden cult, communist terrorist Mujahaden cult, communist terrorist cult. The same people who come off with, cult. The same people who come off with, you know, 10 major hoaxes. The NCRI, you know, 10 major hoaxes. The NCRI, they just put out the NCR, the National they just put out the NCR, the National Council for Resistance in Iran. That's Council for Resistance in Iran. That's the MEK. They just put out a fake story, the MEK. They just put out a fake story, what, three, four weeks ago about a big what, three, four weeks ago about a big secret nuclear weapons site in Iran. secret nuclear weapons site in Iran. Don't you remember? And then nothing Don't you remember? And then nothing happened with that cuz it was another happened with that cuz it was another lie by the MEK. It happens all the time. lie by the MEK. It happens all the time. So, Lex, maybe we should talk about what So, Lex, maybe we should talk about what happened after 2003. What about this happened after 2003. What about this 2007 NIE? What does it mean? Did it mean 2007 NIE? What does it mean? Did it mean Iran had now abandoned its nuclear Iran had now abandoned its nuclear weapons program or does something else? weapons program or does something else? They never had a nuclear weapons They never had a nuclear weapons program. But let's talk about that. program. But let's talk about that. Interesting. Interesting. According to Interesting. Interesting. According to the NIE, they had a a nuclear weapons the NIE, they had a a nuclear weapons research program that never made research program that never made anything at all. So, you can try to anything at all. So, you can try to conflate that if you want, but I think conflate that if you want, but I think everybody can see. That's not what the everybody can see. That's not what the 2007 NIE says. What the 2007 NIE says is 2007 NIE says. What the 2007 NIE says is that, and you are correct, according to that, and you are correct, according to the 2007 NIE is Iran made the decision the 2007 NIE is Iran made the decision after the invasion of Iraq not to pursue after the invasion of Iraq not to pursue an active nuclear weapons program an active nuclear weapons program anymore because we were putting their anymore because we were putting their best friends in power in Tyrron in best friends in power in Tyrron in Baghdad for them. Well, because the Baghdad for them. Well, because the United States had gone in worry no more United States had gone in worry no more and in a matter of 100 days had taken and in a matter of 100 days had taken down the Iraqi army uh and put in Abdul down the Iraqi army uh and put in Abdul Aziz al-Hakim's faction, the Supreme Aziz al-Hakim's faction, the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq who've been living in Iran for 20 years. who've been living in Iran for 20 years. That's why you and I did not publicly That's why you and I did not publicly support the Iraq war. Did we? I publicly support the Iraq war. Did we? I publicly opposed it as far as I possibly should opposed it as far as I possibly should have publicly opposed it rather than have publicly opposed it rather than just working on Iran in 2003. But you're just working on Iran in 2003. But you're right. It it redounded to the benefit of right. It it redounded to the benefit of Iran that invasion. But but that's not Iran that invasion. But but that's not actually what I'm talking about. What actually what I'm talking about. What I'm talking about is 100 days the I'm talking about is 100 days the Iranian sea that the US military has Iranian sea that the US military has taken down the Iraqi army that they had taken down the Iraqi army that they had fought an 8-year war with where almost a fought an 8-year war with where almost a million people, Scott, as you know, had million people, Scott, as you know, had been killed. So, they were they were been killed. So, they were they were afraid that the United States was going afraid that the United States was going to march from Baghdad to Thran. So, they to march from Baghdad to Thran. So, they make a decision to end their active make a decision to end their active Ahmad program. Ahmad program. Ahmad program. They make a decision to build up the key They make a decision to build up the key capabilities they need to retain an capabilities they need to retain an Iranian nuclear weapons option, Iranian nuclear weapons option, specifically the enrichment capabilities specifically the enrichment capabilities at Natans and then Foraux and at Iraq, at Natans and then Foraux and at Iraq, giving them the plutonium route. Um, and giving them the plutonium route. Um, and then what they do is they take the then what they do is they take the members of the Ahmad program, the members of the Ahmad program, the nuclear weapons scientists that have nuclear weapons scientists that have worked on this, and they disperse them. worked on this, and they disperse them. So, they're now no longer in a formal So, they're now no longer in a formal weapons program. They're put in a a weapons program. They're put in a a number of different research centers and number of different research centers and universities and Mosen Fakraad who you universities and Mosen Fakraad who you mentioned uh earlier who's in some mentioned uh earlier who's in some respects I wouldn't call him the respects I wouldn't call him the Oenheimer of the Iranian nuclear weapons Oenheimer of the Iranian nuclear weapons program he's more like is it was it um program he's more like is it was it um who was in the Oenheimer movie Lesie who was in the Oenheimer movie Lesie Grove um the guy who was actually Grove um the guy who was actually responsible for the organization and the responsible for the organization and the training and the recruitment and the guy training and the recruitment and the guy that actually ran the program as opposed that actually ran the program as opposed to Oppenheimer the the sort of brilliant to Oppenheimer the the sort of brilliant nuclear physicist nuclear physicist nuclear physicist Um this is Fakraad. So Fakrazada takes Um this is Fakraad. So Fakrazada takes control of this program and now it is control of this program and now it is dispersed and it is um unstructured in dispersed and it is um unstructured in that sense because they recognize that that sense because they recognize that if they continue with this, the United if they continue with this, the United States may march to Thran. And so the States may march to Thran. And so the NIE says Iran is retaining the key NIE says Iran is retaining the key capabilities, the enrichment capabilities, the enrichment capabilities to give them an option for capabilities to give them an option for a nuclear weapon. But we, the NI decided a nuclear weapon. But we, the NI decided or we have concluded that they no longer or we have concluded that they no longer have an active structured nuclear have an active structured nuclear weapons program. However, since then, weapons program. However, since then, what have we seen? We've seen them what have we seen? We've seen them actually do what many suspected they actually do what many suspected they would do, which is build all the key would do, which is build all the key capabilities that they need so that time capabilities that they need so that time of their choosing, they can decide to of their choosing, they can decide to develop a nuclear bomb, whether it's a develop a nuclear bomb, whether it's a crude nuclear device, as you described, crude nuclear device, as you described, whether it's a nuclear warhead. We we've whether it's a nuclear warhead. We we've had that discussion uh so far, but just had that discussion uh so far, but just sorry just to finish. So just understand sorry just to finish. So just understand the brilliance of Iranian nuclear the brilliance of Iranian nuclear deception, right? I just I think it's deception, right? I just I think it's really interesting to get in the minds really interesting to get in the minds of the Ayatollah and understand this of the Ayatollah and understand this because he doesn't want to provoke the because he doesn't want to provoke the United States. He doesn't want to see United States. He doesn't want to see another uh Iraq style invasion this time another uh Iraq style invasion this time of his country. He's building this of his country. He's building this capability on the enrichment side and on capability on the enrichment side and on the reprocessing side. He is framing the reprocessing side. He is framing this as I'm only building a civilian this as I'm only building a civilian nuclear program. He's taken the weapon nuclear program. He's taken the weapon scientists who were building an part of scientists who were building an part of an active nuclear weapons program and an active nuclear weapons program and he's dispersing them, putting them under he's dispersing them, putting them under the the guidance and direction of the the guidance and direction of Fakraad and starting to build out these Fakraad and starting to build out these capabilities. I mean, he I I I admire I capabilities. I mean, he I I I admire I have to say I really admire the way he's have to say I really admire the way he's played this three-dimensional nuclear played this three-dimensional nuclear chess game. It's very very interesting chess game. It's very very interesting and I think he made a tragic mistake uh and I think he made a tragic mistake uh about six weeks ago when he rejected the about six weeks ago when he rejected the offer from Trump at Oman and then offer from Trump at Oman and then provoked both an Israeli and then an provoked both an Israeli and then an American strike. But he was playing this American strike. But he was playing this game almost perfectly before then in game almost perfectly before then in building out these capabilities. And I building out these capabilities. And I think what he should have done if I were think what he should have done if I were him, I would have waited out Trump. I him, I would have waited out Trump. I would have waited three and a half would have waited three and a half years. I would have taken the offer in years. I would have taken the offer in Oman which gave him enrichment Oman which gave him enrichment capability above ground. This consortium capability above ground. This consortium that was going to be built in three and that was going to be built in three and a half years would never be built and a half years would never be built and even if it was built he could just say even if it was built he could just say I'm not interested anymore and challenge I'm not interested anymore and challenge the next president whoever that is the next president whoever that is Republican or Democrat to do anything Republican or Democrat to do anything about it. And I think the political about it. And I think the political calculation should have been the next calculation should have been the next president's not going to do anything president's not going to do anything about this. I'll be able to then be able about this. I'll be able to then be able to complete my nuclear weapons program. to complete my nuclear weapons program. But he challenged Trump. He thought But he challenged Trump. He thought Trump was a paper t tiger. He rejected Trump was a paper t tiger. He rejected that offer at Oman and and we've seen that offer at Oman and and we've seen what's happened over the past couple what's happened over the past couple weeks. Two things. One, can you go and weeks. Two things. One, can you go and respond to certain things that you respond to certain things that you heard? And two, can we generally move in heard? And two, can we generally move in the direction of the modern day and the direction of the modern day and trying to see what is the right thing trying to see what is the right thing now, our analysis of the situation now, now, our analysis of the situation now, we've been kind of staying in this in in we've been kind of staying in this in in the context of history, which is really the context of history, which is really important, but sort of moving in important, but sort of moving in forward. But yeah, go ahead, please. I'm forward. But yeah, go ahead, please. I'm not sure how much time we have. I I had not sure how much time we have. I I had kind of hoped and let me talk about uh kind of hoped and let me talk about uh Israel's role in Iraq War II and for Israel's role in Iraq War II and for that matter in Barack Obama's dirty war that matter in Barack Obama's dirty war in Syria that led to the rise of the bin in Syria that led to the rise of the bin Laden there. It's all part of America's Laden there. It's all part of America's Israel policy. So I don't want to I Israel policy. So I don't want to I rather go back before we go forward. But rather go back before we go forward. But I I also do I need to go back over so I I also do I need to go back over so many claims that he's made here that I'd many claims that he's made here that I'd like. So I strongly prefer we go because like. So I strongly prefer we go because there's so much history. We're going to there's so much history. We're going to lose ourselves and there's not enough lose ourselves and there's not enough hours. We should take certain moments in hours. We should take certain moments in history that instruct the modern day, history that instruct the modern day, but let's not get lost there if it's but let's not get lost there if it's okay. I sure this is such a fascinating okay. I sure this is such a fascinating conversation about you know the JCPOA conversation about you know the JCPOA and the time between then and now like and the time between then and now like quite a bit already too. So we we'll be quite a bit already too. So we we'll be going back over some of that. Oh no, I going back over some of that. Oh no, I mean modern day I don't mean JC. I mean mean modern day I don't mean JC. I mean like this week there a lot of stuff like this week there a lot of stuff happened this week and a lot of stuff happened this week and a lot of stuff will happen tomorrow and the next week will happen tomorrow and the next week and we everyone is wants to know like and we everyone is wants to know like what is going to happen? What is the what is going to happen? What is the worst case? What is the best case? worst case? What is the best case? Should we be freaking out? What do we Should we be freaking out? What do we need to understand about today? That's need to understand about today? That's all. All right. So there's a lot of all. All right. So there's a lot of things to address here. So first of all, things to address here. So first of all, something that uh me and Mr. Duboitz something that uh me and Mr. Duboitz agree about Mark. Mark, something that agree about Mark. Mark, something that Mark and I agree about is that there Mark and I agree about is that there actually is not a threat of an actually is not a threat of an aggressive first strike by Iran. I'm a aggressive first strike by Iran. I'm a little surprised to hear him say that, little surprised to hear him say that, but I'm grateful to hear him say it is but I'm grateful to hear him say it is honest. I would, honest. I would, you know, advise you for, you may be you know, advise you for, you may be unfamiliar with this, but I can tell you unfamiliar with this, but I can tell you anyone in America who drives for a anyone in America who drives for a living and listens to AM radio have living and listens to AM radio have heard claims that Iran was making heard claims that Iran was making nuclear weapons probably 50,000 times in nuclear weapons probably 50,000 times in the last 25 years. the last 25 years. Over and over and over again, we hear Over and over and over again, we hear this propaganda. They they still don't this propaganda. They they still don't have a single atom bomb. The reason why have a single atom bomb. The reason why they haven't been able to commold they haven't been able to commold together an atom bomb in this 1940s together an atom bomb in this 1940s technology is because they have not technology is because they have not tried to. Okay? So people can, you know, tried to. Okay? So people can, you know, just essentially fogg this dead horse, just essentially fogg this dead horse, pretend there's this threat. Oh, he's pretend there's this threat. Oh, he's going to break out any day now. But going to break out any day now. But here's the thing about that. As the here's the thing about that. As the Ayatollah well knows, Ayatollah well knows, George W. Bush, Barack Obama, Donald George W. Bush, Barack Obama, Donald Trump, Joe Biden, and now Trump again Trump, Joe Biden, and now Trump again have all vowed with all sincerity that have all vowed with all sincerity that they would bomb Iran off the face of the they would bomb Iran off the face of the earth if they attempted to break out and earth if they attempted to break out and make a nuclear weapon. Hillary Clinton, make a nuclear weapon. Hillary Clinton, when she ran said they'd be obliterated when she ran said they'd be obliterated from the face of the earth. Barack Obama from the face of the earth. Barack Obama did an interview with Jeffrey Goldberg did an interview with Jeffrey Goldberg in the Atlantic in 2012 called As in the Atlantic in 2012 called As President I don't bluff. And essentially President I don't bluff. And essentially the interview is him begging Jeffrey the interview is him begging Jeffrey Goldberg to explain to the Israelis that Goldberg to explain to the Israelis that he really, really, really, really means he really, really, really, really means it. That he's trying to negotiate, but it. That he's trying to negotiate, but if the Ayatollah breaks out for a nuke, if the Ayatollah breaks out for a nuke, I'll nuke them if I have to. No, they I'll nuke them if I have to. No, they never said that. He didn't say that. But never said that. He didn't say that. But the implication was, by the way, no, no the implication was, by the way, no, no US president ever said they're going to US president ever said they're going to obliterate Iran. US president said, obliterate Iran. US president said, Hillary Clinton did. All options are on Hillary Clinton did. All options are on the table. Anyone can Google her word. the table. Anyone can Google her word. She was never our president. No, I said She was never our president. No, I said she was running for president. Yeah, but she was running for president. Yeah, but she was never our president, but no US she was never our president, but no US president ever said there'd obliterate president ever said there'd obliterate Iran. Nobody ever said they implication. Iran. Nobody ever said they implication. The implication was clear under W. Bush, The implication was clear under W. Bush, Barack Obama, Trump, Biden, and Trump Barack Obama, Trump, Biden, and Trump again that they would strike Iran's again that they would strike Iran's nuclear facility. If they broke out nuclear facility. If they broke out toward a nuclear weapon, America would toward a nuclear weapon, America would do whatever it took to prevent that from do whatever it took to prevent that from happening. So, strike their nuclear happening. So, strike their nuclear facilities. That was always the case facilities. That was always the case there. Please clarify, just to be there. Please clarify, just to be accurate. And I'm almost talking about accurate. And I'm almost talking about nuking Iran. No one's talking about nuking Iran. No one's talking about bombing Iran to smitherines or bombing Iran to smitherines or obliterating or any of that. I mean, obliterating or any of that. I mean, that's really not true. True. I mean, that's really not true. True. I mean, Barack Obama changed America's nuclear Barack Obama changed America's nuclear posture to say, cuz it used to say, "We posture to say, cuz it used to say, "We reserve the right to use a nuclear first reserve the right to use a nuclear first strike against any country." And he strike against any country." And he changed that to say, "No, we we promise changed that to say, "No, we we promise not to use a nuclear first strike not to use a nuclear first strike against any non-uclear weapon state against any non-uclear weapon state except maybe Iran." Okay. Okay. That's except maybe Iran." Okay. Okay. That's true. All right. And so, um, in fact, true. All right. And so, um, in fact, that was the threat. And, and I I got that was the threat. And, and I I got more here. Okay. Uh Netanyahu also did more here. Okay. Uh Netanyahu also did an interview with Jeffrey Goldberg back an interview with Jeffrey Goldberg back when Ahood Barack was his defense when Ahood Barack was his defense minister uh in I think this is also minister uh in I think this is also 2012, it might have been 2014 where the 2012, it might have been 2014 where the two of them explained that they agreed two of them explained that they agreed with what he said too that there the with what he said too that there the threat is not of a nuclear first strike threat is not of a nuclear first strike unlike every AM radio audience has been unlike every AM radio audience has been led to believe that the Ayatoll as soon led to believe that the Ayatoll as soon as he gets an atom bomb he will nuke Tel as he gets an atom bomb he will nuke Tel Aviv and he doesn't care if all of Aviv and he doesn't care if all of Persia is nuked by Israel's 200 nukes in Persia is nuked by Israel's 200 nukes in response He's trying to cause the end of response He's trying to cause the end of the world by uh causing a nuclear war the world by uh causing a nuclear war and all these things. Well, Netanyahu and all these things. Well, Netanyahu himself admitted that that's not true. himself admitted that that's not true. Yeah, I think it's really important. I Yeah, I think it's really important. I agree with I'm just agreeing with you, agree with I'm just agreeing with you, so you don't have to stop me. But I'm so you don't have to stop me. But I'm agreeing with you. I know, but I'm agreeing with you. I know, but I'm agreeing with you, so it's all right. So agreeing with you, so it's all right. So Netanyahu told Jeffrey Goldberg that he Netanyahu told Jeffrey Goldberg that he was not concerned about a first strike, was not concerned about a first strike, that his only concern was that talented that his only concern was that talented young Israelis would move to Miami, that young Israelis would move to Miami, that there would be a brain drain. That was there would be a brain drain. That was his words, a brain drain from Israel. his words, a brain drain from Israel. And that also then Hezbala, as this is And that also then Hezbala, as this is what he put it, and I agree with this, what he put it, and I agree with this, that conventional forces would have a that conventional forces would have a bit more freedom of action in the region bit more freedom of action in the region if Iran was sitting on an Abomb. Neither if Iran was sitting on an Abomb. Neither of them said that there was a threat of of them said that there was a threat of an offensive first strike against an offensive first strike against Israel. And I would point out, and I'm Israel. And I would point out, and I'm skipping ahead to Trump, but I'm skipping ahead to Trump, but I'm skipping back here again in a second skipping back here again in a second because I got more uh things to refute. because I got more uh things to refute. But Trump just said the other day when But Trump just said the other day when he announced American air strikes there he announced American air strikes there that this has neutralized a threat to that this has neutralized a threat to Israel. He did not even pretend that it Israel. He did not even pretend that it was a threat to the United States that was a threat to the United States that he had ended in doing so. Actually, he he had ended in doing so. Actually, he said exactly that. Well, actually, you said exactly that. Well, actually, you can Google the statement. He said can Google the statement. He said President Trump has said that an Iranian President Trump has said that an Iranian nuclear weapon is a threat to the United nuclear weapon is a threat to the United States. He said that over announced his States. He said that over announced his great victory in bombing he which is great victory in bombing he which is what I just said, right? President Trump what I just said, right? President Trump sends out 20 truth posts a day. So let sends out 20 truth posts a day. So let let's look at the the many many this let's look at the the many many this whole thing about how I always believe whole thing about how I always believe Hezbala and I always believe the Hezbala and I always believe the Ayatollah when in fact I did not quote Ayatollah when in fact I did not quote the Ayatollah and I did not quote the Ayatollah and I did not quote Hezbala on anything. I did quote Osama Hezbala on anything. I did quote Osama bin Laden taking responsibility for the bin Laden taking responsibility for the Gopar Towers attack which he shared that Gopar Towers attack which he shared that with Abdelari Awan anyone can read it with Abdelari Awan anyone can read it and he agrees with Michael Shyer the and he agrees with Michael Shyer the former chief of the CIA's bin Laden unit former chief of the CIA's bin Laden unit who also said that it was a hoax that it who also said that it was a hoax that it was Iranianbacked Saudi Hezbala that did was Iranianbacked Saudi Hezbala that did that attack and again who did they that attack and again who did they attack they killed 19 American airmen attack they killed 19 American airmen which was the number one complaint of al which was the number one complaint of al Qaeda against the United States that we Qaeda against the United States that we had air forces had air forces and army stationed in Saudi Arabia in and army stationed in Saudi Arabia in order to bomb and blockade Iraq, which order to bomb and blockade Iraq, which again, this was the thing that you had again, this was the thing that you had asked about before, was part of the dual asked about before, was part of the dual containment policy in the 1990s. So, containment policy in the 1990s. So, Scott, you're saying no, wait a second. Scott, you're saying no, wait a second. The fact is you're sitting here saying The fact is you're sitting here saying that, "Oh, I I trust them all so much." that, "Oh, I I trust them all so much." Well, what do you think, Lex? What do Well, what do you think, Lex? What do you think Ronald Reagan meant by trust you think Ronald Reagan meant by trust but verify? He meant don't trust, but be but verify? He meant don't trust, but be polite, right? That's what he meant. polite, right? That's what he meant. Verify means we we know with sensors and Verify means we we know with sensors and cameras and inspections what's going on. cameras and inspections what's going on. No one can find a quote that I said here No one can find a quote that I said here about how we can trust the Ayatollah about how we can trust the Ayatollah because he promised this or that or the because he promised this or that or the other thing. I didn't say that, right? other thing. I didn't say that, right? What I'm talking about is the process. What I'm talking about is the process. They sign agreements and then we have They sign agreements and then we have inspectors to verify their claims. And inspectors to verify their claims. And as anyone can search at IAEA.org, they as anyone can search at IAEA.org, they have continued to verify the have continued to verify the non-diversion of nuclear material in non-diversion of nuclear material in Iran to any military or other special Iran to any military or other special purpose. IA has now said that they purpose. IA has now said that they actually can no longer do this before actually can no longer do this before because America withdrew from before because America withdrew from before this war started. So I mean at the end this war started. So I mean at the end of the day let's just be let's just be of the day let's just be factually accurate and the fact of the factually accurate and the fact of the matter is anybody who knows anything matter is anybody who knows anything about nuclear weapons program knows that about nuclear weapons program knows that we do not have 100% certainty on we do not have 100% certainty on anything. I mean, Scott is making claims anything. I mean, Scott is making claims here that the Mossad is fabricating, the here that the Mossad is fabricating, the CIA is fabricating, everybody's CIA is fabricating, everybody's fabricating, but he's also assuming that fabricating, but he's also assuming that we have 100% certainty about what we're we have 100% certainty about what we're doing inside a country more than two and doing inside a country more than two and a half times the size of Texas. As as a half times the size of Texas. As as Scott rightly said, mountainous, Scott rightly said, mountainous, incredibly difficult to monitor, incredibly difficult to monitor, incredibly difficult to surveil. They incredibly difficult to surveil. They built underground facilities at Natans built underground facilities at Natans and Fordo without our knowledge. They and Fordo without our knowledge. They didn't disclose it. We we finally found didn't disclose it. We we finally found out about refuted that an hour ago. out about refuted that an hour ago. anyone, but the fact of the matter is anyone, but the fact of the matter is they did it. It's there. Both the they did it. It's there. Both the facilities are there. And by the way, facilities are there. And by the way, you keep saying that I just say lies, you keep saying that I just say lies, lies, lies. But I have explained exactly lies, lies. But I have explained exactly what I meant. I've cited my sources and what I meant. I've cited my sources and I've I haven't just sat here and say, I've I haven't just sat here and say, "Uh-uh, that's a lie." Cuz I don't like "Uh-uh, that's a lie." Cuz I don't like it. I sat here and explained to you it. I sat here and explained to you exactly how I know who was building exactly how I know who was building those EFP bombs in Iraq. Exactly how I those EFP bombs in Iraq. Exactly how I know what the IAEA said about the state know what the IAEA said about the state of inspections here or what uh Robert of inspections here or what uh Robert Kelly told the Christian Science Monitor Kelly told the Christian Science Monitor about Parchin and the rest and on and on about Parchin and the rest and on and on and on. You sit here like I'm just and on. You sit here like I'm just saying, "Well, that's not true cuz I saying, "Well, that's not true cuz I don't like it." When in fact, I'm don't like it." When in fact, I'm explaining exactly why your claims are explaining exactly why your claims are not true, which they're not. Uh just not true, which they're not. Uh just like saying that I said I trust Hezbala like saying that I said I trust Hezbala when anyone can rewind that and and when anyone can rewind that and and break their finger trying to find the break their finger trying to find the part where I said that cuz I never did. part where I said that cuz I never did. Um and now uh you brought up the DPRK. Um and now uh you brought up the DPRK. Well, in 2002 when George W. Bush said Well, in 2002 when George W. Bush said that they were part of the Axis of evil. that they were part of the Axis of evil. They were part of the NPT and they had a They were part of the NPT and they had a safeguards agreement with the IAEA. And safeguards agreement with the IAEA. And yes, they had bought centrifuge yes, they had bought centrifuge equipment from AQN, but they had not equipment from AQN, but they had not used it. It was John Bolton's lie that used it. It was John Bolton's lie that they were enriching uranium to weapons they were enriching uranium to weapons grade and violating the agreed grade and violating the agreed framework. John Bolton and George W. framework. John Bolton and George W. Bush in the fall of O2 then cancelled Bush in the fall of O2 then cancelled the agreed framework deal that Bill the agreed framework deal that Bill Clinton had struck based on this Clinton had struck based on this misinformation. They added new sanctions misinformation. They added new sanctions and they launched what was called the and they launched what was called the proliferation security initiative which proliferation security initiative which was an illegal and unilateral uh claim was an illegal and unilateral uh claim of the authority to seize any North of the authority to seize any North Korean ship on the high seas if they Korean ship on the high seas if they suspected it of proliferation. And then suspected it of proliferation. And then they added them to the nuclear posture they added them to the nuclear posture review putting them on the short list review putting them on the short list for a potential first strike. And it was for a potential first strike. And it was only then in 20ou in the end of 2002 only then in 20ou in the end of 2002 after these what four or five major after these what four or five major things that the Bush government did to things that the Bush government did to antagonize them that that North Korea antagonize them that that North Korea then announced that they were going to then announced that they were going to withdraw from the treaty and begin withdraw from the treaty and begin making nuclear weapons which is what making nuclear weapons which is what they did. And then as we know from all they did. And then as we know from all the scientists say every time that the scientists say every time that they've tested a nuclear bomb it's been they've tested a nuclear bomb it's been a plutonium bomb. They never tested not a plutonium bomb. They never tested not never once used a uranium bomb. There's never once used a uranium bomb. There's no evidence that John Bolton's claims no evidence that John Bolton's claims there that they were enriching uranium there that they were enriching uranium were ever true. And they had, you know, were ever true. And they had, you know, Sig Hecker, who's this important Sig Hecker, who's this important American nuclear expert, went and toured American nuclear expert, went and toured their facilities and all of these their facilities and all of these things. And so we know uh quite a bit things. And so we know uh quite a bit about what they have. And it was simply about what they have. And it was simply Bush pushed North Korea to nukes, as Bush pushed North Korea to nukes, as Gordon Prather wrote in his last great Gordon Prather wrote in his last great article for us at anti-war.com. And it article for us at anti-war.com. And it was through this exact kind of was through this exact kind of belligerance when we already had a deal belligerance when we already had a deal that we could have that we could have theme in your analysis. And again, I theme in your analysis. And again, I just want to I want to look at it, maybe just want to I want to look at it, maybe steel man it, maybe challenge it. But steel man it, maybe challenge it. But the constant theme is the United States the constant theme is the United States and Israel and the West. We constantly and Israel and the West. We constantly aggress against North Korea, against aggress against North Korea, against Iran, against Russia, against these Iran, against Russia, against these countries, and they respond to us. And countries, and they respond to us. And they respond to us in ways that they they respond to us in ways that they they they they build nuclear weapons programs that build nuclear weapons programs that they're that are peaceful, but we force they're that are peaceful, but we force them to de develop nuclear weapons. They them to de develop nuclear weapons. They don't actually mean to kill us. Look, don't actually mean to kill us. Look, it's not right that I'm saying it's not right that I'm saying everything anyone does. You're saying everything anyone does. You're saying that everything I say is that everyone that everything I say is that everyone anyone else does is a reaction. But anyone else does is a reaction. But that's not true. The subject here is that's not true. The subject here is what has America done to make things what has America done to make things worse rather than better. I'm citing I'm worse rather than better. I'm citing I'm citing provocations. That doesn't mean citing provocations. That doesn't mean I'm saying that everything that happens I'm saying that everything that happens in the world is only an equal and in the world is only an equal and opposite reaction to an American opposite reaction to an American provocation. And you can't find me provocation. And you can't find me saying that. You can only somehow try to saying that. You can only somehow try to paraphrase me claiming that somehow or paraphrase me claiming that somehow or something like that. But that's what's something like that. But that's what's issue, right? Is as I said, for example, issue, right? Is as I said, for example, there's the Reuters story that says that there's the Reuters story that says that after Israel did the sabotage, which after Israel did the sabotage, which they bragged about at Natants in April they bragged about at Natants in April of 21, that was when they started of 21, that was when they started enriching up to 60%. Okay. So now I'm enriching up to 60%. Okay. So now I'm saying that and I'm just denying the saying that and I'm just denying the agency of the Iranians or anything. I agency of the Iranians or anything. I said that no, I'm not. I'm just citing said that no, I'm not. I'm just citing the Reuters new news agency saying that the Reuters new news agency saying that this proactive action by Israel caused a this proactive action by Israel caused a negative reaction by your own lights. A negative reaction by your own lights. A very negative reaction in their very negative reaction in their beginning to again enrich up to 60% beginning to again enrich up to 60% uranium. So that means, oh, I'm just uranium. So that means, oh, I'm just spinning for the Ayatollah or I believe spinning for the Ayatollah or I believe that no one ever does anything except in that no one ever does anything except in reaction to Israel and America, except reaction to Israel and America, except that I'm just citing specific examples that I'm just citing specific examples of where that's exactly the case. Donald of where that's exactly the case. Donald Trump withdrew from the deal. He could Trump withdrew from the deal. He could have stayed in the deal and tried hard have stayed in the deal and tried hard to make it better. He didn't. America to make it better. He didn't. America has done America. The US government has has done America. The US government has made numerous mistakes. If this podcast made numerous mistakes. If this podcast is all about the American government and is all about the American government and the mistakes it's made, it's a huge the mistakes it's made, it's a huge spend hours on it. Can we please get to spend hours on it. Can we please get to today? Uh talk about use everything we today? Uh talk about use everything we just talked about and talk about today. just talked about and talk about today. What is maybe Mark can you lay out what What is maybe Mark can you lay out what is the best case and the worst case and is the best case and the worst case and Scott then lay out the best case and the Scott then lay out the best case and the worst case that can happen now. So, Lex, worst case that can happen now. So, Lex, I think the best case and something I've I think the best case and something I've advocated for, I've been working on this advocated for, I've been working on this for 22 years, is that the Iranians for 22 years, is that the Iranians return to negotiations at Oman, uh, sit return to negotiations at Oman, uh, sit down with the United States and conclude down with the United States and conclude an agreement that peacefully and an agreement that peacefully and permanently and fully dismantles their permanently and fully dismantles their nuclear program. They agree to that, nuclear program. They agree to that, which means they they shut down any which means they they shut down any remaining facilities. They give up all remaining facilities. They give up all the remaining centrifuges and enriched the remaining centrifuges and enriched material that they could use to develop material that they could use to develop nuclear weapons. They let the IAEA in in nuclear weapons. They let the IAEA in in order to supervise this. They they order to supervise this. They they actually commit to not rebuilding this actually commit to not rebuilding this nuclear program. And we commit as we've nuclear program. And we commit as we've done with 23 other countries to helping done with 23 other countries to helping them provide civilian nuclear energy them provide civilian nuclear energy because it seems to me a little fanciful because it seems to me a little fanciful that the Kam would build a civilian that the Kam would build a civilian nuclear program under 80 m of concrete nuclear program under 80 m of concrete surrounded by rock uh and take all the surrounded by rock uh and take all the risks he's taken. And by the way, he risks he's taken. And by the way, he faces a risk to his regime. spent a half faces a risk to his regime. spent a half a trillion dollars to do this when it it a trillion dollars to do this when it it makes no commercial sense. But let's makes no commercial sense. But let's take him at his word that he wants take him at his word that he wants civilian nuclear energy. Let's build it civilian nuclear energy. Let's build it for him as long as there's no enrichment for him as long as there's no enrichment or reprocessing that gives him the key or reprocessing that gives him the key capabilities that he could if he decides capabilities that he could if he decides to build nuclear weapons. That seems to to build nuclear weapons. That seems to me a thoughtful me a thoughtful approach. I think Scott would probably approach. I think Scott would probably agree with it. Proliferation proof he agree with it. Proliferation proof he can't build nuclear weapons and we can can't build nuclear weapons and we can do this all peacefully. That's my do this all peacefully. That's my preference. What can Trump do to help preference. What can Trump do to help make that happen? I think what he can do make that happen? I think what he can do is he can say to the Iranians, look, I is he can say to the Iranians, look, I made you that offer last time. You made you that offer last time. You rejected it. Now that offer is no longer rejected it. Now that offer is no longer on the table because that offer gave you on the table because that offer gave you enrichment now temporarily, but I now enrichment now temporarily, but I now see the game that you would have played see the game that you would have played when I left office to turn that when I left office to turn that enrichedment and enrichment capability enrichedment and enrichment capability into nuclear weapons. So that deal's off into nuclear weapons. So that deal's off the table. But here's the deal that's on the table. But here's the deal that's on the table. It's a one-page deal. you the table. It's a one-page deal. you give up your nuclear capabilities, we give up your nuclear capabilities, we help you build civilian nuclear energy. help you build civilian nuclear energy. I think that's best case. All right. I I think that's best case. All right. I think worst case is that the Iranians do think worst case is that the Iranians do what they've unfortunately been doing what they've unfortunately been doing over and over again and rejecting these over and over again and rejecting these deals and holding firm that they want to deals and holding firm that they want to retain this enrichment capability. And retain this enrichment capability. And the only reason they want to retain the only reason they want to retain enrichment capability is the option to enrichment capability is the option to develop nuclear weapons. Otherwise, they develop nuclear weapons. Otherwise, they can have civilian energy. tomorrow makes can have civilian energy. tomorrow makes much more commercial sense to do that much more commercial sense to do that and the entire international community and the entire international community would help them and pay for that. I I would help them and pay for that. I I worry that they're going to just remain worry that they're going to just remain intrigent at the negotiating table. And intrigent at the negotiating table. And I think if they do that, then what I I think if they do that, then what I worry that they're going to do is worry that they're going to do is whatever remaining capabilities they whatever remaining capabilities they have left, they'll b their time. They'll have left, they'll b their time. They'll wait for the opportunity. Maybe it's not wait for the opportunity. Maybe it's not now, maybe it's when Trump's gone, and now, maybe it's when Trump's gone, and they will rebuild this nuclear weapons they will rebuild this nuclear weapons program, and they'll be then inviting program, and they'll be then inviting further strikes, further war, and further strikes, further war, and further suffering. And I worry that that further suffering. And I worry that that is the worst case. And by the way, as is the worst case. And by the way, as part of that worst case in retaining the part of that worst case in retaining the capabilities, capabilities, capabilities, the extra worst case is they take those the extra worst case is they take those capabilities and they go for a nuclear capabilities and they go for a nuclear bomb. Now, if Scott's right and the bomb. Now, if Scott's right and the regime has never had any desire for a regime has never had any desire for a nuclear bomb, we don't have to worry nuclear bomb, we don't have to worry about that because according to Scott, about that because according to Scott, all of this is been fabricated. All of all of this is been fabricated. All of this has been result of US and Israeli this has been result of US and Israeli uh intelligence macity and we don't have uh intelligence macity and we don't have to worry about a nuclear weapon. I to worry about a nuclear weapon. I personally worry about it knowing this personally worry about it knowing this regime looking at two and a half decades regime looking at two and a half decades of of nuclear deception. I worry that of of nuclear deception. I worry that they want to retain those capabilities they want to retain those capabilities and a time of their choosing and a time of their choosing develop a nuclear bomb. So I think if develop a nuclear bomb. So I think if you're responsible and you're trying to you're responsible and you're trying to think through the various scenarios, think through the various scenarios, you've got to consider an Iranian you've got to consider an Iranian nuclear weapons breakout as a nuclear weapons breakout as a possibility and you've got to try to possibility and you've got to try to mitigate that. You can either mitigate mitigate that. You can either mitigate that at the negotiating table through a that at the negotiating table through a full dismantlement deal or and that's full dismantlement deal or and that's not it's the least not it's the least well it's it's the least good option for well it's it's the least good option for sure is you're going to have to go back sure is you're going to have to go back in there either the Israelis andor the in there either the Israelis andor the United States and you're going to have United States and you're going to have to continue to use both covert action to continue to use both covert action and air power to destroy those and air power to destroy those capabilities. Can I just even uh dig in capabilities. Can I just even uh dig in further on the worst case? Do you think further on the worst case? Do you think it's possible to have where US gets it's possible to have where US gets pulled into a feet on the ground full-on pulled into a feet on the ground full-on war with Iran? war with Iran? I think one must never dismiss I think one must never dismiss possibilities because as I said, you possibilities because as I said, you you've got to plan against worst case you've got to plan against worst case options. And I think that's what the options. And I think that's what the Israel lobby has in store for you guys. Israel lobby has in store for you guys. American lives mean nothing to the American lives mean nothing to the Israel firsters. They don't care that Israel firsters. They don't care that Israel motivated September 11th and Israel motivated September 11th and killed 3,000 of our guys. You know, I killed 3,000 of our guys. You know, I was at the airport yesterday. They had a was at the airport yesterday. They had a big American flag with all the red and big American flag with all the red and white stripes made out of the names of white stripes made out of the names of the dead as September 11th who are the dead as September 11th who are killed by people motivated by Israel's killed by people motivated by Israel's crimes in Palestine and in Lebanon and crimes in Palestine and in Lebanon and enforcing Bill Clinton's dual enforcing Bill Clinton's dual containment policy from Saudi Arabia. containment policy from Saudi Arabia. They don't care about that. They don't They don't care about that. They don't care about the 4,500 Americans who died care about the 4,500 Americans who died in Iraq War II or the million something in Iraq War II or the million something people who died in Iraq war, the half a people who died in Iraq war, the half a million in Syria as long as the Shiite million in Syria as long as the Shiite crescent somehow is limited. They'll crescent somehow is limited. They'll even celebrate openly, I don't know even celebrate openly, I don't know about him, but I know Ben Shapiro and about him, but I know Ben Shapiro and many other leaders of the Israel lobby many other leaders of the Israel lobby in America celebrated the overthrow of in America celebrated the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad in Syria by Abu Muhammad Bashar al-Assad in Syria by Abu Muhammad al- Galani, the leader of al Qaeda in al- Galani, the leader of al Qaeda in Iraq in Syria. Why? Because he's not a Iraq in Syria. Why? Because he's not a Shiite. He's not an Alawite. Friends Shiite. He's not an Alawite. Friends with the Shiites and friends with Iran with the Shiites and friends with Iran and friends with Hezbala. And so that's and friends with Hezbala. And so that's good for Israel even though it's the good for Israel even though it's the worst thing that you could possibly worst thing that you could possibly imagine for the people of the United imagine for the people of the United States of America. Those sworn loyal to States of America. Those sworn loyal to Osama bin Laden and I alsawahhiri ruling Osama bin Laden and I alsawahhiri ruling Damascus now uh their own ISIS caliphate Damascus now uh their own ISIS caliphate in our era. And this is why they always in our era. And this is why they always pretend they go, "Oh, you know, over pretend they go, "Oh, you know, over there the Muslims, the terrorists, there the Muslims, the terrorists, greatest state sponsors of terrorism." greatest state sponsors of terrorism." It's al Qaeda that threatens the United It's al Qaeda that threatens the United States of America. It wasn't Hezbollah States of America. It wasn't Hezbollah that knocked those towers down. And they that knocked those towers down. And they have us siding with our enemies against have us siding with our enemies against their enemies. And as you just said, their enemies. And as you just said, well, I guess time will tell, Lex, well, I guess time will tell, Lex, whether we're going to have to drop the whether we're going to have to drop the 82nd Airborne in there, whether 82nd Airborne in there, whether Americans are going to have to do a Americans are going to have to do a regime. I didn't actually change in I regime. I didn't actually change in I wish you'd listened and and not put wish you'd listened and and not put words in my mouth. I heard what he said. words in my mouth. I heard what he said. I forced him kind of to say what the I forced him kind of to say what the worst case possibility of a full-on worst case possibility of a full-on invasion as a thought experiment. And invasion as a thought experiment. And you can let him finish that as opposed you can let him finish that as opposed to making the accusations. Let's just to making the accusations. Let's just minimize both ways accusations, please. minimize both ways accusations, please. Let's just talk about the ideas. Let's Let's just talk about the ideas. Let's the most charitable interpretation of the most charitable interpretation of his ideas. Uh, well, I'm from the United his ideas. Uh, well, I'm from the United States of America, unlike him, and I States of America, unlike him, and I care about the future of this country, care about the future of this country, unlike him, who's here to serve a unlike him, who's here to serve a foreign power and make their case at our foreign power and make their case at our expense. Scott, and next you're going to expense. Scott, and next you're going to say that I'm an American cuz you're an say that I'm an American cuz you're an immigrant, too. Well, you're just immigrant, too. Well, you're just hosting the show. I don't know. Seems hosting the show. I don't know. Seems like you're trying to be fair. No, it's like you're trying to be fair. No, it's not. No, it's not about fair. He has an not. No, it's not about fair. He has an agenda. He's from the FDD. Stop. It's agenda. He's from the FDD. Stop. It's not about being fair. The implication not about being fair. The implication here is somebody's unamerican because here is somebody's unamerican because where they're from. I didn't say anyone where they're from. I didn't say anyone who's not from here. I'm talking about who's not from here. I'm talking about him. Okay. I think that's a really him. Okay. I think that's a really deeply disrespectful accusation. Can I deeply disrespectful accusation. Can I ask you does it bother you that when ask you does it bother you that when Naftali Bennett bombed a UN shelter full Naftali Bennett bombed a UN shelter full of 106 women and children in Kana of 106 women and children in Kana Lebanon in 1996 that that's what Lebanon in 1996 that that's what motivated Muhammad Atani to join Ala and motivated Muhammad Atani to join Ala and attack our country 22 years ago? I attack our country 22 years ago? I became a proud US citizen 10 years ago. became a proud US citizen 10 years ago. I'm proud to be an American and accusing I'm proud to be an American and accusing me or Lex or any immigrants to this me or Lex or any immigrants to this country of not being unamerican is country of not being unamerican is deeply offensive. So let me answer Lex's deeply offensive. So let me answer Lex's question. Lex, let's get back to your question. Lex, let's get back to your question because I think it's an question because I think it's an important question, right? What are the important question, right? What are the chain of events that could lead 500,000 chain of events that could lead 500,000 mechanized US troops to have to invade mechanized US troops to have to invade Iran, which would be a disaster and Iran, which would be a disaster and that's something we never want to see that's something we never want to see again? That's one of the lessons of again? That's one of the lessons of Iraq. I think Scott has done a good job Iraq. I think Scott has done a good job over the years in demonstrating that we over the years in demonstrating that we don't want to do that again. So, is don't want to do that again. So, is there is there such a scenario? I think there is there such a scenario? I think one must never rule it out because there one must never rule it out because there is a scenario for example where the is a scenario for example where the regime collapses, okay, and the regime regime collapses, okay, and the regime collapses and there's chaos inside Iran. collapses and there's chaos inside Iran. Not suggesting that'll happen. There are Not suggesting that'll happen. There are a whole bunch of scenarios maybe we a whole bunch of scenarios maybe we should talk about with respect to um the should talk about with respect to um the the collapse of the regime. But you the collapse of the regime. But you could see a scenario where the United could see a scenario where the United States would have to go in there in States would have to go in there in order to try to secure um military and order to try to secure um military and nuclear and missile assets so that it nuclear and missile assets so that it doesn't end at the hands of waring doesn't end at the hands of waring uh factional and ethnic groups that that uh factional and ethnic groups that that Scott referred to because again as he's Scott referred to because again as he's rightly pointed out Iran is not Persia. rightly pointed out Iran is not Persia. Can't the IDF handle it? So, can I can I Can't the IDF handle it? So, can I can I just finish just who can handle it, who just finish just who can handle it, who cannot handle it. Um, I think that that cannot handle it. Um, I think that that it's a potential scenario, which is why it's a potential scenario, which is why I don't think every anybody should be I don't think every anybody should be advocating for a US decapitation of the advocating for a US decapitation of the regime in Iran. I I have long been on regime in Iran. I I have long been on record of supporting the Iranian people, record of supporting the Iranian people, right? Providing support to the Iranian right? Providing support to the Iranian people to at one point take back their people to at one point take back their country and take back their flag. It's country and take back their flag. It's very much sort of Reagan strategy that very much sort of Reagan strategy that Reagan ran in the in the cold war of Reagan ran in the in the cold war of maximum pressure on the regime, maximum maximum pressure on the regime, maximum support for antis-siet dissident. While support for antis-siet dissident. While by the way, he was negotiating arms by the way, he was negotiating arms control agreements with the Soviet Union control agreements with the Soviet Union in order to try reduce the number of of in order to try reduce the number of of nuclear tipped ICBMs that both countries nuclear tipped ICBMs that both countries had pointed at each other. So I think had pointed at each other. So I think the Reagan strategy of providing support the Reagan strategy of providing support to the people is a far better strategy to the people is a far better strategy for trying to get transition, leadership for trying to get transition, leadership transition, government transition inside transition, government transition inside Iran. But I think the scenario of Iran. But I think the scenario of decapitation strikes killing common decapitation strikes killing common taking out the entire government could taking out the entire government could potentially lead to that scenario and I potentially lead to that scenario and I think we have to be conscious of that. think we have to be conscious of that. We have to guard against that. So I We have to guard against that. So I think that's important. I think Scott's think that's important. I think Scott's right. I mean if if the scenario right. I mean if if the scenario happened like that Yeah. I mean I think happened like that Yeah. I mean I think I think the Israelis have demonstrated I think the Israelis have demonstrated extraordinary capabilities and they extraordinary capabilities and they could go in there and they could secure could go in there and they could secure loose nuclear materials that you would loose nuclear materials that you would be worried could be be worried could be uh fashioned for nuclear weapons. I uh fashioned for nuclear weapons. I mean, Scott doesn't seem to worry about mean, Scott doesn't seem to worry about these materials. I worry about these these materials. I worry about these materials and capabilities in the hands materials and capabilities in the hands of of anybody because they're all of of anybody because they're all capabilities that just the physics of capabilities that just the physics of it, you can produce nuclear weapons. So, it, you can produce nuclear weapons. So, so best case scenario, negotiation, we so best case scenario, negotiation, we fully dismantle their program in Oman. fully dismantle their program in Oman. Worst case scenario, right, is having to Worst case scenario, right, is having to return for continued military strikes return for continued military strikes that continue to escalate the situation. that continue to escalate the situation. worst worst situation is some kind of worst worst situation is some kind of decapitation strike that collapses the decapitation strike that collapses the regime and causes chaos. There are a regime and causes chaos. There are a whole bunch of other scenarios we can whole bunch of other scenarios we can talk about that are embedded in that, talk about that are embedded in that, but I think if you're a responsible but I think if you're a responsible person and a responsible analyst and person and a responsible analyst and certainly if you're a responsible policy certainly if you're a responsible policy maker, you got to be planning for all of maker, you got to be planning for all of these scenarios and more. Scott, what do these scenarios and more. Scott, what do you think is the best case and the worst you think is the best case and the worst case here? Uh well, the best case case here? Uh well, the best case scenario is that we quit right now and scenario is that we quit right now and that we Trump figures out a way to that we Trump figures out a way to reorder some paragraphs and get back in reorder some paragraphs and get back in something like the JCPOA which was also something like the JCPOA which was also signed with the rest of the UN Security signed with the rest of the UN Security Council power. Can I ask you like is Council power. Can I ask you like is JCPOA is a pretty good approximation of JCPOA is a pretty good approximation of what would be a good deal? Pretty good. what would be a good deal? Pretty good. It could have been better. As I said at It could have been better. As I said at the beginning, Trump could have gone in the beginning, Trump could have gone in there and tried to negotiate uh a better there and tried to negotiate uh a better result with the sunset provisions on result with the sunset provisions on some of those things. But um the the some of those things. But um the the concept that America is just going to concept that America is just going to insist on zero enrichment, zero nuclear insist on zero enrichment, zero nuclear program whatsoever when they have the program whatsoever when they have the unalienable right quote unquote in the unalienable right quote unquote in the nonproliferation treaty to civilian uh nonproliferation treaty to civilian uh nuclear material and and a civilian nuclear material and and a civilian program. Uh it's a poison pill. It's program. Uh it's a poison pill. It's meant to fail just like it was a poison meant to fail just like it was a poison pill meant to destroy the talks here. pill meant to destroy the talks here. Good enough to start a war. Again, as I Good enough to start a war. Again, as I quoted from uh earlier, uh he said on on quoted from uh earlier, uh he said on on TV last week, well, America has to take TV last week, well, America has to take out Fordo now because now they're more out Fordo now because now they're more likely to break out towards a nuke. I likely to break out towards a nuke. I think that's exactly right. So, there think that's exactly right. So, there still is or there's there's strong still is or there's there's strong reason to be skeptical, including reason to be skeptical, including Israeli and American officials told the Israeli and American officials told the New York Times that they thought that New York Times that they thought that the damage was quite incomplete. Yeah, the damage was quite incomplete. Yeah, the IAA just came out recently, just the IAA just came out recently, just just point of fact, sort of interesting. just point of fact, sort of interesting. We'll see on the battle damage We'll see on the battle damage assessment, but they actually think the assessment, but they actually think the facility was destroyed and that the facility was destroyed and that the centrifuges the sensitive centrifuges centrifuges the sensitive centrifuges were destroyed. So just interesting for were destroyed. So just interesting for the viewers the viewers the viewers all the uranium sel all the uranium all the uranium sel all the uranium mines all the aluminum smelters so that mines all the aluminum smelters so that they can't make any more centrifuges. Uh they can't make any more centrifuges. Uh they've already they know how to make they've already they know how to make centrifuges. So at this point and you centrifuges. So at this point and you know in for uh it's this is why know in for uh it's this is why government doesn't work. They make government doesn't work. They make matters worse and create more work for matters worse and create more work for themselves and make things worse and themselves and make things worse and worse and worse. We can make the same worse and worse. We can make the same criticism about Russia's invasion of criticism about Russia's invasion of Ukraine, making matters worse for Ukraine, making matters worse for themselves and causing them to have to themselves and causing them to have to escalate even further. Now America's in escalate even further. Now America's in the situation where the danger that Iran the situation where the danger that Iran will now break out to a nuke is so will now break out to a nuke is so heightened that now we're talking about heightened that now we're talking about well maybe we'll have to do a full well maybe we'll have to do a full regime change. And I appreciate you Mark regime change. And I appreciate you Mark saying that we should not kill the saying that we should not kill the Ayatollah, but Benjamin Netanyahu says Ayatollah, but Benjamin Netanyahu says we should. He said just the other day we should. He said just the other day that if we get rid of the Ayatollah that that if we get rid of the Ayatollah that will solve all the problems which is will solve all the problems which is just crazy to think that they have just crazy to think that they have Israeli officials have been tweeting out Israeli officials have been tweeting out pictures of them ping around with the pictures of them ping around with the son of the sha talking about son of the sha talking about reinstalling his royal majesty's reinstalling his royal majesty's monarchy monarchy monarchy sock puppet dictatorship that's taking sock puppet dictatorship that's taking back Iran for the people of Iran giving back Iran for the people of Iran giving them over to a bunch of foreign backed them over to a bunch of foreign backed exiles try was that what Trump meant exiles try was that what Trump meant when he gave that speech in cutter when he gave that speech in cutter saying we don't believe in neoonserv saying we don't believe in neoonserv vatism and spreading democracy anymore. vatism and spreading democracy anymore. He's just setting up because we're going He's just setting up because we're going to try to reinstall a monarch. Can you to try to reinstall a monarch. Can you go into the analysis of best case and go into the analysis of best case and worst case? You laid out the best case. worst case? You laid out the best case. What? So worst case would be worst case. What? So worst case would be worst case. Did I hear what was the best case? I I Did I hear what was the best case? I I missed the best case is a deal. Yeah. missed the best case is a deal. Yeah. That that we quit deal basically. You That that we quit deal basically. You guys agree on the on the best case. guys agree on the on the best case. respect their right to a civilian respect their right to a civilian nuclear program and try to negotiate, as nuclear program and try to negotiate, as I said, back into something like the I said, back into something like the JCPOA, which again had them exporting JCPOA, which again had them exporting their entire stock of uranium out of the their entire stock of uranium out of the country. He wants no nuclear program country. He wants no nuclear program whatsoever. No, no, that's not what I whatsoever. No, no, that's not what I said. That's not what I said. Be careful said. That's not what I said. Be careful what I said. Well, no enrichment what I said. Well, no enrichment capabilities, entire dependence on other capabilities, entire dependence on other countries to supply their fuel needs. countries to supply their fuel needs. Can you teach me the difference when we Can you teach me the difference when we Yeah. So, so let me just step back from Yeah. So, so let me just step back from this cuz we agree on some and we this cuz we agree on some and we disagree on a major issue and then we disagree on a major issue and then we both agree Iran deserves a civilian both agree Iran deserves a civilian nuclear program. See, Ayatollah is never nuclear program. See, Ayatollah is never going to give in on enrichment. We know going to give in on enrichment. We know that it's a premise for our whole that it's a premise for our whole discussion here. Therefore, what he's discussion here. Therefore, what he's saying is we're going to have to keep saying is we're going to have to keep escalating the war until the mission is escalating the war until the mission is accomplished. Not sure I said that, accomplished. Not sure I said that, Scott. I think it's again important the Scott. I think it's again important the distinction here, right? We both agree distinction here, right? We both agree that Iran deserves a civilian nuclear that Iran deserves a civilian nuclear program. 23 countries have civilian program. 23 countries have civilian nuclear programs and they don't have nuclear programs and they don't have enrichment and they don't have enrichment and they don't have reprocessing. Where we differ is I don't reprocessing. Where we differ is I don't think Iran should have the Iran think Iran should have the Iran standard. I think that should Iran standard. I think that should Iran should agree to the gold standard that should agree to the gold standard that 23 US allies have agreed to. So have 23 US allies have agreed to. So have civilian nuclear program but you don't civilian nuclear program but you don't get to keep the key enrichment and get to keep the key enrichment and reprocessing capabilities that you need reprocessing capabilities that you need to develop nuclear weapons. Do you think to develop nuclear weapons. Do you think that Bill Clinton should have just let that Bill Clinton should have just let the Chinese sell them the lightwater the Chinese sell them the lightwater reactor that they wanted to back in the reactor that they wanted to back in the '90s? Yeah. And America of course '90s? Yeah. And America of course allowed Russia to sell them a heavy allowed Russia to sell them a heavy water reactor for the same purpose. But water reactor for the same purpose. But I agree with Scott that I think one of I agree with Scott that I think one of the ways out of this is yes, whether the ways out of this is yes, whether it's the Chinese or pref preferably as it's the Chinese or pref preferably as an American, I'd prefer the Americans an American, I'd prefer the Americans actually sell uh reactors to the actually sell uh reactors to the Iranians. A great, you know, nuclear Iranians. A great, you know, nuclear industry in this country. Let's do that. industry in this country. Let's do that. But if they can't, the South Koreans But if they can't, the South Koreans can. The Russians can, the Chinese can. can. The Russians can, the Chinese can. I wouldn't want to have significant I wouldn't want to have significant Russian and Chinese influence in Iran. Russian and Chinese influence in Iran. So, better that it be a Western country So, better that it be a Western country that does it. Nevertheless, provide that does it. Nevertheless, provide those reactors. They're proliferation those reactors. They're proliferation proof. There's no enrichment and no proof. There's no enrichment and no reprocessing. You buy your fuel rods reprocessing. You buy your fuel rods from abroad. You put them in the from abroad. You put them in the reactors. You power the Iranian reactors. You power the Iranian electrical grid, which is in terrible electrical grid, which is in terrible shape because the Ayatollah has spent a shape because the Ayatollah has spent a half a trillion dollars trying to build half a trillion dollars trying to build nuclear weapons and not trying to nuclear weapons and not trying to provide electricity for his people. provide electricity for his people. Let's help him. let's help his people Let's help him. let's help his people get electricity. But the key difference get electricity. But the key difference in our argument and it's a fundamental in our argument and it's a fundamental difference. God's right. Like the key difference. God's right. Like the key difference is I do not want to give this difference is I do not want to give this regime enrichment or reprocessing cuz regime enrichment or reprocessing cuz they have shown over time for whatever they have shown over time for whatever reason whether you believe it's they reason whether you believe it's they intended to or we were lying about it or intended to or we were lying about it or we broke them. It doesn't matter. What we broke them. It doesn't matter. What they have shown over the past number of they have shown over the past number of years is they have gone up from 3.67% years is they have gone up from 3.67% 67% enrich uranium for civilian purpose 67% enrich uranium for civilian purpose all the way up to 60% which is 99% of all the way up to 60% which is 99% of what you need for weapons grade since what you need for weapons grade since we've seen them do it before we don't we've seen them do it before we don't want to see them do it again so no want to see them do it again so no enrichment full dismantlement full deal enrichment full dismantlement full deal and then there's a peaceful resolution and then there's a peaceful resolution to what I what I worry about is to what I what I worry about is positions that are taken that undermine positions that are taken that undermine President Trump's negotiating leverage President Trump's negotiating leverage in Oman because can I ask you you were in Oman because can I ask you you were saying you supported the JC you wereos saying you supported the JC you wereos Yeah, we're that's you opposed to Yeah, we're that's you opposed to withdrawing from it. Don't you think withdrawing from it. Don't you think that Trump could have gone over there that Trump could have gone over there and negotiated to make it better? And and negotiated to make it better? And would you agree that it was a huge would you agree that it was a huge mistake to withdraw that because they mistake to withdraw that because they were, as we agreed, shipping out all of were, as we agreed, shipping out all of their enriched uranium to only be their enriched uranium to only be brought back in a form that they could brought back in a form that they could not use to make nukes. The scientists not use to make nukes. The scientists had decided that if they kicked all the had decided that if they kicked all the inspectors out and beat their chest and inspectors out and beat their chest and started making a nuke, it would take started making a nuke, it would take them a full year to have enough weapons them a full year to have enough weapons grade uranium for a single gun type grade uranium for a single gun type nuke. under the JCPOA. Right. So, so can nuke. under the JCPOA. Right. So, so can I let me ask you a question because I let me ask you a question because you're right. I mean, I'm glad you've you're right. I mean, I'm glad you've pointed out because I I try to take a pointed out because I I try to take a nuanced position in during the JCPOA nuanced position in during the JCPOA debate and I got hammered by the left debate and I got hammered by the left and I got hammered by the right. Okay. and I got hammered by the right. Okay. The the the left hammered me because I The the the left hammered me because I criticized the JCPOA because its criticized the JCPOA because its fundamental flaw was twofold. One, it fundamental flaw was twofold. One, it gave Iran enrichment capability that gave Iran enrichment capability that would expand over time as the would expand over time as the restrictions sunseted, right? And number restrictions sunseted, right? And number two, the restrict the sunsets were going two, the restrict the sunsets were going to kick in and Iran would emerge with to kick in and Iran would emerge with his industrialized program which we his industrialized program which we would not be able to stop. Now the would not be able to stop. Now the nuance position which I got hammered on nuance position which I got hammered on by the right was I said go negotiate by the right was I said go negotiate with the Europeans, agree on a common with the Europeans, agree on a common transatlantic position to approach the transatlantic position to approach the Iranians and say look that deal that we Iranians and say look that deal that we did back in 2015 we think it's flawed. did back in 2015 we think it's flawed. We want to extend that deal. We want to We want to extend that deal. We want to get rid of the sunsets and we are going get rid of the sunsets and we are going to negotiate a deal. Now, does that mean to negotiate a deal. Now, does that mean we have to give you more sanctions we have to give you more sanctions relief? Yeah, probably. The Iranians are relief? Yeah, probably. The Iranians are not going to just agree without not going to just agree without sanctions relief. What happened is the sanctions relief. What happened is the Trump administration tried to negotiate Trump administration tried to negotiate with the Europeans. The Europeans were with the Europeans. The Europeans were opposed because they didn't want to opposed because they didn't want to revisit the agreement. We knew from we revisit the agreement. We knew from we knew the Iranians were completely knew the Iranians were completely opposed and there was no way they were opposed and there was no way they were going to do this if the United States going to do this if the United States and Europe were divided. And so, at that and Europe were divided. And so, at that just just a little bit of history, I just just a little bit of history, I just think it's interesting history. It just think it's interesting history. It was at that point that President Trump was at that point that President Trump decided to withdraw from the agreement. decided to withdraw from the agreement. But what I'm asking you is if say you But what I'm asking you is if say you were the national security adviser under were the national security adviser under the JCPOA where they are still shipping the JCPOA where they are still shipping all their enriched uranium out of the all their enriched uranium out of the country and all that which you're you country and all that which you're you would be advising him to not leave in would be advising him to not leave in the negotiations to improve the deal. the negotiations to improve the deal. Would you have been willing to accept Would you have been willing to accept some level of enrichment then as long as some level of enrichment then as long as we're still we have the restriction part we're still we have the restriction part where they're shipping it all out of the where they're shipping it all out of the country or to you enrichment at all is country or to you enrichment at all is always a red line essentially equivalent always a red line essentially equivalent to them being 99% of the way to a to them being 99% of the way to a nuclear weapon. Look enrichment nuclear weapon. Look enrichment capability is a red line. It has to be a capability is a red line. It has to be a red line. And and even though you know red line. And and even though you know it's protected by the MPT, the right to it's protected by the MPT, the right to peaceful nuclear technology. call it a peaceful nuclear technology. call it a loophole, but they have the right to loophole, but they have the right to enrich uranium in as there's different enrich uranium in as there's different interpretations of everything, including interpretations of everything, including agreements. Um, there is a a a raging agreements. Um, there is a a a raging debate about whether the NPT actually debate about whether the NPT actually gives you a right to enrich. In fact, gives you a right to enrich. In fact, the Obama administration, even with the the Obama administration, even with the JCPOA, was not willing to recognize JCPOA, was not willing to recognize Iran's right to enrich, but they were Iran's right to enrich, but they were willing to recognize its de facto willing to recognize its de facto reality that they were enriching. Can reality that they were enriching. Can you explain NPT? It's the you explain NPT? It's the non-proliferation treaty. Iran is a non-proliferation treaty. Iran is a member of it and it is supposed to member of it and it is supposed to promote civilian peaceful civilian promote civilian peaceful civilian nuclear energy, right? And it's supposed nuclear energy, right? And it's supposed to prevent countries from developing to prevent countries from developing nuclear weapons. I think that's a a nuclear weapons. I think that's a a basic summary of it and it mandates that basic summary of it and it mandates that non-uclear weapons states have a non-uclear weapons states have a safeguards agreement with the IAEA safeguards agreement with the IAEA um and full of additional protocols and um and full of additional protocols and whatever they have the right sign. Well, whatever they have the right sign. Well, no, they had an additional protocol that no, they had an additional protocol that they were abiding, not even enriching at they were abiding, not even enriching at all while they were negotiating with the all while they were negotiating with the E3. And then what the JCPOA really did E3. And then what the JCPOA really did was add a bunch of additional protocols was add a bunch of additional protocols and subsidiary arrangements and and subsidiary arrangements and agreements refused to ratify the agreements refused to ratify the additional protocol. I just want to just additional protocol. I just want to just be clear on the facts. I mean it's be clear on the facts. I mean it's really important. At which point in time really important. At which point in time did they refuse to ratify? Because they did they refuse to ratify? Because they did ratify the JCPOA which was full of did ratify the JCPOA which was full of additional protocols and and subsidiary additional protocols and and subsidiary arrangements and agreements. They're arrangements and agreements. They're called there's there's an important called there's there's an important additional protocol that Iran refused. additional protocol that Iran refused. Which one was that? one where they Which one was that? one where they promised not to enrich at all, which promised not to enrich at all, which they actually did abide by while they they actually did abide by while they were negotiating with the E3 in the W. were negotiating with the E3 in the W. Bush years before they even started Bush years before they even started spinning. The important point you ask spinning. The important point you ask me, you you asked me what I would advise me, you you asked me what I would advise the national security adviser of the the national security adviser of the United States or if I was the national United States or if I was the national security adviser of the United States, security adviser of the United States, which I I guess I can't be because I'm a which I I guess I can't be because I'm a foreigner, but the fact of the matter is foreigner, but the fact of the matter is is I think you could still be national is I think you could still be national security adviser. Zign Bzinski sure was. security adviser. Zign Bzinski sure was. I think he was taking a shot back at the I think he was taking a shot back at the fact that you took a shot. You know fact that you took a shot. You know what, Lex? I think that you probably what, Lex? I think that you probably would recognize that there are many would recognize that there are many people who lobby for Israel's interests people who lobby for Israel's interests in the United States who clearly don't in the United States who clearly don't care that much about what happens to the care that much about what happens to the United States of America in as a United States of America in as a consequence because they care about consequence because they care about Israel which is a a different country Israel which is a a different country than America right it's not part of I than America right it's not part of I think an American an American citizen think an American an American citizen cares primarily about America that is cares primarily about America that is fundamental belief for me to make an fundamental belief for me to make an accusation that they don't requires a accusation that they don't requires a very large amount of proof for each very large amount of proof for each individual. I don't care. To pretend individual. I don't care. To pretend that American and Israel's interests are that American and Israel's interests are the same requires a tremendous amount of the same requires a tremendous amount of cognitive dissonance by those who cognitive dissonance by those who support Israel's support Israel's support Israel's sponsor of terror as though Iran has sponsor of terror as though Iran has anything to do with anti-American anything to do with anti-American terrorists. I don't know who is the they terrorists. I don't know who is the they that we're talking about, but I believe that we're talking about, but I believe American citizens American citizens American citizens care about America first. care about America first. They may discuss other nations and the They may discuss other nations and the interests in the Middle East or in in interests in the Middle East or in in Europe and and those interests might Europe and and those interests might align with their own worldview, align with their own worldview, whatever. But when it comes at the end whatever. But when it comes at the end of the day, if everybody starts a war of the day, if everybody starts a war with everybody else, they're America with everybody else, they're America first. Like I I'm America first. If first. Like I I'm America first. If there's a war that breaks out and we there's a war that breaks out and we have to pick up guns, I'm fighting for have to pick up guns, I'm fighting for America. I'll take them on a case by America. I'll take them on a case by case basis. I know immigrants I know case basis. I know immigrants who are absolutely super immigrants who are absolutely super patriots who know American history and patriots who know American history and love and care about America more than love and care about America more than their nextoor neighbors who are from their nextoor neighbors who are from here. But that ain't universal. Okay. here. But that ain't universal. Okay. And let's talk about case by case then. And let's talk about case by case then. That's fine. Well, I think I think I That's fine. Well, I think I think I think he's clearly accusing me. A worse think he's clearly accusing me. A worse war with Iran. He was entertained the war with Iran. He was entertained the possibility of putting ground troops in possibility of putting ground troops in there. Don't take personal catastrophe there. Don't take personal catastrophe of you. You've taken personal shots. of you. You've taken personal shots. Let's not do it. Let's not do it. You guys are just having fun and I'm You guys are just having fun and I'm having fun. Just on the idea, he said having fun. Just on the idea, he said that there's there's a threat to that there's there's a threat to missiles. There's a threat from Iranian missiles. There's a threat from Iranian missiles to America's bases in the missiles to America's bases in the Middle East. Yeah. Because of Israel and Middle East. Yeah. Because of Israel and because of this war. The first time Iran because of this war. The first time Iran ever fired missiles at an American base ever fired missiles at an American base over there was in response to Trump over there was in response to Trump bombing them. It's never fault. Is that bombing them. It's never fault. Is that what everybody thinks? It was Iran who what everybody thinks? It was Iran who started this. Let's bring it back. What started this. Let's bring it back. What a joke. Scott, it's a remarkable a joke. Scott, it's a remarkable management. I want to reiterate this. management. I want to reiterate this. And then Iran shot missiles at Qatar and And then Iran shot missiles at Qatar and Iraq. Scott, you're a patriotic Iraq. Scott, you're a patriotic American. God bless you. God bless the American. God bless you. God bless the United States. Thank you for allowing me United States. Thank you for allowing me to come to this country and become an to come to this country and become an American. It's a great country. Um and American. It's a great country. Um and as a patriotic American, I assume that as a patriotic American, I assume that the the United States government and the the the United States government and the United States intelligence community and United States intelligence community and the United States military, okay, has the United States military, okay, has America's best interest at heart. America's best interest at heart. However, we have learned from the However, we have learned from the history and Scott's done a very good job history and Scott's done a very good job of detailing this during the Iraq war of detailing this during the Iraq war that the United States gets it wrong. that the United States gets it wrong. Okay, I don't think the United States Okay, I don't think the United States lied us into war, but the United States lied us into war, but the United States got it wrong. So, I think Scott's right. got it wrong. So, I think Scott's right. We must make sure that we learn the We must make sure that we learn the lessons of Iraq, but not overarn the lessons of Iraq, but not overarn the lessons of Iraq. I would also say this, lessons of Iraq. I would also say this, there are many lobby organizations in there are many lobby organizations in the United States. There's the China the United States. There's the China lobby, there's the oil lobby, there's lobby, there's the oil lobby, there's the the pharmaceutical lobby, there's the the pharmaceutical lobby, there's the Qatar lobby. I live in Washington. I the Qatar lobby. I live in Washington. I see all these lobby organizations. Okay. see all these lobby organizations. Okay. Fact of the matter is the pro-Israel Fact of the matter is the pro-Israel lobby which actually lobbies in support lobby which actually lobbies in support of the USIsrael relationship is of the USIsrael relationship is comprised of tens of millions of comprised of tens of millions of Christians and Jews and Hindus and yes Christians and Jews and Hindus and yes yes Muslims who believe strongly in a yes Muslims who believe strongly in a strong USIsrael relationship. The reason strong USIsrael relationship. The reason that relationship has been so strong that relationship has been so strong over so many years and that this quote over so many years and that this quote lobby has been so successful is they're lobby has been so successful is they're pushing through an open door with policy pushing through an open door with policy makers, not because some nefarious money makers, not because some nefarious money influence, but because at the end of the influence, but because at the end of the day, the interests align. We we we day, the interests align. We we we counter terrorism together, we counter counter terrorism together, we counter nuclear proliferation together, and we nuclear proliferation together, and we believe that the US-Israel relationship believe that the US-Israel relationship is a strong relationship. and and these is a strong relationship. and and these accusations of dual loyalty and these accusations of dual loyalty and these accusations of Israel firsters that accusations of Israel firsters that Scott's thrown around I think distract Scott's thrown around I think distract us from the conversation which I think us from the conversation which I think we should return to right let's talk we should return to right let's talk about today we we've talked about best about today we we've talked about best case scenarios we talked about worst case scenarios we talked about worst case scenarios and we talked about case scenarios and we talked about really worst case scenarios so I think really worst case scenarios so I think let's let's talk about the way forward let's let's talk about the way forward and I I'd be interested in hearing from and I I'd be interested in hearing from Scott where he thinks we're going and Scott where he thinks we're going and I'm certainly I I don't crystal ball I'm certainly I I don't crystal ball these things it's always difficult to these things it's always difficult to predict but I I I think President predict but I I I think President President Trump has done a really good President Trump has done a really good job. He has led this, right? He has not job. He has led this, right? He has not been, you know, the uh at the beck and been, you know, the uh at the beck and call of BB Netanyahu or Muhammad bin call of BB Netanyahu or Muhammad bin Salman of Saudi Arabia or anyone else. Salman of Saudi Arabia or anyone else. He has led this effort. He has made He has led this effort. He has made these decisions. This is a man who these decisions. This is a man who throughout his entire career and not throughout his entire career and not just his political career, but many many just his political career, but many many years before that believed that an years before that believed that an Iranian nuclear weapon was a threat to Iranian nuclear weapon was a threat to the United States of America. not just the United States of America. not just to our allies but to the United States to our allies but to the United States of America. And he's been very clear on of America. And he's been very clear on record. He led this campaign since he record. He led this campaign since he started in January. He offered started in January. He offered negotiations. He got rebuffed by the negotiations. He got rebuffed by the Iranians in Oman. He put pressure on the Iranians in Oman. He put pressure on the regime economically. He continued to regime economically. He continued to offer negotiations. He offered a very offer negotiations. He offered a very good something that I thought was good something that I thought was flawed. I mean, Lex, I got to tell you, flawed. I mean, Lex, I got to tell you, the the offer in Oman that he gave to the the offer in Oman that he gave to the Iranians, I thought it was flawed the Iranians, I thought it was flawed because I think it allowed Iran to because I think it allowed Iran to retain this key enrichment capability. retain this key enrichment capability. The Iranians turned it down. And I think The Iranians turned it down. And I think Kame to his everlasting regret is going Kame to his everlasting regret is going to wonder why did I turn that down? I to wonder why did I turn that down? I could have got the enrichment capability could have got the enrichment capability that Scott thinks they deserve. And yet that Scott thinks they deserve. And yet I rejected it. Why? Why did I reject it? I rejected it. Why? Why did I reject it? Cuz now look what's happened in the past Cuz now look what's happened in the past 12 days. You know, I've lost mostly. 12 days. You know, I've lost mostly. We'll see what happens on the BDA, the We'll see what happens on the BDA, the battle damage assessment. I've certainly battle damage assessment. I've certainly lost Natans. I've uh lost my conversion lost Natans. I've uh lost my conversion facility at Isfahan which converts facility at Isfahan which converts uranium hexafflloride into uh into well uranium hexafflloride into uh into well converts yellow cake into uranium converts yellow cake into uranium hexafflloride to pump into centrifuges hexafflloride to pump into centrifuges and the most important thing I lost at and the most important thing I lost at isvahan there's a conversion facility isvahan there's a conversion facility that takes 90% enriched uranium and that takes 90% enriched uranium and turns it into uranium metal without turns it into uranium metal without uranium metal they don't have any 90% uranium metal they don't have any 90% enriched uranium he just means enriched uranium he just means hypothetically if they did have some be hypothetically if they did have some be you know the 60% that's 99% of the to you know the 60% that's 99% of the to 90% enriched uranium. By the way, you 90% enriched uranium. By the way, you can make a a crude nuclear device with can make a a crude nuclear device with 60% enriched uranium. I just want to put 60% enriched uranium. I just want to put that on the record. But he lost that key that on the record. But he lost that key conversion facility that turns 90% conversion facility that turns 90% enriched uranium or even 60% enriched enriched uranium or even 60% enriched uranium into uranium metal. You need uranium into uranium metal. You need uranium metal to fashion a crude nuclear uranium metal to fashion a crude nuclear device or a warhead that's been device or a warhead that's been destroyed. And I just when I was coming destroyed. And I just when I was coming in this morning, I just checked. I in this morning, I just checked. I thought it was interesting. been a whole thought it was interesting. been a whole lot of discussion about the fact that lot of discussion about the fact that about 12 or 16 trucks showed up at about 12 or 16 trucks showed up at Foraux in the days before the the US Foraux in the days before the the US strikes and moved something out of strikes and moved something out of Foraux. Well, according to reports just Foraux. Well, according to reports just this morning, we'll we'll see if they're this morning, we'll we'll see if they're verified. I I don't trust single verified. I I don't trust single sourcing. I don't trust what some sourcing. I don't trust what some reporter just says in their stories reporter just says in their stories because reporters got it wrong over and because reporters got it wrong over and over again, especially all the ones who over again, especially all the ones who accuse President Trump of being a accuse President Trump of being a Russian agent. But we'll see what Russian agent. But we'll see what happens. We'll see if it's verified. But happens. We'll see if it's verified. But according to the reports um most of the according to the reports um most of the material remained at Fordo because the material remained at Fordo because the Iranians were calculating this was the Iranians were calculating this was the most heavily fortified facility. They most heavily fortified facility. They were also calculating that President were also calculating that President Trump was not going to strike it because Trump was not going to strike it because what they had been doing was listening what they had been doing was listening to lots of voices and we can name the to lots of voices and we can name the voices or we can just talk talk to them voices or we can just talk talk to them about a collective who were who they about a collective who were who they thought were telling Trump don't do it thought were telling Trump don't do it and we're telling Trump don't do it and and we're telling Trump don't do it and Trump decided on his own to do it. So, Trump decided on his own to do it. So, they kept the enriched material at they kept the enriched material at Foraux. And if that's the case, it may Foraux. And if that's the case, it may be that much of it was destroyed. Again, be that much of it was destroyed. Again, caveat, it's just one or two stories caveat, it's just one or two stories right now, uh, one in NBC News, and right now, uh, one in NBC News, and let's see what happens over the coming let's see what happens over the coming days, but if that's the case, that days, but if that's the case, that material may have been destroyed. One material may have been destroyed. One other element that we haven't even other element that we haven't even talked about at all today, which I think talked about at all today, which I think your listeners should be aware of, we your listeners should be aware of, we talked a lot about nuclear weapons talked a lot about nuclear weapons development, warhead development. What development, warhead development. What the Israelis did was they took out the the Israelis did was they took out the top 15 nuclear weapons scientists who top 15 nuclear weapons scientists who have been part of, you remember I talked have been part of, you remember I talked about that original Ahmad program and about that original Ahmad program and the development of those five atomic the development of those five atomic weapons. Well, some of them who are old weapons. Well, some of them who are old enough come from the Ahmad program which enough come from the Ahmad program which was the early 2000s. Some of them are was the early 2000s. Some of them are new, but they've been or not new but new, but they've been or not new but younger and they've been trained by the younger and they've been trained by the veterans. The 15 top guys taken out. veterans. The 15 top guys taken out. That is akin to it's January or February That is akin to it's January or February 45 and the entire central team of 45 and the entire central team of Oppenheimer gets eliminated three to Oppenheimer gets eliminated three to four months between the Trinity test four months between the Trinity test before the Trinity test where we explode before the Trinity test where we explode our first nuclear weapon. So I would say our first nuclear weapon. So I would say significant damage to Iran's nuclear significant damage to Iran's nuclear weapons program suggests that we weapons program suggests that we potentially have rolled them back for potentially have rolled them back for years. I don't know how many years and years. I don't know how many years and all those technical assessments are all those technical assessments are still to come but significant damage. So still to come but significant damage. So the question, as I said, is have they the question, as I said, is have they retained enough capabilities that retained enough capabilities that they've squirreled away, stored in they've squirreled away, stored in covert sites, put under deeply buried covert sites, put under deeply buried tunnels to break out to nuclear weapons? tunnels to break out to nuclear weapons? That's Scott's concern. It's my concern. That's Scott's concern. It's my concern. Like I'm sure it's your concern that Like I'm sure it's your concern that they could do that. Or have have they they could do that. Or have have they set back the program so significantly set back the program so significantly that Kame then has to decide will I be that Kame then has to decide will I be inviting another Israeli and or US inviting another Israeli and or US attack if I try to break out? And if I attack if I try to break out? And if I do, do I risk my regime? who thinks that do, do I risk my regime? who thinks that if they break out and try to start if they break out and try to start making nukes now that any hawk making nukes now that any hawk supporting this war will take supporting this war will take responsibility for driving them to it. responsibility for driving them to it. So the the suggestion you're making is So the the suggestion you're making is we're actually driving of course as we're actually driving of course as opposed to doing the opposite. We're opposed to doing the opposite. We're actually driving them to develop nuclear actually driving them to develop nuclear weapons. That's right. Can you make the weapons. That's right. Can you make the case that? Yeah. Previously he said case that? Yeah. Previously he said let's take the Ayatollah at his word let's take the Ayatollah at his word that he only wants a civilian that he only wants a civilian electricity program. Well, let's not electricity program. Well, let's not take him at his word. Again, I never take him at his word. Again, I never said in this conversation, trust the said in this conversation, trust the Ayatollah. He did. Now he's kind of But Ayatollah. He did. Now he's kind of But you said that the Ayatollah doesn't want you said that the Ayatollah doesn't want nuclear weapons programs. Scott, you nuclear weapons programs. Scott, you were very clear about that. What I said were very clear about that. What I said about nuclear weapons program, are you about nuclear weapons program, are you going back on that now? Jesus Christ. going back on that now? Jesus Christ. What I was very clear about from my very What I was very clear about from my very first statement when we sat down was first statement when we sat down was that the Ayatollah was building himself that the Ayatollah was building himself a latent nuclear deterrent putting Iran a latent nuclear deterrent putting Iran as what they call a threshold nuclear as what they call a threshold nuclear weapon state just like Brazil and weapon state just like Brazil and Germany and Japan so everyone knows they Germany and Japan so everyone knows they have mastered the fuel cycle they could have mastered the fuel cycle they could enrich uranium up to 90% don't make me enrich uranium up to 90% don't make me do it that was his position do it that was his position weapons program did you ever hear me say weapons program did you ever hear me say anything about believing the Ayatollah anything about believing the Ayatollah saying he only wanted an electricity saying he only wanted an electricity program. This is why enrichment is a red program. This is why enrichment is a red line. It's because if all the enrichment line. It's because if all the enrichment is done overseas somewhere, then it's is done overseas somewhere, then it's not a latent nuclear deterrent at all. not a latent nuclear deterrent at all. So, it's a red line for you as well as So, it's a red line for you as well as for me. We agree, Scott. I'm saying it's for me. We agree, Scott. I'm saying it's a red line for the Ayatollah that he's a red line for the Ayatollah that he's clearly not going to give in on and it's clearly not going to give in on and it's a poison pill by the Israelis in the a poison pill by the Israelis in the West. They know he's never going to give West. They know he's never going to give up enrichment 100%. Um because that's up enrichment 100%. Um because that's the whole point of it. So it's just the whole point of it. So it's just disingenuous to say, "Oh, let's believe disingenuous to say, "Oh, let's believe him that he wants an an electricity him that he wants an an electricity program." He's not saying that. I don't program." He's not saying that. I don't even think that's his official position. even think that's his official position. Or if it is, it's with a strong Or if it is, it's with a strong implication as everyone understands that implication as everyone understands that it's a latent nuclear weapons capability it's a latent nuclear weapons capability and a potential actual nuclear weapons and a potential actual nuclear weapons capability. Do you a deal will have to capability. Do you a deal will have to include enrichment? Yes, that is a red include enrichment? Yes, that is a red line. He won't move off. Yes. And then line. He won't move off. Yes. And then the thing is too, just like I was saying the thing is too, just like I was saying before, if Trump had come in in 2017 and before, if Trump had come in in 2017 and said, "Screw this. I hate this deal." said, "Screw this. I hate this deal." And then got on a plane and flown And then got on a plane and flown straight to Tyrron and said, or you straight to Tyrron and said, or you know, sent his guys and said, "Now know, sent his guys and said, "Now listen here, Ayatollah, I want to fix listen here, Ayatollah, I want to fix this deal up better." I think that he this deal up better." I think that he really could have. And I don't I already really could have. And I don't I already said I don't know the details, but I said I don't know the details, but I believe Mark when he says that the believe Mark when he says that the Europeans were being intrigent on that. Europeans were being intrigent on that. And again, I criticize the CIA and FBI And again, I criticize the CIA and FBI for framing Trump for treason, for for framing Trump for treason, for preventing him from being able to work preventing him from being able to work with the Russians to see if maybe they with the Russians to see if maybe they could put pressure on the Ayatollah to could put pressure on the Ayatollah to deal with him. But I think that it's deal with him. But I think that it's clear when the Ayatollah was willing in clear when the Ayatollah was willing in the JCPOA to well, first of all, to sign the JCPOA to well, first of all, to sign the additional protocol back in the W. the additional protocol back in the W. Bush years for year for three years, he Bush years for year for three years, he didn't enrich anything under that deal didn't enrich anything under that deal as long as he was negotiating with the as long as he was negotiating with the E3. And then under the JCPOA where he's E3. And then under the JCPOA where he's shipping out every bit of his declared shipping out every bit of his declared nuclear material, he's clearly keeping nuclear material, he's clearly keeping the ability to enrich uh if necessary to the ability to enrich uh if necessary to uh weapons grade if if a crisis breaks uh weapons grade if if a crisis breaks out. And he feels like he has to make out. And he feels like he has to make nukes, but he has he had no stockpile to nukes, but he has he had no stockpile to enlist this whole thing about 99% of the enlist this whole thing about 99% of the way there. He had no stockpile. So even way there. He had no stockpile. So even if you uh you know count drive gassing if you uh you know count drive gassing up your truck on the way to the mine as up your truck on the way to the mine as part of this long time scale of part of this long time scale of percentages here they were much further percentages here they were much further from a nuke under the deal which he from a nuke under the deal which he agrees we shouldn't have even gotten out agrees we shouldn't have even gotten out of. Can I just say technically just I of. Can I just say technically just I think again important for your listeners think again important for your listeners to understand under the JCPOA to understand under the JCPOA um Iran is allowed to keep a stockpile um Iran is allowed to keep a stockpile of maximum of 300 kg as I remember of of maximum of 300 kg as I remember of 3.67% enriched material. they're allowed 3.67% enriched material. they're allowed to continue to enrich as long as if they to continue to enrich as long as if they go over the 300 kilogram, they have to go over the 300 kilogram, they have to continue to send that out to Russian um continue to send that out to Russian um to to Russia to blend down. And so they to to Russia to blend down. And so they kept the enrichment capability, the kept the enrichment capability, the ability to enrich. They did keep a ability to enrich. They did keep a stockpile. Scott's right. They weren't stockpile. Scott's right. They weren't able to they're not allowed in those able to they're not allowed in those early years to go under 3.67%. they early years to go under 3.67%. they would be allowed to go to 20% and 60% would be allowed to go to 20% and 60% and 90% as the restrictions sunseted, and 90% as the restrictions sunseted, but they were able to keep all of those but they were able to keep all of those keep capabilities. So, I just want to keep capabilities. So, I just want to clarify just technically what the JCPOA clarify just technically what the JCPOA actually said and what it didn't say. actually said and what it didn't say. Yeah. Can you comment on the so-called Yeah. Can you comment on the so-called operation midnight hammer operation midnight hammer now that we can look back at it? What now that we can look back at it? What parts were successful or what parts were parts were successful or what parts were a mistake? Was the whole operation a a mistake? Was the whole operation a mistake that accelerates the Iran mistake that accelerates the Iran nuclear program, the incentives for it, nuclear program, the incentives for it, or is there some components that or is there some components that actually is a disincentive, disincentive actually is a disincentive, disincentive for Iran to develop the program? And for Iran to develop the program? And then maybe you can comment on the same. then maybe you can comment on the same. It'd be nice to get comment. I think we It'd be nice to get comment. I think we really don't know, right? There's some really don't know, right? There's some initial battle assessments and arguments initial battle assessments and arguments and all that about just how much was and all that about just how much was destroyed and what and we don't know destroyed and what and we don't know exactly what their reaction is going to exactly what their reaction is going to be. Um the you know there were reports be. Um the you know there were reports of them saying hey we're already of them saying hey we're already starting up a new facility somewhere starting up a new facility somewhere else. Uh there were reports where they else. Uh there were reports where they said hey a lot of our centrifuges said hey a lot of our centrifuges survived and we're going to start survived and we're going to start spinning them up right now and this kind spinning them up right now and this kind of thing. Um the potential is there. I of thing. Um the potential is there. I don't know what the ITL is going to do. don't know what the ITL is going to do. And I think this goes to the larger And I think this goes to the larger argument about the apocalyptic threat of argument about the apocalyptic threat of the ayah which Mark has not made but the ayah which Mark has not made but which Israel hawks often do that these which Israel hawks often do that these guys just can't wait to get into a war guys just can't wait to get into a war and all this. In fact if you look at in and all this. In fact if you look at in a war. But I what the argument I make is a war. But I what the argument I make is we're not going to use a nuclear weapon. we're not going to use a nuclear weapon. You interrupt me every time. I try to You interrupt me every time. I try to Scott. I just You're mischaracterizing Scott. I just You're mischaracterizing what I'm saying. I need to clarify when what I'm saying. I need to clarify when you misar he's not interrupting you you misar he's not interrupting you every time, but sometimes interrupting. every time, but sometimes interrupting. Yes. Uh so try not to interrupt as much. Yes. Uh so try not to interrupt as much. Uh go ahead, Scott. Don't take it Uh go ahead, Scott. Don't take it personally. Come on. Let's go. It seems personally. Come on. Let's go. It seems like a deliberate attempt to obfuscate like a deliberate attempt to obfuscate and and prevent me from just being able and and prevent me from just being able to complete a point. You know, he does to complete a point. You know, he does it virtually every time. No, it's not. it virtually every time. No, it's not. As a listener, I'm enjoying this. Uh As a listener, I'm enjoying this. Uh well look on the face of it they blew up well look on the face of it they blew up a lot of stuff and they made them very a lot of stuff and they made them very angry. So are they going to now give in angry. So are they going to now give in or they're now going to double down or or they're now going to double down or they're now going to hold still? We they're now going to hold still? We don't really know. As I was trying to don't really know. As I was trying to explain explain explain from the Ayatollah's position that he's from the Ayatollah's position that he's in. What are you going to do with a in. What are you going to do with a problem like the United States of problem like the United States of America? Right? They can chant great America? Right? They can chant great Satan this and that all they want. They Satan this and that all they want. They have no ability to really threaten this have no ability to really threaten this country in any way. And they and and country in any way. And they and and they know that America absolutely does they know that America absolutely does have the ability to in fact even without have the ability to in fact even without nuclear weapons essentially wipe their nuclear weapons essentially wipe their civilization off the face of the earth civilization off the face of the earth just with B-52s if we wanted to carpet just with B-52s if we wanted to carpet bomb their major cities. And they so bomb their major cities. And they so they know that the Ayatollahan knows they know that the Ayatollahan knows he's in a very difficult position. And he's in a very difficult position. And look at what he did when they look at what he did when they assassinated Solommani. He sent assassinated Solommani. He sent essentially a symbolic strike at an essentially a symbolic strike at an empty corner of an American base in empty corner of an American base in Iraq. It did cause some concussions and Iraq. It did cause some concussions and head trauma, but it was he deliberately head trauma, but it was he deliberately did that to not cause casualties. And did that to not cause casualties. And then Trump let him have the last word. then Trump let him have the last word. And then also when they shot down the And then also when they shot down the drone, which I think Trump was drone, which I think Trump was suspicious that the Pentagon had flown suspicious that the Pentagon had flown that into Iranian airspace and they that into Iranian airspace and they demanded strikes and Trump said, "No, demanded strikes and Trump said, "No, it's just a drone. How many Iranians it's just a drone. How many Iranians will die at the base you want me to hit? will die at the base you want me to hit? No, I don't want to kill them. I don't No, I don't want to kill them. I don't want to do it." And again, he let the want to do it." And again, he let the Ayatollah get the last word. Same thing Ayatollah get the last word. Same thing happened again with yesterday's strikes. happened again with yesterday's strikes. Iran hit America's our central command Iran hit America's our central command headquarters, the Aludid air base in headquarters, the Aludid air base in Qatar and also an American uh base I Qatar and also an American uh base I think in Baghdad and I'm not sure about think in Baghdad and I'm not sure about in Iraqi Kurdistan. Zero casualties so in Iraqi Kurdistan. Zero casualties so far. So what is far. Zero casualties so far. So what is going on there essentially is he's got going on there essentially is he's got to do something. and he's doing like to do something. and he's doing like these symbolic strikes essentially to these symbolic strikes essentially to say like hey you can't do that to me but say like hey you can't do that to me but then he's also telegraphing that hey then he's also telegraphing that hey like I can't do anything about you and I like I can't do anything about you and I don't really want to fight and so in a don't really want to fight and so in a way he's like kind of backing down he's way he's like kind of backing down he's doing and then what did Donald Trump say doing and then what did Donald Trump say Donald Trump again let him have the last Donald Trump again let him have the last word and in fact like bragged and mocked word and in fact like bragged and mocked and said hey thanks Ayatollah for giving and said hey thanks Ayatollah for giving us a warning that you were about to us a warning that you were about to shoot missiles at our base so we could shoot missiles at our base so we could be ready to shoot them all down and this be ready to shoot them all down and this kind of thing and he said now is the kind of thing and he said now is the time for peace In other words, Trump time for peace In other words, Trump again letting the Ayatollah get the last again letting the Ayatollah get the last word. Why? Because the Ayatollah, word. Why? Because the Ayatollah, he might be a horrible leader if you he might be a horrible leader if you live in Iran, but he is not perfectly live in Iran, but he is not perfectly but essentially cautious in foreign but essentially cautious in foreign policy because what's he going to do? policy because what's he going to do? He's going to decimate our naval base at He's going to decimate our naval base at Bahrain. He's going to slaughter all our Bahrain. He's going to slaughter all our troops in Kuwait. And then what's Trump troops in Kuwait. And then what's Trump going to do? And so the Ayatollah knows. going to do? And so the Ayatollah knows. So, it's the same people who who and I So, it's the same people who who and I don't include him in this, but you hear don't include him in this, but you hear a lot of the hawkish talk about just how a lot of the hawkish talk about just how easy this has been. These same people easy this has been. These same people talking about what an absolutely talking about what an absolutely irrational uh religiously irrational uh religiously uh motivatedly and motivated and uh motivatedly and motivated and therefore you know crazy and irrational therefore you know crazy and irrational uh group of people the mullazar and why uh group of people the mullazar and why they can only be dealt with with force they can only be dealt with with force when in fact what they're showing is when in fact what they're showing is essential conservatism essential conservatism essential conservatism trying to hold on to what they got trying to hold on to what they got making a latent deterrent because they making a latent deterrent because they know if they break out toward a bomb know if they break out toward a bomb that'll get them boned. So they were that'll get them boned. So they were hoping having the latent deterrent would hoping having the latent deterrent would be enough to just keep them at the be enough to just keep them at the status quo. That's why it's so status quo. That's why it's so disingenuous just again with um uh Marco disingenuous just again with um uh Marco Rubio, the Secretary of State, saying Rubio, the Secretary of State, saying forget the intelligence because 60% hey forget the intelligence because 60% hey it's 99% of the way there close enough it's 99% of the way there close enough for us. So it doesn't matter if the for us. So it doesn't matter if the Ayatollah has decided to make a nuke or Ayatollah has decided to make a nuke or not. They're just too close to one as it not. They're just too close to one as it is. Which is really silly because is. Which is really silly because they're not much closer than they've they're not much closer than they've been for 20 years since the W. Bush been for 20 years since the W. Bush administration, they proved they've administration, they proved they've mastered the fuel cycle. That is one of mastered the fuel cycle. That is one of the fundamental disagreements in the the fundamental disagreements in the room that you're saying they don't have room that you're saying they don't have they really don't have interest to they really don't have interest to develop a nuclear uh weapon and they're develop a nuclear uh weapon and they're not quite well not exactly I mean I more not quite well not exactly I mean I more towards that direction than Mark is towards that direction than Mark is saying more toward but they're saying saying more toward but they're saying look at us we're a threshold state don't look at us we're a threshold state don't push your luck and and force us to make push your luck and and force us to make the bad decision they have now that's an the bad decision they have now that's an implication they have not said that implication they have not said that outright but clearly the implication is outright but clearly the implication is that if we force them then they will go that if we force them then they will go ahead and make a nuclear weapon. What I ahead and make a nuclear weapon. What I mean is if left on their own devices, mean is if left on their own devices, they would not develop. That's the case they would not develop. That's the case you're making. Not just on their own you're making. Not just on their own devices, but if we were to try to devices, but if we were to try to negotiate with them in good faith and negotiate with them in good faith and try to have normal relations with them, try to have normal relations with them, that would disincentivize a nuclear that would disincentivize a nuclear weapon even further. Okay. Can you weapon even further. Okay. Can you comment on the mission operation and comment on the mission operation and general? Sure. A couple things I think general? Sure. A couple things I think were interesting what Scott said and I were interesting what Scott said and I agree with with certainly with some of agree with with certainly with some of it. Um I mean the first thing is I I do it. Um I mean the first thing is I I do believe President Trump has negotiated believe President Trump has negotiated in good faith. I mean, he sent Steve in good faith. I mean, he sent Steve Wickoff, he's chief negotiator for five Wickoff, he's chief negotiator for five rounds of negotiations since he came in rounds of negotiations since he came in office. Um, the second is, I mean, we office. Um, the second is, I mean, we can keep going around in circles, but can keep going around in circles, but the the fact of the matter is I do the the fact of the matter is I do believe that Iran and Iran backed believe that Iran and Iran backed terrorist organizations have for since terrorist organizations have for since 1979 1979 1979 uh killed and try to kill and maim uh killed and try to kill and maim Americans and taken them hostage. I Americans and taken them hostage. I think it's important for me again to put think it's important for me again to put that on the record. But where I agree that on the record. But where I agree with with Scott is I and it's with with Scott is I and it's interesting and I don't know if Kame has interesting and I don't know if Kame has changed in his you know he's 86 years changed in his you know he's 86 years old he's been in power since 1989 and old he's been in power since 1989 and there's a little bit of history that I there's a little bit of history that I think is really interesting Lex it was think is really interesting Lex it was the it was 1988 and uh Iran and Iraq had the it was 1988 and uh Iran and Iraq had fought this brutal 8-year war million fought this brutal 8-year war million people dead and um the United States people dead and um the United States accidentally shot down a Iranian accidentally shot down a Iranian passenger airline United States offered passenger airline United States offered to pay compensation and apologized. The to pay compensation and apologized. The Iranians didn't believe it. They didn't Iranians didn't believe it. They didn't believe we could accidentally do that. believe we could accidentally do that. They thought we were going to be They thought we were going to be intervening militarily on behalf of intervening militarily on behalf of Saddam. So, Kame who's not the supreme Saddam. So, Kame who's not the supreme leader at the time. He was the Iranian leader at the time. He was the Iranian president. He and Raf Sanjani, they go president. He and Raf Sanjani, they go to Kmeni and they say, "Mr. Ayatollah, to Kmeni and they say, "Mr. Ayatollah, we got to sue for peace with the Iraqis we got to sue for peace with the Iraqis because the Americans are intervening because the Americans are intervening and and we cannot fight the Americans. and and we cannot fight the Americans. We fought this brutal war. We'll We fought this brutal war. We'll continue with Saddam. We cannot fight continue with Saddam. We cannot fight the United States of America." I think the United States of America." I think Scott's right like that perception that Scott's right like that perception that there's no way they can fight the United there's no way they can fight the United States of America because that's regime States of America because that's regime ending potentially even if we don't ending potentially even if we don't intend to that could actually happen. intend to that could actually happen. And there's a famous line where Kmeni And there's a famous line where Kmeni says, "All right, I agree. I will drink says, "All right, I agree. I will drink the poison chalice. I'll drink the the poison chalice. I'll drink the poison chalice and I will agree to a poison chalice and I will agree to a ceasefire on pretty tough terms for ceasefire on pretty tough terms for Iran." It's interesting now 36 years Iran." It's interesting now 36 years later or 37 years later Kame is now later or 37 years later Kame is now going to decide to drink the poison going to decide to drink the poison chalice. Does he agree to a negotiated chalice. Does he agree to a negotiated deal with the United States? Does he deal with the United States? Does he agree to deal that President Trump and I agree to deal that President Trump and I mean Scott criticizes me for it, but mean Scott criticizes me for it, but that's President Trump's position is no that's President Trump's position is no enrichment, full dismantlement. By the enrichment, full dismantlement. By the way, that's backed up by 52 of 53 way, that's backed up by 52 of 53 Republican senators and 177 House GOP Republican senators and 177 House GOP members and backed by everybody in his members and backed by everybody in his administration, including JD Vance, administration, including JD Vance, who's been emphatic about that. Does he who's been emphatic about that. Does he agree to that deal or does he decide I'm agree to that deal or does he decide I'm not going to join the poison chalice and not going to join the poison chalice and I am going to I'm going to take other I am going to I'm going to take other options? Now, I agree with Scott like options? Now, I agree with Scott like going after US military bases except in going after US military bases except in a symbolic way, suicidal. closing the a symbolic way, suicidal. closing the Straits of Hermuse. 40% of Chinese oil Straits of Hermuse. 40% of Chinese oil goes through there. The Chinese have goes through there. The Chinese have been saying to the Iranians, don't you been saying to the Iranians, don't you dare. By the way, 100% of Iranian oil dare. By the way, 100% of Iranian oil goes from Iran in Carg Island through goes from Iran in Carg Island through the Straits of Hermuse. So economically the Straits of Hermuse. So economically suicidal for the Iranians to do that. Um suicidal for the Iranians to do that. Um terror attacks absolutely. I mean that terror attacks absolutely. I mean that has been their modus operand for years. has been their modus operand for years. So, I would be concerned about uh So, I would be concerned about uh terrorist attacks against US targets terrorist attacks against US targets against civilians against civilians against civilians um potentially sleeper cells in the um potentially sleeper cells in the United States. So, he's used terasels United States. So, he's used terasels around the world. He's engaged in a around the world. He's engaged in a decadesl long assassination campaign, decadesl long assassination campaign, including on American soil, by the way, including on American soil, by the way, sometimes successfully, sometimes not, sometimes successfully, sometimes not, including most recently where he went including most recently where he went after an Iranian-American three times to after an Iranian-American three times to try to assassinate her in New York, a try to assassinate her in New York, a woman named Masielad. And so he's got to woman named Masielad. And so he's got to be calculating like what is my play? So be calculating like what is my play? So if I don't do a deal, how can I actually if I don't do a deal, how can I actually squeeze the Americans? And Scott's squeeze the Americans? And Scott's right. like he must be thinking to right. like he must be thinking to himself, you know what? I was literally himself, you know what? I was literally on the 99 yard line with an entire on the 99 yard line with an entire nuclear weapons capability. I should nuclear weapons capability. I should have crossed the goal line. If I had had have crossed the goal line. If I had had a warhead, a nuclear warhead or multiple a warhead, a nuclear warhead or multiple nuclear warheads as they had been trying nuclear warheads as they had been trying to build since the Ahmad plan in early to build since the Ahmad plan in early 2000s, there's no way Israel and the 2000s, there's no way Israel and the United States would have hit me United States would have hit me militarily if I had nuclear weapons. militarily if I had nuclear weapons. Then I would have had the ultimate Then I would have had the ultimate deterrence to prevent that. and then I deterrence to prevent that. and then I would be like Kim Jong-un with nuclear would be like Kim Jong-un with nuclear weapons. I would then build ICBMs and weapons. I would then build ICBMs and then I'd have the ultimate deterrent to then I'd have the ultimate deterrent to stop that. So he's got to be thinking stop that. So he's got to be thinking maybe now and I I can guarantee you the maybe now and I I can guarantee you the revolutionary guards. Do you think that revolutionary guards. Do you think that that might have anything to do with the that might have anything to do with the fact that America attacked Iraq and fact that America attacked Iraq and Libya when they did not have weapons of Libya when they did not have weapons of mass destruction programs? Can I tell mass destruction programs? Can I tell you the Libya example? I think Scott is you the Libya example? I think Scott is the most interesting one for me. Right. the most interesting one for me. Right. Because the Libya example, it was a big Because the Libya example, it was a big mistake. By the way, Ukraine is another mistake. By the way, Ukraine is another good example of this. We went to the good example of this. We went to the Libyans and we said, "You must fully Libyans and we said, "You must fully dismantle your program." And Gaddafi dismantle your program." And Gaddafi said, reluctantly, under huge American said, reluctantly, under huge American pressure, "Okay, I'll do it." And the pressure, "Okay, I'll do it." And the Brits and the and the Americans went in Brits and the and the Americans went in there and literally hauled out his there and literally hauled out his entire nuclear It wasn't really a entire nuclear It wasn't really a program. It was just a bunch of AQN's program. It was just a bunch of AQN's junk sitting in crates in a warehouse. junk sitting in crates in a warehouse. They did not have the capability to make They did not have the capability to make a nuclear program at all in Libya. They a nuclear program at all in Libya. They didn't have the the engineers, the didn't have the the engineers, the scientists, or anyone. So Gaddafi had scientists, or anyone. So Gaddafi had bought that junk just to trade it away. bought that junk just to trade it away. Just to be clear, there never was a Just to be clear, there never was a nuclear weapons program or a nuclear nuclear weapons program or a nuclear program of any kind in Libya, unlike program of any kind in Libya, unlike what you just heard. That wasn't my what you just heard. That wasn't my point. Okay. My point is is he had a point. Okay. My point is is he had a nuclear program. We can debate about nuclear program. We can debate about again how we debating about whether again how we debating about whether again it's always Gaddafi and Kame and again it's always Gaddafi and Kame and all these people. They don't really want all these people. They don't really want nuclear weapons. We just misunderstand nuclear weapons. We just misunderstand them. But but that's not the point. The them. But but that's not the point. The point is we did a deal with Gaddafi. We point is we did a deal with Gaddafi. We pulled out his nuclear program and then pulled out his nuclear program and then I don't know how many years later, but I don't know how many years later, but it wasn't too many years later. Seven it wasn't too many years later. Seven years later, thank you, Scott. We years later, thank you, Scott. We actually took took Gaddafi out and he actually took took Gaddafi out and he didn't have a nuclear program. So, we didn't have a nuclear program. So, we took him out in in the Libya operation. took him out in in the Libya operation. Now, Ukraine is another great example. Now, Ukraine is another great example. The Ukrainians after the fall of Soviet The Ukrainians after the fall of Soviet Union, you know this, they had the Union, you know this, they had the Soviet nuclear arsenal or or good parts Soviet nuclear arsenal or or good parts of it on their soil. So, we went to them of it on their soil. So, we went to them and we said, "All right, well, here's a and we said, "All right, well, here's a deal for you. give up the nuclear deal for you. give up the nuclear arsenal right off your territory and we arsenal right off your territory and we we and the Russians and the French we and the Russians and the French guarantee your territorial integrity and guarantee your territorial integrity and your sovereignty as a country. So the your sovereignty as a country. So the Ukrainians said fair deal to me gave up Ukrainians said fair deal to me gave up all the nuclear weapons and then Putin all the nuclear weapons and then Putin has now invaded Ukraine. That's not what has now invaded Ukraine. That's not what Bucharest declaration says that we Bucharest declaration says that we promised their security. We promised to promised their security. We promised to respect it and the Russians promised to respect it and the Russians promised to and both sides broke that promise. But and both sides broke that promise. But there is nothing like a guarantee that there is nothing like a guarantee that America would protect Ukraine's America would protect Ukraine's sovereignty. They gave up those nukes sovereignty. They gave up those nukes and they had no ability to use those and they had no ability to use those nukes anyway because they were Soviet nukes anyway because they were Soviet nukes with Soviet codes. They belong to nukes with Soviet codes. They belong to the Soviet military and the Ukrainians the Soviet military and the Ukrainians would had no ability to use them or would had no ability to use them or deliver them. They were married to deliver them. They were married to missiles that were made to fly around missiles that were made to fly around the world, not to Russia next door. the world, not to Russia next door. Scott, my point is, and I think this Scott, my point is, and I think this you'll agree with this. My point is, if you'll agree with this. My point is, if you're Kam and you've seen those two you're Kam and you've seen those two examples of Libya, you gave up your examples of Libya, you gave up your nuclear program, Gaddafi gets taken nuclear program, Gaddafi gets taken down. You're Ukraine, you gave up your down. You're Ukraine, you gave up your nuclear weapons and the Russians invaded nuclear weapons and the Russians invaded twice. If you're Kame thinking to twice. If you're Kame thinking to yourself, the only thing that matters yourself, the only thing that matters more to me than my nuclear weapons more to me than my nuclear weapons program is my regime survival. And in 12 program is my regime survival. And in 12 days of war, the Israelis specifically days of war, the Israelis specifically because we hit Foraux and Isvahan and because we hit Foraux and Isvahan and Hans, we the United States hit those Hans, we the United States hit those sites. We the United States hit those sites. We the United States hit those sites. The gleeful nature Scott like sites. The gleeful nature Scott like stop. Take that out. There's no place stop. Take that out. There's no place here in this room with me. The here in this room with me. The unamerican bullshit. unamerican bullshit. unamerican bullshit. Don't do that. The implication here, Don't do that. The implication here, man, is that I me man, is that I me unAmerican. And I've been attacked just unAmerican. And I've been attacked just like the Russian hoax for being a Putin like the Russian hoax for being a Putin shill. I'm an American. Well, when you shill. I'm an American. Well, when you talk about Ukraine's war with Russia, do talk about Ukraine's war with Russia, do you say we or do you say they? I said we you say we or do you say they? I said we the United States. We we actually Well, the United States. We we actually Well, you added the United States, but you you added the United States, but you were just described Israel strikes. were just described Israel strikes. Israel didn't strike for Scott. You Israel didn't strike for Scott. You talked about the US attack on you. talked about the US attack on you. You're you're speaking to this other You're you're speaking to this other people that you've heard that somehow people that you've heard that somehow they do say we and they talk about I they do say we and they talk about I would say ridiculously as if uh I've would say ridiculously as if uh I've even heard some people basically put even heard some people basically put Israel above us and they're American Israel above us and they're American citizens. Yeah, that's fucking citizens. Yeah, that's fucking ridiculous. But none of those people are ridiculous. But none of those people are in this room. The the the there are in this room. The the the there are demons under the bed. I'm sure those demons under the bed. I'm sure those people exist. There's ridiculous people people exist. There's ridiculous people on the internet. There's ridiculous on the internet. There's ridiculous people in Congress who can criticize people in Congress who can criticize them, make fun of them, say they're them, make fun of them, say they're fucking The Foundation for Defense of fucking The Foundation for Defense of Democracy has been the vanguard of the Democracy has been the vanguard of the war party in this country for 25 years. war party in this country for 25 years. Well, that's a different criticism, but Well, that's a different criticism, but I was I was It's an important one. Yeah. I was I was It's an important one. Yeah. Yeah. But no, you just switched. You Yeah. But no, you just switched. You just switched. just switched. just switched. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's No, no, no, no, no. There's no un You just switched from the no un You just switched from the unamerican discussion to criticizing unamerican discussion to criticizing policies that that particular institute. policies that that particular institute. Fine. and criticize the policies. Do Fine. and criticize the policies. Do that unamerican bullshit. Lex, the that unamerican bullshit. Lex, the neoconservative movement is the vanguard neoconservative movement is the vanguard of the Israel lobby. That's who they of the Israel lobby. That's who they are. That's what neoonservatism is are. That's what neoonservatism is about. I'm not a who the about. I'm not a who the neoconservative, so I don't know who neoconservative, so I don't know who he's talking about, but I'm not. Let's he's talking about, but I'm not. Let's not mix stuff up. There there there is a not mix stuff up. There there there is a massive Israel lobby in America in massive Israel lobby in America in Washington that is inseparable from the Washington that is inseparable from the American war party. Yeah. Yeah. I've American war party. Yeah. Yeah. I've talked to John Mir. I respect him talked to John Mir. I respect him deeply. He is one of the most brilliant deeply. He is one of the most brilliant uh people speaking on that topic. Great. uh people speaking on that topic. Great. Great. Let's just talk about today and Great. Let's just talk about today and the nuclear proliferation. You guys have the nuclear proliferation. You guys have been brilliant on this. I'm learning a been brilliant on this. I'm learning a lot. Let's continue. Yeah. So, let's lot. Let's continue. Yeah. So, let's let's go back to where where Kame may let's go back to where where Kame may be. I mean, in a bunker, 86 years old, be. I mean, in a bunker, 86 years old, thinking he's going to drink the poison thinking he's going to drink the poison chalice and agree to a deal with Donald chalice and agree to a deal with Donald Trump and Oman, or is he going to do all Trump and Oman, or is he going to do all of the things that Scott and I are of the things that Scott and I are concerned about? And one of those, and concerned about? And one of those, and Scott has pointed this out rightly so, Scott has pointed this out rightly so, is he may decide now to to break out for is he may decide now to to break out for the nuke or creep out for the nuke. He the nuke or creep out for the nuke. He may decide not to do it now. He may may decide not to do it now. He may decide to do it in three and a half decide to do it in three and a half years when President Trump is gone. years when President Trump is gone. Right? And I think that the the the Right? And I think that the the the important thing is he's seen we the important thing is he's seen we the United States we took out Fordo and United States we took out Fordo and Natans and Isvahan in one operation with Natans and Isvahan in one operation with B2 bombers and and 12 30,000 lb massive B2 bombers and and 12 30,000 lb massive orange penetrators and Tomahawk orange penetrators and Tomahawk missiles. So if he doesn't think if he missiles. So if he doesn't think if he didn't think that the United States had didn't think that the United States had serious military power before, he now serious military power before, he now knows we do. So to you that operation knows we do. So to you that operation was geopolitically a success. It sends a was geopolitically a success. It sends a message of strength that if you try to message of strength that if you try to build you're going to be punished for build you're going to be punished for it. So I' I've said online in the past it. So I' I've said online in the past 12 days and even before that curb your 12 days and even before that curb your enthusiasm. Curb your enthusiasm to all enthusiasm. Curb your enthusiasm to all the people related to which topic? Yeah. the people related to which topic? Yeah. Just just this sort of idea that this Just just this sort of idea that this has been like this unbelievable success has been like this unbelievable success and everything's great and everything's and everything's great and everything's going to be amazing and we've stopped going to be amazing and we've stopped the nuclear weapons program and this has the nuclear weapons program and this has been a resounding success. I've just been a resounding success. I've just said kind of curb your enthusiasm. Kame said kind of curb your enthusiasm. Kame remains very dangerous. The regime remains very dangerous. The regime remains very dangerous. A wounded animal remains very dangerous. A wounded animal is the most dangerous animal in the is the most dangerous animal in the animal kingdom. He retains key animal kingdom. He retains key capabilities to build weapons. You capabilities to build weapons. You demanded unconditional surrender on demanded unconditional surrender on Twitter again last night. Right after Twitter again last night. Right after Trump said there's a ceasefire. What Trump said there's a ceasefire. What does unconditional surrender mean? No does unconditional surrender mean? No enrichment, full dismantlement. Yes. enrichment, full dismantlement. Yes. Exactly right. It's exactly what Exactly right. It's exactly what President Trump Well, I not regime President Trump Well, I not regime change. unconditional surrender in World change. unconditional surrender in World War II meant the end of the Nazi regime War II meant the end of the Nazi regime and the imperialist Japanese regime and the imperialist Japanese regime entirely. Right. But President Trump entirely. Right. But President Trump made it very clear. President Trump made made it very clear. President Trump made it very clear. He he made it clear I it very clear. He he made it clear I don't support regime change. Well, don't support regime change. Well, except for that one except for that one a few hours earlier, right? I I'll a few hours earlier, right? I I'll actually I'll explain that one cuz I actually I'll explain that one cuz I thought it was analyze it like a thought it was analyze it like a Shakespeare. What is that? Yeah. Yeah. Shakespeare. What is that? Yeah. Yeah. And what what what did he also mean? We And what what what did he also mean? We have two countries that have been have two countries that have been fighting so long and so hard that they fighting so long and so hard that they don't know what the fuck they're doing. don't know what the fuck they're doing. What's that about? He was angry that What's that about? He was angry that Israel was still attacking after he Israel was still attacking after he promised they weren't. He demanded they promised they weren't. He demanded they turn their planes around. He felt that turn their planes around. He felt that they were doing it in defiance of their they were doing it in defiance of their agreement. But he didn't say Israel. He agreement. But he didn't say Israel. He says the both countries different quote says the both countries different quote different quote. He did say I demand I different quote. He did say I demand I believe it was a tweet from True Social. believe it was a tweet from True Social. I demand that Israel turn those planes I demand that Israel turn those planes around right now was how upset he was around right now was how upset he was about. I guess Donald Trump doesn't about. I guess Donald Trump doesn't listen to BB all the time, does he? listen to BB all the time, does he? Yeah. I guess he's finding out they Yeah. I guess he's finding out they respect him about as much as they respect him about as much as they respect a Palestinian. Well, that's respect a Palestinian. Well, that's called world leaders. Help. World called world leaders. Help. World leaders are interested in their own leaders are interested in their own nation. That's right. They fuck you nation. That's right. They fuck you over. Good important lesson there, over. Good important lesson there, everyone. What does Israel care about? everyone. What does Israel care about? Israel. Every country, every country Israel. Every country, every country then defend defends its national then defend defends its national interest. I mean, that's not unusual for interest. I mean, that's not unusual for Israel or any other country. But I think Israel or any other country. But I think to understand we're supposed to pretend to understand we're supposed to pretend that hey, whatever Israel needs, we're that hey, whatever Israel needs, we're here to serve their interest. If those here to serve their interest. If those people exist, they're unamerican. If people exist, they're unamerican. If people put Israel's interest, we fight people put Israel's interest, we fight terrorism together. Well, we do. Well, terrorism together. Well, we do. Well, we we generate terrorism together. What we we generate terrorism together. What are you talking about? But that doesn't are you talking about? But that doesn't mean you put Israel's interest above mean you put Israel's interest above America's. If you do, you're unamerican. America's. If you do, you're unamerican. You know how many American lives these You know how many American lives these Israeli intelligence community has Israeli intelligence community has saved? Um, and ask ask people in the FBI saved? Um, and ask ask people in the FBI and CIA who were counterterrorism, how and CIA who were counterterrorism, how many American lives the Israelis have many American lives the Israelis have saved because of their intelligence saved because of their intelligence capabilities. How about when enough capabilities. How about when enough Bennett well again bomb that shelter Bennett well again bomb that shelter full of women and children and caused full of women and children and caused the September 11th attack that's what the September 11th attack that's what happened in fact I don't know if you happened in fact I don't know if you know the story but you could Google this know the story but you could Google this you like googling things it's on Google you like googling things it's on Google books you can read perfect soldiers by books you can read perfect soldiers by Terry McDermott or you could read the Terry McDermott or you could read the looming tower by Lawrence Wright where looming tower by Lawrence Wright where both of them explained how when Shimon both of them explained how when Shimon Perez launched operation grapes of wrath Perez launched operation grapes of wrath that Ramsay bin Ali and Muhammad Ata that Ramsay bin Ali and Muhammad Ata filled out their last will and testament filled out their last will and testament which was like symbolically joining the which was like symbolically joining the army to fight against the infidels etc. army to fight against the infidels etc. et, etc. And when Bin Laden put out his et, etc. And when Bin Laden put out his first declaration of war a couple of first declaration of war a couple of months later, it began with a whole rant months later, it began with a whole rant about the 106 women and children that about the 106 women and children that Nocttali Bennett had killed with an Nocttali Bennett had killed with an artillery strike in a UN shelter in in artillery strike in a UN shelter in in um in Kana in 1996. And and he said, um in Kana in 1996. And and he said, "We'll never forget the severed arms and "We'll never forget the severed arms and heads and legs of the little babies, heads and legs of the little babies, etc." And it was then that Muhammad Ata etc." And it was then that Muhammad Ata and Ramsay bin Alshe decided that they and Ramsay bin Alshe decided that they would join al Qaeda and that they these would join al Qaeda and that they these Egyptian engineering students studying Egyptian engineering students studying in Hamburg, Germany would volunteer for in Hamburg, Germany would volunteer for this Saudi chic to kill 3,000 Americans this Saudi chic to kill 3,000 Americans to get revenge for what Israel was doing to get revenge for what Israel was doing to helpless women and children in to helpless women and children in Lebanon. As well as of course of course Lebanon. As well as of course of course ignores the history of al-Qaeda which ignores the history of al-Qaeda which for years before that was the United for years before that was the United States States States operations against the United States but operations against the United States but executing them. You guys love pulling executing them. You guys love pulling each other into history. They went they each other into history. They went they went out with al Qaeda. Just one second. went out with al Qaeda. Just one second. America's problems with Ala is Israel. America's problems with Ala is Israel. America and Israel are terrorist America and Israel are terrorist terrorist states. They were America's terrorist states. They were America's mercenaries that we used in Afghanistan mercenaries that we used in Afghanistan in Bosnia and Chetchna. When they turned in Bosnia and Chetchna. When they turned against I mean America they turned against I mean America they turned against us. Anyone could read Michael's against us. Anyone could read Michael's book, the former chief of the CIA bin book, the former chief of the CIA bin Laden, Laden, Laden, imperial hubris and it's about how the imperial hubris and it's about how the number one reason they attacked us was number one reason they attacked us was American bases on Saudi soil to bomb American bases on Saudi soil to bomb Iraq as part of Israel's dual Iraq as part of Israel's dual containment policy. And the second containment policy. And the second reason was American support for Israel reason was American support for Israel in their merciless persecution of the in their merciless persecution of the Palestinians and the Lebanese. That's Palestinians and the Lebanese. That's the most articulate justification I've the most articulate justification I've ever heard for al-Qaeda in my life. But ever heard for al-Qaeda in my life. But let's it's not a justification. let's it's not a justification. I'm not saying that makes what they did I'm not saying that makes what they did right. I'm saying that was how Bin Laden right. I'm saying that was how Bin Laden recruited his foot soldiers to attack recruited his foot soldiers to attack this country was by citing American this country was by citing American foreign policies that were directly to foreign policies that were directly to the detriment of the people of the the detriment of the people of the Middle East and specifically our support Middle East and specifically our support for Israel. And I've never heard a pro, for Israel. And I've never heard a pro, in fact, I take that back. There's one in fact, I take that back. There's one guy, a liberal from The Nation magazine guy, a liberal from The Nation magazine named Eric Alterman is the only named Eric Alterman is the only pro-Israel guy I've ever heard say, pro-Israel guy I've ever heard say, "Well, that may be true, but I still say "Well, that may be true, but I still say we got to support Israel anyway." The we got to support Israel anyway." The others, they'll just pretend that Terry others, they'll just pretend that Terry McDermott never wrote that book, that McDermott never wrote that book, that Lawrence Wright never wrote that book, Lawrence Wright never wrote that book, that Muhammad Ata had no motive to turn that Muhammad Ata had no motive to turn on the United States except for Muhammad on the United States except for Muhammad made him do it. when in fact what it was made him do it. when in fact what it was is it was the ultraviolence of Shimone is it was the ultraviolence of Shimone Perez and artillery officer Naftali Perez and artillery officer Naftali Bennett slaughtering women and children Bennett slaughtering women and children that turned America's mercenaries that turned America's mercenaries America backed the Arab Afghan army in America backed the Arab Afghan army in Afghanistan in Bosnia in Kosovo and in Afghanistan in Bosnia in Kosovo and in Cheschna as I demonstrate in my book and Cheschna as I demonstrate in my book and yet as he correctly says they turned on yet as he correctly says they turned on us all through the 1990s Bill Clinton us all through the 1990s Bill Clinton was still backing them anyway after they was still backing them anyway after they were attacking us and including at Cobar were attacking us and including at Cobar Towers and they were doing that is this Towers and they were doing that is this was a bin Laden plot notes Ezbala, not was a bin Laden plot notes Ezbala, not the Shiites. This was the Bin Laden the Shiites. This was the Bin Laden getting revenge against us for support getting revenge against us for support for Israel and being too close to their for Israel and being too close to their local dictators that they wanted to local dictators that they wanted to overthrow, namely the king of Saudi and overthrow, namely the king of Saudi and the El Presidentede of Egypt. That is the El Presidentede of Egypt. That is the cause of the September 11th attack the cause of the September 11th attack against the United States. Not the against the United States. Not the Taliban hate freedom, but the bin Laden Taliban hate freedom, but the bin Laden hate American support for Israel and hate American support for Israel and America adopting policies, Israeli America adopting policies, Israeli centric policies like Martin Indict's uh centric policies like Martin Indict's uh dual containment policy in 193. I think dual containment policy in 193. I think al-Qaeda hates America, Scott, I think. al-Qaeda hates America, Scott, I think. Why? You know what? I'll tell you what, Why? You know what? I'll tell you what, Ali Sufan, you know, Ali Sufan, the Ali Sufan, you know, Ali Sufan, the former FBI agent, counterterrorism former FBI agent, counterterrorism agent, he wrote in his book, The Black agent, he wrote in his book, The Black Banners, that the Bin Laden said to Bin Banners, that the Bin Laden said to Bin Laden, "We don't understand why you're Laden, "We don't understand why you're so angry at America. They've been so so angry at America. They've been so good to us in Afghanistan, in Bosnia, in good to us in Afghanistan, in Bosnia, in Kosovo, and now here in Cheschna. Why do Kosovo, and now here in Cheschna. Why do you want to attack them?" you want to attack them?" Said, "I have a larger agenda that you Said, "I have a larger agenda that you don't understand." The disagreement don't understand." The disagreement between you is clear. I've talked to Nam between you is clear. I've talked to Nam Chsky twice. Scott, you focus on the Chsky twice. Scott, you focus on the criticism. interview Michael Shyer. criticism. interview Michael Shyer. Well, although he's gone pretty crazy Well, although he's gone pretty crazy lately. I don't know, maybe not. Anyway, lately. I don't know, maybe not. Anyway, we're going into history. We're learning we're going into history. We're learning a lot. The perspectives differ strongly. a lot. The perspectives differ strongly. Uh can we look into the maybe a Uh can we look into the maybe a ridiculous question, but a nuclear ridiculous question, but a nuclear proliferation? You already started to proliferation? You already started to speak to both of you. uh if you look speak to both of you. uh if you look like 10 20 years out now, does does the like 10 20 years out now, does does the US attacking Iran does that send a US attacking Iran does that send a message message message even to NBS to other Middle Eastern even to NBS to other Middle Eastern nations that they need to start thinking nations that they need to start thinking about u a nuclear weapon program about u a nuclear weapon program specifically like do you think just in a specifically like do you think just in a numbers way does the number of nukes in numbers way does the number of nukes in the world go up in 10 20 30 years? So the world go up in 10 20 30 years? So look I I think uh it's a great question. look I I think uh it's a great question. Will there be more nuclear weapons Will there be more nuclear weapons powers in the future or less as a result powers in the future or less as a result of this decision by President Trump? So, of this decision by President Trump? So, I actually think there'll be less um and I actually think there'll be less um and I'll tell you uh it's succinently as I I'll tell you uh it's succinently as I can and that is that it's been very can and that is that it's been very clear from the Saudis, from the Turks um clear from the Saudis, from the Turks um certainly from the um even the Algerians certainly from the um even the Algerians and others that if Iran gets a nuclear and others that if Iran gets a nuclear weapon, they too want a nuclear weapon. weapon, they too want a nuclear weapon. In fact, the Saudis have gone even In fact, the Saudis have gone even further and said if if Iran is allowed further and said if if Iran is allowed to retain the key enrichment capability to retain the key enrichment capability that they have under JCPOA that we want that they have under JCPOA that we want that too. If there's an Iran standard, that too. If there's an Iran standard, we want the Iran standard. We don't want we want the Iran standard. We don't want the gold standard. In fact, that's been the gold standard. In fact, that's been the subject of intensive negotiations the subject of intensive negotiations between the United States and Saudi between the United States and Saudi Arabia for the past couple years, both Arabia for the past couple years, both under Biden and Trump as part of the US under Biden and Trump as part of the US Saudi uh agreement, defense agreement Saudi uh agreement, defense agreement and economic agreement that that has and economic agreement that that has been underway. It is it's very clear been underway. It is it's very clear that there's going to be a proliferation that there's going to be a proliferation cascade in the Middle East if the cascade in the Middle East if the Iranians get a nuclear weapon and Iranians get a nuclear weapon and certainly if they're allowed to retain certainly if they're allowed to retain this enrichment capability. I also worry this enrichment capability. I also worry about we haven't even talked about at about we haven't even talked about at all this conversation. I mean the most all this conversation. I mean the most important area in the world, the United important area in the world, the United States is not the Middle East, it's States is not the Middle East, it's China and the Indopacific. And I worry China and the Indopacific. And I worry that the South Koreans, the Taiwanese, that the South Koreans, the Taiwanese, and the Japanese will say, "You know and the Japanese will say, "You know what? We don't trust an any US what? We don't trust an any US commitments to stop nuclear weapons. You commitments to stop nuclear weapons. You failed on Iran. We don't trust you. We failed on Iran. We don't trust you. We don't trust your nuclear umbrella. We don't trust your nuclear umbrella. We too want nuclear weapons in order to too want nuclear weapons in order to guard our security against China." And guard our security against China." And so what you would see I I hope it so what you would see I I hope it doesn't happen but I worry about is this doesn't happen but I worry about is this kind of proliferation cascade in the kind of proliferation cascade in the Middle East and in the Indo Pacific two Middle East and in the Indo Pacific two of the most important areas for American of the most important areas for American national security which is why I think national security which is why I think it's very important that that be that it's very important that that be that Iran's be stopped. Now whether this Iran's be stopped. Now whether this attack is succeeds in stopping Iran's attack is succeeds in stopping Iran's nuclear weapon or accelerates it we we nuclear weapon or accelerates it we we disagree but I think neither of us know disagree but I think neither of us know yet. hard to predict. But what I think yet. hard to predict. But what I think is absolutely certain is that if Iran is absolutely certain is that if Iran develops that nuclear weapon and is develops that nuclear weapon and is allowed to retain the key capabilities allowed to retain the key capabilities to do so, you're going to see five, six to do so, you're going to see five, six countries in the Middle East, at least countries in the Middle East, at least three, four countries in the Indo three, four countries in the Indo Pacific asking for the same capability. Pacific asking for the same capability. And then you're going to have a club of And then you're going to have a club of nuclear weapons powers uh that will have nuclear weapons powers uh that will have an additional five, six, seven over the an additional five, six, seven over the next 10 to 20 years. What if they don't? next 10 to 20 years. What if they don't? What if they're prevented? Doesn't that What if they're prevented? Doesn't that still send the same message to everybody still send the same message to everybody that they should build? Oh, I think it that they should build? Oh, I think it sends the opposite message, Lex. I think sends the opposite message, Lex. I think if they see what has happened and that if they see what has happened and that it's successful and it it's and that it's successful and it stopped Iran from developing nuclear stopped Iran from developing nuclear weapons and in addition, Trump was able weapons and in addition, Trump was able to negotiate an agreement for zero to negotiate an agreement for zero enrichment and full dismantlement. And enrichment and full dismantlement. And the message to all these other countries the message to all these other countries is number one, you don't need it. And is number one, you don't need it. And number two, if you try to get it, then number two, if you try to get it, then the United States is going to use the United States is going to use American power. Now, I'm not suggesting American power. Now, I'm not suggesting the United States is going to start the United States is going to start bombing the Saudis or the Turks or the bombing the Saudis or the Turks or the Amiradis. Clearly, not the Japanese. I Amiradis. Clearly, not the Japanese. I mean, these are many of them are allies. mean, these are many of them are allies. But I think the United States retains But I think the United States retains many tools, counterpril tools to prevent many tools, counterpril tools to prevent these countries from developing nuclear these countries from developing nuclear weapons, including, you know, sanctions weapons, including, you know, sanctions and export controls and many of the and export controls and many of the things. And plus, I think those things. And plus, I think those countries, you know, understand that in countries, you know, understand that in the Middle East, despite Scott's focus the Middle East, despite Scott's focus on Israel, you know, when you talk to on Israel, you know, when you talk to Arab leaders, their biggest concern is Arab leaders, their biggest concern is the threat from Iran. It's not the the threat from Iran. It's not the threat from Israel. They're not threat from Israel. They're not concerned with the threat from Israel. concerned with the threat from Israel. That's why you had the Abraham Accords. That's why you had the Abraham Accords. It, you know, this is why the UAE and It, you know, this is why the UAE and Bahrain and Morocco entered into this Bahrain and Morocco entered into this peace agreement with Israel. The Saudis peace agreement with Israel. The Saudis will one day, and they'll bring many will one day, and they'll bring many other Arab and Muslim countries in it. other Arab and Muslim countries in it. They don't say Israel is a threat. They They don't say Israel is a threat. They see Iran as a threat. And so if you see Iran as a threat. And so if you counter that threat, you eliminate counter that threat, you eliminate Iran's nuclear weapons proliferation and Iran's nuclear weapons proliferation and expansion. Those countries now no longer expansion. Those countries now no longer have to build nuclear weapons have to build nuclear weapons capabilities to counter the Iranians. capabilities to counter the Iranians. Now, we've also restored our Now, we've also restored our credibility. credibility. credibility. We don't bluff. We said Iran doesn't We don't bluff. We said Iran doesn't develop nuclear weapons. They won't. And develop nuclear weapons. They won't. And now it's the Japanese who have, as Scott now it's the Japanese who have, as Scott rightly pointed out, they do have rightly pointed out, they do have reprocessing and plutonium capabilities. reprocessing and plutonium capabilities. Um, the Taiwanese who used to have a Um, the Taiwanese who used to have a military nuclear weapons program and military nuclear weapons program and gave it up. And the South Koreans who gave it up. And the South Koreans who agreed to our gold standard of zero agreed to our gold standard of zero enrichment, zero reprocessing, those enrichment, zero reprocessing, those three countries can now say, "Okay, we three countries can now say, "Okay, we rely on the United States on your word, rely on the United States on your word, on your power, and on your ability to to on your power, and on your ability to to actually turn words into action. we actually turn words into action. we don't need nuclear weapons. So I I say don't need nuclear weapons. So I I say if successful, big if, big if, if if successful, big if, big if, if successful, then it's going to be a successful, then it's going to be a significant significant significant um guard against the potential of um guard against the potential of greater nuclear proliferation and we greater nuclear proliferation and we will have less nuclear powers, nuclear will have less nuclear powers, nuclear weapons powers than uh than we otherwise weapons powers than uh than we otherwise would have. My favorite thing is when would have. My favorite thing is when you guys point out when you agree with you guys point out when you agree with the other person. Anyway, uh Scott, what the other person. Anyway, uh Scott, what do you think? What what do you think do you think? What what do you think everything that's just happened over the everything that's just happened over the past two weeks does to nuclear nuclear past two weeks does to nuclear nuclear proliferation over the next 5 10 20 proliferation over the next 5 10 20 years? Well, I mean, I really don't know years? Well, I mean, I really don't know for sure, but I would think that um the for sure, but I would think that um the uh there's a very great danger that it's uh there's a very great danger that it's going to reinforce the lessons of North going to reinforce the lessons of North Korea, Iraq, and Libya, which is you Korea, Iraq, and Libya, which is you better get a nuke to keep America out better get a nuke to keep America out and you better hurry before it's too and you better hurry before it's too late. Now, for the Saudis, they're not late. Now, for the Saudis, they're not going to do that cuz they're obviously a going to do that cuz they're obviously a very close American client state. So, very close American client state. So, it's a different dynamic there. But, you it's a different dynamic there. But, you know, for any country that has trouble know, for any country that has trouble with the United States or is worried with the United States or is worried about the future of their ability to about the future of their ability to maintain their national sovereignty, maintain their national sovereignty, obviously getting their hands on an A- obviously getting their hands on an A- bomb as quickly as possible is uh has bomb as quickly as possible is uh has been, you know, reincentivized to a been, you know, reincentivized to a great degree. Also, I'm really worried great degree. Also, I'm really worried about the future of the about the future of the non-proliferation treaty with the non-proliferation treaty with the nuclear weapons states promise to nuclear weapons states promise to respect the right of non-uclear weapons respect the right of non-uclear weapons states to civilian nuclear energy and states to civilian nuclear energy and where here you have a nonPT where here you have a nonPT signatory nuclear weapons state Israel signatory nuclear weapons state Israel launch an aggressive war against an NPT launch an aggressive war against an NPT signatory that is was not attacking them signatory that is was not attacking them and was not making nuclear weapons and and was not making nuclear weapons and with the assistance of the world empire with the assistance of the world empire the United states. Another nuclear the United states. Another nuclear weapons state signatory to the NPT. And weapons state signatory to the NPT. And I don't really take this that seriously, I don't really take this that seriously, but it's worth at least listening to is but it's worth at least listening to is uh Madv, the uh once and probably future uh Madv, the uh once and probably future president of Russia. He said, "Oh yeah, president of Russia. He said, "Oh yeah, well maybe we'll just give him a nuke or well maybe we'll just give him a nuke or kind of implied maybe get Pakistan too." kind of implied maybe get Pakistan too." Now, for people familiar with like Key Now, for people familiar with like Key and Peele, Madv is sort of angry Obama, and Peele, Madv is sort of angry Obama, right, for Putin. You know that skit right, for Putin. You know that skit where it's like Obama talks all calm and where it's like Obama talks all calm and translator. Peele goes off like an angry translator. Peele goes off like an angry black guy kind of character, right? He's black guy kind of character, right? He's been going nuts on Twitter. Yeah. Vev, been going nuts on Twitter. Yeah. Vev, he he goes way out, you know, above and he he goes way out, you know, above and beyond. But I think he's probably acting beyond. But I think he's probably acting on instructions to talk that way. And it on instructions to talk that way. And it is a real risk that the MPT could just is a real risk that the MPT could just fall apart when it becomes when it's fall apart when it becomes when it's treated uh so callously by the United treated uh so callously by the United States who invented it and insisted that States who invented it and insisted that the rest of the world adopt the thing to the rest of the world adopt the thing to such a great degree. Trump did say don't such a great degree. Trump did say don't use the nword. He he talked down to midv use the nword. He he talked down to midv around the end the nuclear word. Yeah. around the end the nuclear word. Yeah. Well and and I appreciate that. Good. Well and and I appreciate that. Good. He's right. He's right in that not He's right. He's right in that not Pakistanis could give a nuke to Iran who Pakistanis could give a nuke to Iran who are their friends. I think not the are their friends. I think not the tightest of allies. I'm not saying I tightest of allies. I'm not saying I predict that, but there's a danger of predict that, but there's a danger of that. Um, now when it comes to, you that. Um, now when it comes to, you know, Eastern Asia, obviously there's a know, Eastern Asia, obviously there's a concern about a Chinese threat to concern about a Chinese threat to Taiwan, but nobody thinks China's coming Taiwan, but nobody thinks China's coming for South Korea or Japan. The the for South Korea or Japan. The the question of Taiwan is one that's very question of Taiwan is one that's very different because, as the American different because, as the American president agreed with Ma Tong 50 years president agreed with Ma Tong 50 years ago, Taiwan is part of China and ago, Taiwan is part of China and eventually will be reunited. although we eventually will be reunited. although we hope that's not by force. Since then, hope that's not by force. Since then, they have essentially abandoned Marxism, they have essentially abandoned Marxism, although it's still a one party although it's still a one party authoritarian state, but they've authoritarian state, but they've essentially abandoned Marxism, adopted essentially abandoned Marxism, adopted markets, at least to the degree that markets, at least to the degree that they've been able to afford to now build they've been able to afford to now build up a a giant naval force that is capable up a a giant naval force that is capable of retaking Taiwan. And so I think the of retaking Taiwan. And so I think the way to prevent that is not from making a way to prevent that is not from making a bunch of threats and setting examples in bunch of threats and setting examples in other places about how tough we are, but other places about how tough we are, but to negotiate with the Chinese and the to negotiate with the Chinese and the Taiwanese and figure out a way to Taiwanese and figure out a way to reunite the two in a peaceful way in reunite the two in a peaceful way in order to prevent that war from breaking order to prevent that war from breaking out. Because in fact, we don't really out. Because in fact, we don't really have the naval and air capability to have the naval and air capability to defend Taiwan. We could lose a lot of defend Taiwan. We could lose a lot of guys trying and probably kill a lot of guys trying and probably kill a lot of Chinese trying, but in the end, they'd Chinese trying, but in the end, they'd probably take Taiwan anyway, and we'd probably take Taiwan anyway, and we'd have lost a bunch of ships and and have lost a bunch of ships and and planes for nothing. So, we can negotiate planes for nothing. So, we can negotiate an end to that. And then even if America an end to that. And then even if America just withdrew from the region, we could just withdrew from the region, we could still negotiate long-term agreements still negotiate long-term agreements between China, Japan, South Korea, and between China, Japan, South Korea, and whoever, there's no reason to think that whoever, there's no reason to think that everyone would make a mad scramble to a everyone would make a mad scramble to a bomb to protect them uh if the moment bomb to protect them uh if the moment they are out from under America's they are out from under America's nuclear umbrella and so forth. And the nuclear umbrella and so forth. And the fact of the matter is that um fact of the matter is that um you know the greatest threat to the you know the greatest threat to the status quo as far as the nuclear powers status quo as far as the nuclear powers go probably is what just happened. go probably is what just happened. America and Israel launching this war America and Israel launching this war against the non-uclear weapons state as against the non-uclear weapons state as a member in good standing of this treaty a member in good standing of this treaty throws the the whole as they call it the throws the the whole as they call it the liberal rulesbased world order into liberal rulesbased world order into question. I mean, if these rules question. I mean, if these rules repeatedly always apply to everyone repeatedly always apply to everyone else, but very often not to us, then are else, but very often not to us, then are they really the law or this is just the they really the law or this is just the will of men in Washington DC? And how will of men in Washington DC? And how long do we expect the rest of the world long do we expect the rest of the world to go ahead and abide by that? If you to go ahead and abide by that? If you know, a deal is a deal until we decide, know, a deal is a deal until we decide, as Bill Clinton said, to wake up one as Bill Clinton said, to wake up one morning and decide that we don't like it morning and decide that we don't like it anymore and and change it. That was a anymore and and change it. That was a phrase from the founding act of 97. Huh? phrase from the founding act of 97. Huh? Maybe we'll wake up one morning and Maybe we'll wake up one morning and decide that we want to do something else decide that we want to do something else entirely. Is that your Bill Clinton entirely. Is that your Bill Clinton impression? No, I'll spare you. Okay, impression? No, I'll spare you. Okay, that was pretty good. After the show that was pretty good. After the show when we're not recording, I'll show Can when we're not recording, I'll show Can I Can I respond to a couple things here I Can I respond to a couple things here just really quickly? I'll try to do it just really quickly? I'll try to do it quickly. Um, first of all, you know, the quickly. Um, first of all, you know, the notion that Iran is in full compliance notion that Iran is in full compliance with the NPT um is is just not the case. with the NPT um is is just not the case. The International Atomic Energy Agency The International Atomic Energy Agency has made it clear in report after report has made it clear in report after report after report that Iran is in violation after report that Iran is in violation of its obligations under the um of its obligations under the um protocols of the IAEA under the request protocols of the IAEA under the request that the IAEA have made and under the that the IAEA have made and under the NPT. So they are a serial violator of NPT. So they are a serial violator of the NPT unlike all these other countries the NPT unlike all these other countries we've been talking about that are our we've been talking about that are our allies. Second is this this quote um allies. Second is this this quote um Iran is not attacking Israel. That's Iran is not attacking Israel. That's quite an amazing quote um which kind of quite an amazing quote um which kind of ignores I think uh 50 60 years of ignores I think uh 50 60 years of Iranian attacks against Israel including Iranian attacks against Israel including um suicide bombings and um suicide bombings and missiles and drones and October 7th and missiles and drones and October 7th and it it's indisputable that Iran has been it it's indisputable that Iran has been attacking Israel and they've been attacking Israel and they've been they've been doing it for many years they've been doing it for many years through their terror proxies that they through their terror proxies that they fund and finance and and weaponize and fund and finance and and weaponize and since uh October 7th, they directly since uh October 7th, they directly struck Israel with hundreds of ballistic struck Israel with hundreds of ballistic missiles in April and October of last missiles in April and October of last year. So this notion that before 12 days year. So this notion that before 12 days ago, Iranians were just playing nice ago, Iranians were just playing nice with the Israelis and the Israelis just with the Israelis and the Israelis just came out out of the blue. Well, you said came out out of the blue. Well, you said quote unquote Iran is not is not quote unquote Iran is not is not attacking Israel. So I mean it's just attacking Israel. So I mean it's just not true. Yeah. They were not in a state not true. Yeah. They were not in a state of war until Israel launched a state of of war until Israel launched a state of war. That's the fact that you go oh well war. That's the fact that you go oh well they backed a group that did a thing. they backed a group that did a thing. Yeah. Okay. that kill thousands and of Yeah. Okay. that kill thousands and of Israelis, ma thousands of Israelis, but Israelis, ma thousands of Israelis, but that was not ordered in Tyrron. The Wall that was not ordered in Tyrron. The Wall Street Journal says that US intelligence Street Journal says that US intelligence does not believe that Tyrron ordered does not believe that Tyrron ordered that attack. They found out about that attack. They found out about Journal says and what the US Journal says and what the US intelligence says, and we can dispute intelligence says, and we can dispute whether they directed it on October 7th. whether they directed it on October 7th. Everybody knows indisputably that Iran Everybody knows indisputably that Iran financed Hamas, provided Hamas weapons. financed Hamas, provided Hamas weapons. Just well, just a second. provided Hamas Just well, just a second. provided Hamas with weapons that the IRGC and the Kuds with weapons that the IRGC and the Kuds force were training Hamas. Hisbala force were training Hamas. Hisbala backed by Iran was training Hamas. There backed by Iran was training Hamas. There were three meetings before October 7th, were three meetings before October 7th, one in Beirut, one in Damascus, and one one in Beirut, one in Damascus, and one in Thran where the IRGC, Hzbalah, Hamas, in Thran where the IRGC, Hzbalah, Hamas, and Palestinian Islamic Jihad were and Palestinian Islamic Jihad were together. There was a meeting in Thran together. There was a meeting in Thran that was attended by Kame, the Supreme that was attended by Kame, the Supreme Leader. Now, at those three meetings Leader. Now, at those three meetings right before October 7th, you know, right before October 7th, you know, maybe they're discussing the weather, maybe they're discussing the weather, maybe they were discussing Persian maybe they were discussing Persian poetry, I don't know, but it is hard to poetry, I don't know, but it is hard to believe they weren't discussing believe they weren't discussing something. And the fact that they had something. And the fact that they had armed Hamas, financed Hamas, and armed Hamas, financed Hamas, and weaponized Hamas suggests to me that weaponized Hamas suggests to me that there is pretty overwhelming evidence there is pretty overwhelming evidence that Iran has been at war with Israel that Iran has been at war with Israel for decades. Critics of Israel will say for decades. Critics of Israel will say that Benjamin Netanyahu has also been that Benjamin Netanyahu has also been indirectly financing Hamas by allowing indirectly financing Hamas by allowing the fund the funds going America backs the fund the funds going America backs Israel, so anything Israel does is Israel, so anything Israel does is America's responsibility, too, under America's responsibility, too, under that same logic. Right. I I think you that same logic. Right. I I think you started to make a a point disagreeing started to make a a point disagreeing with Scott about that. They're not a with Scott about that. They're not a good member of the NPT. That's all tiny good member of the NPT. That's all tiny technical violations. None of that has technical violations. None of that has anything to do with weaponization. It's anything to do with weaponization. It's always, oh yeah, how do you explain this always, oh yeah, how do you explain this isotope? And they go, well, it must have isotope? And they go, well, it must have came with the Pakistani junk that we came with the Pakistani junk that we bought from Acon. And then later that's bought from Acon. And then later that's verified. And they go, yeah, well, we verified. And they go, yeah, well, we want to inspect this. Let us. And they want to inspect this. Let us. And they go, no. Oh, and then they do a year go, no. Oh, and then they do a year later and then they find nothing there. later and then they find nothing there. Yeah, that's just not the case. Entire Yeah, that's just not the case. Entire history of Iran of the IAEA's objections history of Iran of the IAEA's objections to Iran. So your listeners, I know to Iran. So your listeners, I know they're not going to do it because it's they're not going to do it because it's a lot of technical, but just go out, go a lot of technical, but just go out, go out and read IAEA reports dating back at out and read IAEA reports dating back at least 20 years and you'll see the IA least 20 years and you'll see the IA meticulously, methodically, meticulously, methodically, meticulously, methodically, dispassionately outlining all of the dispassionately outlining all of the violations that Iran has embarked on of violations that Iran has embarked on of the NPT. Virtually all those are the NPT. Virtually all those are resolved later. They won't answer this resolved later. They won't answer this and then later they do. They won't and then later they do. They won't answer that and then later they do. and answer that and then later they do. and many open files are still a still there. many open files are still a still there. I mean, just again like I just I just I mean, just again like I just I just want your viewers to walk away from this want your viewers to walk away from this conversation thing, okay, that's conversation thing, okay, that's interesting. I I I didn't know that. And interesting. I I I didn't know that. And that I'm gonna go fact check Mark and that I'm gonna go fact check Mark and fact check Scott and just kind of see fact check Scott and just kind of see what this is all about, right? Because what this is all about, right? Because otherwise it's just he says, she says, otherwise it's just he says, she says, or he says, he says. Um the fact of the or he says, he says. Um the fact of the matter is is that Iran has been in matter is is that Iran has been in violations of its obligations under the violations of its obligations under the NPT under the additional protocol. It NPT under the additional protocol. It never it never uh it never ratified never it never uh it never ratified under its safeguards obligations under under its safeguards obligations under the NPT. It suggests a pattern of the NPT. It suggests a pattern of nuclear macity. They abided by the nuclear macity. They abided by the additional protocol without having additional protocol without having ratified it. They abided about it for ratified it. They abided about it for three years and did not proceed with any three years and did not proceed with any enrichment at all as long as they were enrichment at all as long as they were dealing in good faith with the EU until dealing in good faith with the EU until W. Bush ruined those negotiations and W. Bush ruined those negotiations and closed them down. Only then did they closed them down. Only then did they began to install the centrifuges at began to install the centrifuges at Natans. It's always the American screw Natans. It's always the American screw things up. complain they didn't ratify things up. complain they didn't ratify the thing but they abided by it for the thing but they abided by it for years. So that's an interesting they years. So that's an interesting they were in violation of it. But I I think a were in violation of it. But I I think a more pragmatic and important more pragmatic and important disagreement that we already spoke to is disagreement that we already spoke to is how do we decrease the incentive for how do we decrease the incentive for Iran to build nuclear programs not just Iran to build nuclear programs not just in the next couple years but in the next in the next couple years but in the next 10 20 years. What that's you're mocking 10 20 years. What that's you're mocking that there's a lot of people that will that there's a lot of people that will there's neocons that say basically there's neocons that say basically invade everything let's make money off invade everything let's make money off of war but there's people that will say of war but there's people that will say that you know operation midnight hammer that you know operation midnight hammer is actually a focused hard demonstration is actually a focused hard demonstration of strength a piece of strength that is of strength a piece of strength that is an effective way to do geopolitics I an effective way to do geopolitics I mean there's cases to be made for all of mean there's cases to be made for all of it if we're really lucky yeah so it's a it if we're really lucky yeah so it's a big risk is your case so here's some big risk is your case so here's some practical recommendations that I think practical recommendations that I think the United States should follow I think the United States should follow I think the first is, you know, get the Iranians the first is, you know, get the Iranians back to Oman, negotiate with them, and back to Oman, negotiate with them, and do a deal. Again, the deal has to be no do a deal. Again, the deal has to be no enrichment, full dismantlement. I I I enrichment, full dismantlement. I I I think for the reasons we talked about think for the reasons we talked about today, Scott and I passionately today, Scott and I passionately disagree, but that's fine. We This is disagree, but that's fine. We This is This is a reasonable debate. Neither of This is a reasonable debate. Neither of us is crazy. Neither of us is rational. us is crazy. Neither of us is rational. It is what would it take to get a deal It is what would it take to get a deal with Iran? I say I say this is the deal. with Iran? I say I say this is the deal. This has to be our red line. Scott This has to be our red line. Scott disagrees. That's fine. But we got to disagrees. That's fine. But we got to get a deal. In that deal, we got to get a deal. In that deal, we got to provide them financial incentives, provide them financial incentives, right? We're going to have to lift a right? We're going to have to lift a certain number of sanctions because certain number of sanctions because they're going to have to get something they're going to have to get something in return. Okay, we can argue about in return. Okay, we can argue about exactly how much, but I think our exactly how much, but I think our opening negotiating position is no opening negotiating position is no sanctions relief and then we'll get sanctions relief and then we'll get negotiated down from that. Right? I negotiated down from that. Right? I mean, like I think a lot of this is mean, like I think a lot of this is about how do you position yourself for a about how do you position yourself for a negotiation? How do you how do you come negotiation? How do you how do you come in with leverage and then how do you in with leverage and then how do you find areas of compromise where you you find areas of compromise where you you satisfy your objectives? One is Oman. satisfy your objectives? One is Oman. Two is the credible threat of military Two is the credible threat of military force needs to remain right needs to force needs to remain right needs to understand that the United States of understand that the United States of America and Israel will use military America and Israel will use military force to stop him from developing force to stop him from developing nuclear weapons. If he didn't believe nuclear weapons. If he didn't believe that before 12 days ago, he now believes that before 12 days ago, he now believes that and I think that's the credibility that and I think that's the credibility of that military force has to be of that military force has to be maintained in order to ensure that he maintained in order to ensure that he does not break out or sneak out to a does not break out or sneak out to a nuclear weapon. I I think that's nuclear weapon. I I think that's absolutely critical. Third is I think we absolutely critical. Third is I think we have to reach agreements with all the have to reach agreements with all the other countries in the Middle East to other countries in the Middle East to say, "Hey, listen. We're demanding zero say, "Hey, listen. We're demanding zero enrichment and full dismantlement from enrichment and full dismantlement from the Iranians. You don't get enrichment the Iranians. You don't get enrichment and you don't get a nuclear program that and you don't get a nuclear program that is capable of developing nuclear is capable of developing nuclear weapons. Our gold standard is the weapons. Our gold standard is the American standard. Civilian nuclear American standard. Civilian nuclear energy like 23 countries, no enrichment energy like 23 countries, no enrichment and reprocess. We should be consistent. and reprocess. We should be consistent. We should be consistent not just with We should be consistent not just with American allies but also very clear with American allies but also very clear with American enemies. I think that's the American enemies. I think that's the third important thing we do. Fourth is I third important thing we do. Fourth is I think it's really important that we find think it's really important that we find some kind of accommodation between the some kind of accommodation between the Israelis and the Palestinians. We can go Israelis and the Palestinians. We can go down many rabbit holes on that, but I down many rabbit holes on that, but I think that lays the predicate for a think that lays the predicate for a Saudi Israeli normalization deal that Saudi Israeli normalization deal that then brings in multiple Arab countries then brings in multiple Arab countries and Muslim countries. And finally is we and Muslim countries. And finally is we talked about the Abraham Accords. I I talked about the Abraham Accords. I I think we need to start thinking about think we need to start thinking about what did the Cyrus Accords look like, what did the Cyrus Accords look like, right? Cyrus was the great Persian king, right? Cyrus was the great Persian king, right? Who by the way brought the you right? Who by the way brought the you know the Jews back from um from uh the know the Jews back from um from uh the diaspora to Jerusalem and Cyrus accords diaspora to Jerusalem and Cyrus accords would be let's find an agreement between would be let's find an agreement between the United States and Israel and Iran. the United States and Israel and Iran. That would be a remarkable That would be a remarkable transformation in the region if we could transformation in the region if we could actually do that. So imagine a Middle actually do that. So imagine a Middle East, and again, I know this sounds East, and again, I know this sounds fanciful, but I think this is what Trump fanciful, but I think this is what Trump has in mind when he starts to talk about has in mind when he starts to talk about the things you're seeing in these truth the things you're seeing in these truth posts, is actually a Middle East that posts, is actually a Middle East that can be fundamentally transformed where can be fundamentally transformed where we actually do bring peace between we actually do bring peace between Israel, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and the rest Israel, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and the rest of these countries. I, by the way, of these countries. I, by the way, completely agree with you on Syria. The completely agree with you on Syria. The idea that we are trusting a former idea that we are trusting a former al-Qaeda ISIS jihadist uh to rule Syria, al-Qaeda ISIS jihadist uh to rule Syria, I think is a big bet President Trump has I think is a big bet President Trump has made. He's made it on the advice of NBS. made. He's made it on the advice of NBS. We'll see how that transforms We'll see how that transforms uh or transpires and see if Syria is uh or transpires and see if Syria is transformed. But the notion that somehow transformed. But the notion that somehow we should just be rolling the dice, we should just be rolling the dice, lifting all the sanctions, and taking lifting all the sanctions, and taking this former al-Qaeda jihadist at his this former al-Qaeda jihadist at his word is uh a big bet. If we got the bet word is uh a big bet. If we got the bet right, that is actually a remarkable right, that is actually a remarkable occurrence because now all of a sudden occurrence because now all of a sudden Syria and Lebanon are brought into this Syria and Lebanon are brought into this Abraham Accord, Cyrus Accords structure, Abraham Accord, Cyrus Accords structure, and then we actually have what I think and then we actually have what I think all three of us want is peace in the all three of us want is peace in the Middle East, stability in the Middle Middle East, stability in the Middle East. I don't think we need democracy in East. I don't think we need democracy in the Middle East. I think if the Middle the Middle East. I think if the Middle East looked like the UAE, that'd be a East looked like the UAE, that'd be a pretty good Middle East. I think we'd pretty good Middle East. I think we'd all be pretty comfortable with that if all be pretty comfortable with that if that kind of stability and prosperity. that kind of stability and prosperity. And ultimately, you could put these And ultimately, you could put these countries on a pathway to greater countries on a pathway to greater democracy the way that we did during the democracy the way that we did during the Cold War where countries like Taiwan and Cold War where countries like Taiwan and South Korea that were military South Korea that were military dictatorships ended up becoming dictatorships ended up becoming pro-western democracy. So, that's kind pro-western democracy. So, that's kind of stepping back maybe a little bit of stepping back maybe a little bit polyianish. Um, but I think we should polyianish. Um, but I think we should also always keep in mind what a also always keep in mind what a potential vision for peace could look potential vision for peace could look like. So, Scott, as many people know like. So, Scott, as many people know here in Austin, Texas, you're the here in Austin, Texas, you're the director of the Libertarian Institute. director of the Libertarian Institute. Um, let's zoom out a bit. What are the Um, let's zoom out a bit. What are the key pillars of libertarianism key pillars of libertarianism and how that informs how you see the and how that informs how you see the world? Well, the very basis of world? Well, the very basis of libertarianism libertarianism libertarianism is the non-aggression principle, but uh is the non-aggression principle, but uh which essentially is the same thing as which essentially is the same thing as our our social rules for dealing with our our social rules for dealing with each other in private life. No force, no each other in private life. No force, no theft, no fraud, and keep your hands to theft, no fraud, and keep your hands to yourself. And we apply that same moral yourself. And we apply that same moral law to government. And so, you know, law to government. And so, you know, some libertarians are anarcho some libertarians are anarcho capitalists, some are uh so-called capitalists, some are uh so-called minarchists, meaning we want the minarchists, meaning we want the absolute minimum amount of government, a absolute minimum amount of government, a night watchman type state. Uh in in night watchman type state. Uh in in other words, just enough to enforce other words, just enough to enforce contracts and protect property rights contracts and protect property rights and allow freedom in a free market to and allow freedom in a free market to work. There's also of course natural work. There's also of course natural rights theory, Austrian school rights theory, Austrian school economics, and a lot of revisionist economics, and a lot of revisionist history. Um and uh and it something very history. Um and uh and it something very uh key to uh libertarian theory was is uh key to uh libertarian theory was is expressed by Muran Rothbart was that war expressed by Muran Rothbart was that war is the key to the whole libertarian is the key to the whole libertarian business because especially in the business because especially in the United States of America as long as we United States of America as long as we maintain a world empire makes it maintain a world empire makes it impossible for us to have a limited and impossible for us to have a limited and decentralized government here at home as decentralized government here at home as our constitution describes. And so I was our constitution describes. And so I was going to crack a joke, but neither of going to crack a joke, but neither of you have called me an isolationist yet, you have called me an isolationist yet, but I was going to joke. Yes. As as but I was going to joke. Yes. As as Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration of Isolation, um that the Declaration of Isolation, um that the same guy, the principal author of the same guy, the principal author of the Declaration of isolation, he said in his Declaration of isolation, he said in his first inaugural address, "We seek peace, first inaugural address, "We seek peace, commerce, and honest friendship with all commerce, and honest friendship with all nations and entangling alliances with nations and entangling alliances with none." That's the true libertarian none." That's the true libertarian philosophy. Think Dr. Ron Paul, the philosophy. Think Dr. Ron Paul, the great congressman, uh for many years up great congressman, uh for many years up there. He was opposed to all sanctions, there. He was opposed to all sanctions, all economic war on the rest of the all economic war on the rest of the world and the entire state of the United world and the entire state of the United States as world empire. And what's States as world empire. And what's strange now is that anyone who wants strange now is that anyone who wants just peace as the standard is considered just peace as the standard is considered an isolationist. And people who are for an isolationist. And people who are for world empire and a permanent state of world empire and a permanent state of conflict with the rest of the world, conflict with the rest of the world, economic war, coups and regime changes economic war, coups and regime changes and even invasions, those are considered and even invasions, those are considered normal people. It's almost like people normal people. It's almost like people who want peace should be called cis who want peace should be called cis foreign policy because now we gota we foreign policy because now we gota we have to come up with a funny word to have to come up with a funny word to describe a normal state of being when no describe a normal state of being when no one calls Mexico an isolationist state. one calls Mexico an isolationist state. It's cuz they mind their own business. It's cuz they mind their own business. And is there any faction anywhere in And is there any faction anywhere in America that calls themselves America that calls themselves isolationist? Even the isolationist? Even the paleoconservatives who favor much more paleoconservatives who favor much more like trade protectionism and that kind like trade protectionism and that kind of thing than libertarians, they don't of thing than libertarians, they don't call themselves isolationists. They call themselves isolationists. They still want to have an open relationship still want to have an open relationship with the world to some degree when with the world to some degree when isolation means like the hermit kingdom isolation means like the hermit kingdom of North Korea or some crazy thing like of North Korea or some crazy thing like that. No one wants that for the United that. No one wants that for the United States of America. What we want is States of America. What we want is independence, non-interventionism and independence, non-interventionism and peace. So to you isolationism is a kind peace. So to you isolationism is a kind of dirty word term invented by of dirty word term invented by interventionists and internationalists interventionists and internationalists to attack anyone who didn't want to go to attack anyone who didn't want to go along with their agenda. The term itself along with their agenda. The term itself is used essentially as a smear against is used essentially as a smear against anyone who doesn't want to go to war. So anyone who doesn't want to go to war. So can you actually just deeper describe can you actually just deeper describe what non-interventionism what non-interventionism what non-interventionism means? So how much sort of display of means? So how much sort of display of military strength should be there do you military strength should be there do you think? Dr. Paul said we could defend think? Dr. Paul said we could defend this country with a couple of good this country with a couple of good submarines which by the way for people submarines which by the way for people who don't know one American Trident sub who don't know one American Trident sub could essentially kill every city and could essentially kill every city and military base in Russia. Just one. So military base in Russia. Just one. So he's absolutely right about that. Couple he's absolutely right about that. Couple of good submarines are enough to defend of good submarines are enough to defend our coast and deter anyone from messing our coast and deter anyone from messing with the United States of America. And with the United States of America. And then I admit I'm a little bit idealistic then I admit I'm a little bit idealistic about this that I think of that old about this that I think of that old William Jennings Brian speech, behold a William Jennings Brian speech, behold a republic where unlike the empires of republic where unlike the empires of Europe burdened under the weight of Europe burdened under the weight of militarism, here we have a free country militarism, here we have a free country and where you know what we could do? We and where you know what we could do? We could be the host of peace conferences could be the host of peace conferences everywhere. There are frozen conflicts everywhere. There are frozen conflicts in the Donbass, in in the conflicts in the Donbass, in Kinenrad, in Transnistria, in Taiwan, in Kinenrad, in Transnistria, in Taiwan, in Korea. Um, virtually all the borders of Korea. Um, virtually all the borders of Africa and Eurasia were drawn by Africa and Eurasia were drawn by European powers to either divide and European powers to either divide and conquer their enemies or artificially conquer their enemies or artificially group their enemies together in order to group their enemies together in order to keep them internally divided and keep them internally divided and conquered in those ways. There are great conquered in those ways. There are great many borders in the world that are in many borders in the world that are in contention and that people might even contention and that people might even want to fight about. And I think that want to fight about. And I think that America could play a wonderful role in America could play a wonderful role in helping to negotiate and resolve those helping to negotiate and resolve those types of conflicts without resorting to types of conflicts without resorting to force or or even making any promises on force or or even making any promises on the part of the US government like we'll the part of the US government like we'll pay Egypt to pretend to be nice to pay Egypt to pretend to be nice to Israel or anything like that. But just Israel or anything like that. But just find ways to host conferences and and find ways to host conferences and and find resolutions to these problems. And find resolutions to these problems. And I think quite sincerely that Donald I think quite sincerely that Donald Trump right now could get on a plane to Trump right now could get on a plane to Tyrron. He could then go to Moscow to Tyrron. He could then go to Moscow to Beijing and Pyongyang and he could come Beijing and Pyongyang and he could come home and be Trump the Great. We in fact home and be Trump the Great. We in fact don't have to have the especially the don't have to have the especially the American hyper power as the French American hyper power as the French called it the world empire. We have called it the world empire. We have everything to give and nothing to lose everything to give and nothing to lose to go ahead. And Donald Trump even to go ahead. And Donald Trump even talked like this. You might remember talked like this. You might remember when he first was sworn in this time. He when he first was sworn in this time. He said, "You know what? instead of said, "You know what? instead of pivoting from terrorism to great power pivoting from terrorism to great power competition with Russia and China. I competition with Russia and China. I don't want to do that. I just want to don't want to do that. I just want to get along with both of them. Let's just get along with both of them. Let's just move on and have the rest of the century move on and have the rest of the century be peace and prosperity and not fighting be peace and prosperity and not fighting at all. Why should we have to pivot to at all. Why should we have to pivot to China? Let's just pivot to capitalism China? Let's just pivot to capitalism and trade and freedom and peace. That's and trade and freedom and peace. That's America first. Yeah, I've uh I've America first. Yeah, I've uh I've criticized Trump a lot, but I think criticized Trump a lot, but I think maybe he's just rhetoric, but I think he maybe he's just rhetoric, but I think he talks about peace a lot. Even just talks about peace a lot. Even just recently the the number of times the recently the the number of times the word peace is mentioned and with word peace is mentioned and with seriousness not you get like a genuine seriousness not you get like a genuine desire for peace from him desire for peace from him and that's just beautiful to see for the and that's just beautiful to see for the leader of of this country and look man leader of of this country and look man there used to be a time when a third of there used to be a time when a third of the planet was dominated by the the planet was dominated by the communists right so like I'm not going communists right so like I'm not going to sit here and argue the first cold war to sit here and argue the first cold war with you my book's about the second one with you my book's about the second one and I'm not as good on the first but and I'm not as good on the first but since the end of the first cold war we since the end of the first cold war we have let the neoconservative have let the neoconservative policy of the defense planning guidance policy of the defense planning guidance of 92 and rebuilding America's defenses of 92 and rebuilding America's defenses and the rest of this American uh and the rest of this American uh dominance centered policy uh control our dominance centered policy uh control our entire direction in the world. It's led entire direction in the world. It's led to the war on terrorism in the Middle to the war on terrorism in the Middle East. Seven countries we've attacked. East. Seven countries we've attacked. It's led to the disaster in Eastern It's led to the disaster in Eastern Europe and it's leading toward disaster Europe and it's leading toward disaster in Eastern Asia when there's just no in Eastern Asia when there's just no reason in the world that it has to be reason in the world that it has to be this way with the commies dead and gone. this way with the commies dead and gone. And again, I to stipulate here, the And again, I to stipulate here, the Chinese flag is still red. It's still a Chinese flag is still red. It's still a one party dictatorship, but they have one party dictatorship, but they have abandoned Marxism. I mean, people were abandoned Marxism. I mean, people were starving to death by the tens of starving to death by the tens of millions there. It's a huge It's a millions there. It's a huge It's a probably the greatest improvement in the probably the greatest improvement in the condition of mankind anywhere ever in condition of mankind anywhere ever in the shortest amount of time when Deng the shortest amount of time when Deng Xiaoping and the right-wing of the Xiaoping and the right-wing of the Communist Party took over in that Communist Party took over in that country. Just one more thing. You country. Just one more thing. You mentioned the two submarines. What's the mentioned the two submarines. What's the role of nuclear weapons? Well, I would role of nuclear weapons? Well, I would like for America to have an extremely like for America to have an extremely minimal nuclear deterrent and work minimal nuclear deterrent and work toward a world free of nuclear weapons. toward a world free of nuclear weapons. And I know that that sounds utopian. And I know that that sounds utopian. However, I would remind your audience However, I would remind your audience that Ronald Reagan and Mikall Gorbachev that Ronald Reagan and Mikall Gorbachev came within a hair of achieving a deal came within a hair of achieving a deal just like that at Reichovic, Iceland in just like that at Reichovic, Iceland in 1986. 1986. 1986. And they were both of them dead serious And they were both of them dead serious about it, complete and total nuclear about it, complete and total nuclear disarmament. And then Reagan was disarmament. And then Reagan was essentially bullied by Richard Pearl and essentially bullied by Richard Pearl and others on his staff saying, "You others on his staff saying, "You promised the American people that you promised the American people that you would build them a defensive would build them a defensive anti-missile system, the Star Wars anti-missile system, the Star Wars system," which was total pie in the sky system," which was total pie in the sky technological fantasy of the 1980s. And technological fantasy of the 1980s. And if you're getting rid of all the ICBMs, if you're getting rid of all the ICBMs, then why the hell do you need a missile then why the hell do you need a missile shield anyway? It is the world's shield anyway? It is the world's probably greatest tragedy that ever took probably greatest tragedy that ever took place that Ronald Reagan walked away place that Ronald Reagan walked away from those negotiations. They literally from those negotiations. They literally were within a hair. And it wasn't magic were within a hair. And it wasn't magic and there was no trust in evil bad guys. and there was no trust in evil bad guys. This is by the way two years before the This is by the way two years before the wall came down. This is when everybody wall came down. This is when everybody still thought the USSR was going to still thought the USSR was going to last. And Reagan had the plan was that last. And Reagan had the plan was that America and the Soviet Union would America and the Soviet Union would dismantle our nuclear weapons until we dismantle our nuclear weapons until we were right around with parody with the were right around with parody with the other nuclear weapon states who all have other nuclear weapon states who all have right around two or 300 nukes. France, right around two or 300 nukes. France, Britain at that time, Israel and China. Britain at that time, Israel and China. India and Pakistan came later. South India and Pakistan came later. South Africa only had a few then that but gave Africa only had a few then that but gave up whatever they had. And the idea was up whatever they had. And the idea was we would get down to two or 300 and then we would get down to two or 300 and then America and the Soviet Union both America and the Soviet Union both together would lean hard on Britain, together would lean hard on Britain, France, and China. Let's all get down to France, and China. Let's all get down to 100. Let's all see if we can get down to 100. Let's all see if we can get down to 50, etc. Like that in stages. Again, 50, etc. Like that in stages. Again, Ronald Reagan we're talking about here. Ronald Reagan we're talking about here. Trust but verify means do not trust at Trust but verify means do not trust at all. It means be polite while you all. It means be polite while you verify. And in fact, America did help verify. And in fact, America did help dismantle upwards of 60s something dismantle upwards of 60s something thousand Soviet nuclear missiles in the thousand Soviet nuclear missiles in the after the end of the cold war. And so it after the end of the cold war. And so it is possible to live in a world where at is possible to live in a world where at the very least we have a situation where the very least we have a situation where the major powers have a few nukes the major powers have a few nukes and potentially can even come to an and potentially can even come to an arrangement to get rid of the rest. We arrangement to get rid of the rest. We should also just say one more thing, not should also just say one more thing, not to be agist, but most of the major to be agist, but most of the major leaders with nukes and those with power leaders with nukes and those with power in the world are in their 70s and 80s. I in the world are in their 70s and 80s. I don't know if that contributes to it, don't know if that contributes to it, but they kind of are grounded at a but they kind of are grounded at a different time that maybe I have a hope different time that maybe I have a hope for the fresher, younger leaders to have for the fresher, younger leaders to have a more optimistic view towards peace and a more optimistic view towards peace and to be able to reach towards peace. And to be able to reach towards peace. And underlying so much of what we're talking underlying so much of what we're talking about here is all this enmity, right? about here is all this enmity, right? But if America could just work, remember But if America could just work, remember when China cut that pseudo sort of peace when China cut that pseudo sort of peace deal between Saudi and Iran a couple deal between Saudi and Iran a couple years ago or last year was it? Well, we years ago or last year was it? Well, we could try to double up on that. We could try to double up on that. We should we could try to come up with ways should we could try to come up with ways for Saudi and Iran to exchange as much for Saudi and Iran to exchange as much as possible. You know, um I know you as possible. You know, um I know you don't like all the going back too far in don't like all the going back too far in history, but it's important. It's in my history, but it's important. It's in my book that in 1993 Zabign Brazinski who book that in 1993 Zabign Brazinski who the revolution had happened on his the revolution had happened on his watch. Operation Eagleclaw, the disaster watch. Operation Eagleclaw, the disaster of the rescue mission in 79 after the of the rescue mission in 79 after the hostage crisis and everything. All that hostage crisis and everything. All that egg was on ZB space. But in 93 he said egg was on ZB space. But in 93 he said we should normalize relations. We should we should normalize relations. We should build an oil pipeline across Iran so build an oil pipeline across Iran so they can make money. We can make money they can make money. We can make money and we can start to normalize. and and we can start to normalize. and Ronald Reagan's Secretary of State, Ronald Reagan's Secretary of State, Alexander Heg, who had been Kissinger's Alexander Heg, who had been Kissinger's right-hand man, agreed. They both were right-hand man, agreed. They both were trying to push that. But the Clinton trying to push that. But the Clinton administration went ahead with Martin administration went ahead with Martin Indic, who had been Yeetsak Shamir's Indic, who had been Yeetsak Shamir's man, and inaugurated the dual man, and inaugurated the dual containment policy instead because the containment policy instead because the Israelis were concerned that America had Israelis were concerned that America had just beaten up on Iraq so bad in Iraq just beaten up on Iraq so bad in Iraq War I now wasn't powerful enough to War I now wasn't powerful enough to balance against Iran. So, America had to balance against Iran. So, America had to stay in Saudi to balance against them stay in Saudi to balance against them both. And that was the origin of the both. And that was the origin of the dual containment policy. It was Martin dual containment policy. It was Martin Indic, who had been Yets Shamir's man Indic, who had been Yets Shamir's man who pushed it on Clinton. And this was who pushed it on Clinton. And this was not the Israelis. It was the Kuwaitis not the Israelis. It was the Kuwaitis who lied that there was a truck bomb who lied that there was a truck bomb attempt assassination against HW Bush, attempt assassination against HW Bush, which was a total hoax. It was debunked which was a total hoax. It was debunked by Seymour Hirs by the end of the year. by Seymour Hirs by the end of the year. It was just a whiskey smuggling ring. It was just a whiskey smuggling ring. And it was the same guy whose daughter And it was the same guy whose daughter had claimed to have seen the Iraqi had claimed to have seen the Iraqi soldiers throw the babies out of the soldiers throw the babies out of the incubators. He was the guy who two years incubators. He was the guy who two years later uh made up this hoax about Saddam later uh made up this hoax about Saddam Hussein trying to murder Bush Senior. Hussein trying to murder Bush Senior. But when he did, that was when Bill But when he did, that was when Bill Clinton finally gave in and adopted the Clinton finally gave in and adopted the dual containment policy because he had dual containment policy because he had been interested in potentially reaching been interested in potentially reaching out to Saddam and the Ayatollah both at out to Saddam and the Ayatollah both at that time. But instead of having that time. But instead of having normalization with both, we had to have normalization with both, we had to have permanent cold war through the end of permanent cold war through the end of the century with both. And my argument the century with both. And my argument is simply it just didn't have to be that is simply it just didn't have to be that way. Is the same thing with Russia. Look way. Is the same thing with Russia. Look at, you know, how determined the at, you know, how determined the Democrats especially are to have this Democrats especially are to have this conflict with Russia where to Donald conflict with Russia where to Donald Trump, nah, not at all. We could get Trump, nah, not at all. We could get along with them. And so it's perfectly along with them. And so it's perfectly within reason. If Zabnzinski says we can within reason. If Zabnzinski says we can talk with Iran and get along with Iran talk with Iran and get along with Iran and Donald Trump says we can get along and Donald Trump says we can get along with Russia, then the same thing for with Russia, then the same thing for North Korea. The same thing for China. North Korea. The same thing for China. And then and then who do we have left to And then and then who do we have left to fight? fight? fight? Hzbala is nothing without Iran. We'll Hzbala is nothing without Iran. We'll just have Scott and I fighting. That's just have Scott and I fighting. That's That'll be the last remaining fight. That'll be the last remaining fight. That's the fun kind of fight. That'll be That's the fun kind of fight. That'll be fun. Fight peaceful. You're the CEO of fun. Fight peaceful. You're the CEO of FDD, the Foundation for Defense of FDD, the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. Democracies. Democracies. It's a uh DCbased organization that It's a uh DCbased organization that focuses on national security and foreign focuses on national security and foreign policy. What has been your approach to policy. What has been your approach to solving some of these problems of the solving some of these problems of the world? So, look, I I love the vision world? So, look, I I love the vision that Scott painted. Um, and I I agree that Scott painted. Um, and I I agree with some of the libertarian instincts with some of the libertarian instincts that he has, but my view is that America that he has, but my view is that America is the indispensable power. Um, Scott is the indispensable power. Um, Scott mentioned earlier in the conversation mentioned earlier in the conversation about the rules-based order that is so about the rules-based order that is so important and the NPT and all these important and the NPT and all these rules-based agreements that are rules-based agreements that are important to maintain. Well, the rule important to maintain. Well, the rule rules-based order has been maintained by rules-based order has been maintained by the United States since World War II, the United States since World War II, right? There is no American prosperity right? There is no American prosperity to the degree that we have. There's no to the degree that we have. There's no recovery of Europe. There's no recovery recovery of Europe. There's no recovery of Asia after the devastation of World of Asia after the devastation of World War II without American power and the War II without American power and the rules-based order that America has led rules-based order that America has led and backstopped. And I think America and backstopped. And I think America first is about American power and first is about American power and deterrence. I think if you want to avoid deterrence. I think if you want to avoid war, I think you cannot just believe in war, I think you cannot just believe in some fantasy where all the world's some fantasy where all the world's leaders are going to get together in leaders are going to get together in some place and are just going to agree some place and are just going to agree to disarm all their nuclear weapons and to disarm all their nuclear weapons and we'll disarm our entire military and we'll disarm our entire military and we'll have one submarine off our coast we'll have one submarine off our coast and some all of that is going to lead to and some all of that is going to lead to peace. I mean, I think what has led to peace. I mean, I think what has led to peace in the past has been the American peace in the past has been the American forward deterrence of our military and a forward deterrence of our military and a belief that our enemies think we will belief that our enemies think we will credibly use it. I think if they believe credibly use it. I think if they believe we'll credibly use it, then it's less we'll credibly use it, then it's less likely they will challenge us. And if likely they will challenge us. And if they less likely to challenge us and they less likely to challenge us and challenge our allies, there's less challenge our allies, there's less likely to be war. So for me, deterrence likely to be war. So for me, deterrence leads to peace and any kind of leads to peace and any kind of unilateral disarmament, any kind of I unilateral disarmament, any kind of I think sort of fanciful notion that think sort of fanciful notion that somehow they're our enemies are going to somehow they're our enemies are going to respect the non-aggression principle respect the non-aggression principle that is the core fundamental that is the core fundamental underpinnings of libertarianism, which I underpinnings of libertarianism, which I think in in in a personal relationship, think in in in a personal relationship, I think is very important. But remember, I think is very important. But remember, these are aggressors. They don't respect these are aggressors. They don't respect the non-aggression principle. I think we the non-aggression principle. I think we can spend a lot of time, we did over how can spend a lot of time, we did over how many hours now has it been talking about many hours now has it been talking about the fact that in Scott's view of the the fact that in Scott's view of the world, it's America that provokes. It's world, it's America that provokes. It's America that provokes. And then it's not America that provokes. And then it's not America provoking, it's Israel America provoking, it's Israel provoking. And oh, by the way, America provoking. And oh, by the way, America provokes because we're being seduced or provokes because we're being seduced or paid or browbeaten by those those paid or browbeaten by those those Israelis and you know, those Jews in Israelis and you know, those Jews in America. I mean I think that whole America. I mean I think that whole notion that somehow we are we are the notion that somehow we are we are the provocative force in global politics I provocative force in global politics I think is is wrong. I think the fact of think is is wrong. I think the fact of the matter is we make mistakes. We are the matter is we make mistakes. We are an imperfect nation. We have made some an imperfect nation. We have made some serious sometimes catastrophic mistakes serious sometimes catastrophic mistakes but the there is a bad world out there. but the there is a bad world out there. There are evil men who want to do us There are evil men who want to do us harm and we have to prevent away prevent harm and we have to prevent away prevent them from doing us harm. To do that, we them from doing us harm. To do that, we need an American military that is need an American military that is serious and well supported. We don't serious and well supported. We don't need a military-industrial complex that need a military-industrial complex that ultimately is going to pull us into ultimately is going to pull us into wars. We need thoughtful leaders like wars. We need thoughtful leaders like President Trump who will resist that and President Trump who will resist that and will say at the end of the day, I will will say at the end of the day, I will use force when it is selective, narrow, use force when it is selective, narrow, overwhelming, and deadly. And that was overwhelming, and deadly. And that was Trump's operation just a few days ago. Trump's operation just a few days ago. He he went after three key facilities He he went after three key facilities that were being used to develop the that were being used to develop the capability for nuclear weapons. Nuclear capability for nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons are the greatest danger to weapons are the greatest danger to humanity. I totally agree with Scott. humanity. I totally agree with Scott. Like I think a world without nuclear Like I think a world without nuclear weapons, the kind of world that that weapons, the kind of world that that Reagan envisioned and others have Reagan envisioned and others have envisioned since is really the only way envisioned since is really the only way we can eliminate the most devastating we can eliminate the most devastating weapons that could end humankind. But we weapons that could end humankind. But we have to make sure that those weapons have to make sure that those weapons don't end up in the hands of regimes don't end up in the hands of regimes that seek to do us harm and that have that seek to do us harm and that have have done us harm over over many many have done us harm over over many many decades. So yeah, I mean deterrence, decades. So yeah, I mean deterrence, peace through strength, rules-based peace through strength, rules-based order, the foundation for defense of order, the foundation for defense of democracies is not the foundation for democracies is not the foundation for promotion of democracy. We don't believe promotion of democracy. We don't believe in this important concept that we have in this important concept that we have to promote democracy around the world. to promote democracy around the world. I'll speak for myself because we have I'll speak for myself because we have many people in my think tank. We're 105 many people in my think tank. We're 105 people. We have different views. I don't people. We have different views. I don't personally believe that it is the role personally believe that it is the role of the United States to bring democracy of the United States to bring democracy to the Middle East or democracy around to the Middle East or democracy around the world. I think to the extent we've the world. I think to the extent we've tried, we failed. I'm not sure the tried, we failed. I'm not sure the Middle East is ready for democracy. Now, Middle East is ready for democracy. Now, Iran is interesting because it's not an Iran is interesting because it's not an Arab country, right? It is a it is a Arab country, right? It is a it is a different country altogether. different country altogether. Culturally, it's a very sophisticated Culturally, it's a very sophisticated country. It has a long history. It country. It has a long history. It actually has a history where it has had actually has a history where it has had democracy in the past. It is a country democracy in the past. It is a country that I think could have incredible that I think could have incredible potential under the right leadership and potential under the right leadership and under the right circumstances. I don't under the right circumstances. I don't know if the right circumstances are a know if the right circumstances are a constitutional monarchy with Reza Palvi constitutional monarchy with Reza Palvi as the as the as the crown prince or the as the as the as the crown prince or the sha. I don't know whether it's a secular sha. I don't know whether it's a secular democracy or not. Let let let Iranians democracy or not. Let let let Iranians make that decision. Have I been make that decision. Have I been pronouncing it wrong this whole time? pronouncing it wrong this whole time? Resp. You know the guy? I met him. Yeah. Resp. You know the guy? I met him. Yeah. Yeah. Palvi. Pali. What were you saying? Yeah. Palvi. Pali. What were you saying? I thought it was Palavi. Oh wow. No, I thought it was Palavi. Oh wow. No, it's okay. Okay. It's okay. The only thing you've ever gotten wrong The only thing you've ever gotten wrong is you're pronouncing a problem. That's is you're pronouncing a problem. That's not bad. I've been pronouncing so many not bad. I've been pronouncing so many things correctly. I think people will things correctly. I think people will give you a pass. Can I ask you though? give you a pass. Can I ask you though? Like I I mean all this militarization Like I I mean all this militarization has led to a state of permanent war. has led to a state of permanent war. We've been bombing Iraq for 34 years. We We've been bombing Iraq for 34 years. We uh launched we put uh a war against the uh launched we put uh a war against the Taliban who didn't attack us instead of Taliban who didn't attack us instead of al-Qaeda who did. fought for 20 years al-Qaeda who did. fought for 20 years and the Taliban won anyway. We overthrew and the Taliban won anyway. We overthrew a launch an aggressive war against a launch an aggressive war against Saddam Hussein, put the Ayatollah's best Saddam Hussein, put the Ayatollah's best friends in power. We launched an friends in power. We launched an aggressive war against Libya and this aggressive war against Libya and this ridiculous hoax that Gaddafi was about ridiculous hoax that Gaddafi was about to murder every last man, woman, and to murder every last man, woman, and child in Benghazi. Imagine Charlotte, child in Benghazi. Imagine Charlotte, North Carolina being wiped off the map. North Carolina being wiped off the map. Barack Obama lied in order to start that Barack Obama lied in order to start that war and completely destroyed Libya. It's war and completely destroyed Libya. It's now three pieces in a state of now three pieces in a state of semi-permanent civil war, including, and semi-permanent civil war, including, and this wasn't just back then. This is to this wasn't just back then. This is to this day the relegalization and this day the relegalization and reinstitutionalization of chatt slavery reinstitutionalization of chatt slavery of subsaharan black Africans in Libya to of subsaharan black Africans in Libya to this day as a result the our this day as a result the our intervention this was not a direct overt intervention this was not a direct overt war but America Israel Saudiq and Turkey war but America Israel Saudiq and Turkey all back the bin Laden in Syria all back the bin Laden in Syria completely destroyed Syria to the point completely destroyed Syria to the point where the caliphate grew up and then we where the caliphate grew up and then we had to launch Iraq war II to destroy the had to launch Iraq war II to destroy the caliphate again and so I'm I'm not caliphate again and so I'm I'm not seeing the peace through strength I'm seeing the peace through strength I'm seeing permanent militarism and perman seeing permanent militarism and perman permanent war through strength. Point permanent war through strength. Point well made. He's speaking to the the well made. He's speaking to the the double-edged sword of a strong military. double-edged sword of a strong military. That what you mentioned that Trump did That what you mentioned that Trump did seems like a very difficult thing to do, seems like a very difficult thing to do, which is keep it hit hard and keep it which is keep it hit hard and keep it short. We don't know how this ended yet, short. We don't know how this ended yet, but even the beginning part is not but even the beginning part is not trivial to do like just hitting one trivial to do like just hitting one mission and vocalizing except for one mission and vocalizing except for one post. uh no regime change, like really post. uh no regime change, like really pushing peace, make a deal, ceasefire, pushing peace, make a deal, ceasefire, like that's that's an uncommon way to like that's that's an uncommon way to operate. So, I guess you said that we operate. So, I guess you said that we should resist the military-industrial should resist the military-industrial complex. That's not easy to do. That complex. That's not easy to do. That that that's the double-edged sword of a that that's the double-edged sword of a strong military. Yemen, let me say real strong military. Yemen, let me say real quick, and I promise I'll say one thing quick, and I promise I'll say one thing and then I'll stop. You made a good and then I'll stop. You made a good point. Let me I just I just want to add point. Let me I just I just want to add this is a really important point, okay? this is a really important point, okay? Is grassroots effort. There is no Houthy Is grassroots effort. There is no Houthy lobby in America, okay? It was lobby in America, okay? It was grassroots efforts by libertarians, grassroots efforts by libertarians, Quakers, and leftists to get war powers Quakers, and leftists to get war powers resolutions introduced in Trump's first resolutions introduced in Trump's first term to stop the war in Yemen, which was term to stop the war in Yemen, which was launched not for Israel, for Saudi launched not for Israel, for Saudi Arabia and UAE by Barack Obama in 2015. Arabia and UAE by Barack Obama in 2015. That's not a first. The Afghan war That's not a first. The Afghan war wasn't about Israel either. Okay. But wasn't about Israel either. Okay. But this Yemen war was I thought 911 was this Yemen war was I thought 911 was about Israel. about Israel. about Israel. Well, it was in great part, but the af Well, it was in great part, but the af the decision to sack Kbble and do a the decision to sack Kbble and do a regime change and all that had nothing regime change and all that had nothing to do with the loot whatsoever other to do with the loot whatsoever other than well, we got to keep the war going than well, we got to keep the war going long enough to go to Baghdad. Oh, okay. long enough to go to Baghdad. Oh, okay. So, it was Israel's fault. I was in the So, it was Israel's fault. I was in the middle of saying about the war in Yemen middle of saying about the war in Yemen that we got the war powers resolution that we got the war powers resolution through twice and Trump vetoed it twice through twice and Trump vetoed it twice and his man Pete Navaro explained to the and his man Pete Navaro explained to the New York Times that this was just New York Times that this was just welfare for American industry. A lot of welfare for American industry. A lot of industrialists were angry about the industrialists were angry about the tariffs disrupting trade with China and tariffs disrupting trade with China and somehow they substituted Rathon for all somehow they substituted Rathon for all American industry somehow and said American industry somehow and said industry will be happy if we funnel a industry will be happy if we funnel a lot of money to Rathon. That's Pete lot of money to Rathon. That's Pete Navaro talking to the New York Times Navaro talking to the New York Times about why they continued the war in about why they continued the war in Yemen throughout Trump's entire first Yemen throughout Trump's entire first term. He had no interest in it at all. term. He had no interest in it at all. The whole thing was it was Obama's The whole thing was it was Obama's fault. The whole thing was essentially fault. The whole thing was essentially on autopilot. And what was he doing? on autopilot. And what was he doing? flying as al-Qaeda's air force against flying as al-Qaeda's air force against the Houthis who originally, if you go the Houthis who originally, if you go back to January of 2015, America was back to January of 2015, America was passing intelligence to the Houthis to passing intelligence to the Houthis to use to kill al Qaeda. You know, AQAP, use to kill al Qaeda. You know, AQAP, the guys that tried to blow up the plane the guys that tried to blow up the plane over Detroit with the underpants bomb on over Detroit with the underpants bomb on Christmas Day 2009 that did all those Christmas Day 2009 that did all those horrific massacres in Europe, real ass horrific massacres in Europe, real ass bin Laden terrorists. The Houthis were bin Laden terrorists. The Houthis were our allies against them before Barack our allies against them before Barack Obama stabbed them in the back. And why Obama stabbed them in the back. And why did Trump keep that going when he did Trump keep that going when he inherited that horrific war from Barack inherited that horrific war from Barack Obama? Why'd he do it? according to his Obama? Why'd he do it? according to his trade guy, so that they could keep trade guy, so that they could keep funneling American taxed and inflated funneling American taxed and inflated dollars into the pocketbooks of dollars into the pocketbooks of stockholders of Rathon Incorporated, stockholders of Rathon Incorporated, right? Military industrial complex. The right? Military industrial complex. The point was made. Yeah, maybe I could point was made. Yeah, maybe I could respond to that because I mean again, respond to that because I mean again, it's always America's fault. According it's always America's fault. According to Scott, he's taking jab at. No, no, to Scott, he's taking jab at. No, no, but Saudi and UAE asked Barack Obama for but Saudi and UAE asked Barack Obama for permission to start that war and for permission to start that war and for American help in prosecuting it and he American help in prosecuting it and he said yes and then helped. I'm going to said yes and then helped. I'm going to segue into an answer cuz I I think it segue into an answer cuz I I think it deserves an answer. military-industrial deserves an answer. military-industrial complex is a serious concern. Um because complex is a serious concern. Um because I think you're right, it there, you I think you're right, it there, you know, the bigger it gets um and the more know, the bigger it gets um and the more weapons you have, you think the more the weapons you have, you think the more the greater the temptation to use it, right? greater the temptation to use it, right? I think that's sort of the the argument. I think that's sort of the the argument. And then there's also self-enrichment And then there's also self-enrichment and how much money can be made and and and how much money can be made and and all of that I think is of serious all of that I think is of serious concern to people. Look, I think Trump concern to people. Look, I think Trump is somebody who it's hard pressed to say is somebody who it's hard pressed to say that Donald Trump um is a great advocate that Donald Trump um is a great advocate of the military-industrial complex or of the military-industrial complex or that he is he is in their pocket the that he is he is in their pocket the same way that he's in the pocket of the same way that he's in the pocket of the Israelis and in the pocket of the Saudis Israelis and in the pocket of the Saudis and in the pocket of everybody. I mean, and in the pocket of everybody. I mean, I think the one thing with Trump is that I think the one thing with Trump is that Trump has he has learned the lessons of Trump has he has learned the lessons of American engagement over the past few American engagement over the past few decades. And I think Scott's done a good decades. And I think Scott's done a good job of kind of laying out the mistakes job of kind of laying out the mistakes that have been made even though, you that have been made even though, you know, we can discuss about causal know, we can discuss about causal connections and who's responsible. And, connections and who's responsible. And, you know, I I lean on Can we I want to you know, I I lean on Can we I want to Well, Scott, can I finish because you Well, Scott, can I finish because you know, your your causal connection is know, your your causal connection is always it's America aggressing, Israel always it's America aggressing, Israel aggressing, and all these poor people aggressing, and all these poor people responding to us. Um, but nonetheless, I responding to us. Um, but nonetheless, I think Trump has he's learned the think Trump has he's learned the lessons, but he hasn't overlearned the lessons, but he hasn't overlearned the lessons. He he's not paralyzed by Iraq lessons. He he's not paralyzed by Iraq or Afghanistan or the mistakes made by or Afghanistan or the mistakes made by his predecessors. He understands that at his predecessors. He understands that at the end of the day, we need serious the end of the day, we need serious American power. We need lethal power. We American power. We need lethal power. We need foreign deterrence. And he's been need foreign deterrence. And he's been very careful and very selective about very careful and very selective about how he uses American power. I mean, how he uses American power. I mean, we've talked about it throughout this we've talked about it throughout this whole conversation. Trump used American whole conversation. Trump used American power to kill Kasumsmani, one of the power to kill Kasumsmani, one of the world's most dangerous terrorists. He world's most dangerous terrorists. He killed Baghdadi, the head of ISIS, one killed Baghdadi, the head of ISIS, one of the world's most dangerous of the world's most dangerous terrorists. He he refrained from going terrorists. He he refrained from going after the Iranian takedown of our drone. after the Iranian takedown of our drone. He refrained from when the Iranians He refrained from when the Iranians fired on Saudi Aramco and took off 20% fired on Saudi Aramco and took off 20% of our oil. Right. He's been very very of our oil. Right. He's been very very selective about the use of American selective about the use of American power. He did go after the Houthies who power. He did go after the Houthies who are Iranbacked and were using Iranian are Iranbacked and were using Iranian missiles to go after our ships. That's missiles to go after our ships. That's not true. Those are North Korean not true. Those are North Korean missiles. Completely debunked by Jane's missiles. Completely debunked by Jane's Defense Weekly. Nice try. Yeah, nice Defense Weekly. Nice try. Yeah, nice try. Um anyway, everybody knows that the try. Um anyway, everybody knows that the Iranians have been financing the Iranians have been financing the Houthis. Hisbal has been training the Houthis. Hisbal has been training the Houthis. And Iran has given capabilities Houthis. And Iran has given capabilities to the Houthis to develop their own to the Houthis to develop their own indigenous missile capability. The fact indigenous missile capability. The fact of the matter is he he did in a way go of the matter is he he did in a way go after the Houthis much more intensively after the Houthis much more intensively than Biden did in order to prevent them than Biden did in order to prevent them from continuing to shut down Red Sea from continuing to shut down Red Sea shipping on which both America and our shipping on which both America and our allies depend as a trade route. He allies depend as a trade route. He actually did it quite successfully actually did it quite successfully because after a few days of pretty because after a few days of pretty intensive bombing, the Houthis got the intensive bombing, the Houthis got the message and they cut a deal with Donald message and they cut a deal with Donald Trump. They're not going to interfere Trump. They're not going to interfere with our ships anymore. He cut a deal with our ships anymore. He cut a deal with them. They kept bombing Israel, with them. They kept bombing Israel, which is what got him involved in the which is what got him involved in the first place, he completely backed out. first place, he completely backed out. Sounds to me like they won and he backed Sounds to me like they won and he backed down. Well, it sounds it sounds like he down. Well, it sounds it sounds like he in terms of promoting American national in terms of promoting American national security interests. Sounds like he did security interests. Sounds like he did he did a pretty good job of sending a he did a pretty good job of sending a message to the Houthies and the message to the Houthies and the Iranians. Don't we mess with the United Iranians. Don't we mess with the United States? And that gets us to the States? And that gets us to the contemporary reality. He took a decision contemporary reality. He took a decision one day on one day to send our B2s and one day on one day to send our B2s and our subs in order to do severe damage to our subs in order to do severe damage to three nuclear facilities. It was a three nuclear facilities. It was a one-day campaign. It was selective. It one-day campaign. It was selective. It was narrow. It was overwhelming. And I was narrow. It was overwhelming. And I think it sends a message to Kam. I think think it sends a message to Kam. I think it sends a message to regimes around the it sends a message to regimes around the world, anti-American regimes around the world, anti-American regimes around the world, that Donald Trump has not world, that Donald Trump has not overlearned the lessons of the past 20 overlearned the lessons of the past 20 years, right? but that in fact he is not years, right? but that in fact he is not going to dismantle the US military and going to dismantle the US military and dismantle our nuclear program and fly dismantle our nuclear program and fly around to all these cities and call around to all these cities and call peace conferences and hope that these peace conferences and hope that these dictators will just sit down with dictators will just sit down with America and say you know what all is America and say you know what all is forgiven the United States of America forgiven the United States of America it's all your fault you did this all we it's all your fault you did this all we we admit our responsibility and then we we admit our responsibility and then we have we have peace and paradise on earth have we have peace and paradise on earth I think Trump is much more um pragmatic I think Trump is much more um pragmatic and in some respects cynical when he and in some respects cynical when he looks at the world and he realizes the looks at the world and he realizes the world is a dangerous place. I have to be world is a dangerous place. I have to be very careful about how I use American very careful about how I use American military forces. I am not going to send military forces. I am not going to send hundreds of thousands of people around hundreds of thousands of people around the world. By the way, I mean you all the world. By the way, I mean you all talk about Israel. I mean the Israelis talk about Israel. I mean the Israelis are one of the best allies we could are one of the best allies we could possibly have. They fight and they die possibly have. They fight and they die in their own defense. They fought in their own defense. They fought multiple wars against American enemies. multiple wars against American enemies. They haven't asked for American troops They haven't asked for American troops on the ground. There no boots on the on the ground. There no boots on the ground in Israel defending Israel. The ground in Israel defending Israel. The best we've given them is we've given best we've given them is we've given them a THAAD system to help them shoot them a THAAD system to help them shoot down ballistic missiles that have aimed down ballistic missiles that have aimed at aimed at them. And our American at aimed at them. And our American pilots have been in the air recently pilots have been in the air recently with our Israeli friends shooting down with our Israeli friends shooting down ballistic missiles. But the Israelis ballistic missiles. But the Israelis have had a a a warrior ethos. We will have had a a a warrior ethos. We will fight and we will die in our own fight and we will die in our own defense. I would just say if you're defense. I would just say if you're going to actually build out a model going to actually build out a model where you're going to minimize the risk where you're going to minimize the risk to American troops, let's find more to American troops, let's find more allies like that. Right? I worry about allies like that. Right? I worry about I'm like Scott. I really worry about I'm like Scott. I really worry about China, Taiwan. I really really worry China, Taiwan. I really really worry about that because the Taiwanese are not about that because the Taiwanese are not capable of defending themselves without capable of defending themselves without US assistance and the and we may have to US assistance and the and we may have to send American men and women to go defend send American men and women to go defend Taiwan and we can have a whole debate Taiwan and we can have a whole debate about the wisdom of that. But again, it about the wisdom of that. But again, it would be very very helpful to have more would be very very helpful to have more Israels in the world, more countries Israels in the world, more countries that are capable of fighting against that are capable of fighting against common enemies and against common common enemies and against common threats without having to always put threats without having to always put American boots on the ground in order to American boots on the ground in order to do that. So you made a case for it's do that. So you made a case for it's okay if you made a case for strength okay if you made a case for strength here. Just practically speaking, why do here. Just practically speaking, why do you think Trump has talked about peace a you think Trump has talked about peace a lot? Why do you think he hasn't been lot? Why do you think he hasn't been able to uh able to uh uh get to a ceasefire with Ukraine and uh get to a ceasefire with Ukraine and Russia, for example, if he just move Russia, for example, if he just move away from Iran without getting into the away from Iran without getting into the history of the whole thing? Like why? history of the whole thing? Like why? He's been talking peace, peace, peace, He's been talking peace, peace, peace, peace, peace. He's been pushing it and peace, peace. He's been pushing it and pushing it. What can we learn about that pushing it. What can we learn about that so far? Failure that's also instructive so far? Failure that's also instructive for Iran. Look, I'm not a Russia expert. for Iran. Look, I'm not a Russia expert. I'm not a Ukraine expert. I'm sitting in I'm not a Ukraine expert. I'm sitting in front of two uh people who know a lot front of two uh people who know a lot more about that conflict than I do. I I more about that conflict than I do. I I I You are we should say banned by Putin. I You are we should say banned by Putin. I am I have been sanctioned by Russia I am I have been sanctioned by Russia and by Iran. Um sanctioned. Yes. Yes. and by Iran. Um sanctioned. Yes. Yes. Banned. Sanctioned uh threat. Banned. Sanctioned uh threat. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Well, it's it causes some difficulties. Well, it's it causes some difficulties. But anyway, um I think the answer to But anyway, um I think the answer to that is that for Putin, he needs to that is that for Putin, he needs to understand that like Kam, he has two understand that like Kam, he has two options here, right? Option one, which options here, right? Option one, which President Trump has signaled over and President Trump has signaled over and over and over again, is come sit down over and over again, is come sit down and negotiate a ceasefire with the and negotiate a ceasefire with the Ukrainians. I don't want to get into the Ukrainians. I don't want to get into the details and the back and forth about details and the back and forth about who's responsible for the fact there's who's responsible for the fact there's no ceasefire, Putin or Zalinski. I mean, no ceasefire, Putin or Zalinski. I mean, that's a whole other debate, and I'm that's a whole other debate, and I'm sure you guys have a lot of opinions on sure you guys have a lot of opinions on that. Um, but path one is sit down and that. Um, but path one is sit down and let's negotiate a ceasefire. Path two is let's negotiate a ceasefire. Path two is the United States will use the United States will use American power in order to build our American power in order to build our leverage. so that Vladimir Putin leverage. so that Vladimir Putin understands that he has to do a understands that he has to do a ceasefire. Now, I'm not suggesting US ceasefire. Now, I'm not suggesting US troops. Absolutely not. Right. What I am troops. Absolutely not. Right. What I am suggesting is there's a package right suggesting is there's a package right now of sanctions that have 88 now of sanctions that have 88 co-sponsors in the Senate across party co-sponsors in the Senate across party lines. And I think Trump is using that lines. And I think Trump is using that and will use that as a sort of sword of and will use that as a sort of sword of damicles hanging over Putin and the damicles hanging over Putin and the Russian economy to say, "Look, if Russian economy to say, "Look, if Vladimir, we either do a ceasefire or Vladimir, we either do a ceasefire or I'm going to have no choice but to have I'm going to have no choice but to have to start imposing much more punishing to start imposing much more punishing sanctions on you and on the Russian sanctions on you and on the Russian economy." So, I think there's an economy." So, I think there's an economic option. I think there's a economic option. I think there's a military option. I think the biggest military option. I think the biggest mistake Biden made in this whole war and mistake Biden made in this whole war and there's many mistakes uh in terms of there's many mistakes uh in terms of signaling not having US credibility you signaling not having US credibility you know Afghan debacle which signal to know Afghan debacle which signal to Putin that he could invade without any Putin that he could invade without any kind of American response is he kind of kind of American response is he kind of went in and he tied Ukraine's uh hands went in and he tied Ukraine's uh hands behind their back. I mean, he actually behind their back. I mean, he actually tied one hand behind their back while tied one hand behind their back while they were fighting with the other hand. they were fighting with the other hand. And he refused to give him the kinds of And he refused to give him the kinds of systems that early on in the war would systems that early on in the war would have allowed the Ukrainian military to have allowed the Ukrainian military to be able to hit Russian forces that were be able to hit Russian forces that were mobilizing on the Russian Ukrainian mobilizing on the Russian Ukrainian border. And I think if he had done that, border. And I think if he had done that, I think this war would have ended I think this war would have ended sooner. There'd be far less casualties. sooner. There'd be far less casualties. And I think Putin would then understand And I think Putin would then understand maybe I need to strike a deal. I'm not a maybe I need to strike a deal. I'm not a Russia expert or a Ukraine expert. I Russia expert or a Ukraine expert. I don't know what the deal looks like. You don't know what the deal looks like. You keep the Donbass, you keep Crimea, you keep the Donbass, you keep Crimea, you keep, you know, larger chunks of eastern keep, you know, larger chunks of eastern Ukraine. That's for smarter people than Ukraine. That's for smarter people than me on this issue to decide what the deal me on this issue to decide what the deal looks like. But there's no doubt today looks like. But there's no doubt today Putin thinks that he can just keep Putin thinks that he can just keep fighting, keep killing Ukrainians, keep fighting, keep killing Ukrainians, keep driving forward. Eventually, he's going driving forward. Eventually, he's going to wear down the Ukrainians through a to wear down the Ukrainians through a sheer war of attrition. He'll throw sheer war of attrition. He'll throw hundreds of thousands of Russians at hundreds of thousands of Russians at this. He doesn't care how many Russians this. He doesn't care how many Russians are going to die. That's the way the are going to die. That's the way the Russians and the Soviets have fought Russians and the Soviets have fought wars for many, many years. just endless wars for many, many years. just endless number of Russian bodies being thrown number of Russian bodies being thrown into the meat rider and he thinks he can into the meat rider and he thinks he can continue without any consequences. And I continue without any consequences. And I worry that as a result of the fact that worry that as a result of the fact that we are not showing Putin that we've got we are not showing Putin that we've got leverage, it's made war more likely. leverage, it's made war more likely. It's made a war more brutal and it's It's made a war more brutal and it's going to make a war more protracted. But going to make a war more protracted. But increasing military aid to Ukraine in increasing military aid to Ukraine in the case that you've described also has the case that you've described also has to be coupled with extreme pressure to to be coupled with extreme pressure to make peace. Correct. extreme pressure to make peace. Correct. extreme pressure to make peace, which Trump hopefully is make peace, which Trump hopefully is appears to be doing now in Iran. I think appears to be doing now in Iran. I think Trump is early. I mean, it's interesting Trump is early. I mean, it's interesting you said that because he's early you said that because he's early indicators again. Who knows where the indicators again. Who knows where the ceasefire goes, but I think it was ceasefire goes, but I think it was important. It was he he slapped Kame, important. It was he he slapped Kame, but he also said to BB, "Enough, but he also said to BB, "Enough, enough." And it's like, "Okay, now we're enough." And it's like, "Okay, now we're going back to Oman. There's going to be going back to Oman. There's going to be a temporary ceasefire. Now, let's a temporary ceasefire. Now, let's negotiate." And I think that's negotiate." And I think that's important. And I think it shows that important. And I think it shows that Donald Trump is leading, not following. Donald Trump is leading, not following. It shows that Donald Trump is his own It shows that Donald Trump is his own man, not on the payroll of the Russians man, not on the payroll of the Russians or the Iranians or the Israelis or all or the Iranians or the Israelis or all these other crazy accusations that have these other crazy accusations that have been made about this guy for many, many been made about this guy for many, many years. Um, and he's going to give, you years. Um, and he's going to give, you know, as they say, peace a chance. And know, as they say, peace a chance. And he's going to give give a ceasefire a he's going to give give a ceasefire a chance and he's going to give chance and he's going to give negotiations a chance. But I'll think negotiations a chance. But I'll think he's sending the message to the Iranians he's sending the message to the Iranians and he needs to send it to Putin is if and he needs to send it to Putin is if you don't take me up on my offer, right? you don't take me up on my offer, right? I've already demonstrated that I am I've already demonstrated that I am serious and I will use American power serious and I will use American power carefully and selectively in the way carefully and selectively in the way that I've done in the past. At the risk that I've done in the past. At the risk of doing the thing I shouldn't do. Uh of doing the thing I shouldn't do. Uh but just to test the ideas of but just to test the ideas of libertarianism libertarianism libertarianism and uh the things we've been talking and uh the things we've been talking about, can we for a brief time unrelated about, can we for a brief time unrelated to everything we've been talking about to everything we've been talking about talk about World War II? What was the talk about World War II? What was the right thing to do in 1938, 1939? Like right thing to do in 1938, 1939? Like what would you do? what would you do? Okay, to be clear, World War II has Okay, to be clear, World War II has nothing to do with the current events. nothing to do with the current events. In fact, many of the horrible policies In fact, many of the horrible policies of the United States, in my opinion, of the United States, in my opinion, have to have to do with projecting World have to have to do with projecting World War II onto every single conflict in the War II onto every single conflict in the world. Okay, agree. But overarning, world. Okay, agree. But overarning, overarning, overarning. But it is an overarning, overarning. But it is an interesting extreme case. Just to interesting extreme case. Just to clarify, I'm just like philosophically clarify, I'm just like philosophically talking about. Yeah. At which point do talking about. Yeah. At which point do you hit do you do military intervention? you hit do you do military intervention? And that's a nice case. Maybe you have a And that's a nice case. Maybe you have a better case study, but that's such an better case study, but that's such an extreme one. Yeah. That it's extreme one. Yeah. That it's interesting. We're talking about Germany interesting. We're talking about Germany or Japan. Germany said. Yeah. So, Japan or Japan. Germany said. Yeah. So, Japan attacked us and Germany declared war on attacked us and Germany declared war on us. Tough for them. And that's what us. Tough for them. And that's what happens when you declare war on the happens when you declare war on the United States, you get hit. But that was United States, you get hit. But that was idiotic on the part of Hitler to declare idiotic on the part of Hitler to declare war on the United States. You know, I war on the United States. You know, I never understood why he ever did that. never understood why he ever did that. They always said it was just cuz he was They always said it was just cuz he was crazy. But what it was is he was trying crazy. But what it was is he was trying to get the Japanese to invade the Soviet to get the Japanese to invade the Soviet Union from the east and in order to Union from the east and in order to divide Stalin's forces, which failed. divide Stalin's forces, which failed. and it didn't work and it was a huge and it didn't work and it was a huge blunder from his point of view. I guess blunder from his point of view. I guess philosophically from an philosophically from an interventionalism perspective, you're interventionalism perspective, you're saying United States should have stayed saying United States should have stayed out from that war as long as possible out from that war as long as possible until they're attacked. Yes. I mean, and until they're attacked. Yes. I mean, and look at how powerful they ended up being look at how powerful they ended up being and the amount of damage that they were and the amount of damage that they were able to inflict on the Soviets. Better able to inflict on the Soviets. Better them than us. What do you think? So, them than us. What do you think? So, look, I is this a useful discussion? look, I is this a useful discussion? It's interesting. I mean I think it's It's interesting. I mean I think it's interesting of you know libertarianism interesting of you know libertarianism um or or isolationism in practice. I um or or isolationism in practice. I mean I think the 30s are more mean I think the 30s are more interesting to me than what happened interesting to me than what happened between 39 and 45. I think the debate in between 39 and 45. I think the debate in America was very interesting in the 30s America was very interesting in the 30s um where there was really a strong uh um where there was really a strong uh isolationist movement um you know with isolationist movement um you know with Charles Lindberg and and Henry Ford and Charles Lindberg and and Henry Ford and Father Klin and many Joe Kennedy. Yeah. Father Klin and many Joe Kennedy. Yeah. Joe Kennedy. I mean, they defined Joe Kennedy. I mean, they defined themselves as sort of America firsters. themselves as sort of America firsters. Um, but it was very much an isolationist Um, but it was very much an isolationist strain. And I think, you know, we can strain. And I think, you know, we can talk about that history. And Coughlin talk about that history. And Coughlin was a New Dealer, not a right-winger. was a New Dealer, not a right-winger. Anyway, um, very much an isolationist Anyway, um, very much an isolationist talking about America having to stay out talking about America having to stay out these entangling alliances. This is not these entangling alliances. This is not our war. Emotionally understandable, our war. Emotionally understandable, right? Because you can you can also right? Because you can you can also overlearn the lessons of World War I, overlearn the lessons of World War I, right? And I think they overlearned the right? And I think they overlearned the lessons of World War I. I mean, which lessons of World War I. I mean, which was a brutal war and a devastating war was a brutal war and a devastating war mostly for Europe, but obviously for the mostly for Europe, but obviously for the United States. we we lost thousands of United States. we we lost thousands of American men and women. So the 30s was American men and women. So the 30s was this big debate between the um those who this big debate between the um those who saw the gathering storm of what was saw the gathering storm of what was happening uh with Nazi Germany and those happening uh with Nazi Germany and those who wanted to keep America out. And I who wanted to keep America out. And I think in some respects it's like today think in some respects it's like today with the contemporary reality with Kam with the contemporary reality with Kam is that because these isolationist is that because these isolationist voices were so prominent and so vocal um voices were so prominent and so vocal um and in some cases quite persuasive to and in some cases quite persuasive to American leaders, Hitler calculated that American leaders, Hitler calculated that the United States would not enter the the United States would not enter the war. And so he could do what Scott says. war. And so he could do what Scott says. He could focus on the Eastern Front. Um He could focus on the Eastern Front. Um he could gather his forces and then he he could gather his forces and then he could do a kill shot on the Western could do a kill shot on the Western democracies. in Western Europe and the democracies. in Western Europe and the United States would not intervene. I United States would not intervene. I mean, you're right, the the big mistake mean, you're right, the the big mistake he makes is declaring war in the United he makes is declaring war in the United States after Pearl Harbor. But he States after Pearl Harbor. But he believes all through the 30s and before believes all through the 30s and before Pearl Harbor that the isolationist Pearl Harbor that the isolationist voices are keeping FDR from entering the voices are keeping FDR from entering the war. Even while Churchill and the Brits war. Even while Churchill and the Brits and the French and others are imploring and the French and others are imploring the Americans uh not only to just just the Americans uh not only to just just to provide provide them with material to provide provide them with material support with weapons so that they could support with weapons so that they could hold hold on to the island and and hold hold on to the island and and defend themselves and I think Hitler defend themselves and I think Hitler miscalculates in the same way I think miscalculates in the same way I think Kame miscalculates. Kam heard the debate Kame miscalculates. Kam heard the debate over the past number of years. He over the past number of years. He believed that this sort of isolationist believed that this sort of isolationist wing of the Republican party right wing of the Republican party right represented I think in you know by represented I think in you know by Tucker Carlson and others who have been Tucker Carlson and others who have been very anti-intervention with respect to very anti-intervention with respect to Iran. I think he believed that that was Iran. I think he believed that that was the dominant voice within Trump's MAGA the dominant voice within Trump's MAGA coalition and that as a result the coalition and that as a result the United States would not use military United States would not use military force. So in the same way that Hitler force. So in the same way that Hitler miscalculated the influence of the miscalculated the influence of the isolationists on FDR, Kame misjudged the isolationists on FDR, Kame misjudged the influence of the isolationists on Trump influence of the isolationists on Trump and both ended up miscalculating to uh and both ended up miscalculating to uh to their great regret. So to me that's to their great regret. So to me that's the sort of parallel between kind of the sort of parallel between kind of World War II in the 30s and the prelude World War II in the 30s and the prelude to World War II and what we're seeing in to World War II and what we're seeing in the in the current reality over the past the in the current reality over the past few weeks. To make clear, you mentioned few weeks. To make clear, you mentioned there's a parallel, but mostly there's there's a parallel, but mostly there's no parallel. It's a fundamentally no parallel. It's a fundamentally different Absolutely. There will never different Absolutely. There will never be a war like that. And I have It's a be a war like that. And I have It's a real problem, too, because they always real problem, too, because they always say everybody's Hitler. All enemies are say everybody's Hitler. All enemies are Hitler. And to compromise with them at Hitler. And to compromise with them at all is to appease Hitler. And you can all is to appease Hitler. And you can never do that. Agreed. And they do that never do that. Agreed. And they do that to Manuel Noriega, to David Caresh, to to Manuel Noriega, to David Caresh, to Saddam Hussein, to whoever they feel Saddam Hussein, to whoever they feel like demonizing and saying, too crazy to like demonizing and saying, too crazy to negotiate with when, let's get real, and negotiate with when, let's get real, and I think we're agreed about this probably I think we're agreed about this probably that right in 2002, that right in 2002, W. Bush could have just sent Coon W. Bush could have just sent Coon Powell, the four-star general, former Powell, the four-star general, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Secretary of State, to read the riot act Secretary of State, to read the riot act to Saddam Hussein, and tell him, "Look, to Saddam Hussein, and tell him, "Look, man, you help keep al Qaeda down, and man, you help keep al Qaeda down, and we'll let you live." And everything we'll let you live." And everything would have been fine. And and in fact, would have been fine. And and in fact, just like Saddam Hussein, and there's a just like Saddam Hussein, and there's a great article by James Ryzen. Don't great article by James Ryzen. Don't agree. Hang on, hang on. Now, there's agree. Hang on, hang on. Now, there's there's an article by Surprisingly, there's an article by Surprisingly, there's an article by James Ryzen in the there's an article by James Ryzen in the New York Times, and there's another one New York Times, and there's another one by Seymour Hirs as well about how Saddam by Seymour Hirs as well about how Saddam Hussein offered to give in on Hussein offered to give in on everything. He said, "You want us to everything. He said, "You want us to search for weapons of mass destruction, search for weapons of mass destruction, you can send your army and FBI you can send your army and FBI everywhere you want. You want us to everywhere you want. You want us to switch sides in the Israel Palestine switch sides in the Israel Palestine conflict, we'll stop backing Hamas. You conflict, we'll stop backing Hamas. You want us to hold elections, we'll hold want us to hold elections, we'll hold us, we'll hold elections. Just give us a us, we'll hold elections. Just give us a couple years. If this is about the oil, couple years. If this is about the oil, we'll sign over mineral rights." This is we'll sign over mineral rights." This is James Ryzen, New York Times. They sent James Ryzen, New York Times. They sent an emissary to meet with Richard Pearl an emissary to meet with Richard Pearl in London. That was who was the chair of in London. That was who was the chair of the Defense Policy Board and was a major the Defense Policy Board and was a major ring leader of getting us into Iraq War ring leader of getting us into Iraq War II. And then they I don't know why this II. And then they I don't know why this is a real mistake. You want to talk is a real mistake. You want to talk about mistakes? Why does he always send about mistakes? Why does he always send his guys to meet with Richard Burl? his guys to meet with Richard Burl? Because the there was a Saudi Because the there was a Saudi businessman, pardon me, a Lebanese businessman, pardon me, a Lebanese businessman I think that they tried to businessman I think that they tried to get to intervene as well who again get to intervene as well who again offered virtually total capitulation and offered virtually total capitulation and Pearl told him, "Tell Saddam, we'll see Pearl told him, "Tell Saddam, we'll see you in Baghdad after he was attempting you in Baghdad after he was attempting to essentially unconditionally to essentially unconditionally surrender." The same thing happened with surrender." The same thing happened with Iran in 2003. Right after America Iran in 2003. Right after America invaded, they issued what was called the invaded, they issued what was called the golden offer, which the Bush golden offer, which the Bush administration buried, and they administration buried, and they castigated the Swiss ambassador who had castigated the Swiss ambassador who had delivered it. But in the golden offer, delivered it. But in the golden offer, and you can find the PDF file of it and you can find the PDF file of it online, they talk about we're happy to online, they talk about we're happy to negotiate with you our entire nuclear negotiate with you our entire nuclear program, which didn't even really exist program, which didn't even really exist yet, but nuclearization. We're to yet, but nuclearization. We're to willing to negotiate with you about willing to negotiate with you about Afghanistan and Iraq because again, they Afghanistan and Iraq because again, they hated Saddam Hussein and wanted rid of hated Saddam Hussein and wanted rid of him, too. So they're perfectly happy to him, too. So they're perfectly happy to work with us on Afghanistan and Iraq. work with us on Afghanistan and Iraq. And they had captured a bunch of Bin And they had captured a bunch of Bin Laden and they were willing to trade Laden and they were willing to trade them for the MEK. And that included one them for the MEK. And that included one of Bin Laden's sons and another guy of Bin Laden's sons and another guy named Aff named Aff named Aff Iranians held under house arrest for Iranians held under house arrest for years. And it was only in the I think years. And it was only in the I think late and they're giving refuge to late and they're giving refuge to al-Qaeda. And the CIA said this is a key al-Qaeda. And the CIA said this is a key facilitation pipeline between Iran and facilitation pipeline between Iran and al-Qaeda. willing to negotiate al-Qaeda. willing to negotiate between these dangerous bin Laden and between these dangerous bin Laden and the MEK and America refused to negotiate the MEK and America refused to negotiate that and it was years later when the bin that and it was years later when the bin Laden abducted some Iranian diplomats in Laden abducted some Iranian diplomats in Pakistan that they then traded them away Pakistan that they then traded them away to get their diplomats back and ATV I to get their diplomats back and ATV I think Bin Laden's son ended up being think Bin Laden's son ended up being killed not long after that Hamza but and killed not long after that Hamza but and and too but both of those dangerous and too but both of those dangerous terrorists were released and were terrorists were released and were involved in terrorism between then them involved in terrorism between then them them then then and the time that They them then then and the time that They were later killed I think within a were later killed I think within a couple of years of that. So the hawks couple of years of that. So the hawks always like to say, "Oh yeah, Iran gives always like to say, "Oh yeah, Iran gives such aid and comfort to al Qaeda and all such aid and comfort to al Qaeda and all that." There's a great document at the that." There's a great document at the counterterrorism center at West Point counterterrorism center at West Point where they debunk all of that. Yeah. where they debunk all of that. Yeah. There's a 9/11 report by the 911 There's a 9/11 report by the 911 commission. There's a 911 commission commission. There's a 911 commission report, people can Google it, which report, people can Google it, which talks about the cooperation between Iran talks about the cooperation between Iran and al-Qaeda only in Bosnia when they and al-Qaeda only in Bosnia when they were doing a favor for Bill Clinton. were doing a favor for Bill Clinton. beyond that and the CIA released um beyond that and the CIA released um thousands of pages of classified thousands of pages of classified material that they declassified showing material that they declassified showing the relationship between Iran and the relationship between Iran and al-Qaeda. The US Treasury Department al-Qaeda. The US Treasury Department under Obama and under Trump actually under Obama and under Trump actually designated a number of Iranian uh designated a number of Iranian uh individuals for facilitating al-Qaeda. individuals for facilitating al-Qaeda. So anyway, I mean these these are So anyway, I mean these these are important facts, but I I actually you important facts, but I I actually you mentioned Baghdaddy and Solommani in the mentioned Baghdaddy and Solommani in the same breath a minute ago when they're same breath a minute ago when they're deadly enemies and it was Solommani's deadly enemies and it was Solommani's Shiite forces in Iraq War II that helped Shiite forces in Iraq War II that helped destroy the enemy of my enemy is my destroy the enemy of my enemy is my friend with America flying air power for friend with America flying air power for them. The greatest era that we've made them. The greatest era that we've made in the Middle East is this notion, not in the Middle East is this notion, not the greatest, but one of the greatest is the greatest, but one of the greatest is this sort of conceptual era that somehow this sort of conceptual era that somehow Sunnis and Shi don't work together and Sunnis and Shi don't work together and Iran doesn't work with al-Qaeda. I'm not Iran doesn't work with al-Qaeda. I'm not saying you say that, but but many people saying you say that, but but many people think that and of course they do work. think that and of course they do work. They hate each other, but of course they They hate each other, but of course they work together because they hate us more. work together because they hate us more. But can I just say something, Lex? But can I just say something, Lex? Because I actually think just stepping Because I actually think just stepping back from like all of this detail. The back from like all of this detail. The more we start to zoom out now, the more we start to zoom out now, the better. Yeah, I'd like to zoom out a better. Yeah, I'd like to zoom out a little bit. I look, I think the lessons little bit. I look, I think the lessons for me um over 22 years on working on for me um over 22 years on working on these issues is one must learn about the these issues is one must learn about the mistakes that we've made in Iraq and in mistakes that we've made in Iraq and in Afghanistan and Libya. Okay. One must Afghanistan and Libya. Okay. One must learn about the mistakes that we made in learn about the mistakes that we made in Vietnam, mistakes that we made in World Vietnam, mistakes that we made in World War II, so we can make them all over War II, so we can make them all over again in Iran this time. Can I finish or again in Iran this time. Can I finish or go ahead? Are you good? Yeah, I'm I'm go ahead? Are you good? Yeah, I'm I'm ready. All right. So, um I think that ready. All right. So, um I think that what what President Trump is trying to what what President Trump is trying to do is learn but not overlearn, right? I do is learn but not overlearn, right? I think he understands the mistakes that think he understands the mistakes that have been made. I think he's trying to have been made. I think he's trying to rectify those mistakes and he also rectify those mistakes and he also understands that American power is understands that American power is important. It is been a it is a force important. It is been a it is a force for good in the world. Even though we for good in the world. Even though we have made major mistakes, I think have made major mistakes, I think there's a great danger amongst certain there's a great danger amongst certain people to believe that no power should people to believe that no power should ever be exercised that all American ever be exercised that all American power is a bad thing and a destructive power is a bad thing and a destructive thing. and sometimes to confuse major thing. and sometimes to confuse major tactical decisions, right, that have tactical decisions, right, that have been made, whether it's been made by the been made, whether it's been made by the Brits in World War II or the Americans Brits in World War II or the Americans or us or whoever it is in whatever war or us or whoever it is in whatever war with the fact that there is a strategic with the fact that there is a strategic reality that we always have to be reality that we always have to be conscious of and that we have enemies, conscious of and that we have enemies, right? This is not the Garden of Eden right? This is not the Garden of Eden yet. I hope the libertarians create one. yet. I hope the libertarians create one. I want to go live there when they do and I want to go live there when they do and Scott and I will be neighbors, believe Scott and I will be neighbors, believe it or not, living living in that uh it or not, living living in that uh garden of Eden together. But there are garden of Eden together. But there are major threats in this world. And we need major threats in this world. And we need to find the right balance between the to find the right balance between the overuse of military power and the overuse of military power and the underuse of military power. If we want underuse of military power. If we want to avoid wars, we have to have serious to avoid wars, we have to have serious deterrence because our enemies need to deterrence because our enemies need to understand we will use selective and understand we will use selective and narrowly focused overwhelming military narrowly focused overwhelming military power. When we are facing threats like power. When we are facing threats like an Iranian nuclear weapon, that is a an Iranian nuclear weapon, that is a serious threat. It's a serious threat to serious threat. It's a serious threat to us. It's a serious threat to to to the us. It's a serious threat to to to the region. It's a serious threat with region. It's a serious threat with respect to proliferation around the respect to proliferation around the world. And I think with that respect, I world. And I think with that respect, I think President Trump's decision to drop think President Trump's decision to drop bombs on three key nuclear facilities bombs on three key nuclear facilities was a selective targeted military action was a selective targeted military action that I hope will drive the Iranians back that I hope will drive the Iranians back to the negotiating table where they can to the negotiating table where they can negotiate finally the dismantlement of negotiate finally the dismantlement of their nuclear weapons program. Right. I their nuclear weapons program. Right. I think there's a nuclear weapons program. think there's a nuclear weapons program. Again, we've had a 4-hour debate on Again, we've had a 4-hour debate on this, so I'm sure if you want to rewind, this, so I'm sure if you want to rewind, you can listen to all our arguments once you can listen to all our arguments once again. Um, but the fact of the matter is again. Um, but the fact of the matter is is that the our unwillingness to use is that the our unwillingness to use power, if we're never going to use power, if we're never going to use power, all that's going to do is send a power, all that's going to do is send a signal to our enemies that they can do signal to our enemies that they can do whatever they want. They can violate whatever they want. They can violate whatever agreements they want. They can whatever agreements they want. They can they can use aggression against anyone they can use aggression against anyone they want. And I think that makes that they want. And I think that makes that puts American lives in danger. And we've puts American lives in danger. And we've seen the results of that where we we seen the results of that where we we delayed and delayed and delayed and we delayed and delayed and delayed and we didn't move too early didn't move and we didn't move too early and we didn't preempt and the and the and we didn't preempt and the and the threat grew and we ignored the gathering threat grew and we ignored the gathering storm. And so I think the lessons of you storm. And so I think the lessons of you know hundred years of American military know hundred years of American military involvement is if you have an involvement is if you have an opportunity early on as the storm is opportunity early on as the storm is gathering to use all instruments of gathering to use all instruments of American power with the military one American power with the military one being the last one you use. then deter being the last one you use. then deter when you can and strike when you must in when you can and strike when you must in order to prevent the kinds of escalation order to prevent the kinds of escalation and wars that everybody at this table and wars that everybody at this table and I'm sure everybody listening in your and I'm sure everybody listening in your audience is is seeking to avoid on that audience is is seeking to avoid on that topic. Question for both of you, Scott. topic. Question for both of you, Scott. If human civilization destroys itself in If human civilization destroys itself in the next 75 years, it probably most the next 75 years, it probably most likely will be a World War II type of likely will be a World War II type of scenario, maybe a nuclear war. How do we scenario, maybe a nuclear war. How do we avoid that? We've been talking about avoid that? We've been talking about Iran, but there will be new conflicts. Iran, but there will be new conflicts. There's Ukraine, China, Kashmir. There's Ukraine, China, Kashmir. Kashmir. Um, North Korea. No. Yeah. Kashmir. Um, North Korea. No. Yeah. Don't forget North Korea. Yeah. I mean, Don't forget North Korea. Yeah. I mean, there was a time when North Korea was there was a time when North Korea was the biggest threat to human the biggest threat to human civilization. A according to we could civilization. A according to we could have had a deal except John Bolton have had a deal except John Bolton ruined it. So, that's the bigger ruined it. So, that's the bigger question. Not so much in the specifics. question. Not so much in the specifics. Oh, I mean the second time he ruined the Oh, I mean the second time he ruined the Clinton deal of 94. Then he ruined the Clinton deal of 94. Then he ruined the Trump deal of 2018. May maybe the Korean Trump deal of 2018. May maybe the Korean dictator, North Korean dictator ruined dictator, North Korean dictator ruined it. But again, one doesn't want to blame it. But again, one doesn't want to blame our enemies for their mistakes. Well, our enemies for their mistakes. Well, you know that at the second meeting, you know that at the second meeting, Trump sent John Bolton to outer Mongolia Trump sent John Bolton to outer Mongolia so that he couldn't sit at the table and so that he couldn't sit at the table and ruin the deal. But but what happened ruin the deal. But but what happened then? The Democrats had his lawyer then? The Democrats had his lawyer testify against him while he was at the testify against him while he was at the meeting. And they had this huge meeting. And they had this huge propaganda campaign that Kim Jong-un is propaganda campaign that Kim Jong-un is going to walk all over Trump and take going to walk all over Trump and take such advantage of him. And they made it such advantage of him. And they made it virtually impossible for him to walk virtually impossible for him to walk away claiming a victory. Do you ever away claiming a victory. Do you ever blame the enemy ever? blame the enemy ever? Do you ever blame the enemy? North Korea Do you ever blame the enemy? North Korea is not my enemy. North Korea is not your is not my enemy. North Korea is not your enemy. No. Really? They they they they enemy. No. Really? They they they they build nuclear weapons, ICBMs that target build nuclear weapons, ICBMs that target America. It's George Bush and John America. It's George Bush and John Bolton's fault. I already said that. Bolton's fault. I already said that. Whatever fault it is, the fact of the Whatever fault it is, the fact of the matter is, do you ever ever blame an matter is, do you ever ever blame an American adversary? Or is it always our American adversary? Or is it always our fault? In fact, what happened was always fault? In fact, what happened was always our fault. See, all you can do is our fault. See, all you can do is characterize, but you don't want to talk characterize, but you don't want to talk about the details. The details are that about the details. The details are that Steven Began who worked for for Donald Steven Began who worked for for Donald Trump gave a speech and said, "You know Trump gave a speech and said, "You know what? We can put normalization first and what? We can put normalization first and denuclearization later. I know him very denuclearization later. I know him very well." And then they brought Donald well." And then they brought Donald Trump brought John Bolton to the Trump brought John Bolton to the meeting. And he prevented that from meeting. And he prevented that from being the uh the being the uh from being the uh the message of the meeting. Ruined the deal. message of the meeting. Ruined the deal. John Bolton's fault. Always John John Bolton's fault. Always John Bolton's fault because how reasonable Bolton's fault because how reasonable does it sound to you, Lex? Give up all does it sound to you, Lex? Give up all your nuclear weapons first, then we'll your nuclear weapons first, then we'll talk about every other issue. Does that talk about every other issue. Does that sound like a poison pill or that sounds sound like a poison pill or that sounds like a reasonable negotiation? Give me a like a reasonable negotiation? Give me a break. Sounds like a beginning of a break. Sounds like a beginning of a negotiation. Yeah. Well, they got negotiation. Yeah. Well, they got nowhere because Trump brought John nowhere because Trump brought John Bolton with him and helped to ruin it. Bolton with him and helped to ruin it. And maybe they went nowhere because the And maybe they went nowhere because the North Korean dictator at the end of the North Korean dictator at the end of the day is a dictator who wants to threaten day is a dictator who wants to threaten the United States with ICBMs and the United States with ICBMs and nuclear. Listen, you're you're nuclear. Listen, you're you're criticizing the the sequential decisions criticizing the the sequential decisions made in negotiation. made in negotiation. asking you a serious question after asking you a serious question after hours of talking, which I must say I've hours of talking, which I must say I've really enjoyed. I've learned a lot. I really enjoyed. I've learned a lot. I enjoyed it. I think there's been areas enjoyed it. I think there's been areas of agreement, obviously, real of agreement, obviously, real disagreement, but here's the question to disagreement, but here's the question to you. Like really, I mean, do you ever you. Like really, I mean, do you ever ever hold our adversaries responsible or ever hold our adversaries responsible or do you just don't think we have any do you just don't think we have any adversaries? This is ridiculous. the the adversaries? This is ridiculous. the the topic has been from from your point of topic has been from from your point of view, it's all the adversaries and all view, it's all the adversaries and all America and Israel trying to do is America and Israel trying to do is survive and fix the situation the best survive and fix the situation the best they can. I'm refuting that by bringing they can. I'm refuting that by bringing up all the things that America and up all the things that America and Israel have done to make matters worse. Israel have done to make matters worse. I didn't ever say that the Ayatollah is I didn't ever say that the Ayatollah is some great guy or that Kim Jong-un is some great guy or that Kim Jong-un is some hero or like any kind of spin for some hero or like any kind of spin for their side. Are they a threat to their side. Are they a threat to America? No, of course not. As a big America? No, of course not. As a big Brazinski said in 1993, we could have Brazinski said in 1993, we could have perfectly normalized relations then. You perfectly normalized relations then. You talk about Iranian support for al-Qaeda. talk about Iranian support for al-Qaeda. Iran supported al-Qaeda in Bosnia in Iran supported al-Qaeda in Bosnia in 1995 as a favor to Bill Clinton because 1995 as a favor to Bill Clinton because they were trying to suck up to the they were trying to suck up to the United States is why they supported Ala. United States is why they supported Ala. Your position Your position. My position Your position Your position. My position is whatever you say it is, not what I is whatever you say it is, not what I say it. No, no. I'm just I'm trying to say it. No, no. I'm just I'm trying to summarize. You know who's the last summarize. You know who's the last person who told me I need to beware person who told me I need to beware about overarning the lessons of Iraq? It about overarning the lessons of Iraq? It was Charlie Savage from the New York was Charlie Savage from the New York Times when on the subject was his Times when on the subject was his absolute ridiculous hoax that Russia was absolute ridiculous hoax that Russia was paying the Taliban to murder American paying the Taliban to murder American soldiers in Afghanistan in 2020 which soldiers in Afghanistan in 2020 which ruined Trump's potential which he was ruined Trump's potential which he was floating balloons about withdrawing in floating balloons about withdrawing in the summer of 2020 which would have the summer of 2020 which would have absolutely prevented the Joe Biden era absolutely prevented the Joe Biden era attack and Charlie Savage who published attack and Charlie Savage who published these ridiculous lies that were later these ridiculous lies that were later refuted by the general in charge of the refuted by the general in charge of the Afghan war the head Sentcom the chairman Afghan war the head Sentcom the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff and the of the joint chiefs of staff and the director as much detail as possible. He director as much detail as possible. He told me, "You know what your problem is, told me, "You know what your problem is, Horton, is you have overlearned the Horton, is you have overlearned the lessons of Iraq War II." But it turned lessons of Iraq War II." But it turned out those lessons were perfectly apt for out those lessons were perfectly apt for Charlie Savage's hoax. It wasn't true Charlie Savage's hoax. It wasn't true what Charlie Savage said. You know what what Charlie Savage said. You know what he resorted to? He said, "Well, it's he resorted to? He said, "Well, it's true that there was a rumor I was true that there was a rumor I was reporting on." Scott, you made it very reporting on." Scott, you made it very clear America has no adversaries. That's clear America has no adversaries. That's called learning the lessons of Iraq, not called learning the lessons of Iraq, not overarning them. All right. So, I guess overarning them. All right. So, I guess the the answer to the question I asked the the answer to the question I asked about avoiding World War three is the about avoiding World War three is the two of you becoming friends. That's my two of you becoming friends. That's my my goal. If you can try to find the my goal. If you can try to find the light at the end of the tunnel, one one light at the end of the tunnel, one one last question. What gives you hope to last question. What gives you hope to the degree of hope about the future? the degree of hope about the future? What gives you hope about this great What gives you hope about this great country of ours country of ours and humanity too? Yeah. I mean, look, and humanity too? Yeah. I mean, look, there are a million wonderful things there are a million wonderful things about this country, the land, the about this country, the land, the people, our culture, and our resources people, our culture, and our resources and everything. And the kind of society and everything. And the kind of society that we could build in a not with a that we could build in a not with a controlled system, but with just a pure controlled system, but with just a pure free market, capitalist system in this free market, capitalist system in this country where people are allowed to own country where people are allowed to own their property, improve its value, and their property, improve its value, and exchange it on the market and build this exchange it on the market and build this country up. we would be living in country up. we would be living in comparatively a paradise compared to comparatively a paradise compared to what we have now. And if you look at the what we have now. And if you look at the opportunity costs just since the end of opportunity costs just since the end of the cold war on on all that has been the cold war on on all that has been wasted on militarism in the Middle East wasted on militarism in the Middle East especially, but also in Eastern Europe especially, but also in Eastern Europe and in East Asia, all of that wealth put and in East Asia, all of that wealth put here could have gone much more to here could have gone much more to something like perfecting our society. something like perfecting our society. It's always an unfinished project. so It's always an unfinished project. so that then we really have something to that then we really have something to point to the rest of the world and say point to the rest of the world and say this is how you're supposed to do it. this is how you're supposed to do it. Not like that. I think it's crucial that Not like that. I think it's crucial that for all of the problems that Somalia, for all of the problems that Somalia, Syria, Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan have, Syria, Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan have, the worst thing about those countries is the worst thing about those countries is America's wars there. It's what we have America's wars there. It's what we have done to them as the worst thing about done to them as the worst thing about those places. So, we're not in much of a those places. So, we're not in much of a position to criticize, you know, position to criticize, you know, whatever horrible and political uh whatever horrible and political uh practices uh you know, cultural and and practices uh you know, cultural and and things about their societies that we things about their societies that we would like to criticize when the worst would like to criticize when the worst chaos that's happened to them has been chaos that's happened to them has been inflicted by our country against them inflicted by our country against them virtually all in in wars of choice that virtually all in in wars of choice that were unnecessary from the get-go. What were unnecessary from the get-go. What gives you hope? What gives me hope? I gives you hope? What gives me hope? I think first of all, um I have a lot of think first of all, um I have a lot of um hope and confidence in the wisdom of um hope and confidence in the wisdom of the American people. the American people. Um, I think Americans understand the end Um, I think Americans understand the end of the day that they need leaders who of the day that they need leaders who are about making America great again. I are about making America great again. I think they elected Donald Trump who is think they elected Donald Trump who is flawed in many many ways, but I think flawed in many many ways, but I think Trump is wrestling with some of the Trump is wrestling with some of the questions that we have been wrestling questions that we have been wrestling with for the past 5 hours. Um, I think with for the past 5 hours. Um, I think that um we I think most Americans know that um we I think most Americans know that we have adversaries. Uh, and you that we have adversaries. Uh, and you know, it's just overwhelming numbers of know, it's just overwhelming numbers of Americans understand that. They may Americans understand that. They may disagree on exactly who is an adversary disagree on exactly who is an adversary and how you rank them, but they know we and how you rank them, but they know we have adversaries. I think the third have adversaries. I think the third thing is Americans greatly admire the thing is Americans greatly admire the men and women in uniform. I mean, I men and women in uniform. I mean, I think the institution with the greatest think the institution with the greatest popularity in America still remains the popularity in America still remains the US military while many of other US military while many of other institutions are are failing the institutions are are failing the American people and are reflected in the American people and are reflected in the in the polling. I think we got to be in the polling. I think we got to be very judicious about how we use this very judicious about how we use this incredibly powerful military. Um and incredibly powerful military. Um and because most importantly it comes down because most importantly it comes down to it's not about weapons and to it's not about weapons and technology. It's about the people. It's technology. It's about the people. It's about the men and women who have about the men and women who have sacrificed their lives um to serve our sacrificed their lives um to serve our country. At the end of the day, if we country. At the end of the day, if we understand we have adversaries, we're understand we have adversaries, we're careful about we how we use our careful about we how we use our military, we understand the importance military, we understand the importance of foreign deterrence in order to of foreign deterrence in order to actually confront threats before they actually confront threats before they become so severe that we ended up become so severe that we ended up plunging ourselves in a war. I agree plunging ourselves in a war. I agree totally with Scott in terms of how we totally with Scott in terms of how we use our money and how judiciously we use our money and how judiciously we must we have to guard it. I agree with must we have to guard it. I agree with how we've we've run out these massive how we've we've run out these massive debts and we have to be actually if debts and we have to be actually if we're serious and conservatives are we're serious and conservatives are really serious. They need to stop they really serious. They need to stop they need to tackle these massive budgets need to tackle these massive budgets deficits. Um and and you know it would deficits. Um and and you know it would be really easy if it was just all about be really easy if it was just all about the military and we could just kind of the military and we could just kind of get rid of the Pentagon and all of a get rid of the Pentagon and all of a sudden we'd be running balanced budgets. sudden we'd be running balanced budgets. It's not the case. we have much deeper It's not the case. we have much deeper structural economics economic problems structural economics economic problems in this country and everybody knows that in this country and everybody knows that and so we got huge challenges as a and so we got huge challenges as a country. Um but I really believe uh as I country. Um but I really believe uh as I believe since I was a little kid that believe since I was a little kid that America is the greatest force for good America is the greatest force for good in the world and that we do we make in the world and that we do we make mistakes sometimes tragic mistakes. We mistakes sometimes tragic mistakes. We make huge miscalculations and I think we make huge miscalculations and I think we will be much more clear in how to will be much more clear in how to rectify those mistakes if we stop rectify those mistakes if we stop obsessing with these boogeymen that are obsessing with these boogeymen that are out there, the Israelis, the Jews, out there, the Israelis, the Jews, theians. theians. theians. Well, and we start focusing on our Well, and we start focusing on our adversaries which are not the Iranians adversaries which are not the Iranians because the 80 80% of Iranians despise because the 80 80% of Iranians despise this regime. And you know, Lex, I feel this regime. And you know, Lex, I feel really bad that we in 5 hours we really bad that we in 5 hours we actually haven't even talked about that actually haven't even talked about that in any detail. Many of my friends are in any detail. Many of my friends are Iranian. And they're beautiful people Iranian. And they're beautiful people and and as one of the great cultures on and and as one of the great cultures on earth. Yeah. And you know the only place earth. Yeah. And you know the only place they don't succeed in the world is they don't succeed in the world is inside the Islamic Republic. When they inside the Islamic Republic. When they come to America and Canada and Europe, come to America and Canada and Europe, they're incredibly successful people. they're incredibly successful people. And 80% of Iranians despise this regime And 80% of Iranians despise this regime and they long for a free and prosperous and they long for a free and prosperous Iran. And so it's a big question that Iran. And so it's a big question that they're ever going to get there. And who they're ever going to get there. And who knows the right way to get them there. knows the right way to get them there. But at the end of the day, I am But at the end of the day, I am convinced that the vast majority of convinced that the vast majority of Iranians are our friends. But there is a Iranians are our friends. But there is a regime that has been trying to build regime that has been trying to build nuclear weapons, has been engaged in nuclear weapons, has been engaged in terrorism for decades, has killed and terrorism for decades, has killed and maimed thousands of Americans and our maimed thousands of Americans and our allies. And it's a regime that has to be allies. And it's a regime that has to be stopped. And I think Donald Trump in the stopped. And I think Donald Trump in the past couple of weeks, I would argue in past couple of weeks, I would argue in the past number of months, has tried to the past number of months, has tried to try to play a strategy, try to figure try to play a strategy, try to figure out a way to offer the Iranians out a way to offer the Iranians negotiations and a peaceful solution to negotiations and a peaceful solution to this, but use overwhelming military this, but use overwhelming military power recently against Iran's nuclear power recently against Iran's nuclear sites in a very targeted way in order to sites in a very targeted way in order to send a message to the Islamic Republic send a message to the Islamic Republic of Iran that they cannot continue to of Iran that they cannot continue to build nuclear weapons and threaten build nuclear weapons and threaten America. And so I hope that things will America. And so I hope that things will work out well on this. I I've always work out well on this. I I've always said curb your enthusiasm because we said curb your enthusiasm because we have still a lot of of pieces that still have still a lot of of pieces that still need to fall into place. And this is need to fall into place. And this is going to be a windy road as we try to going to be a windy road as we try to figure this out. I'm hoping for the figure this out. I'm hoping for the best, preparing for the worst, and want best, preparing for the worst, and want to thank you very much for having me on to thank you very much for having me on the show. Scott, it was a real pleasure the show. Scott, it was a real pleasure to meet you. I enjoyed the debate. Very to meet you. I enjoyed the debate. Very lively. I admire your dedication to the lively. I admire your dedication to the issue and your and your attention to issue and your and your attention to detail and I think all of that speaks detail and I think all of that speaks well of of you and your commitment and well of of you and your commitment and and your passion for this. So I am thank and your passion for this. So I am thank you deeply grateful that you guys will you deeply grateful that you guys will come here. Uh this was really come here. Uh this was really mind-blowing. Uh also that you have it's mind-blowing. Uh also that you have it's silly maybe to say but the courage to silly maybe to say but the courage to sit down and talk through this through sit down and talk through this through the tension. I've learned a lot. I think the tension. I've learned a lot. I think a lot of people are going to learn a a lot of people are going to learn a lot. I'm a fan of both of your work. lot. I'm a fan of both of your work. And um it means a lot that you come here And um it means a lot that you come here today and talk to a silly kid like me. today and talk to a silly kid like me. So Scott, thank you so much brother. So Scott, thank you so much brother. Thank you. Thank you Mark. Thanks Lux. Thank you. Thank you Mark. Thanks Lux. Appreciate it. Bam. Thanks Scott. Appreciate it. Bam. Thanks Scott. Thanks for listening to this debate Thanks for listening to this debate between Scott Horton and Mark Dubitz. To between Scott Horton and Mark Dubitz. To support this podcast, please check out support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description and our sponsors in the description and consider subscribing to this channel. consider subscribing to this channel. And now let me leave you with some And now let me leave you with some sobering words on the cost of war from sobering words on the cost of war from Dwight D. Eisenhower. Dwight D. Eisenhower. For some context, Eisenhower was the For some context, Eisenhower was the 34th president of the United States. But 34th president of the United States. But before that, during World War II, he was before that, during World War II, he was the supreme commander of the Allied the supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Force, orchestrating some Expeditionary Force, orchestrating some of the most significant military of the most significant military operations of the war with leadership operations of the war with leadership marked by strategic and tactical marked by strategic and tactical brilliance. brilliance. brilliance. It is in this context that the following It is in this context that the following words carry even more power and wisdom words carry even more power and wisdom spoken in 1953. spoken in 1953. Every gun that is made, every warship Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired signifies launched, every rocket fired signifies in the final sense a theft from those in the final sense a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed. are cold and are not clothed. This world in arms is not spending money This world in arms is not spending money alone. alone. alone. It is spending the sweat of its It is spending the sweat of its laborers, the genius of a scientist, the laborers, the genius of a scientist, the hopes of its children. hopes of its children. The cost of one modern heavy bomber is The cost of one modern heavy bomber is this, a modern brick school in more than this, a modern brick school in more than 30 cities. It is two electric power 30 cities. It is two electric power plants, each serving a town of 60,000 plants, each serving a town of 60,000 population. It is two fully equipped population. It is two fully equipped hospitals. It is on 50 mi of concrete hospitals. It is on 50 mi of concrete highway. We pay for a single fighter highway. We pay for a single fighter plane with a half million bushels of plane with a half million bushels of wheat. We pay for a single destroyer wheat. We pay for a single destroyer with new homes that could have housed with new homes that could have housed more than 8,000 people. more than 8,000 people. This is not a way of life at all in any This is not a way of life at all in any true sense under the cloud of true sense under the cloud of threatening war that is humanity hanging threatening war that is humanity hanging from a cross of iron. from a cross of iron. And now allow me to add some additional And now allow me to add some additional brief excerpts. In 1946, Eisenhower brief excerpts. In 1946, Eisenhower said, "I hate war as only a soldier who said, "I hate war as only a soldier who has lived it can. Only as one who has has lived it can. Only as one who has seen its brutality, its futility, its seen its brutality, its futility, its stupidity." stupidity." stupidity." In 1950, Eisenhower said, "Possibly my In 1950, Eisenhower said, "Possibly my hatred of war blinds me so that I cannot hatred of war blinds me so that I cannot comprehend the arguments they aduce. But comprehend the arguments they aduce. But in my opinion, there's no such thing as in my opinion, there's no such thing as a preventative war. Although the a preventative war. Although the suggestions repeatedly made, none has suggestions repeatedly made, none has yet explained how war prevents war. yet explained how war prevents war. Worse than this, no one has been able to Worse than this, no one has been able to explain away the fact that war creates explain away the fact that war creates the conditions that beget war. the conditions that beget war. And finally, an excerpt from And finally, an excerpt from Eisenhower's farewell address in 1961 on Eisenhower's farewell address in 1961 on the military-industrial complex. the military-industrial complex. A vital element in keeping the peace is A vital element in keeping the peace is our military establishment. Our arms our military establishment. Our arms must be mighty, ready for instant action must be mighty, ready for instant action so that no potential aggressor may be so that no potential aggressor may be tempted to risk his own destruction. tempted to risk his own destruction. American makers of plowshares could with American makers of plowshares could with time and as required make swords as time and as required make swords as well. But now we can no longer risk well. But now we can no longer risk emergency improvisation of national emergency improvisation of national defense. We have been compelled to defense. We have been compelled to create a permanent armament industry of create a permanent armament industry of vast proportions. vast proportions. vast proportions. This conjunction of an immense military This conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry establishment and a large arms industry is new in the American experience. is new in the American experience. Yet we must not fail to comprehend its Yet we must not fail to comprehend its grave implications. grave implications. grave implications. In the councils of government, we must In the councils of government, we must guard against an acquisition of guard against an acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the militaryindustrial unsought, by the militaryindustrial complex. complex. complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist. misplaced power exists and will persist. Thank you for listening and hope to see Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.