================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: Ezjvk9Wpy2g
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ezjvk9Wpy2g
TITLE: K.M. Panikkar and the Making of Modern India
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-10
DURATION: 1h 3m 39s
VIEWS: 459
LIKES: 6
COMMENTS: 1
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
A Man for All Seasons: The Life of K.M. Panikkar is the new book by the author Narayani Basu. It documents the life and times of one of modern India’s most fascinating characters. Panikkar defies simple description. He was a journalist who founded the Hindustan Times; a bureaucrat who advised India’s princely states; a poet, a philosopher, and an international relations scholar. He served as India’s ambassador to China and to Egypt. And he helped develop a critical plan to reorganize India’s states on linguistic lines. 

Basu’s book brings Panikkar out of the shadows and, in so doing, sheds as much light on this enigmatic figure as it does on India’s quest to find its place in the world.

Basu is the bestselling author of V.P. Menon: The Unsung Architect of Modern India and Allegiance: Azaadi & the End of Empire. She is a historian and foreign policy analyst, who specializes in spotlighting lesser known—but nevertheless key players—in the story of Indian independence.

She joins Milan 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 10,387

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. Welcome to Grant Theamasha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hindustan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bashnov. A man for all seasons, the life of CM Panikar is the new book by the author Narayani Basu. It documents the life and times of one of modern India's most fascinating characters. Poniker was a journalist who founded the Hindustan Times. He was a bureaucrat who advised the native princes as they debated questions of accession integration into the Indian Union. He was a poet, a philosopher and an international relations scholar. He served as India's ambassador to China and to Egypt and he helped develop a critical plan to reorganize India states on linguistic lines. Basu's book brings Paneker out of the shadows and in so doing sheds as much light on this enigmatic figure as it does on India's quest to find its place in the world. Basu is the best-selling author of VP Menan, the unsung Architect of Modern India and Allegiance, Aadi and the End of Empire. She's a historian and foreign policy analyst who specializes in spotlighting lesserk known but nevertheless key players in the story of Indian independence. I am pleased to welcome her to the podcast for the very first time. Narani, congratulations on this amazing achievement. Thank you so much for having me and thank you. So I want to start with the very first line of the book which is um the preface uh where you say the following. You say CM Paniker was a nationalist, an anarchist, a novelist, a constitutional lawyer, an academic, a historian, a foreign policy mandarin, a journalist, a diplomat, an administrator, and a poet, which is quite a kind of remarkable summary of his his his many talents. Um, tell us a little bit about, you know, when and where you decided to kind of write his biography. I mean, I could kind of see uh that this may have he may have popped up when you were doing your research for your previous book on VP Menon. Um but but perhaps you have a another alternative origin story. Tell tell us a little bit about it. No, you're actually absolutely right because I first encountered Cam Paniker when I was a policy analyst in a in very brief spell of my career where I was a policy analyst and you know you read about him as being India's most controversial ambassador to both nationalist China and the people's republic of China. Um I then came across him while I was researching BP Menon's biography and this time I came across him while he was in the chamber of princes. Um and I was very intrigued as to how somebody who was our ambassador in China uh was in the chamber of princes and why he was in the chamber of princes. So it was it sort of began as a quest to sort of discover the trajectory of his career because I genuinely couldn't understand why he was there, what had brought him there, what was the arc of that career that sent somebody who was uh the secretary to the chamber of princes to China and then to you know to Cairo and to France and to the states reorganization commission and I just I was baffled. So I began digging through the archives and then I discovered that this was a man who from 1915 to 1963 was literally present at all of modern India's milestones. So that's the length and breadth of our freedom movement, the first two decades of our existence as a postc colonial nation. Um he like his imprint is everywhere. you know, you've outlined what I say in the preface, which is the the arc of his job designations, and yet, you know, he was he was so much more. You know, he was also the architect of our independent maritime policy. He was a very vocal proponent of federation. Um, he worked with three princely states. He uh, you know, annoyed NU as much as he annoyed as much as NU respected him. um you know he had the CIA on guard. This was somebody who made his presence felt across so many of modern India's seasons that I genuinely was very very fascinated. No, I mean it it we were we were saying to you before we before we hit record that like you know if you were doing a kind of Netflix series, right? Right. I mean, like the episodes almost write themselves because it was like every single important milestone which happens from the start of the 20th century to, as you mentioned, the mid-1 1960s, he's like somewhere there. And he's not just like somewhere there hanging around. He's there doing a crucial job. Whether it's ambassador to China, whether it's, you know, deciding how you're going to reorganize India states, you know, it it being a constant kind of advisor to the leading lights of the independence movement. Um it it he started out, you know, in in a very kind of with an interesting upbringing and and and maybe you could just tell us a little bit about, you know, what was his early life like? What were her family circumstances? Um you know, where did this man who would go on to do these great many things in a great many places? Sort of where did he come from? And what was the kind of family unit like? Um so Kim Paniker was born uh in modern day Kerala in a place called Gutinard. Um his family was uh generationally quite rich and privileged. Um his main influences while he was growing up and this is based off uh interviews with his family as well as his memoir which has been the biggest voice of KM Panicle throughout this book. uh one was his grandmother who seems to have been the mother figure so to speak in his life. She and he had a very lovely loving relationship. Uh it was sort of almost like a friendship almost almost like partners in crime because you know she would she would help him out when his tutors would be angry with him. She would teach him the malalam alphabet. She would tell him stories. U she would he was clearly her favorite. Uh then there was her brother, his grandmother's brother whose features as this very strong uh almost like a domestic tyrant uh figure. Um and his grandmother's brother was also pretty much a pioneer in his field. He had been very instrumental in reclaiming land uh from the venard lake in kutinard for patty cultivation which is something that you know his grandmother's brother did his uncles did all of them were involved in that uh his mother seems to have featured as a much more uh stern figure disciplinarian of sorts but there are still warm memories about you know reading of her reading to them from the scriptures uh in the twilight after school so there are general memories is all her. She seems to have been a very strong-minded, intelligent woman who was very independent herself. Um, his father features not at all beyond, you know, conscientious two lines, uh, a cameo appearance, so to speak, and after that he's gone. Um, so Kim Panik basically grows up as this boy who is incredibly sensitive, incredibly not sporty at all, loves his books, would love nothing more than to spend all his time reading, um, is not so great at school, right? So I think one of the most formational parts of his childhood that he remembers with great detail is this point where he's getting too old for his grandmother to take care of his basic education and he is sent off to Travandram where his elder brother is studying. It is uh the home a home which he shares with his mother's brother as well who is also in Travandram um training and at that point it's it's very interesting because it's a brief spell where when he is in Travandram and yet it's a spell which opens his eyes to a much wider world because you have a state at this point he's from Travancco essentially um and it's a point where the state itself is undergoing a lot of social change a lot of econ economic change. There's a nent sort of anti- Brahman movement happening on the ground. It's also a point where India is beginning to change. Right? These are the early years of the 20th century. Uh you have the partition of Bengal that's happened. You have this country uniting in this sort of show of fury against the Raj and the Sudeshi movement. uh you have the split in the Congress happening in 1907 and you have these stories of you know shoes and chairs being heard about on the banks of the Tapi. And this house in Travandram was interesting to me because you know his uncle ran the kind of house where he kept a very sort of iron watch on the boys. They were not allowed to loiter after school. They were not allowed to make friends. Uh but they were allowed to sit in on conversations that were remarkable for that time because his home was open to all kinds of people. Leading intellectuals would drop in, leading journalists would drop in. Um you know local politicians would drop in. So there would be discussions on nationalism, there would be discussions on history, on literature, on poetry. So this is the first time that you have a very young Kamanikar being exposed to much wider conversations than he would have had at home. After this, there's this spell of sort of being bounced about between schools when he's finished with Revandram and when he returns back uh to Kutinard and you have this period where you see a very sort of uh human sort of insight into this young boy who is very aware of the fact that he's not as great intellectually as his family would like him to be. There's this point where he even tries to commit suicide, right? like he drinks this. I don't know how he got his hands on a bottle of chloroform, but he drinks a bottle of chloroform. He passes out. He comes back to consciousness with his grandmother sort of hovering over him with tears rolling down her cheeks. And it's this moment that sort of instills a great sense of inadequacy and a a bit of low self-esteem as well because it's at this point where murmurss in the family about the fact that okay Madavan Madavan is not as intelligent as we might have wanted him to be are getting louder and louder and he is getting very aware of the fact that his that he's not what his family would have wanted him to be. Um, and I think this sense of inadequacy sort of stays with him into his teens and you see that when he transitions to college especially. I mean, I want to just pick up on on a kind of theme running across your your your comments, which is about, you know, he was clearly smart, um, but you might even say brilliant, but he was very inconsistent as a student, right? He was kind of erratic in the classrooms. There were certain subjects I think you mentioned math being one of them. It's just like he just really didn't perform very well right which uh for in any Indian household being bad at math is like you know the cardinal sin. How did he manage though to then find his way to Oxford to you know to obtain his undergraduate degree right I mean what was the path? Generational wealth and privilege provided these boys with a lot of opportunities. His brother had already gone abroad. His brother was already in Edinburgh. his brother writes home and says, "Look, send him across. I will take care of him. I will see to it that he gets a second chance educationally." And it's sort of like a second coming for him almost. It's almost like a chance that he can't squander. So when he finds himself in England in 1914, it's it's almost with this sense of real you see this sense of real desperation on wanting to succeed at wanting to be equal to everybody that he's meeting in Oxford. And he he does this the normal way, right? Like he sits his for his entrance examinations for Oxford University. Uh it's also a period where you know he arrives in England on the cusp of war. We're still a couple of months away from the First World War, but England is seeing a lot of labor unrest. It's seeing a lot of social and economic inequalities. Uh it's seeing the home rule bills passing through uh parliament. It's seeing a fight for uh uh female uh for universal adult franchise. um it's seeing a lot of uh change at this point and I think this change then becomes pretty foundational uh in helping a growing paneer define himself. um when he's cleared the entrance examinations and when he's studying for them, he goes up to Oxford for a bit to sort of look around the university as one does and he comes across this group of young men who are going to be his colleagues who are going to be his peers and he suddenly gets this shock because he realizes that he doesn't know as much as he thought he did you know and in Travandram and Tracor while he might have been privy to lots of adult conversations and lots of conversations on history and nationalism and politics. Over here, the conversations are far bigger. They're dealing with uh impending war. They're dealing with what's happening uh in the British Parliament at that point. It's also dealing with read with authors and writers that he's never read in his life before. And you see that sort of sense of self-doubt coming back out because he goes back to his brother and says, "Look, I clearly don't know enough. Can I please read up to know some more?" And to be fair to his brother, his brother says, "Yeah, sure." You know, do it. And it's it it was a very endearing insight into who this young man was and this sort of sense of uncertainty that he had about his own intellect, but it also began this whole pattern for him where he would always go back to study and to researching if he didn't know enough. And you see that all through his professional career. I mean, I should just mention that his journey gets off to a rather inospicious start because his brother is supposed to meet him when he gets off the boat. It doesn't show up, right? He doesn't show up and he has no idea where to get where to contact him, how to contact him, where to and he's like all he knows is that he lives on this like lane somewhere in Edinburgh. Yeah. And he arrives there at the crack of dawn and Satsa. in because by this point he's cold, he's tired, he's hungry, and he just can't find his brother. Um, you know, you you described so eloquently this kind of churn that was going on. I mean, frankly, not just in England, but throughout the world at the time, right? I mean, on the cusp of World War I where you have um obviously these, you know, massive kind of looming threat of war, but you also have kind of, you know, communism u breing kind of labor unrest, socialism, right? I mean all of these isms which are kind of floating around. You talk about how when he was at Oxford he enjoyed this kind of intellectual as well as ideological renaissance and I'm wondering if you could just say like in this massive turn that's going on what were some of his major influences? I think between 1914 to 1918 which is when he's at university you get a sense of like you said both national and international events sort of influencing a young baniker and his mind. Um so the world goes to war a couple of months after he joins university. He is now listening to conversations about what it means to be a subject of empire versus a citizen of your own country. And by citizenship, I'm not talking about uh the constitutional qualification of it as such. I'm talking about an ethos of that. What does it mean to belong to your own country? What does it mean for a national movement which and this is throughout 1914 to 1918 does just to put that in context. You have the national movement gaining a certain kind of momentum in India. You have tilakani basan joining to form the homerew league. You have Gandhi arriving in India. It's it's assuming a momentum of its own along with the kind of expectation that post the war there's going to be some kind of recompense for sending men and material to fight for a king that nobody has seen and a country that nobody has seen for panic in England there are several other influences also apart from this there's also the fact that you have the empire now keeping a very strict watch on the activities of students who in England at this point because you have a certain uh militant kind of movement also starting right you have Vidi Sawakar arriving you have Madal Lalhinga assassinating an India house official in 199 uh you have the empire now passing the kind of strict stringent surveillance laws to keep an eye on Indian students because the last thing the empire wants especially in the run-up to war and during the war is for students from a certain colony any getting restive and India is proving to be both commercially and geostrategically very valuable for the empire and that is something that remains true throughout the course of our independence movement and throughout the course of history as well and in the midst of this you have paniker beginning to write the writing becomes one of the strongest things that he ever does he begins writing in 1914 he never stops till he dies in 1963 and He's spoken by the kind of conversations he's having at the Oxford Mudless also. So the Oxford Mudgess uh is this debating society which is basically has members from Burma, from Saleon, from India, everyone's debating what nationalism means for their own individual countries. What again what impact will the war have for their individual countries? What does it mean? Um and some of these conversations are pretty heated. you know uh some of them descend into outright arguments also but it's a source of great intellectual stimulation for Paneka and I think some of his richest output comes now when he is at university it's also some of the most I think raw output that comes from him because he's writing I mean he's a first year student at at university right so he's an angry young man essentially and he's writing on citizenship he's writing on immigration He's writing on international relations. He's writing on international economics. He's writing on the kind of subjects that I mean most of us as as university students I know I never went near any of those subjects. They're pretty complex subjects. Um, but it it goes to show how aware he was of uh the kind of time that he was living through and what kind of time what that time would mean for his own country at the end of it and what it could mean for his own country at the end of it. When you say he was writing all the time, like the guy was literally writing all the time. Like war was breaking out and he was writing. Like partition was unfolding in front of his eyes and he just like dashes off a book, right? I mean he's like working on this incredibly complex negotiation. We'll talk about this in a minute with the princely states and trying to figure out what their future is. and he's writing on the side and it's just like, you know, it's again one of those things when you're like, I don't even understand how you could do one of these things, much less all of them altogether. Yeah. I mean, like I was telling you before we hit record, is is as a biographer, it was really hard to keep track of him because this was somebody whose output just never stopped. irrespective of where he was, irrespective of what was happening in the world, what was happening in the country, he just never stopped having an opinion and you know in retrospect sure it's great but at the time I can I can imagine where it must have taken to write on these subjects because they're they're difficult subjects to tackle particularly at a time when u and I think this is something you know we tend to forget that the world and India both were marked by a great deal of fluidity as far as politics was concerned, as far as ideology was concerned. Uh this is somebody who was grappling to make sense of what was happening in the world as the world happened to him so to speak. I mean I want to just touch upon one of the early themes which uh kind of featured in his work which is kind of you know his writing on nationalism right and he had this piece which came out uh early in his career on uh the notion of a quote unquote greater India and and one of the things that he argued during this time was that you know India has this fundamentally Hindu core uh and that Hinduism is absolutely absolutely vital. It's intrinsic to kind of understanding the kind of idea of India. Uh but yet at the same time you write and I just want to quote you here. You said he had no truck with Aryan notions of ethnic and racial exclusiveness and Hindu nationalist visions that anchored India in the geography of South Asia. So I guess I want to ask you, you know, having kind of thought exhaustively about all of this writing, h how and or I guess where did he sort of part ways with the Hindu right, right? Because he understands Hinduism to be absolutely central to his conception of India, but yet also does not take that to the extreme. Yeah, I think that is as much as I've watched Paneker's mind evolving through his writing, I think this is one area where he stayed pretty constant which is that at college when he is at university is when he picks up this theme of nationalism and he bases as you said nationalism for him was centered around Hinduism. It was uh the ethos around which the entire the whole country could sort of pull itself together. But he also has this great phrase that he uses which is Hinduism has a generous vagueness which allows it to sort of encompass all the casts, classes, communities, religions and languages that India comprises of. Now in the early 20th century when he's making these arguments it is based on a notion of greater India. And just for context, greater India was this rei Hindu revivalist school of thought which was essentially transimperialist. It was indoccentric. It was formed essentially as a push back to the existence of different kinds of colonialism. It was basically telling the colonialists of the day that look we were here before you and our by our I mean India India's commercial spiritual cultural influence extended across Southeast Asia and across central Asia long before you established yourself here. So for Paneka it was always uh cultural empire. It was not the kind of muscular uh territorial territory sovereignity based idea of Hinduism that you see developing uh throughout the 1920s and 1930s. Um this is something that he continues to propound right from college through the 1920s himself. It is I think for me it gets problematic when he's writing this based on a you know in a postc colonial era when he's actively writing about India uniting around the Hindu core um and he's he's you can see adaptation to some degree there as well for instance he changes the use of greater India to further India now essentially it means the same thing he's just changed it semantically. But when you are writing in a postc colonial world, when you're writing at a time when India is standing free, when it's looking to present itself as an eminary of peace, particularly, you know, in an era of cold war, u you've also served as an ambassador in several countries. That is when it becomes problematic. It becomes prone to marginalizing certain communities, certain classes, and certain voices. Um and that is where it gets chauvinistic. It it gets insular. Um I think there's a difference between being chauvinistic and insular and between being supremacist for panika and I think in 2025 we tend to forget that because for panika views like this and as a biographer who is writing in 2025 about views like this it is problematic and it is insular but that does not mean it's supremacist because he never goes onto a sectarian point of view as far as Hinduism is concerned. He continues maintaining that any brand of nationalism that India espouses must always take into account India's plurality and its diversity and it must always remember the fact that India itself is not a it's not a homogeneous monolith it's heterogeneous and that it is home to several different religions languages and communities and any brand of nationalism that we have must espouse that so I think therein lies the difference and it's a pretty crucial one well I mean you know it goes back to that you know uh early literature right which used to talk about kind of the secular school the Hindu national school and then the the kind of middle ground school which people call kind of Hindu traditionalists right and and then many people would put Gandhi in that category as well which felt that Hinduism was somehow core to India but yet did not necessarily use that as a kind of exclusionary tool then to kind of uh rule out minorities and and and others from being you know quote unquote kind of full citizens of of India. Yeah. And I think also when you when you call Paneker a traditional nationalist I think that also um it it it serves as well in 2025 to remind us of the fact that this was a man whose views evolved and whose views didn't change uh who whose views didn't remain static. They remained uh very open to the idea of inclusion. [Music] Hey Granamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granthamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform, so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. So I want to ask you actually about Gandhi because um you know there's this lifelong dialogue actually that takes place between Panekar Gandhi Nu other you know the kind of luminaries but Gandhi approaches Panekar I believe it's in the early 1920s and basically asks him tries to recruit him to join the kind of freedom struggle and he turns Gandhi down which is like a pretty bold thing to have done but the The reason he does it in part is because he's like committed to teaching at Aliggard Muslim University where he's just started as a young professor and he's he's like, "No, I made this commitment. I'm not going to break it." But of course, he does then go on to have this lifelong connection with with Gandhi and and I think probably to an even greater extent with Nu. I wonder if you could just kind of step back and kind of help us understand, you know, what was his relationship like with these kind of two leading lights of the independence movement? I think with both it was very different. With Gandhi there was a lot of respect but there was also a certain sense of opportunism. There was also a certain uh amount of guts required to say no to Gandhi. Right. Like you pointed out you you didn't really tell Gandhi no when he came personally to you to recruit him to recruit you for the freedom movement. That is not when you tell Gandhi no sorry I'm committed to teaching uh at Aligar Muslim University which is where he was at the time. So pan is essentially sent as Gandhi's emissary to Amritsur in 1920 in the early 1920s. Um it's done to essentially resolve the brewing Akali problem in Amritsur which is essentially a tussle between uh the Akalis and corrupt priests who were in charge of the Gurudoare at this time and the stakeholders in that dispute alone were many because it involved two rival princes between Nabha and Patiala. um and it involved the British government. The Congress meanwhile was looking to set down sort of political roots in the region. They didn't have a strong influence in the region. So Paneka was essentially sent to head what was discreetly called the Kali Sahayak bureau which essentially to be a Congress spokesperson on the ground and to try and sort of mediate the disputes that were happening on the ground. Um and it's remarkable that he was sent because I mean this is a this is a Mallayali man with no uh knowledge or usage of Hindustani nothing. He was just sent in blind and Gandhi basically asks uh Panikar look uh do do you think you have what it takes to go there and he knows that it is a make or break moment for him. It's sort of arising also at a point where panikar is now done with aligar. he's done with academia. He wants to join the independence movement in some way. And you know to quote him, he says, I wanted I wanted to join politics. This seemed to him to be a likely sort of entry point because if you're sent as Gandhi's emissary, surely you know there's going to be some kind of stepping stone to some kind of political career in his near future. Now throughout the duration of his time in Amitsar he does very well. It's also one of the first times that he comes into contact with Neu which is you know it's a I'll just pick that up in a minute but I just want to complete uh you know his arc with Gandhi so to speak. Now he's very successful. Panika is very successful in mediating the Akali dispute. Gandhi is very pleased with him. You see this moment uh as also Paneka deciding to get Gandhi involved in the temple entry movement in Travancco which was ongoing and I thought this was a remarkable point of opportunism because it was also it also to me pointed to Paneker's desire to get the Congress more involved with what was happening with the princely state at this point and Paneker had been interested in the temple entry movement since the early 1920s. He had joined this magazine called Swarajia in Madras after he left Alikar in 1922. Um and he it was his first inter journalism. It it obviously was not a successful one because he was very very keen on getting involved in local politics far more than he was at actually reporting the news. Um and one of the causes that he had got involved with in 1923 was the temple entry movement in Trainco. He had been trying for a while to get uh Congress leaders interested in what was happening in Trac. Um once he's done well for the Congress and Amritsa, he sees it at a as a chance to get Gandhi interested as well. He speaks to Gandhi about it. He brings Gandhi to a point where he's cautiously open to the idea but not willing to get fully involved. Um and to me there it speaks to uh Panikar's desire to put a greater face to the causes that he was interested in and you see that also when he founds the Hindustan Times in 1924 he's basically asked Gandhi to come and inaugurate the newspaper and he knows that that's going to be an immense commercial philillip to have Gandhi inaugurating a national newspaper um and Gandhi does so Gandhi has no desire ired to do so because communal riots have broken out across North India. The last place Gandhi wants to be seen is inaugurating a newspaper but he comes because he's committed to Palikar that he will do so and he does so. So that arc for me is is one where there's immense respect but there's also full awareness of the kind of advantage that it that Gandhi could bring by getting Gandhi on board with certain causes with Nika has a longer relationship. It's also a far more complex relationship. It begins also again when he's sent to Omrit Sar is Gandhi mystery. It's the first time uh he comes into contact with Neu because Nu is his direct point of contact. He will be reporting uh to both Gandhi and Neu from Amritsur and there's this remarkable point uh during his time in Amritsur where you know he's coming to the end of his time in Amritsur and he's clearly looking for that open door into politics that he wanted. That's not going to come so easy because nu says to him look why don't you put together this series of essays on the non-cooperation movement because for NU paniker seemed to be this ideal spokesperson this ideal PR person so to speak didn't like that at all because at this point his ambitions were huge and he have this remarkable period where he's essentially ghosted Nu you know there's this remarkable period where Nu is writing repeated letters saying you you know what's happening what are your intentions I'm hearing you know you want to set up a newspaper what does that mean for the Kali Sah bureau and there's there's no response you know and it's it's this moment where again you see having remarkable guts because you you really don't do that ner either uh especially if you want a career in politics uh but it also earns Panek Nu's very reluctant respect because here is somebody who is willing to do this and it's it to me it spoke really highly of NU as well and you see NU then keeping an eye on Ganikar's career trajectory his intellectual trajectory all throughout the late 1920s the 30s the 40s and by the 1940s he's sort of established himself has established himself as a foreign policy Mandarin he's established himself as a historian of some note um He's he's served the princes. He's been a very vocal proponent for federation. So by the time NU sort of picks him to represent India in nationalist China, NU is very interested in Paneker's mind. Naru is very interested in Paneker's uh views about what India should look like as a postcolonial nation. Um you know the sort of arc that you see with Panikar and Neu is sort of marked only by their relationship when Paneka is ambassador in China to me following his entire arc from 1923 onwards till 1963. That's a a decade long relationship and it's marked by a great deal of respect. You see Neru constantly allowing Paneka to have points of view with which NU especially in the later years does not agree. They have an immense rift that develops between the two of them in China. um they have a constant sort of intellectually as well as far as uh issues of language are concerned, issues of u linguistic reorganization of the states are concerned. By the later part of their careers, both men are clearly irritated by each other. But you have this constant ability to engage, right? Because even in 1955 when Paneker has presented co-authored a report which has really annoyed NU because NU was never in favor of linguistic reorganization of the states. You have NU reluctantly saying okay these are their views we will have to take them on board. So by the 19 by the 1950s and early 1960s panic has entered the the phase of being a chauvinist Hindu nationalist that I was referring to earlier and that is something that considerably annoys Nero. He's challenged by it on the international stage as well. He's asked by a French journalist that you know you have a sitting uh ambassador at this point and a government servant who is essentially doubling down and saying that this is the crux Hinduism is the crux around which India should unite. What are your views? And her is considerably discomforted. He's considerably put out by this. It's not something that he wants to hear as the prime minister and a very secular prime minister of a newly independent country. and he says you know there are plenty of people with different points of view in this country that doesn't mean that they're the correct views you see this kind of irritation also happening when panikar authors this article in which he says that Hindi should be the national language now that's not something panikar has ever subscribed to in his life and yet in the late 1950s it is stuff that he's writing about and speaking about very openly and again you have nu having to refute this and saying you know this is absolute nonsense because India is home to multiple languages and it's not uh right to impose any one language on an entire country. Um so you have this constant sort of very complex intellectual relationship which is at the end of it and at the foundation of it which I found very um not interesting but it's something that we seem to have forgotten in 2025 which is essentially you have respect for views that are not necessarily your own. you can have space for somebody who irritates you possibly on a daily basis. Uh but you still find them to be of remarkable use and profit and interest, right? Because you see paniker being sent back despite that constant annoyance to hold very important positions after China especially, you know, he's he's sent to Egypt. He's the co the head he's a member of the states reorganization commission. He is in Paris. So it's not that NU pulls him out of active public service altogether. There's still that space for Paneker to be as important as he once was. I want to kind of ask about this experience that Paneker has working with the princely states. I mean as you mentioned I think it was three princely states that he advised but he also is appointed a secretary for the chamber of princes right which is the kind of collective council where the princely states are are are represented during uh colonial times and he's furiously trying to work out what the prince's role will be in a kind of new pre-independence at that point political setup which would give the native Indians more political power but eventually he gets sacked from that post um it kind of rather unceremoniously. I mean just to tell us a little bit about how he got involved with the princely states and and then what were the circumstances which led ultimately to his ouster? I think getting involved with the princely states is another facet of you know panikar's immense ambition and his immense desire to be where he thought uh you know power was likely to be because he gets he's very aware of the princely states very early on and this is possibly you know at the end of the first world war when you have the maharaja bikaneer signing the treaty of versai and making a statement and saying you know India deserves to be counted because we represent 1/5if of the human race. Paniker's early writings on the princes start around this time. It's around 1919 1920 that he begins writing about the princely states and you can again see an evolution of his beliefs towards the princely estates at this point because his earliest writings about them are distinctly contemptuous. I mean he says look uh they are ruled by backstage intrigue and they are ruled by their zenanas. Um that is a point of view that tends to change as the 1920s continue. He becomes more aware of the fact that the princes are now sitting up and wanting to be counted especially post the first world war. They want to be taken notice of by the raj and the princes and the raj have their own evolving relationship. It's a relationship that both parties have been taking stock of at various points throughout uh India's history and and throughout the course of the crown's presence in India. The 1920s is a point at which the princes are now looking to for reassurance as far as their sovereignity is concerned, as for reassurance as far as their privileges are concerned and for reassurance as to what um Sarah means as far as their own states are concerned. So when Paneka goes to Europe and he goes to Europe after he leaves the Hindustan times in 1925, there's a kind of lag in his career. He's still been writing of course because he never stops and he's constantly writing about the princely states at this point. He's now written this manuscript uh in which he calls for a blueprint for federation. He says okay the states are great laboratories for the preservation of regional identities. They are great laboratories for self-governance. Um I think we should start looking at a map in which princely state can come on board with the provinces and move towards uh federal India. It's not he's not he's hardly the first voice to call for federal India. There is a constant discussion about what path constitutionalist reform should take, what path federation should take. He's not the first voice to have done so. But he's becomes the defining definitive voice on it simply by dent of the fact that when he's in Europe and indeed he's in London for a bit to train as a lawyer and he gets word that Kan Huxer is in town Kan Huxer is at the time adviser to the Maharaja of Kashmir he is in England in order to sort of find legal representation for the chamber of princes because there is an Indian states committee led by Saharot Butler coming out to India in 1928 which is going to reassess where the princes stand as far as the empire is concerned. Now Paneka finds a way and he he does this in this in this really um well he has this method of using networks in order to get where he wants to go. So he knows somebody who knows somebody. So he gets the manuscript sent to Kan Huxer who's staying at the rits and then there's this very entertaining bit in his memoir where he says, "Oh, I was hap I happened to be walking outside the rits and Kan Paneker K and Her saw me through the window and summoned me in." Now I don't know whether that's true. We will never know whether that's true. But what we do know is what Huxer read in that book interested him immensely because this seemed like Huxer to be a good way forward. and he brought brings in KM Paneka as an adviser to the court of Kashmir and it's from here that his career with the princely states start and it's a remarkable career because you see you know and in my first book I've written about uh BB Menon and Sar Battel and this intense effort they took to integrate 565 princely state I think for me it it was fascinating to see that panika comes in at a point which is sort of bookending the process of integration. It's sort of kicking off a process of trying to bring the princes legally and constitutionally on board a blueprint for a modern India. And there are so many stakeholders in this there's so many princes. There are so many differing egos. They're princes who don't like each other but Yala and Bikiner hate each other. uh you know the nawabal has his own interests uh there's hyderabad who's refusing to be part of any kind of federation uh there's tra with cdi rama swami playing this rather machavelian role in the middle uh each of these princes also have their own relationship with the British residents in their states they have their own relationships with the incoming and outgoing viceroy there are so many stakeholders in all of this and this is this is just the princely states themselves, right? There's also an ongoing national movement in the background. There's also an ongoing uh Congress push towards trying to understand what freedom will mean for the country. There is also the Muslim League and its growing resentment um and its growing fears about being um not safeguarded enough as far as far as its own rights are concerned. And I think you can see the clearest um sort of reflection of this playing out at the first round tables where you have so many stakeholders being brought to the table and it's a it's an incredibly significant moment in India's constitutional history because you have Indians now sitting across the table from the British from British officials as equals. They are sitting there to to negotiate what a postc colonial future will look like. Paneka at this point is representing a chamber of princes that is already intensely fractured from within. They're already dissenting opinions about what federation should look like. People are rulers are throwing tantrums about, you know, um confederation versus federation, whether they wanted to move away from the crown and its paramount or not, what moving away from the crown would look like as far as their own territories were concerned. This is in direct opposition to what was happening politically with provin with political leaders sitting at the round tables sort of negotiating dominion status because this was also a period where globally the Balffor declaration had happened. Arthur Balfur had defined what dominion status would be which is essentially self-governing entities within an overarching British Empire. Um so did we want dominion status? Did we want federation? the Muslim League said okay but what about us so you have a round table that's tanking because of common fishes you have also an incredible amount of ambiguity around what the concept of federation would be I think where paner got uh dragged into all of this is pretty much what naturally would happen when you are facing so many conflicting interests and personalities is you get caught in office politics to put it very crudely and very simply right so there's this moment where he is on the verge of being uh sacked as somebody who is representing federal interest because by this point and this is 1933 the government of India act still hasn't been passed the government of India act 1935 and office politics has already got the better of paneker basically a lobby princess has gathered to uh say okay this is the guy who's shephering us federation we don't know what federation is we are clearly heading to our domes out with him. And so this trumped up charge of uh corruption and financial graft is brought about against Paneker. He's completely distraught because all he's been trying to do is to get the princes on board a united sort of push towards uh modern India. Um and he this is also point at which you have local movements starting within the states. You have popular movements starting within the states all pushing for greater rights among citizens of different states. So Panika is taking all of this into account and is going like okay it's now or never. We have to get the princess on board and suddenly you have this motion to sack him that is again sort of Patiala steps in and saves the day because Patiala has been elected as chancellor of the chamber. Princess Patiala basically uh gets panicker alone for a bit and says you know I'm the new chancellor of the chamber princess and I designate you to be my secretary. So this moment where he's about to be sacked is luckily saved and it's also a great sort of example of how Paneka continues to be at the center of where things are actually happening right um and federation obviously didn't come to the the successful fruition that Kaneker was hoping for by 1939 everything has gone off the rails even though the government of India act 1935 has been passed It's still one of the greatest constitutional landmarks that we have in modern Indian history. But the princes themselves are really, really freaked out. They have no idea what that's going to mean. They have no desire to sign any kind of prototype of the instrument of accession. They don't know what that will mean for their privileges, for their rights. Everything's gone off the rails by this point. Then the Second World War comes into being by 1939. Congress ministries resign. Lindico sends the country to war and Federation is put into cold storage and the derailment of Federation leaves Kaneker incredibly disillusioned. It's one of the greatest professional disillusionments he's had until now because China is obviously still waiting to happen. So I want to ask you know kind of two two things before we wrap up. Right. One is about China where after 47 NU sends Bonnagard to Ping who was then P king as India's ambassador in a move which you describe as being the cause of significant controversy and debate. Um why was his posting at that time so contentious and and why do you think Nu selected him specifically for this role? I think the contentiousness bit comes in retrospect. I think so much of that comes in retrospect when we look back at history. I think at the time NU made the choice based on the fact that right on the cusp of independence and indeed in the first few for first few months after we didn't have a trained foreign service we didn't have career diplomats. So Nero had to send men and women whose judgment he trusted, whose mind he trusted and who could be trusted he felt to give him uh sort of unbiased readings of what was happening in important postings. This did result in a few strange postings like Asaf Ali was sent to Washington DC was sent uh to Moscow and Kanika gets sent to nationalist China. Um that is something that I think uh gets lost because the controversy of what happens with Paneka's reportage from China tends to blur everything else. When Paneka is a nationalist China, he's obviously gone there with a brief, right? Because as an ambassador, you get sent with a certain brief. Uh from New Delhi's point of view, it was pretty clear that the communists at some point were going to turn the tide as far as the ongoing civil war was concerned. The question was what would happen next. Now if you see Paneka's repotage from nationalist China, it's actually quite precient in that he sends this memo in November 1948 where he says that the communists are about to come to power and what's going to happen next is that they're going to do what nationals China was already doing which is a process of historical territorial consolidation. They are going to go down that path. His repotage gets shaky in communist China, right? you he's gone there and he's sent there again right he's sent Nerus has no thoughts about second thoughts about sending him back to the people's republic of China uh has also been one of the first people or one of the earliest people along with Sedar Patel who was calling for the early recognition of our early recognition of the people's republic of China when he sent back you is when you can actually see a a sort of convergence of his views and neru's views As far as civilizational solidarity was concerned, both men felt that India and China had a shared civilizational ethos which could be utilized in order to ensure um a rising Asia in a decolonizing world. Where he gets remarkably almost comical is in the extent to which he's swept away by the communist leader. Um, so there's this this point where he is reporting that, you know, Cho and Lie had fingers that resembled tender green onion shoots and where he describes Mao as this new age Moses who's going to lead his people to the promised land. That is where it's getting certainly a little bit dubious to put it lightly. um you know other countries have also noticed that he is getting first show and first look in at various appointments with new communist leaders. The MEA is by this point up in arms against the kind of repotage that's coming out from Paneka in China. But you also have to contend with the fact that there's also a shaky policy as far as we're concerned as far as definitely Tibet is concerned. Uh there's also a lot of um uh push from NU to keep Paneka on as ambassador in spite of whatever's happening. In 1952, Paneker makes his gravest mistake where he does not mention the border in negotiations with Sha despite repeated uh protests from his colleagues in the Ministry of External Affairs who are repeatedly telling NU that look why is our ambassador not mentioning the border, right? um in 1950 and49 Sedak Patel had warned Neu about this and said that you know uh our ambassador in China seems to be more an advocate of the communist leadership than he seems to be our ambassador. So there were warnings that NU had from all quarters. I think the contentiousness bit of paniker's time in China comes from the mistakes that he made on the ground as far as reporting on the Chinese invasion of Tibet was concerned on our border with China was concerned that tends to cloud a lot of the context behind which NU sent him which is essentially that he shared the same views uh certainly as far as civilizational history and shared sort of uh potential of partnership um and a definite respect which I talked about earlier for Paneker's mind which is something that Neu then was called on to defend in 1959 when there was further trouble between India and China and by this point Paneker was back from his last posting in France. He had also had a severe stroke which had left him considerably physically debilitated. um and he was a member of the Rajya Sabha at that point and Nu was called on to defend his ambassador's doing in China at that point which was not something that he enjoyed doing at all. I I want to kind of end by asking you I mean a bit of a a tough question but because you've kind of given us this kind of entire scope and sweep of of this man's incredible life you know as you think about sort of from the vantage point of 2025 where we are today with kind of you know the Indian political and foreign policy scene what were some of the lessons or touchstones of Bunnar's own thinking that you think the current leadership or ruling dispensation would be well suited to kind of keep in mind right I mean um he obviously had deep thoughts on federalism on nationalism on foreign policy on India's a maritime power on this kind of civilizational kind of greatness which is very popular theme these days what are some of the things that you think he was a kind of early mover on right I mean you mentioned this kind of word preient earlier what were some of the things that he touched upon where maybe he was you know ahead of the curve for his times. I think he was I think he was precient on uh as far as looking at the world around him was concerned and bringing what he saw was happening around him to bear on what he thought India should be. So for instance when he is in Europe uh in the 1920s and he is in Paris and those was some of the most fascinating couple of years of his life actually speaking is where he uh comes into contact with so many different dissident uh from so many far-flung colonies of empire and he begins to realize that when you zoom out historically and geographically India is present in an entire region of Southeast Asia that each of these regions are witnessing their own responses to empire to imperialism to fascism. What can your response as a country be? Right. And you see that sort of shift in his thinking happening at this point when he represents uh a delegation that's gone to be in France and he's speaking about the importance of recognizing that the end of colonialism has to incorporate Asia and Africa. There cannot be an end of colonialism that that does not acknowledge this. That's one. The other is when he authors this tract of on independent maritime policy, he does so in the 1940s when we're still a colony when the Second World War is at its apex. Um he's done so because he's watched Japan transform itself into this juggernaut that's blazing across the Pacific that's at our doorsteps in the northeast. and he's gone ahead and authored this tract which calls for India to remember that historically and geographically it has a very strong seabboard that it should utilize. Um he calls for these steel wings that should be set up across Sri Lanka, across uh Singapore, across Yemen. He even calls for a regional order right in the Indian Ocean uh with Great Britain, South Africa, Australia all in important positions in that regional order. It's quite it is quite precient honestly if you look at it. It it's kind of like a quad for that era. Yeah, it's kind of like a quad for that era which is um it's it's almost visionary right and he based on his understanding of our history which was phenomenal. Um he reminds us especially when we're independent to to remember that even natural barriers like the Himalayas shouldn't be taken for granted that the Second World War has changed all of that. that air power must supplement naval power. Um, in all of this where the commonality and the common denominator is that he never stops thinking about what it means to be an Indian, what it means to be India, right? That's something that he constantly is thinking about. Um and even when it comes to his brand particular brand of nationalism, I think that phrase that he deploys so artfully where he says Hinduism has the generous vagueness that encompasses all other religions and languages communities that's something also that uh remains something I think that we need to remember in 2025. My guest on the show this week is the author Narani Basu. Her new book is called a man for all seasons the life of kan panuker. I I love this blurb that the former national security adviser shifer menan gave for you just to paraphrase it. It's the story of a man for all seasons is that it's a book for all times which is a lovely lovely line he's given you. Thank you so much for for writing this book um which is an exhaustive account of this incredible person's life but also for taking the time for the show today. Thank you for having me. Grandma is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the English Sun Times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcast. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Grandamasha, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemamasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mirages is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart glass.