================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: GRGQOcFClHU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GRGQOcFClHU
TITLE: The Person Who Runs HR For 2 Million Federal Workers
CHANNEL: a16z
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-02
DURATION: 42m 57s
VIEWS: 1,598
LIKES: 0
COMMENTS: 23
TAGS: a16z, andreessen horowitz

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
It’s no secret that while Silicon Valley is flush with top talent, Washington struggles. Complex compliance regimes, low risk tolerance, poor performance evaluations, and a focus on process over outcomes hurt our government’s ability to get things done.

a16z General Partner Katherine Boyle sat down with Scott Kupor, Director of the Office of Personnel Management, and Greg Barbaccia, the United States Chief Information Officer, to discuss what’s broken, how to fix it, how government really works on the inside, and making government cool again.
 
Timecodes: 
0:00  Introduction
0:43  Meet the Guests: Scott Kupor & Greg Barbaccia
1:12  Private Sector to Public Service: Motivations & Challenges
2:45  Understanding OPM and Federal Talent
5:43  Culture Shock: Risk, Compliance, and Regulation
12:14  Performance Management in Government
17:33  Attracting and Retaining Top Talent
22:54  Bridging the Public-Private Divide
24:04  Bringing Tech Talent into Government
28:50  AI, Technology, and Mod
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 10,242

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
We are talking about a subject that I think is top of mind for everyone. Making government cool again. >> This is a administration that wants to lean forward and isn't afraid of upsetting some of the ecosystem that's out there. >> Technology continues to advance rapidly. And you know, just to be blunt, the government is nowhere near prepared for it. We just don't have the right talent here. >> While it's very hard for the government to compete with Silicon Valley on compensation, we do rule on mission. You get access to some of the world's hardest problems in the government. You get agency to affect potentially over 300 million people. >> The US will win the future if we blank >> win the AI race. Remain undistracted. >> Scott, Greg, it is so wonderful to have you both here. Today we are talking about a subject that I think is top of mind for everyone. Making government cool again. Um, we're pleased today to have Scott Cooper, who's the director of the Office of Personnel Management, and Greg Barbachia, who's the chief information officer for the United States. Both of you have very different backgrounds coming to Washington than what we've previously seen. But we are seeing this, I would call it a renaissance of people in the private sector, particularly people in tech with tech backgrounds wanting to serve their country, wanting to come into government. So, I think I'd start with you, Scott. You know, you were employee number one, managing partner at Andre Horowitz, had had long been in the private sector, helping to build companies, investing in companies. What made you say, "I'm done with managing a 600 person organization, and now I'm going to manage 2.3 million people in the federal government." >> Well, first of all, thanks for having us. It's uh it's really and it's great to see you again, obviously, as a as a former partner. Um I definitely was not running away from A6 and Z just to be clear, in case Mark and Ben are listening. In case Mark and Ben are listening, no, no, no. I love A6Z. You know, look, it was very simple, which is um I just thought it was a confluence of events that made sense, which is uh we know we're on this kind of precipice from a fiscal perspective, right? We're clearly spending way more money than we should and we've got this problem, which I know Greg is, you know, wellversed on, which is technology continues to advance rapidly and, you know, just to be blunt, the government is nowhere near prepared for it. And some of that is obviously a procurement issue and others that I know Greg and team are working on it. A lot of it's a talent issue. We just don't have the right talent here. So, it was a combination of those things. you know, an administration that I felt like actually this was a real priority for them and you know, we've had incredible support from the president around everything from what you know, David Sax is doing on the AI side to obviously a lot of the merit hiring proposals that we're doing. So, I don't know, it just was almost like serendipitous, which is right time for me personally, right time uh luckily for Mark and Ben to be able to say, "Hey, like you know, if if this is what you want to do, like you know, you know, go do it." And then an opportunity to really just kind of do some things that I thought were really important for the country. >> Totally. And I think a lot of our tech listeners probably have never heard the term OPM before. So maybe maybe just give us an overview. What does OPM do? And then when you were thinking about as you said talent is so important. Um but it's something that I think a lot of normal Americans don't think about like the talent in the federal government. What does that even mean? So maybe talk about your your thesis and philosophy of how you can help reshape that. >> Absolutely. So um it's not surprising if people don't know what OPM is. As I've said publicly before, I didn't know what OPM was either until uh the transition team started talking me about these opportunities. So it stands for office of personnel management as you mentioned. I think the very simple way to think about it is we are the kind of talent organization for the federal government. So our job is everything to hopefully bring the right talent in to make sure we have uh policies around you know what are the hiring standards for government? What are we going to do on performance management? The goal in my mind is very simple which is how do we attract and retain the very best people in the country and you know make sure that we can deploy their efforts on behalf of the American people. So that's at a very high level kind of how to think about it. Um, just to kind of level set again for the organization, we've got about roughly, we started the year about 2.4 million civilian employees. So, we don't have responsibility for uniformed military, but there's about 2.4 million civilian employees. We've done a lot of work over the course of this year, a lot of which was catalyzed by Elon and the Doge team. As a result, we expect probably that we'll end up with somewhere around 2.1 million employees at the end of the year. So, roughly about a 300,000 uh reduction. Um and uh you know as as you know those are a lot of those came from kind of the voluntary programs that do put together these deferred resignation programs and other stuff. So despite the fact that obviously anytime you're talking about people losing jobs it's obviously a real serious issue. The good news is I think we were able to design programs that gave people the option if they just didn't want to be part of the go forward organization to be able to kind of you know self- select and uh you know volunteer to kind of go do other things. >> Absolutely. And we'll certainly get more into kind of organizational design and how you remake something that that big. Um, Greg, I want to come to you because you you have a very different background of having worked at Palunteer, um, a veteran, um, you know, done a host of different things, but really always focused on technology. What was it that made you say, "Okay, now I'm going to bring this private sector technology expertise into into government." >> Yeah, like Scott mentioned, right administration, right timing. Uh, it's certainly in the zeitgeist lately that this is a time for change. this is a administration that wants to lean forward and isn't afraid of upsetting some of the ecosystem that's out there. So I saw this as a real opportunity um especially where I'm at in my career to make some different change. So I jumped at the opportunity. >> And then when when you hear the word chief information officer, I think a lot of people probably think very different things about what that could mean. What what are your your tasks your roles and what what does a CIO do inside the federal government? >> Yeah. So it is not directly analogous to what you would see in the private sector. Um I am responsible for technology policy and budgeting decisions across the entire um executive federal branch. So one of the big priorities of the administration is one government effort. So how do we move forward as one government? Um a lot of the issues we've had in the past where individual agencies do things in silos. So how do I galvanize the CIO community to move the administration priorities together as one? >> Yeah. Yeah. One question I always ask people when they come from government into Andre and Horowits is what has surprised you most? Because I always see this sort of culture shock on people's faces and having left the government after 20 years and and coming to work for for us. It's a very different culture. So I want to ask you all the same question. Maybe let's start with you. You Greg, what was the thing? You know, you've been in seat how many days now? >> Uh 230 something. So just counting. >> Yeah. Yeah. But it is by days, right? Every day counts. So what has surprised you most in those first say first 100 days? What was the thing you wrote down and said, "I just can't believe that this is how it works or this is like this was not what I was expecting." >> The compliance and regulatory regime is incredibly complex. Coming from Silicon Valley where we move fast and break things, you do not have that opportunity in the United States government at this level. So that was a surprise to satisfy some cliches. often things do take an act of Congress and often times we do need a fed to make a federal case out of something. Uh so that was very eye opening for me. >> Yeah. And Scott, you've been in seatund and >> yeah about 110 days or so right now. So yeah first 100 days what's been the thing that shocked you the most? a little I want to give a little nuance at least to at least what I've observed uh that Greg was talking about and maybe this is the same thing which is there's no question right there is a different uh you know kind of compliance and you know regulatory environment for sure and and look a lot of those are good reason but what was most interesting to me from a culture and people perspective is just this over obsession with risk right and so I I sat in a couple meetings in my first uh you know couple days I was like why do we do that this way right and the answer was well if we don't do it this way we might get sued and then something might happen and I asked people I was like How many times have we actually been sued, right? Like how many times that actually happened? And and the honest answer is like blank stairs. Nobody actually knows and nobody actually tracks it. But we've kind of just embedded in the culture this idea that risk is like this past fail thing. Like you either have risk or you don't have risk and if you have risk, god forbid like you should ever go there basically. And so that to me was like the most eye opening thing. And I guess I wasn't I shouldn't have been surprised by it, but it was just almost like a cult of obsession basically that anything that involved some element of risk that was like the primary thing we were trying to do was mitigate risk. There was no concept of either how big or how small is that risk and then certainly no concept of the world that you know you and I you live in and I used to live in which is kind of how unbounded is the upside relative to that risk. Like that conversation just never happens and that was just super eye opening for me. >> Have you reflected on why that is? is I mean there's always been the joke that Washington is a town of lawyers, right? So everything is is a legal issue. It's not a business issue. It's not a you can't look at it from any other lens. You're a lawyer. Um what is your sort of takeaway as to how we've gotten to the point where we never look at upside and we only look at let's just make sure that we don't fail. >> I think there's a couple issues. So one is I think that's right. Look, there's a ton of lawyers that run around here and that make a living basically scaring people into worrying about risk. And look, as a yes, as a former lawyer myself, uh you know, it's the full employment act for lawyers here in DC. There's no question. And some of my best friends are lawyers, so I don't mean that any, you know, derogatory way. Um, I think the other thing is part of it is the political system. So if we just forget about like the executive branch, people like us, if you go to the other side, right, down this way towards the hill, um, the problem is anytime somebody makes a mistake, the opposite party basically wants to use that mistake as an example for why their entire position is wrong. Right? So the one I love to uh talk about as you know in our conference room in uh Menllo Park we have a Celindra uh an old Celindra P I don't even know what it is a panel or something that Mark kind of somehow picked up at one point in time and if you remember the whole debacle over Celindra right this was in the um Obama administration you know they did this big loan it turns out Celinda goes bankrupt and everyone was like look Obama's an idiot this is terrible right the government should never be doing this stuff now probably the government probably shouldn't have been doing that is so uh but the point is nobody ever said okay like what are the other 50 projects maybe that we've done if we think clean energy is important. What are the other 50 things we've done? And yes, like some are going to fail and some are going to succeed. Okay. And then hopefully some succeed wildly. But there's no concept I would say of a portfolio. >> Yes. >> Everything is a one-off project. And when a one-off project fails, then whichever party didn't sponsor it says those guys are idiots. This is why you should never vote for them. This is why you should never trust them. So I think that's that's a bigger part of it. Um you know uh you asked me like what's been different. The other thing is like the number of oversight agencies and the amount of activity this government spends. I mean, Greg, I'm sure you deal with it too, but you know, every day I have a report from the GAO or I have a report from the OIG or I have report from, you know, God knows who or some Democrat on my committee who, you know, doesn't like what we're doing. And they're all well-intentioned, right? They're all intended to be oversight, but then you've created this culture of oversight, which therefore then means like we should never take any risk because nobody wants to like see their department show up in a GAO report, basically. So, we've just overdone this concept of risk um as a way to actually, you know, kind of direct behavior. >> Totally. And and I'd love to hear your thoughts on it, too. Where do you see sort of the misunderstanding or miscalibration of risk going wrong in terms of working with technology or bringing technology into to the federal government? >> Like Scott mentioned, uh for me specifically, I have more auditors auditing my team than I have team members. Uh and that's uh not hyperbole. >> Yeah. Um, in the private sector, lawyers are focused on how do we enable the business in a way that's responsible and how do we give our leadership a sober analysis of risk. In the government, it is very hard to lose your job and very hard to get fired. And one of the only ways that happens is when you get sued and also like Scott mentioned, when you get dragged up to the hill um and all these victory laps the um party that's not in power at the moment takes. So that uh you know just encircles everything we do. >> Yeah. And but you know I would just add and you know again Katherine you know this from the world that you live in today like >> I'm I'm not sitting here and anything Greg is like none of us is saying we should go do the Silicon Valley risk here, right? I'm saying like let's just throw cost away like we do need to make sure people get their social security checks and people you know actually we have a national defense system that works but we're so far on the other side that like just some modicum of saying I've been using the term internally in my team measured risk is what I've been telling people like that's an objective for the organization and what I'm just trying to get them slowly to say is look like there's no such thing as 100% on any test everything has some risk let's just understand it and yes if the if it's catastrophic and if we get it wrong and that means like the national security of the government is in play then we probably shouldn't do that. Okay. But like the vast majority of things we do don't involve sovereignty or national security or does somebody actually get a social security check? >> Yeah. No, that that is a good point that not everything is a crisis and this is a town that specializes in crisis. >> We love a crisis. Yes. >> But you you actually you you said something very interesting. I I believe it was on um on on either ABC or NBC, but you said that only 4% of federal employees are ranked below expectations. 60% are ranked at meeting expectations. And you know going back to this this culture of we can't fire anyone or we can't actually talk about anyone's performance. Yeah. Maybe talk a little bit about how coming into an organization where everyone is a superstar. Yeah. And no one is bad at their job. How do you kind of shuffle through okay these are these are the high performers and these are low performers given that that everyone is ranked on a on a on a great a grading curve as you've said. >> Yeah. So let me actually give you let me give you some new numbers cuz it's actually even worse than what you said. Oh goodness. Okay. >> The good news is it's worse. So uh the narrative still plays right which is Okay. So just to take one step back, everybody in the government gets ranked, well not everybody, most people get ranked one through five in their annual review. Five is the best score. One is the, you know, worst and three means you're meeting expectations, right? You're doing what you're supposed to do. So fours and fives, so the very very top is roughly 65 to 70% of people get a four or five. 90 when you add threes, fours, and five, that's 99.7%. Okay? So 99.7% are a three or higher. 0.3% therefore is a one or a two. Now look, in a 2.3 or 2.4 or 2.1 million workforce, you might expect like it's probably the case that not everyone is above median and you would expect that there's enough of a population that you would have some normalized type of distribution, right? That's that's just not the case. So um one of the things that we are doing and we just put out guidance on this at least with respect to what are called the SCEs which are the most senior level people in government is we are effectively doing a modicum of a force distribution and so we put out guidance that says only 30% of the people can be ranked a four or five. Okay. >> Um we didn't put in any guidance as to what the others are but we're really trying to kind of slowly change the culture to say you know what like everybody actually can be measured against one another and it's not a competition issue. It's, you know, I gave an example in a blog post I wrote. Look, if you are a head of sales in a private company and you do 105% of your quota, you probably are going to do better than the CIO in that company who, you know, achieved 90% of her objectives. Like, and that's reasonable and fair and you all did a good job. Like, everybody gets a, you know, nice congratulations and a nice, you know, certification, but that's not what we're talking about here, right? And so, we've just got this massive great inflation and as a result, >> what's really important is two things that follow that. One is the compensation and reward system that is messed up because if everybody's great, then that means bonuses just get peanut buttered out. There's no differentiation. Promotions just get peanut buttered out. And you've got this opposite problem which is the people who probably should be ones or twos don't actually ever get ranked that way. And some of that is what Greg said, which is just it's really hard to fire people. So you can understand the managerial behavior is if it's going to take me 12, 18, 24 months of appeals to do something, I don't want to do it. But as a result, therefore, sometimes people say it's better to keep a warm body in a job than it is actually to go through the process of, you know, removing them, which just makes no sense. And so, one of the things we're trying to do is we just want to create a high performance culture because the only way that we attract and retain great people is great people want to be surrounded by great people and they want to work in an environment where their activities are rewarded and where they can be promoted, you know, because of their merit as opposed to, you know, how many years they sat in a seat. So, totally, it's a fundamental cultural change. It's going to take a lot of heavy lifting to get done, but we're starting at the margins, you know, to kind of figure out a way to actually incent the right behavior. >> And what's been the reaction? I mean, in some ways, you would you would expect that there would be some people who would be kind of shocked by this, but others who say finally finally as a high performer. >> I think that's exactly right. Yeah. So, it's a very um I I hear both things. So, um look, um there's no question that if you survey the government and you ask people, uh there there was this thing called FEVs that the government does every year. uh we we didn't do it this year just because like we missed the timing for it. It's basically an employee survey, right? One of the questions I ask in Febs is does my manager actually manage performance effectively and in particular does my manager kind of you know hold people accountable behavior. You get extremely low scores on that. So there's no secret like it's not a secret. I think most people if you ask them will say yes there are people in my organization who everybody knows and it's true in any organization right it's unfortunately true even in a smaller like 86 like everybody actually knows who the people are who are really carrying their weight and also people know who's you know the small group of people who are kind of just dialing in basically right >> so it's no secret so you hear that from people and and that's good and so there are some people who say this is a good thing >> the other concerns I've got on the other end is well these are all really high performing people and so it's unfair to kind of you know not you know give everybody a high trade also you know gee are we going to create competition among these executives and my answer to all those has been I mean on the first question I was like look it's not unfair this is the world and the reality is is like we're not all you know kind of equal in terms of our contributions in an organization so like we just need to get over that fallacy and recognize it >> of course >> and it's not I'm not worried about competition either because look if we want teamwork which I think we do then you incent people for teamwork right as part of your annual review I know this right at Horowitz like one of our goals is we believe teams beat individuals and so one of the things that we review Catherine on every year is like are you working in isolation? Are you leveraging the full strengths of the team to win deals or to do other stuff and so therefore your behavior obviously reflects that if you want to be in the top you know performance of course it's the same thing in government right >> what's the behavior we want let's create an incentive structure around it let's actually measure people for it let's put it in the reviews and if we do that like I think we get the behavior that we want >> absolutely Greg I want to come to you on this question because talent is changing so quickly in the private sector particularly tech around AI around all of these new I I would say kind of paradigm shifts that are happening at once when you think about recruiting those people or bringing those people into to your world and and bringing more I would say technologically advanced people into the government what what have been some of the learnings or or how do you think about how talent impacts your or >> I think about what incentivize people to go to high performing organizations in general we give them the tools that they need to be successful we trust them to have the freedom to innovate and we need to give them access to problems that are uh sufficiently difficult and interesting to them. While it's very hard for the government to compete with Silicon Valley on compensation and uh things like equity, this is something Scott and I talk about at length, we do rule on mission. You get access to some of the world's hardest problems in the government. You get agency to affect potentially over 300 million people and you get access to things that outweigh your tenure at the organization. something that if you went to a large company, it would take you perhaps a decade to get to such uh valuable work on behalf of the company. You could come into government and very quickly do something that every citizen and taxpayer would feel. So that's something we're optimizing on right now. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Greg, Greg and I have been spending a lot of time on this and I would just augment a couple things. One is I think there's kind of look there's a there's there's compensation. Look, we're never going to solve the compensation problem with the private sector, but as Greg said, look, like I I think that's okay. I think there is a class of people who care about public service and and you know who recognize that this has value. I think part of the problem we have on attracting talent is uh number one that we don't tell the right we don't sell the right narrative quite frankly. So um I'll give you an example. When I one of my first meetings I had when I started here uh somebody on my team who's you know a career uh government person said hey you guys meaning I think she was this was the collectively doge uh >> uh was the you guys she's like you guys are destroying kind of the message we've always said about government which is the beauty of government is we attract people because you have you know effectively lifetime employment you have tenure and you know I said two things I said one is look I hate to break the story to you but like that's just a myth like there's no such thing as lifetime employment like nobody has that and that's just you know maybe that was true in the 1950s and 1960s it's not through. But I said, "Look, like that's totally the wrong message." Like the message we want is exactly what Greg said, which is if you want to come here and solve like really hard problems and do something really cutting edge and oh by the way, you want to serve your country like that's the mission we want to tell young people on the technology side and we've never told that story basically until we've had people like Greg sitting in the seat and now we have we have a good cohort of kind of technology people who can kind of do that. Um the other you know one of the other problems we have and Craig and I have talked about this too is the other problem we have with getting you know engineers here is many jobs in in the engineering organizations are managing contractors right and so if you're some like you know super smart person you know whatever coming out of you know MIT computer science or something like you actually want to do something cool you don't want to actually manage some external contractors and so we've got this endemic problem which is we're missing talent therefore we go to contractors therefore we can't actually recruit talent because the job is to manage contractors so like we have break this mold and actually bring bring people in and and Greg and I are working on an initiative which you know I'm very excited about which I I'm very confident we're going to pull off to really target on how do we get like particularly early stage technology people into the government and make them effective and actually solving you know the most complex problems that we have. >> Totally. And that that was going to be sort of my next question is you know we're sort of obsessed with pools of talent in Silicon Valley. It's like where's the where's the next pool of talent or where's the next great place to recruit from that other people haven't >> discovered. Are there sort of untapped pockets or or pools of talent where you're saying across America these people would be fantastic in exactly what you just described? Maybe they don't know we exist or maybe you know maybe they're early in career and they haven't even thought about it or maybe they're they're more senior in career and they just haven't thought about making the leap into government. Like how are you getting the message out and kind of what pools are you attacking first? >> Yeah. So um at least from my perspective and Greg may have a different view is the pool I'm trying to attack first is the early talent pool. Okay. >> And there are a couple reasons for that. One is just look as you well know AI all this stuff is moving really fast and so look we need people who are really really conversant with this stuff and it's not that people who aren't early career can't do this but you know we do know that look adoption of technology sometimes takes new people and you know who have you know very open minds on things so uh we want to do that the other thing is we have a super uh particular early talent problem broadly in the government so just to give you a sense 7% of government employees are under the age of 30 that compares with close to a quarter of the normal workforce outside of government. And by the way, on the other side, we have 45 almost percent of people over the age of 50, which compares to about 33% in the non-federal workforce. So, you know, and again, this is not an agism uh comment, but like look, if we're going to lead on AI and we're going to lead in new technologies, we need people who are probably at an earlier stage in their career where they're willing to take some of those risks. Yes. >> Um so, that's kind of thing number one I think we need to do is just kind of really go after that. So the program that you know Greg and I have been working on uh which we're hoping to roll out soon is to target okay how do we get early career people in number one. Number two is we have a technical management problem also in the government. So a significant portion of people in technical organizations are not actually technical and they're managing people who are technical and therefore they're just not quite frankly able to provide career career development other things that happen. So one of the things I think we can lean on the private sector more is to basically help us with that problem which is let's go to all the great technology companies and say you know what show us your like directors senior directors VPs let's put them on like a two-year succumbment for example in the government and have them come be managers of early career technology teams and let's start this greater kind of connectivity between the public and the private sector. Mhm. >> I think this is the other challenge we have with young talent, at least having talked to a bunch of people, is >> we've created this false dichotomy, which is you're either a career public service person or you're a career private sector person. >> And I just think that's a silly dichotomy, right? The reality is, look, most people change jobs all the time and we should make it fluid, right? And I think there's huge value to the government and there's huge value to the private sector by us having a lot more co-mingling of that. Yeah. And so, look, I would love to have young engineers come here for two or three or four years. And quite frankly, then go to the private sector and realize that the private sector values the experience they have. They value the knowledge. And if they want to maximize their earnings, great. Go maximize your earnings in the private sector. Basically, that's totally fine. But this idea that at 22 years old, you have to decide like, am I going to go be a 40-year career, you know, civil servant or am I going to go be a 40-year private sector person? I just think that's an outdated mode of thinking of employment. >> Absolutely. Yeah. Hey Greg, I'd love to hear your thoughts on that because this concept of a tour of duty. I mean, sometimes you you talk to people in Silicon Valley and they say, "Okay, if I leave my, you know, my my fastmoving job right now or where I'm seeing cutting a cut cutting edge and then I go into government, there's no guarantee I'll be able to go back. There's no guarantee those years will be, you know, the best years of my life where I've learned something." What is your pitch or or how do you kind of implement sort of a tour of duty? Have you thought about sort of how you can bring people in for a couple years and and kind of give status to that where then they'll be very attractive to the private sector coming out? >> Absolutely. I think uh the new grad younger talents a phenomenal idea. I've been thinking a lot lately about people who just had perhaps their first exit or had some success um for a few years in the private sector. Come to the government and see how you do because it is a totally different operating environment. >> Everything you do after working in tech in the government will be uh easier. I I assure you um and you will learn how to operate in environments of uh opacity that probably you don't see in the private sector. And I wanted to touch on something Scott mentioned this technology management problem. This is a very real problem. Um first we have it from a screening talent uh perspective. The people who are screening resumes for technologists in the government perhaps don't have the background to know what exactly we need, what exactly we're looking for. oftentimes are the same people screening resumeumés for a bunch of different roles under their purview. And then this also translates to contracts. So people ask, "How do these big contract sprawls happen? How do we get all these tech projects that don't make any sense?" If you work walk through the White House complex, it looks like a Suburban dealership. There's Suburbans everywhere. But every American has an intrinsic understanding of how much a Chevy Suburban should cost. So, if I were to hand you a contract for a fleet of Suburbans and they were $900,000 each, you would say this is objectively insane. That is not how much a vehicle costs. >> Uh, but we are missing that crucial uh talent in the government. This is why the people who are charged with approving contracts often times do not understand the technology problem deeply. They don't understand what is an appropriate solution. They don't understand how long it should take to solve that, how many people we need to solve it, what type of person we need to deploy at the problem. If we're speaking about contractors, this is how these large uh beltway bandits as they call them or systems integrators get these in indefinite uh term contracts that don't make any sense when you're trying to apply the problem. >> So these middle managers coming from tech is really interesting. We need the people who understand the roles and what they're doing to help adjudicate the talent that's coming in and also the contracts. Otherwise, the sprawl is just going to be an indefinite problem. Greg, uh, if I could add one thing, Greg knows this, but Katherine, just for you and for the listeners, like, so as Greg mentioned, this all starts even on the very front end of like, you know, evaluating talent. So we literally have again people who are nonfunctional experts evaluating people's resumes those and their evaluation to date until very recently has been I would call self assessment which is the candidate says I have the following skills and the the HR person says great those are the following skills it turns out are on this job description well it's not by accident that it turns out like these people are smart enough it's not by accident that it turns out their skills exactly match what's on the job description but uh we do not actually verify those so we do not do like a software coding test to hire uh you know like you would go you would probably fire one of your CEOs in any of your companies if you found that they were hiring engineers without actually >> assessing their technical talent for real. >> Yeah. >> So and and again this goes back to what we talked about from a risk perspective. So there's a historical reason for this which is literally 40 years ago we used to have a civil service exam. >> Um and uh because of there was it was basically taken away very end of the Carter administration beginning of the Reagan administration because uh it was deemed to have disperate impact. So, you know, there was lower scores for minority candidates on it. And so, the government entered into a consent decree and said, "We will, you know, henceforth no longer do these things." And that literally has sat on the books for 43 years until luckily, actually, one of the first things that, you know, we did in this administration is we were able to kind of exit that consent decree. And then we've given guidance now as part of our merit hiring plan that everybody who's going to apply for a job in the government has to have some functional assessment done, right? So, like if you're a software engineer, we're going to give you a coding job. if you're applying for an HR job, we're going to like figure out what is the right kind of way to actually test your skills. So, you've got this just like compounding problem, which is you have people hiring people who don't have donor expertise to evaluate them and there's no check on that and that just compounds the problem that Greg's talking about and those people get promoted and now you have non-technical people sitting in managerial roles and so like we have to like just dismantle each brick one by one in order to actually solve the hiring problem. >> Totally. Totally. And it's interesting because I I'm what you're talking about it's it's it's in many ways it's an opportunity with AI because I'm I'm going back to a couple years ago and this was you know at Andre and Horowitz but also I think across Silicon Valley there was the earthshattering moment of chatbt's release in 20 late 2022 and I think everyone woke up and said we have to completely reorient our organizations completely change our thinking because AI is the next you know 101 15 years at least of of how we're going to be thinking about building companies and that's you know it's three years later it's not too late for the federal government to have that that moment too. But I but this you know how do you even evaluate these companies as you said if you're someone who's never worked with AI or never even really understood the term? How are you going to know um which companies to work with? Maybe talk a little bit about sort of the tactical way that you reorient a culture to say, okay, AI is going to be very important for the federal government. We're going to have to learn new things. We're going to have to hire different types of people. We're going to have to um work with different companies where maybe we can't pronounce the names as well. like like just talk about how you tactically um implement that culture um for for what you're doing. >> Certainly the government loves process and ritual. Um so we're slowly moving towards hey we don't have to do these same mundane repetitive tasks because we could automate these things. So you know this goes back to early days of Silicon Valley the process versus the product. So uh in the government often times you celebrate the fact that you checked all the boxes and you completed a process. uh disconnected from the reality of this move the needle for whatever outcome we're trying to drive for our mission. So reorienting the culture of the employees in the government to say your success of your job is now based on the outcomes we're driving for the mission and uh being focused on that. So we are going to use this technology to kind of change what you were doing all day. Instead of just going through these tasks, we're now going to automate everything that we can do in a whatever way is responsible to the the mission being driven. And now you're going to do higher value work uh for the taxpayer. And what's important is we did this in the past. We moved uh from budgeting from ledgers to Excel and you know eventually we moved away from post into email. So instead of doing all these things physically, we did them digitally. Now it's time for another modernization. So to get pe people comfortable with their roles are intrinsically changing because of this technology um in a way we haven't seen in at least a few generations. >> Yeah, I think there's a I think there's kind of we have to attack it from a couple angles, right? one is and you know a huge kudos to Greg to David Saxs to Sriram to all the people and the president for his leadership here which is we now have at least a tops down directive right so the president you know through that report the AI report basically said look this is a critical agenda for the US government and so for people like Greg who get to talk across like all the CIOS he at least now can say hey look like the president's been very clear like this is an important agenda item and and we can have his leadership do that so I think that's awesome I think at the micro level I tell you like in our organization we're a tiny organization we're like you know a couple thousand people. Um, it's you have to just slowly slowly kind of change the behavior. So, one of the things we did like literally, believe it or not, until this week, we did not have chat GPT on anybody's actual desktop, right? And so, um, I've been, you know, pounding my CE CIO and pounding my CEO, we finally literally, you know, thanks to the new deal that GSA did for the, you know, the $1 a year deal. And I'm sure Greg was a part of that, too. We now have Chat GBT. Great. So, what I've told everybody in my team is like, it is your obligation to learn this. Now, you can pretend that it doesn't exist and you can put your head in the sand and that's fine, but like I'm not going to be responsible for that cuz the technology is going to advance whether you use it or not. The question for you as an employee in the government is like do you want to be modern? Do you want to actually like you know find ways to implement this? So I've said look like just find little things like what are you doing in your job today where you can get a 5% incremental improvement on your efficiency because you like queried something in chat JPT or you know we do a ton of rule and regulation writing you know everybody in the government does that like what a great use case for AI right again like let's not just you know look we're not going to have the AI write the rules but AI can do information dissemination it can help you you know kind of understand is this really statutory really required or is it not statuto required like >> there's little stuff like that where I'm like there's no risk in that it's okay the good news is everything almost everything The government is public information anyways. So it's not like we have to put like PII into all these systems. >> But we just have to like start to change behavior like one person at a time. >> What I worry about uh is like I think you know Greg and team will will will help us with this. But like if we say like you know we've got this big agenda to get AI then people are going to build these 5 10 15 year plans and quite frankly nothing will ever happen. microle >> and then you can go and 15 projects but like the traditional mode as Greg knows if government is like everything should be tops down like these massive white papers and all the other stuff like >> I don't think you adopt new technology through white papers you do it through actual you know individual user adoption >> and just understanding like the the culture even deeper is your sense that people use chat GPT for recipes and travel planning already and they're like Oh, great. Like now we get to use it in our job and we'll figure out new ways to use it or is is this you know there's a billion users on chatbt globally. Is is the federal government like these what is how do I use this? Like I mean are are there going to need to be training programs on how to how to do prompts? I mean like maybe maybe talk through sort of if if that's part of the culture shock as well that people actually don't use LLMs or haven't been using them in their their life for the last few years. >> I don't know if I can give you a quantitative answer on it. My gut is that there is, you know, the world that we all live in every day is still very different from the world that, you know, a billion people's good, but we know what is there, seven billion people in the world or something. So there's still, >> you know, 80% of the people plus who don't actually use these things. >> So my sense is there's a little bit of that. Um, training is a real issue. So again, like >> this is I'll give you another like great example. So, like when we first rolled it out um or were about to roll it out, um our team wanted to like literally put a three-page memo on how you should use it, what the risks are, and we literally were going to have like people sign this acknowledgement. And I was like, "No, like time out." Like, that's the last thing we'll do to ever get people to adopt it. How about like tell me the three bullets that you care about, right? Like, don't put PII in this thing if you're worried about it. >> Don't just take its answer for granted because it might hallucinate. Like, those are probably good things we should tell people, right? But like we're going to put a two or three bullet email out and we're not no one's signing a document, right? So number one is like we have to just like again it goes back to this risk issue like there's not that much risk in people using Jack GPT quite frankly in government. >> Two is training right? So the other thing we did is we said okay great like here's a bunch of re there's a ton of resources. Corsera has a bunch of free resources. OpenI has a bunch of resources and so we just said hey you know what like go schedule it with your manager but everybody you know you're entitled to two hours a month of training using all these free resources. You can take time out of work just clear with your manager but like we got to give permission for people to actually do this kind of stuff. M >> so I don't know the quantitative answer as to whether they're using it in their private lives. My guess is a lot of people are but I think they've also been told it's been a slap on the wrist which is you know don't do this in government because this is bad it's dangerous it hallucinates you know information will leak all the kind of parade of horrors >> that you know will create a GAO report that nobody wants to respond to basically. >> Yeah. And one of the frustrations with attracting talent is why I use something all day and I'm depend on it in my personal life and and now I can't use it at work. Why would I want to come and do things in an antiquated fashion? So that's something we're thinking about also. >> I can tell you the people um so you know the people on my team who you know came from Silicon Valley who are working in my department what they were doing was just they would just you know on their personal phone they were using chat to help them do stuff or like you know now at least hopefully you know you can actually use your government laptop to do something that is not nefarious activity swiveing is the term care swiveing. Okay, that's good. I had heard that. Okay, that's great. That's a good one. >> So I want to ask one final question then we'll go into a quick lightning round. But, you know, one of the things I when we talk to people from our world or from private sector who who come in to to government, I I always see they're working like 20our days like they're they're just working constantly, right? Like it is it is a race against the clock in many cases where there's just an overwhelming amount of work to do. And a lot of people do see it see it as I've have two, three, four years to make my impact. Um I'm going to do as much as possible. Um and and hopefully I'll get a little bit done, right? But but it's such a big world, you know, it's a big bite to chew, right? It's it's there's so such an overwhelming amount of work to do. >> When you look ahead a couple years from now, what are how are you going to measure yourselves in terms of coming from the private sector having impact? What are the things where you say if we get X, Y, and Z done, I will have considered my tour of duty to be extraordinary and it will have changed the the course of my organization. We'll start start with you Scott. Yeah, I I'd say for me there's really uh kind of two things and these are like my primary goals for our organization is number one is I want operational efficiency to actually be a real first class metric in the government right so you probably know this right but today like everybody's power in government is measured by how big their budget is and how many people they have and so again we get the exact behavior we incent which is everybody wants to like grow their budget and grow their people what I want people to do is say you know what we're stewards of taxpayer dollars every single dollar we spend is someone else's money we have this acronym inside of OPM we can say OPM stands for other people's money. >> Um, and that is like and that means that your job is to deliver a high quality service but your job is always to look at like what continuous improvement can I be and we should reward people actually for doing high quality service at lower cost as opposed to reward people who do the service with you know by growing their budget basically like it's very simple. So number one I would just like that would be number one for me. Number two for me just goes directly to the talent conversation we're having which is if we can get in particular and and again doesn't need to be exclusive but if we can get particular early career people whether it's tech or otherwise we have we have this as I said we've got a youth problem broadly across government so >> but anybody who wants to be a tech person or a financial analyst or an HR specialist if we can actually get early people to say early career people say going to government is awesome it's a great mission I tackle really hard problems I learned I developed my career and oh by the way if I want to then go to the private sector will recognize and reward that service >> then I think like look I would be the most optimistic person in the world like we will have like the most amazing like you know you know PAX Americana for the next like you know 50 years basically >> absolutely abs and I think it's an amazing opportunity now too for young people I mean you look at the youth unemployment rates and and and what's happening and even in the private sector where it does seem like it's much harder for college students to be to find their first job now if they view it as a two three four year career and then they can go into the private sector with some skills that actually that actually feels like a major opportunity to bring young would love to hear your thoughts as well. >> Uh absolutely making uh work in the government prestigious to the private sector employees um uh and employers for my technical goals uh focusing on the taxpayer and the citizen experience. The web of government websites is insane. That is a passion uh project of mine. We're taking this >> seriously. The concept that you have to tell um you know multiple different government agencies the same thing about you, your birth date, your address in a in a bunch of different places, that's crazy. A lot of other countries have solved this in a first class way. So we're thinking about how we could responsibly implement a consentbased citizencentric data sharing between agencies uh which would lead to a portal you could go to and see everything in one place. my benefits information, my tax return status when my uh passport expires. This is one government. It's all the executive branch. Let's, you know, serve things to the taxpayer in a way that makes sense for them. That's very important to me. And also just again going back to this concept of one government. Uh my background in intelligence and my background in Palunteer, how do we take a bunch of disperate data sets and use them to drive decision-making? Right now, we have a bunch of silos. The president signed an executive order about breaking down these silos. So using data to drive decision turns it into intelligence so we could really make these intelligence and data uh driven decisions. That's something I'm I'm focused on. >> Okay. Well, would be great to end with a lightning round. Uh a myth about government and tech that you would like to retire or government tech that you would like to retire. Scott, let's start with you. Look, I think it's a uh I think the myth that I'd like to retire is that the government actually cannot and should not be a leading innovator with deployment of technology. I I just think it's silly. And again, this whole risk mindset has totally warped everybody's views. >> Yeah. Right. >> Uh that the tools you'll get are terrible. I have a great laptop. It's fast. The battery works. Uh it lasts a long time. I have an iPhone. So, you're not going to be on some antiquated uh hardware. >> Yeah. Uh so we've talked a lot about this but a small process or policy tweak that you think would have the greatest outsiz impact. >> I I think it's very simple which is just like get people to forget about risk as a pass fail thing and get people to think about risk as a spectrum of things and also what we talked about is get people to think about like what's the upside benefit of what we're doing. I think if we made that small tweak without going crazy, >> I think we'd have a lot of difference. >> Uh rethinking the compliance things that came out before our computers existed. >> One metric you track that you think others should. >> I think it's operational efficiency, but >> uh rework percentage. How often are we doing the things over and over? >> Uh a book or resource you'd recommend to to new builders in the public sector? Uh my favorite is still uh only the paranoid survive. Uh I think that's still applicable to everybody whether private or public sector. >> The goal in the Phoenix pro Phoenix project taking uh you know manufacturing lessons and applying them as technology. >> And then finally finish the sentence. The US will win the future if we blank >> win the AI race. >> Remain undistracted. >> Awesome. Well, Scott, Greg, thank you so much for taking the time to talk to us about making government cool again and and building for the public sector. and we so appreciate the service that you're doing for our country. So, thank you. >> Thank you for having us.