================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: BVFm_b8fy3E
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BVFm_b8fy3E
TITLE: EPL 25/26 preview: Burnley, Chelsea, Crystal Palace, Everton & Fulham
CHANNEL: Total Soccer Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-12
DURATION: 1h 7m 39s
VIEWS: 462
LIKES: 13
COMMENTS: 0

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The TSS Gang is back with the second Premier League preview episode of the week, diving deep into Burnley, Chelsea, Crystal Palace, Everton, and Fulham! How did those five teams do last season? What’s changed in the summer transfer window? How will they play? And what should we expect from them this season? All that — and more — on the show.

Thumbnail photo by David Ramos/Getty Images.

EPL PREVIEW PART 2 CHAPTERS

0:00 - Intro
02:59 - Burnley
12:31 - Chelsea
29:25 - Crystal Palace
40:42 - Everton
56:09 - Fulham

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 30,441

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and part two of our Premier League 2526 part two of our Premier League 2526 previews in which we'll look at the previews in which we'll look at the prospects of Burnley, Chelsea, Crystal prospects of Burnley, Chelsea, Crystal Palace, Everton, and Fulham. Real mixed Palace, Everton, and Fulham. Real mixed bag on this episode. As with part one, bag on this episode. As with part one, we'll be looking at where each team left we'll be looking at where each team left off, their summer business, their off, their summer business, their manager and style of play, key players manager and style of play, key players for this season, and of course, our for this season, and of course, our patented Total Soccer Show, very patented Total Soccer Show, very specific predictions. My name's Ryan specific predictions. My name's Ryan Bailey. Joining me today, there he is, Bailey. Joining me today, there he is, Taylor Rockco. Hello, Taylor. Taylor Rockco. Hello, Taylor. Hello, my friend. Excited to be here. Hello, my friend. Excited to be here. Excited to only have to preview one Excited to only have to preview one team. Uh, is it you who has the multiple team. Uh, is it you who has the multiple today, Ryan? today, Ryan? today, Ryan? Ryan's got the twofer today. Yeah. Ryan's got the twofer today. Yeah. Here we go. Here we go. Yeah. Yeah. Ryan didn't realize he had Yeah. Yeah. Ryan didn't realize he had the twofer when he started his research the twofer when he started his research yesterday. Late night. Late night, yesterday. Late night. Late night, Taylor. Taylor. Taylor. But you're ready to go now. You feeling But you're ready to go now. You feeling optimistic? You feeling confident? optimistic? You feeling confident? Oh, I'm ready. I'm I'm going to tell you Oh, I'm ready. I'm I'm going to tell you so much about Burnley and Fulham, you're so much about Burnley and Fulham, you're going to wish you didn't know as much going to wish you didn't know as much about Burnley and Fulham that you about Burnley and Fulham that you already do in the next hour. There we already do in the next hour. There we go. go. go. Joe Lowry, hello. How are you? I'm Joe Lowry, hello. How are you? I'm concerned about the threats that are concerned about the threats that are being issued early on in this show. Um, being issued early on in this show. Um, I think even despite that, I'm doing I think even despite that, I'm doing well. Ryan, thank you for asking. I've well. Ryan, thank you for asking. I've decided I'm doing well. I'm excited for decided I'm doing well. I'm excited for this show. this show. this show. Me, too. And not just because Graeme Me, too. And not just because Graeme Loveven's with us. Hello, Graeme. Loveven's with us. Hello, Graeme. Hello, Ryan Bailey. Good nicknames in Hello, Ryan Bailey. Good nicknames in today's shows. H, today's teams were today's shows. H, today's teams were previewing. We've got the Eagles. We've previewing. We've got the Eagles. We've got the Toffees, which is one of the got the Toffees, which is one of the best nicknames in the Premier League. best nicknames in the Premier League. Uh, what's Fulham? The Cottagers. That's Uh, what's Fulham? The Cottagers. That's a good one as well. We can just ignore a good one as well. We can just ignore the Blues. That's a bit boring. And the Blues. That's a bit boring. And what's Burnley? The Clarets. That's fun what's Burnley? The Clarets. That's fun to say the Clarits, but it's just a to say the Clarits, but it's just a color. But I like the toffes. color. But I like the toffes. Clarets is just a color. It's weird that Clarets is just a color. It's weird that we've got two We've got three clar we've got two We've got three clar teams, haven't we? And clar is not a teams, haven't we? And clar is not a color we say very often. color we say very often. English football heritage, right? It's English football heritage, right? It's weird that we only have three. I would weird that we only have three. I would say that seems to be Is that like the say that seems to be Is that like the most popular color combination for most popular color combination for whatever reason? whatever reason? whatever reason? I guess red and red and white or red and I guess red and red and white or red and black. It's got to be popular. black. It's got to be popular. Yeah. Yeah. The old the villa, the Yeah. Yeah. The old the villa, the Burnley, the the the other one, the West Burnley, the the the other one, the West Ham. That's the other one. There we go. Ham. That's the other one. There we go. good conversation. Patreon.com/totals good conversation. Patreon.com/totals Soccer Show is where you'll find our Soccer Show is where you'll find our bonus content. We've got our bonus bonus content. We've got our bonus episodes, bonus video, and access to our episodes, bonus video, and access to our Discord server where you can come and Discord server where you can come and have a chat with us on the bonus feed have a chat with us on the bonus feed this week. Lots of Premier League this week. Lots of Premier League goodies. We've wrapped our golden boot goodies. We've wrapped our golden boot predictions. And come to the feed this predictions. And come to the feed this week also. Kits. Graeme's going to talk week also. Kits. Graeme's going to talk kits. I've had a look at some of the kits. I've had a look at some of the kits, Graeme. There's some nice ones. kits, Graeme. There's some nice ones. There's some lots of nice ones. Let's There's some lots of nice ones. Let's find out what's what on the bonus feed, find out what's what on the bonus feed, shall we? shall we? shall we? Yeah. Are the nice ones made by HML? Yeah. Are the nice ones made by HML? Maybe because I think they are. Spoiler Maybe because I think they are. Spoiler alert. alert. alert. Are you a shareholder in Humble? Because Are you a shareholder in Humble? Because you talk about them a lot. Gra. you talk about them a lot. Gra. I should be. I really should be. That's I should be. I really should be. That's my dream actually. That's my dream. my dream actually. That's my dream. Graham, can I challenge you by saying Graham, can I challenge you by saying that I think Castori has done the best that I think Castori has done the best job of anybody so far? job of anybody so far? They may be on my list. They may be on They may be on my list. Keep it for the Patriots. my list. Keep it for the Patriots. Were they the ones last season who their Were they the ones last season who their shirts got like too wet and they shirts got like too wet and they couldn't be worn or something? couldn't be worn or something? Yeah. They are the the premium Yeah. They are the the premium sportsware brands whose shirts uh sportsware brands whose shirts uh disintegrate at at the the meest of disintegrate at at the the meest of touches. Sorry that they care about touches. Sorry that they care about being biodegradable, guys. Gee, yeah, being biodegradable, guys. Gee, yeah, the polar bears like Castori. Let's say the polar bears like Castori. Let's say that. Patreon.com/totals soccer show is that. Patreon.com/totals soccer show is our bonus feed. Please, Anna, thank you. our bonus feed. Please, Anna, thank you. All right, let's get to our Premier All right, let's get to our Premier League previews. We're going to kick off League previews. We're going to kick off with Burnley. I'm going to have the with Burnley. I'm going to have the privilege of telling you all about the privilege of telling you all about the Premier League's yo-yo club. Too good Premier League's yo-yo club. Too good for the Championship, not good enough for the Championship, not good enough for the Premier League. They're for the Premier League. They're somewhere in the purgatory between the somewhere in the purgatory between the two leagues. Up and down every season, two leagues. Up and down every season, the last four seasons, they failed to the last four seasons, they failed to survive on their last two attempts in survive on their last two attempts in the Premier League. Last time around in the Premier League. Last time around in the Premier League, they did not leave the Premier League, they did not leave the relegation zone. the relegation zone. But as a as a as a city, as a team of But as a as a as a city, as a team of their city, they're over a cheap their city, they're over a cheap We've got Ryan talking about Burnley as We've got Ryan talking about Burnley as a city. This is a trap. a city. This is a trap. No No No sanitation commissioners on this one. sanitation commissioners on this one. Don't worry. Don't worry. I just wanted Don't worry. Don't worry. I just wanted to make the point that Burnley has a to make the point that Burnley has a population of 800,000. They are population of 800,000. They are overachievers in terms of the size of overachievers in terms of the size of their city. They've spent nine of the their city. They've spent nine of the last 12 seasons in the Premier League. last 12 seasons in the Premier League. That is very good indeed. They start off That is very good indeed. They start off on Saturday at 10 Eastern against on Saturday at 10 Eastern against Tottenham against a team obviously with Tottenham against a team obviously with something to prove. They've also got something to prove. They've also got Liverpool and Man City within their Liverpool and Man City within their first six games as well. Her boy. But first six games as well. Her boy. But their second game is at home to their second game is at home to Sunderland. Checks notes. They failed to Sunderland. Checks notes. They failed to beat Sunderland twice last season. Okay beat Sunderland twice last season. Okay then. Wow. Very good. What did they get then. Wow. Very good. What did they get up to last season? Of course, they were up to last season? Of course, they were promoted second in the Champo. They promoted second in the Champo. They finished on Trippy Digies, 100 points, finished on Trippy Digies, 100 points, just like Leads United. They had they just like Leads United. They had they had they had a 33 match unbeaten run. They they had a 33 match unbeaten run. They were completely unbeaten at home were were completely unbeaten at home were Burnley. They lost two games. One of Burnley. They lost two games. One of them was to Sunderland. They're them was to Sunderland. They're undefeated in league play since November undefeated in league play since November 3rd as well. That's very impressive. 3rd as well. That's very impressive. Probably the most impressive stat from Probably the most impressive stat from Burnley last season. They conceded 16 Burnley last season. They conceded 16 goals, won six in 46 matches. That is goals, won six in 46 matches. That is English league history right there. 30 English league history right there. 30 clean sheets as well. That's pretty clean sheets as well. That's pretty good. Um 16 draws though. Uh and not the good. Um 16 draws though. Uh and not the biggest entertainer shall we say. We'll biggest entertainer shall we say. We'll touch on that a little bit later on. But touch on that a little bit later on. But they are of course back up at first time they are of course back up at first time of asking after being relegated under of asking after being relegated under Vans company who moved on to bigger Vans company who moved on to bigger things. Okay. What have they got up to things. Okay. What have they got up to last summer? Uh this summer even um last summer? Uh this summer even um they've lost a lot of players in that they've lost a lot of players in that defense that was really really good. defense that was really really good. Basically CJ Egan Riley, center back at Basically CJ Egan Riley, center back at the heart of defense, has gone to the heart of defense, has gone to Marseilles. James Trafford, Champo Marseilles. James Trafford, Champo keeper of the season. He's gone to keeper of the season. He's gone to Manchester City. Martin Deb Brava has Manchester City. Martin Deb Brava has come in as keeper there, but that's come in as keeper there, but that's obviously a big loss for them. obviously a big loss for them. Midfielder and captain Josh Brownill is Midfielder and captain Josh Brownill is 18 goals last season. He was their top 18 goals last season. He was their top scorer. He has announced his departure. scorer. He has announced his departure. I don't think he's left as of recording, I don't think he's left as of recording, but he's going to go somewhere on a but he's going to go somewhere on a free. And lots of buzz a few weeks ago free. And lots of buzz a few weeks ago about striker Joe Wesley lighting it up about striker Joe Wesley lighting it up last season. He's gone to Dundee. Okay, last season. He's gone to Dundee. Okay, cool. Uh, in has come Kyle Walker and cool. Uh, in has come Kyle Walker and Axel Tanzbe, both with Premier League Axel Tanzbe, both with Premier League experience, of course. Kyle Walker, as experience, of course. Kyle Walker, as we know, 35 years old, not ideal age we know, 35 years old, not ideal age range for your for your right back range for your for your right back there. Tuanzbe obviously part of the there. Tuanzbe obviously part of the Ipswich sinking ship last season as Ipswich sinking ship last season as well. They have spent elsewhere though, well. They have spent elsewhere though, a little bit and actually a lot at a little bit and actually a lot at Chelsea. They seem to have a a standing Chelsea. They seem to have a a standing account with Chelsea. Leslie Uguchuku, I account with Chelsea. Leslie Uguchuku, I apologize if I pronounced that wrong. apologize if I pronounced that wrong. Defensive midfield was at South Defensive midfield was at South Southampton last season of course owned Southampton last season of course owned by Chelsea. Amando Broa also owned by by Chelsea. Amando Broa also owned by Chelsea. Um it was on most recently on Chelsea. Um it was on most recently on loan at Everton has come in as well. And loan at Everton has come in as well. And left back Bashier Humphre has come in left back Bashier Humphre has come in for 12 million. He's well he was for 12 million. He's well he was actually at Burnley last season. He's actually at Burnley last season. He's been made permanent as well. Uh also been made permanent as well. Uh also we've had a bit of a a change in the we've had a bit of a a change in the front office. Uh it's become a multi- front office. Uh it's become a multi- club ownership um team has Burnley. They club ownership um team has Burnley. They are owned, they're US owned by Alkal Alk are owned, they're US owned by Alkal Alk investment. Um and they've purchased investment. Um and they've purchased Espanol as well. So they've got a nice Espanol as well. So they've got a nice little Spanish club in their group now little Spanish club in their group now as well. Their group ownership group of as well. Their group ownership group of course includes JJ Watt, him who did the course includes JJ Watt, him who did the NFL stuff. Very good manager Scott NFL stuff. Very good manager Scott Parker. We know all about him. He's got Parker. We know all about him. He's got plenty of Premier League management plenty of Premier League management experience. Bit more um pragmatic than experience. Bit more um pragmatic than some company. would probably say this is some company. would probably say this is his third promotion. He's a promotion his third promotion. He's a promotion expert. He's promoted Fulham and expert. He's promoted Fulham and Bournemouth as well. This is a team that Bournemouth as well. This is a team that is very much, as we've outlined, built is very much, as we've outlined, built on its defense. I think survival is on its defense. I think survival is ultimately going to be dependent on ultimately going to be dependent on retaining that strong defense, but as retaining that strong defense, but as we've noted, some pieces are now missing we've noted, some pieces are now missing as well. Um, I mean, obviously they're as well. Um, I mean, obviously they're going to try and be defensively solid. going to try and be defensively solid. They're not going to be gung-ho, I They're not going to be gung-ho, I wouldn't have thought, in this Premier wouldn't have thought, in this Premier League season. But if of course if they League season. But if of course if they don't have the offensive players to don't have the offensive players to relieve that defense at the other end relieve that defense at the other end now and then they might just end up best now and then they might just end up best case scenario losing a lot of games case scenario losing a lot of games narrowly without scoring which would be narrowly without scoring which would be the unfortunate sort of scenario for the unfortunate sort of scenario for them but you know solid at the back. them but you know solid at the back. Parker likes a 42-31 Parker likes a 42-31 possession patient buildup not known for possession patient buildup not known for letting his creativity flourish among letting his creativity flourish among his players. A bit boring is what you his players. A bit boring is what you might say. So what I'm hearing here is might say. So what I'm hearing here is they're not going to be entertaining and they're not going to be entertaining and they're probably going to go down. This they're probably going to go down. This is this is they're going to be great is this is they're going to be great watch Burnley. This season is where I'm watch Burnley. This season is where I'm heading with this one. So glad to kick heading with this one. So glad to kick off the episode with Burnley whose key off the episode with Burnley whose key players include but are not limited to players include but are not limited to hey Luca Kolio of Norfolk Connecticut hey Luca Kolio of Norfolk Connecticut and of the Italy national team currently and of the Italy national team currently three goals in 34 appearances. Is that a three goals in 34 appearances. Is that a key player? No, don't think it is key player? No, don't think it is actually but I thought I'd mention him. actually but I thought I'd mention him. Maximist as well, the French center back Maximist as well, the French center back who was with Egan Riley last season. Uh who was with Egan Riley last season. Uh among Burnley fans is regarded as among Burnley fans is regarded as probably the best defender they've had, probably the best defender they've had, the best center half they've had. Um the best center half they've had. Um they've got a few other key players. they've got a few other key players. Hannibal, Hannibal Medbury, formerly Man Hannibal, Hannibal Medbury, formerly Man United, of course, attacking midfielder. United, of course, attacking midfielder. The poopouser in chief, I think we'll The poopouser in chief, I think we'll see some cards perhaps come his way this see some cards perhaps come his way this season, so look out for him. It's it's a season, so look out for him. It's it's a it's an interesting squad here. There's it's an interesting squad here. There's there's players who definitely made a there's players who definitely made a difference in the championship, but difference in the championship, but ultimately it feels like this Burnley ultimately it feels like this Burnley team might lack the quality and the team might lack the quality and the difference makers they might need to difference makers they might need to stay up. I I think um most models have stay up. I I think um most models have Burnley going down. A lot of models have Burnley going down. A lot of models have Burnley finishing 20th unfortunately for Burnley finishing 20th unfortunately for them. I think it would be a pretty big them. I think it would be a pretty big surprise, not unre not not impossible, surprise, not unre not not impossible, but a big surprise if Burnley survived but a big surprise if Burnley survived this campaign given what they're up this campaign given what they're up against here. Um, my very specific against here. Um, my very specific prediction though is uh it pertains to prediction though is uh it pertains to their league placing. Here we go. their league placing. Here we go. Burnley will lose fewer than 24 games Burnley will lose fewer than 24 games and will get more than 26 points. I want and will get more than 26 points. I want both of those things to happen. So, the both of those things to happen. So, the past two and the reason I've picked past two and the reason I've picked those numbers in the past two seasons, those numbers in the past two seasons, no promoted side has picked up more than no promoted side has picked up more than 26 points, which Luton got in 23-24. 26 points, which Luton got in 23-24. And all of those six teams who went down And all of those six teams who went down lost more than 24 games. So, what I'm lost more than 24 games. So, what I'm saying is they're going to go down, but saying is they're going to go down, but they're going to be better than the they're going to be better than the teams who've gone down in the last two teams who've gone down in the last two seasons. One of which was Burnley, seasons. One of which was Burnley, incidentally. So, there we go. Burnley. incidentally. So, there we go. Burnley. Graeme, are you excited to be Graeme, are you excited to be electrified by Scott Parker's pragmatic electrified by Scott Parker's pragmatic defensive play? Nope. I am not. There's defensive play? Nope. I am not. There's very little to get to be quite frank, very little to get to be quite frank, there's very little to get excited about there's very little to get excited about with Burnley this season. I mean, even with Burnley this season. I mean, even their even their ownership structure their even their ownership structure makes it difficult for them to go out makes it difficult for them to go out and do some of the things that, you and do some of the things that, you know, you look at Rexom with kind of know, you look at Rexom with kind of like bigname American owners or or like bigname American owners or or Birmingham City and they spent a lot of Birmingham City and they spent a lot of money. Burnley can't do that with JJ money. Burnley can't do that with JJ Watt because of the way that their their Watt because of the way that their their ownership is structured. They basically ownership is structured. They basically did exactly the same thing that the did exactly the same thing that the Glazers did to buy Manchester United. Glazers did to buy Manchester United. They used the club's own money and its They used the club's own money and its own assets to get the money from the own assets to get the money from the bank to buy the club, which then has bank to buy the club, which then has loaded the club with like£100 million in loaded the club with like£100 million in debt. They've got to repay that debt debt. They've got to repay that debt every single season, which means they every single season, which means they can't pay their best players um the can't pay their best players um the wages that they deserve when they get wages that they deserve when they get promoted to the Premier League, which promoted to the Premier League, which means their best players leave every means their best players leave every single season. They can't really replace single season. They can't really replace them adequately. They continue to do them adequately. They continue to do this yo-yo cycle, and that is my bet. I this yo-yo cycle, and that is my bet. I am un I'm not quite so certain on who's am un I'm not quite so certain on who's going to win the title. I think the top going to win the title. I think the top four race is going to be um exciting four race is going to be um exciting this season. I think there's a chance this season. I think there's a chance that leads in Sunderland are competitive that leads in Sunderland are competitive this season in the way that previous this season in the way that previous promoted teams um haven't been. I'm promoted teams um haven't been. I'm afraid I don't have the same hope for afraid I don't have the same hope for Burnley, who I think are absolute dead Burnley, who I think are absolute dead certain to go down. Unless they find certain to go down. Unless they find some money down the back of the sofa and some money down the back of the sofa and make some signings between now and the make some signings between now and the end of the window. end of the window. I mean, if they're going to go the Man I mean, if they're going to go the Man United model, you may as well get some United model, you may as well get some Malaysian noodle sponsors and some like Malaysian noodle sponsors and some like Nigerian dractors. I think that's the Nigerian dractors. I think that's the only way to go. only way to go. That is the only way to go. Yeah. Um, That is the only way to go. Yeah. Um, I'm going to put a name I'm going to put a name Dave's Coaches, I think, is their main Dave's Coaches, I think, is their main sponsor. Aren't they the one that's on sponsor. Aren't they the one that's on the on the stand at Turfmore? You can the on the stand at Turfmore? You can see it's something like Dave's Coaches. see it's something like Dave's Coaches. It's great. I did a I did a piece It's great. I did a piece they're huge in Thailand. they're huge in Thailand. There you go. There you go. Um I did a piece a long time ago uh Um I did a piece a long time ago uh about like maybe it was for paste way about like maybe it was for paste way back when about like the best local back when about like the best local sponsors and Burnley had some of the sponsors and Burnley had some of the best ones including a lot of like local best ones including a lot of like local pie suppliers. So maybe that could pie suppliers. So maybe that could appeal to Graham. Maybe that pulls appeal to Graham. Maybe that pulls Graham in. I'm putting a name in the Graham in. I'm putting a name in the chat. I would like it's uh one of their chat. I would like it's uh one of their signings from Fenord. Uh would anyone signings from Fenord. Uh would anyone like to have a go at at trying to like to have a go at at trying to pronounce that first name? I'm gonna go pronounce that first name? I'm gonna go with Quillindishi. with Quillindishi. with Quillindishi. Yeah, of course. Yeah, of course. Quillinsi. That's what I'm gonna say. Quillinsi. That's what I'm gonna say. Oh, don't come to me for that. I'm the Oh, don't come to me for that. I'm the wrong person. wrong person. wrong person. No. No. No. Come on. Come on, Graeme. You could do Come on. Come on, Graeme. You could do it. it. it. Quillin Quillin Quillin Hartman. Hartman. Hartman. Hartman. I've nailed that bit. Hartman. I've nailed that bit. Yep. Yep. Yep. It'd be It'd be amazing if you got the It'd be It'd be amazing if you got the first one right and the second one first one right and the second one wrong. wrong. wrong. Cartman. Damn. Cartman. Damn. Cartman. Damn. Almost had it. Almost had it. So close. So close. So close. Yeah. He's going to be great as as our Yeah. He's going to be great as as our Burnley Taylor, I think, is where we can Burnley Taylor, I think, is where we can uh where we can uh where we can that's the I'm picking up that vibe. that's the I'm picking up that vibe. Yeah, I should expect big exciting Yeah, I should expect big exciting things from Burnley and boring Scott things from Burnley and boring Scott Parker. Parker. Parker. Good stuff. Wonderful. All right, Joe, Good stuff. Wonderful. All right, Joe, unless there's any more, we can jump to unless there's any more, we can jump to a quick break and we'll come back with a quick break and we'll come back with Chelsea and Crystal Palace. That sound Chelsea and Crystal Palace. That sound good to you, Joe? good to you, Joe? It sounds better than good, right? It It sounds better than good, right? It sounds great. sounds great. sounds great. Oh, amazing. Quick break. We're coming Oh, amazing. Quick break. We're coming back soon. Join us then. Total Soccer back soon. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Premier League Show. Welcome back to our Premier League previews, episode two of four. So much previews, episode two of four. So much preview to give this week, Joe. So much. preview to give this week, Joe. So much. And we're going to kick off next with And we're going to kick off next with Chelsea. It's been all change at the Chelsea. It's been all change at the bridge. I could probably, if you put a bridge. I could probably, if you put a gun to my head, only name 15 of their 86 gun to my head, only name 15 of their 86 signings this summer. So, uh, let's go signings this summer. So, uh, let's go through it. Let's do it. through it. Let's do it. Yeah. Yeah. We'll get to all of the Yeah. Yeah. We'll get to all of the summer signing stuff. Uh, first of all, summer signing stuff. Uh, first of all, you undersold Chelsea. Uh, they're world you undersold Chelsea. Uh, they're world champions, Chelsea Football Club. Thank champions, Chelsea Football Club. Thank you very much. Um, yeah. Watch it, you very much. Um, yeah. Watch it, Buster. Uh, last season Chelsea finished Buster. Uh, last season Chelsea finished fourth in the Premier League, 69 points, fourth in the Premier League, 69 points, 15 behind Liverpool World Champions. 15 behind Liverpool World Champions. They are fresh off of that Club World They are fresh off of that Club World Cup win and much more importantly, Cup win and much more importantly, sorry, I buried the lead, the Europa sorry, I buried the lead, the Europa Conference League win, which now is a Conference League win, which now is a tournament I'm very invested in after we tournament I'm very invested in after we did our European Club Trophy draft, but did our European Club Trophy draft, but is really quite dumb and I don't like it is really quite dumb and I don't like it at all. But they did win that and that's at all. But they did win that and that's super cool and they talked about it all super cool and they talked about it all throughout the Club World Cup as a great throughout the Club World Cup as a great accomplishment when it is very much not. accomplishment when it is very much not. Uh they did show some real potential Uh they did show some real potential last year, Chelsea, as a legitimate last year, Chelsea, as a legitimate competitor across both England and competitor across both England and Europe. I I think they can be that this Europe. I I think they can be that this season. Some of that was born out in season. Some of that was born out in their numbers last year. Some of that their numbers last year. Some of that was born out in the tape. They have been was born out in the tape. They have been climbing ever since that disastrous 22 climbing ever since that disastrous 22 23 season where they finished 12th. 23 season where they finished 12th. They've gone from 12th to sixth, from They've gone from 12th to sixth, from sixth to fourth. I miss those days. We sixth to fourth. I miss those days. We can make a lot more fun of Chelsea then. can make a lot more fun of Chelsea then. It was I was having a good time. I think It was I was having a good time. I think everybody was except for Chelsea fans. everybody was except for Chelsea fans. Now they are starting to turn the table Now they are starting to turn the table on that. Can they continue to climb from on that. Can they continue to climb from fourth to something higher than fourth? fourth to something higher than fourth? Yeah, I think it's possible. I think Yeah, I think it's possible. I think it's legitimately possible this year. it's legitimately possible this year. Last season, they finished third in the Last season, they finished third in the Premier League and expected goal Premier League and expected goal differential. They had the third best differential. They had the third best attack based off of xG. They were sixth attack based off of xG. They were sixth and expected goals allowed. They were and expected goals allowed. They were the youngest team in the Premier League the youngest team in the Premier League last season based off of average age last season based off of average age weighted by minutes played at 23.7 weighted by minutes played at 23.7 years. And despite being the youngest years. And despite being the youngest team in the league, they finished third team in the league, they finished third in expectable differential. That is in expectable differential. That is really, really impressive stuff. If really, really impressive stuff. If you're young, you're usually on your way you're young, you're usually on your way to being good. You're not already good, to being good. You're not already good, but last year's Chelsea team was kind of but last year's Chelsea team was kind of already good. In terms of standouts last already good. In terms of standouts last season, Cole Palmer had another great season, Cole Palmer had another great season. Not quite as good as the one season. Not quite as good as the one before, but still 19 non-penalty goal before, but still 19 non-penalty goal contributions. He is the star of this contributions. He is the star of this team. Moises Kaisedo and Enzo Fernandez team. Moises Kaisedo and Enzo Fernandez both seem to get better as two young both seem to get better as two young really, you know, world bordering on really, you know, world bordering on world class midfielders. Levi Kowell world class midfielders. Levi Kowell became a full-time starter at center became a full-time starter at center back at at 21. Showed so much in that back at at 21. Showed so much in that spot torn his ACL over the offseason. spot torn his ACL over the offseason. So, he is going to miss what I would So, he is going to miss what I would assume is all of this season assume is all of this season effectively. Uh, but the TLDDR for effectively. Uh, but the TLDDR for Chelsea's last year is that it was a Chelsea's last year is that it was a season that showed progress and season that showed progress and potential for a team that could really potential for a team that could really contend this year. And that leads us contend this year. And that leads us into, well, what have they done over the into, well, what have they done over the summer to try and help expedite that summer to try and help expedite that process? And oh, baby, this is the process? And oh, baby, this is the section you dream of when you get section you dream of when you get assigned the Chelsea preview. This is my assigned the Chelsea preview. This is my Super Bowl. Everybody move out of the Super Bowl. Everybody move out of the way. Uh, in terms of outgoings, Nani way. Uh, in terms of outgoings, Nani Madek to Arsenal for 56 million euros. Madek to Arsenal for 56 million euros. North London derby, whatever. uh cash North London derby, whatever. uh cash that check. Joe Felix is off the books that check. Joe Felix is off the books over to Al-Nasser in Saudi Arabia for over to Al-Nasser in Saudi Arabia for €30 million euros. Georgie Petra, I €30 million euros. Georgie Petra, I mentioned on yesterday's show, he's gone mentioned on yesterday's show, he's gone to be the number one at Bournemouth. to be the number one at Bournemouth. Akunan Doobury Hall to Everton for €29 Akunan Doobury Hall to Everton for €29 million. He's come up a weird amount million. He's come up a weird amount over the last couple of days. Another 35 over the last couple of days. Another 35 million odd uh euros in sales. And in million odd uh euros in sales. And in terms of deals that are not done on the terms of deals that are not done on the outgoing side, but seem likely to outgoing side, but seem likely to happen, Nicholas Jackson, who was their happen, Nicholas Jackson, who was their starting striker last season, started starting striker last season, started the Club World Cup as their go-to number the Club World Cup as their go-to number nine. He is on the way out. It certainly nine. He is on the way out. It certainly sounds like he could be Newcastle's sounds like he could be Newcastle's consolation prize. We will see where consolation prize. We will see where that lands, but Nicholas Jackson, it that lands, but Nicholas Jackson, it does not seem like, will play for does not seem like, will play for Chelsea this season. Christopher Andu is Chelsea this season. Christopher Andu is seemingly on his way out. He could be seemingly on his way out. He could be part of a deal for Shavei Simon Simmons. part of a deal for Shavei Simon Simmons. Raheem Sterling is likely on his way out Raheem Sterling is likely on his way out and and really even more than that. So, and and really even more than that. So, there's a lot going on on the outgoing there's a lot going on on the outgoing side. Now, let's talk incomings. Shi side. Now, let's talk incomings. Shi Grim's favorite child, Jaw Pedro, who Grim's favorite child, Jaw Pedro, who will come up later in my preview. He's will come up later in my preview. He's arrived from Brighton uh straight off arrived from Brighton uh straight off the beach into the Club World Cup the beach into the Club World Cup spotlight, helped them become world spotlight, helped them become world champions. 64 million euros. I want champions. 64 million euros. I want people to know that like I'm being people to know that like I'm being tongue and cheek about the world tongue and cheek about the world champions thing. Like I need that to be champions thing. Like I need that to be very very clear. I don't want to be very very clear. I don't want to be that. I don't want to be that guy. Uh he that. I don't want to be that guy. Uh he was good at the Club World Cup though was good at the Club World Cup though for whatever that's worth. He's in as a for whatever that's worth. He's in as a number nine option 64 million euros. number nine option 64 million euros. Liam Dilap coming in from Ipsswitch for Liam Dilap coming in from Ipsswitch for 35 million euros. Why sign one striker 35 million euros. Why sign one striker when you could sign two and force your when you could sign two and force your other striker out the door? You know other striker out the door? You know what I mean? Jamie Gittens is in from what I mean? Jamie Gittens is in from Bruceia Dortmund for 56 million euros. Bruceia Dortmund for 56 million euros. Jerel Hatau lap back from Ajax who I'm Jerel Hatau lap back from Ajax who I'm prepared to love with my whole heart. 44 prepared to love with my whole heart. 44 million euros. a step out coming from million euros. a step out coming from Pomeis, the youngster Brazilian, 34 Pomeis, the youngster Brazilian, 34 million euros. They've added another 45 million euros. They've added another 45 odd million in incomings for U21 talent odd million in incomings for U21 talent and may still be on the move for another and may still be on the move for another center back after Colewell Torres ACL center back after Colewell Torres ACL although still not exactly sure what although still not exactly sure what direction that pursuit is going to go direction that pursuit is going to go in. Uh and then in terms of deals that in. Uh and then in terms of deals that are not done but seem likely to happen, are not done but seem likely to happen, I mentioned Shavei Simon Simmons. It I mentioned Shavei Simon Simmons. It seems like he is going to end up in seems like he is going to end up in Chelsea uh from RB Lipig and then Gacho Chelsea uh from RB Lipig and then Gacho coming from Manchester United. He's just coming from Manchester United. He's just training. I don't know if you guys saw training. I don't know if you guys saw this picture. Ganachu is just like this picture. Ganachu is just like moping, lifting weights with his head moping, lifting weights with his head bowed. And Fabitio Romano, who is bowed. And Fabitio Romano, who is clearly texting with Alexander with with clearly texting with Alexander with with Ganacho is like, "Yeah, you know, he's Ganacho is like, "Yeah, you know, he's just waiting so patiently for this move just waiting so patiently for this move to Chelsea. It's so sad for him right to Chelsea. It's so sad for him right now." Blah, blah, blah. Seems like now." Blah, blah, blah. Seems like they're going to sign Ganacho. Chelsea, they're going to sign Ganacho. Chelsea, as well as potentially Donnaruma coming as well as potentially Donnaruma coming from PSG. They are one of the teams in from PSG. They are one of the teams in for Donnaruma. Robert Sanchez, have a for Donnaruma. Robert Sanchez, have a seat, son. We are not going to need you seat, son. We are not going to need you after all. It's been a busy summer for after all. It's been a busy summer for Chelsea. I will say I like a lot of Chelsea. I will say I like a lot of their business. I really do like the Sha their business. I really do like the Sha Pedro signing. We've talked about that a Pedro signing. We've talked about that a lot. I think Liam Dilap is a useful lot. I think Liam Dilap is a useful rotation forward for them. I think rotation forward for them. I think Jerato is is quite a talented young Jerato is is quite a talented young player, as is Estal coming in from Paul player, as is Estal coming in from Paul Marash. I think they're going to get Marash. I think they're going to get better in the attack, odds are, based better in the attack, odds are, based off of some of the moves that they're off of some of the moves that they're talking about making, even if they talking about making, even if they aren't all complete yet. Jimmy Gittens, aren't all complete yet. Jimmy Gittens, I'm not all the way there on, but he I'm not all the way there on, but he will add something over on that left will add something over on that left side. There's a lot to like about what side. There's a lot to like about what Chelsea have done, even if the sheer Chelsea have done, even if the sheer mass of it is still quite jarring. Let's mass of it is still quite jarring. Let's move into how they're going to play. move into how they're going to play. Like, how are these new pieces going to Like, how are these new pieces going to fit? What what kind of team are they fit? What what kind of team are they joining? Enzo Moresca is the coach of joining? Enzo Moresca is the coach of this team. 45-year-old Italian. Uh after this team. 45-year-old Italian. Uh after his playing days, he started coaching in his playing days, he started coaching in Italy. They moved to Man City to take Italy. They moved to Man City to take charge of their reserves and to Parma. charge of their reserves and to Parma. Then back to City as Pep's assistant. Then back to City as Pep's assistant. Then Lester helped them get promoted uh Then Lester helped them get promoted uh for his first two months at Leicester. for his first two months at Leicester. He lived at the club's training base at He lived at the club's training base at in their in their facility where he in their in their facility where he quote got a feel for the job he had quote got a feel for the job he had inherited. I really love that. Enzo inherited. I really love that. Enzo Moresca is is insane as all the managers Moresca is is insane as all the managers at this level are. And then he gets the at this level are. And then he gets the Chelsea job. last season was his first Chelsea job. last season was his first season there. On the whole, I think I season there. On the whole, I think I referenced it already. Plenty very, very referenced it already. Plenty very, very good season for Chelsea across the good season for Chelsea across the board. Style of play, they're a very board. Style of play, they're a very modern, controlled team, Chelsea. They modern, controlled team, Chelsea. They had 57% of the ball last year, third in had 57% of the ball last year, third in the Premier League behind City and the Premier League behind City and Liverpool. They like to play short out Liverpool. They like to play short out of the back. Usually, they're in some of the back. Usually, they're in some sort of 325 possession shape. Uh, if sort of 325 possession shape. Uh, if that's on your bingo card, you can cross that's on your bingo card, you can cross it off. It could be a 316 depending on it off. It could be a 316 depending on the game. We saw that some throughout the game. We saw that some throughout the World Cup. Moresca is not married to the World Cup. Moresca is not married to that shape. like he's he's going to be that shape. like he's he's going to be one of the coaches that pushes back like one of the coaches that pushes back like all coaches on like really even all coaches on like really even classifying formations in the first classifying formations in the first place. It is role dependent. It's game place. It is role dependent. It's game dependent, but often it is a back three dependent, but often it is a back three in possession with plenty of players in possession with plenty of players rotating and pushing forward. They will rotating and pushing forward. They will push a fullback inside at times. Reese push a fullback inside at times. Reese James did that a bunch at the Club World James did that a bunch at the Club World Cup a bunch last season as well. We've Cup a bunch last season as well. We've seen Malagusto and and Kukara push seen Malagusto and and Kukara push inside as well either into the double inside as well either into the double pivot or into the attacking midfield pivot or into the attacking midfield line and then the structure changes into line and then the structure changes into more of a 442 defensively. There's so more of a 442 defensively. There's so much flexibility in this Chelsea team much flexibility in this Chelsea team and that's one of the reasons that I'm and that's one of the reasons that I'm most interested in them. We talk about most interested in them. We talk about this back three shape. They can get into this back three shape. They can get into that structure in so many different ways that structure in so many different ways with with keeping the left back back or with with keeping the left back back or keeping the right back, occasionally keeping the right back, occasionally dropping a center mid, although that's dropping a center mid, although that's much less common. There's so many much less common. There's so many different formula formulas for them to different formula formulas for them to get into that structure. That's one get into that structure. That's one thing that I think is interesting. Who thing that I think is interesting. Who goes where in in possession, right? Will goes where in in possession, right? Will Enzo ever get to play in the pivot or is Enzo ever get to play in the pivot or is he just too light defensively? he just too light defensively? Moresque's talked about that before. Moresque's talked about that before. Enzo Fernandez has mostly played higher Enzo Fernandez has mostly played higher up in that attacking midfield line. Will up in that attacking midfield line. Will he ever be trusted to play deeper like he ever be trusted to play deeper like he did with Argentina at the 2022 World he did with Argentina at the 2022 World Cup? Or is he just too much of a Cup? Or is he just too much of a lightweight? I I don't know, but I think lightweight? I I don't know, but I think maybe his best could come a little bit maybe his best could come a little bit deeper down the field. What's the best deeper down the field. What's the best attacking personnel grouping around Cole attacking personnel grouping around Cole Palmer? Who's the best striker option Palmer? Who's the best striker option for this team? Lots of things to be for this team? Lots of things to be intrigued about if you're Chelsea. Key intrigued about if you're Chelsea. Key players this year, usual suspects, players this year, usual suspects, Palmer Cedo, Ree James, Enzo Fernandez, Palmer Cedo, Ree James, Enzo Fernandez, maybe Jeedro. List goes on. I am curious maybe Jeedro. List goes on. I am curious though what the best 11 looks like when though what the best 11 looks like when the dust settles, right? Halfway through the dust settles, right? Halfway through the season or in these these big games the season or in these these big games later on in the year. Who is the go-to later on in the year. Who is the go-to guy at striker? Who are the uh who maybe guy at striker? Who are the uh who maybe who is the the go-to left winger on that who is the the go-to left winger on that side? Who is the the go-to left-sided side? Who is the the go-to left-sided attacking midfielder if Simmons come in attacking midfielder if Simmons come in comes in? How much do we see of Jerel comes in? How much do we see of Jerel Hatau at left back? So many things feel Hatau at left back? So many things feel up in the air and that's what happens up in the air and that's what happens when you have a squad that is 8,000 when you have a squad that is 8,000 people big. My VSP for Chelsea and then people big. My VSP for Chelsea and then I'll wrap this up and I'm eager to hear I'll wrap this up and I'm eager to hear your thoughts. Uh Jiao Pedro has his your thoughts. Uh Jiao Pedro has his second straight season where his second straight season where his non-penalty expected goals and his non-penalty expected goals and his expected assisted goals are right on top expected assisted goals are right on top of each other. Last season, I was of each other. Last season, I was looking through the numbers. Ja Pedro looking through the numbers. Ja Pedro had 5.0 non-penalty expected goals and had 5.0 non-penalty expected goals and he had 5.0 expected assisted goals. So, he had 5.0 expected assisted goals. So, he was getting in spots that aggregated he was getting in spots that aggregated five expected goals, you know, stripping five expected goals, you know, stripping out the penalties and he created five out the penalties and he created five xGs worth of chances on on his pass to xGs worth of chances on on his pass to find the the person who was going to find the the person who was going to take the shot. They were exactly even on take the shot. They were exactly even on the dot as per FBR, which is wild. I the dot as per FBR, which is wild. I feel like if I was in a room full of feel like if I was in a room full of nerds, they would be nodding much more nerds, they would be nodding much more and saying, "Wow, that's a great BSP, and saying, "Wow, that's a great BSP, Joe. You've done a really good job." Joe. You've done a really good job." I think we're all waiting for you to I think we're all waiting for you to explain what that means. explain what that means. I already did. So I I that's tough. Um I I already did. So I I that's tough. Um I think we will see those totals within think we will see those totals within say three of each other this year. So say three of each other this year. So Jia Pedro could find you know eight Jia Pedro could find you know eight non-penalty expected goals and still non-penalty expected goals and still have five expected assisted goals or you have five expected assisted goals or you could have 11 non-penalty expected goals could have 11 non-penalty expected goals and eight expected assisted goals. I and eight expected assisted goals. I think those numbers are going to be think those numbers are going to be parallel. I'm actually really not so parallel. I'm actually really not so sure that that's a great VSSP, but I sure that that's a great VSSP, but I wanted to bring it up because VSSPs at wanted to bring it up because VSSPs at their core, even though we've turned their core, even though we've turned them into a competition, are about them into a competition, are about giving people things to watch for when giving people things to watch for when you watch a team, right? That's why you watch a team, right? That's why VSSPs were invented in the first place. VSSPs were invented in the first place. That's why we do them every everything That's why we do them every everything uh do them during every preview that we uh do them during every preview that we do. So, Ja Pedro is a is a player who do. So, Ja Pedro is a is a player who can go and stretch the line and score can go and stretch the line and score goals on occasion. But really what made goals on occasion. But really what made him so special at Brighton and we saw him so special at Brighton and we saw this over the summer is his ability to this over the summer is his ability to link play in addition to doing all those link play in addition to doing all those things. He can be creator and and goal things. He can be creator and and goal scorer at the same time. That was scorer at the same time. That was reflected in the fact that both his his reflected in the fact that both his his scoring numbers, the underlying numbers scoring numbers, the underlying numbers and his chance creation numbers were and his chance creation numbers were exactly the same last year as I've said. exactly the same last year as I've said. And I think we will see those things And I think we will see those things relatively tightly uh grouped again this relatively tightly uh grouped again this season for Chelsea where he's going to season for Chelsea where he's going to have some of both of those things to do have some of both of those things to do and that means he will be good. and that means he will be good. I mean I don't know that's why I didn't I mean I don't know that's why I didn't say you know he'll have 20 non-penalty say you know he'll have 20 non-penalty expected goals and 20 nonpenalty expected goals and 20 nonpenalty expected assists. I don't know exactly expected assists. I don't know exactly how much Ja Pedro is going to play. I how much Ja Pedro is going to play. I think he's going to play a lot this think he's going to play a lot this year. Right. I mean Graham has him in year. Right. I mean Graham has him in his his you know tier S of his his his his you know tier S of his his golden boot players, right? I I think golden boot players, right? I I think we're going to see Ja Pedro have a real we're going to see Ja Pedro have a real impact for Chelsea. But I'm not bold impact for Chelsea. But I'm not bold enough to say that many players in this enough to say that many players in this Chelsea team are going to have a locked Chelsea team are going to have a locked in role with this team. I think it is in role with this team. I think it is going to be a bit more fluid than that. going to be a bit more fluid than that. So all I'm all I'm saying is that when So all I'm all I'm saying is that when you want Sha Pedro whenever he's on the you want Sha Pedro whenever he's on the field for Chelsea, expect him to do a field for Chelsea, expect him to do a bit of both, right? Expect him to do bit of both, right? Expect him to do some chance creating, expect him to do some chance creating, expect him to do some goal scoring as well or getting some goal scoring as well or getting into good spots at the very least in into good spots at the very least in addition to the pressing stuff that that addition to the pressing stuff that that makes him so effective in that defensive makes him so effective in that defensive phase. I don't know if he's going to be phase. I don't know if he's going to be good, but he's going to do a little bit good, but he's going to do a little bit of everything. And I think that's why of everything. And I think that's why Chelsea brought him in in the first Chelsea brought him in in the first place. place. place. Yeah. And I know that we frequently mock Yeah. And I know that we frequently mock the number of players that Chelsea sign the number of players that Chelsea sign and they have in their squad. I presume and they have in their squad. I presume they've still got the dual dressing room they've still got the dual dressing room situation going on at Stanford Bridge, situation going on at Stanford Bridge, but that is what makes them so but that is what makes them so interesting as a team is that they have interesting as a team is that they have so many different looks, so many so many different looks, so many different options. I agree Joe on on Jal different options. I agree Joe on on Jal Pedro. It feels like with Liam Dilap Pedro. It feels like with Liam Dilap coming in, I'm a big fan of Liam Dap as coming in, I'm a big fan of Liam Dap as well. It feels like Pedro's going to I well. It feels like Pedro's going to I think he's going to be starting number think he's going to be starting number nine, but he's going to get 60 minutes nine, but he's going to get 60 minutes in a game. They're going to bring Dilap in a game. They're going to bring Dilap off the bench. Dap will start in other off the bench. Dap will start in other matches where maybe Chelsea want to play matches where maybe Chelsea want to play in more kind of like uh quick transition in more kind of like uh quick transition or maybe like attack in behind into open or maybe like attack in behind into open space which is where Liam Dilap is is space which is where Liam Dilap is is really useful and even things like at really useful and even things like at right back they've got two top quality right back they've got two top quality right backs in Malagusto and Rhys James right backs in Malagusto and Rhys James and Enzo Moresca has been using Rhys and Enzo Moresca has been using Rhys James in central midfield more recently James in central midfield more recently that's where he used him in in in in the that's where he used him in in in in the club world cup he's talked about him club world cup he's talked about him being like Chelsea's best allround being like Chelsea's best allround player he's club captain of course So, player he's club captain of course So, there's just so many different looks there's just so many different looks that this Chelsea team has and I'm that this Chelsea team has and I'm interested to see how it all solidifies interested to see how it all solidifies in the season. in the season. Joe, is is is um is the banter era over Joe, is is is um is the banter era over for Chelsea? We know we've done things for Chelsea? We know we've done things differently in the last few seasons and differently in the last few seasons and arguably they're doing it right now, but arguably they're doing it right now, but are they much more of a serious are they much more of a serious proposition going into this season? proposition going into this season? I mean, we don't have to choose, right? I mean, we don't have to choose, right? To to get to the heart of your question, To to get to the heart of your question, yes, they are a serious team. Like, I I yes, they are a serious team. Like, I I think this team has legitimate title think this team has legitimate title chances. I I don't think I'm quite bold chances. I I don't think I'm quite bold enough to call them a title favorites, enough to call them a title favorites, but they're a team that if we fast but they're a team that if we fast forward to the end of May and you tell forward to the end of May and you tell me that Chelsea win the title, I would me that Chelsea win the title, I would not be surprised like at all. So, I not be surprised like at all. So, I think there are absolutely a team that think there are absolutely a team that have legitimate aspirations and the have legitimate aspirations and the ability to go out there and win real ability to go out there and win real stuff that matters this year. At the stuff that matters this year. At the same time, we can still laugh at how same time, we can still laugh at how many people they signed and how many many people they signed and how many players they have and how many players players they have and how many players they're trying to sell at any given they're trying to sell at any given time. I'm not prepared to give that up. time. I'm not prepared to give that up. So, I think we can do both. So, I think we can do both. I have two Chelsea questions. One for I have two Chelsea questions. One for Joe, one for the group. The one for Joe. Joe, one for the group. The one for Joe. Joe, am I correct in saying that last Joe, am I correct in saying that last year you were, I think, more year you were, I think, more enthusiastic about Nicholas Jackson than enthusiastic about Nicholas Jackson than Yeah. at least anybody on this program? Yeah. at least anybody on this program? Are you surprised that they are so Are you surprised that they are so willing to part ways with him? I mean, willing to part ways with him? I mean, obviously not given the strikers they've obviously not given the strikers they've brought in, but he feels like he could brought in, but he feels like he could have done a job for them. have done a job for them. Uh, not surprised because this is Uh, not surprised because this is Chelsea we're talking about is my is my Chelsea we're talking about is my is my honest answer. Like, and really I I honest answer. Like, and really I I couldn't fully begrudge many teams from couldn't fully begrudge many teams from moving on from Nicholas Jackson. The moving on from Nicholas Jackson. The thing that I like about Nicholas Jackson thing that I like about Nicholas Jackson is that he gets into good spots and he is that he gets into good spots and he is a useful defensive presence as well is a useful defensive presence as well up top as that number nine. He moves off up top as that number nine. He moves off the ball and finds goal scoring chances. the ball and finds goal scoring chances. I mean, he scored 14 goals the season I mean, he scored 14 goals the season before last and had amazing underlying before last and had amazing underlying numbers. This past season was a little numbers. This past season was a little lighter, but he also didn't play as many lighter, but he also didn't play as many minutes this past season. So, I think minutes this past season. So, I think he's going to go to another team and he's going to go to another team and they're going to be better off for they're going to be better off for having Nicholas Jackson in it. But, I uh having Nicholas Jackson in it. But, I uh while I'm holding that stock, I'm also while I'm holding that stock, I'm also not at all surprised. nor nor do I think not at all surprised. nor nor do I think it was necessarily a bad decision for it was necessarily a bad decision for Chelsea because I think Ja Pedro and and Chelsea because I think Ja Pedro and and Dilap give them different looks as Dilap give them different looks as Graham's already outlined in a way that Graham's already outlined in a way that that makes them a more complete team. that makes them a more complete team. Another thing about Jackson and the Another thing about Jackson and the potential of selling them is they signed potential of selling them is they signed him for 30 million euros a couple him for 30 million euros a couple seasons ago and so my read on that is seasons ago and so my read on that is very similar to the Mado deal which very similar to the Mado deal which which Chelsea need those kind of which Chelsea need those kind of transfers those outgoing deals to happen transfers those outgoing deals to happen um without much of an impact on the um without much of an impact on the quality of the team. I think they've quality of the team. I think they've done that with Madawakei who's a good done that with Madawakei who's a good player but I don't think like moves the player but I don't think like moves the needle for them in a meaningful way and needle for them in a meaningful way and I think exactly the same of Nicholas I think exactly the same of Nicholas Jackson. I think he is a good player. I Jackson. I think he is a good player. I don't think he's going to win them a don't think he's going to win them a Premier League title and they can Premier League title and they can probably pocket 60 million pounds for probably pocket 60 million pounds for him this summer. So actually I think it him this summer. So actually I think it kind of makes a bit of sense. kind of makes a bit of sense. If he is Newcastle's consolation prize, If he is Newcastle's consolation prize, do we think that ends up working out do we think that ends up working out well for him? Do we feel like maybe we well for him? Do we feel like maybe we see uh a resurgence or him him kind of see uh a resurgence or him him kind of thriving there as the main man in a non thriving there as the main man in a non Chelsea non somebody is nipping at your Chelsea non somebody is nipping at your heels every 12 seconds sort of way? heels every 12 seconds sort of way? He's not Alexander Isach is the one He's not Alexander Isach is the one concern I have about him going to to concern I have about him going to to Newcastle in that team. That is that is Newcastle in that team. That is that is true. true. true. No, I'm not. No, I'm not. Uh and then my my other question for the Uh and then my my other question for the group, I've asked several questions. Um group, I've asked several questions. Um if you look at the players who played if you look at the players who played the most minutes last season for the most minutes last season for Chelsea, the top 11. Uh I'm I'm Chelsea, the top 11. Uh I'm I'm wondering Joe, you've got me now wondering Joe, you've got me now wondering when you're saying like you're wondering when you're saying like you're not fully sure who is going to play like not fully sure who is going to play like the most minutes up top, who will be the the most minutes up top, who will be the starting striker. Like it does make me starting striker. Like it does make me wonder who will be the like locked in wonder who will be the like locked in starters more or less for Chelsea. So uh starters more or less for Chelsea. So uh Moises Kaisedo had the most minutes in Moises Kaisedo had the most minutes in the Premier League last year with 3,300. the Premier League last year with 3,300. I'm assuming we would consider him a I'm assuming we would consider him a locked in player for Chelsea. Cole locked in player for Chelsea. Cole Palmer was second on that list. We would Palmer was second on that list. We would put him in there. Levi Coowwell third. put him in there. Levi Coowwell third. Can't really include him. He would have Can't really include him. He would have been, but now obviously with the injury, been, but now obviously with the injury, no. Mark Kucharella, do we do we think no. Mark Kucharella, do we do we think he stays around as being a top he stays around as being a top performer? All right, so we're at three. performer? All right, so we're at three. Enzo Fernandez, I would say yes. So Enzo Fernandez, I would say yes. So we're at four. And then Robert Sanchez. we're at four. And then Robert Sanchez. No. Right. Because we're assuming new No. Right. Because we're assuming new goalkeeper. Pedronetto. Yes. So now goalkeeper. Pedronetto. Yes. So now we're at five. Joe, would you agree with we're at five. Joe, would you agree with Pedronetto or no? Pedronetto or no? I think Pedronto will play a lot of I think Pedronto will play a lot of minutes because there are a lot of minutes because there are a lot of minutes to be played. But when Chelsea minutes to be played. But when Chelsea are going to go out and sign Garnacho as are going to go out and sign Garnacho as well as Simmons, although they're well as Simmons, although they're different players and uh and you look different players and uh and you look and you got Esau joining out wide and and you got Esau joining out wide and you've also got Jamie Giddens joining you've also got Jamie Giddens joining out wide. out wide. out wide. I'm not I'm not sure to be honest. I'm I'm not I'm not sure to be honest. I'm just not sure. just not sure. So So we're uncertain on that one. So So we're uncertain on that one. Nicholas Jackson, no. Uh Mu, no. Uh, Mel Nicholas Jackson, no. Uh Mu, no. Uh, Mel Gusto. Yes. Gusto. Yes. Gusto. Yes. Yeah. Thanks for Yeah. Thanks for he'll play a lot of minutes. Yes. he'll play a lot of minutes. Yes. All right. So, we're at five. And then All right. So, we're at five. And then Jaden Sancho got the 11th most minute at Jaden Sancho got the 11th most minute at Chelsea last year. Going to guess no on Chelsea last year. Going to guess no on that one. So, so five of the top 11 that one. So, so five of the top 11 minutes getters last year, we would minutes getters last year, we would assume will continue to get consistent assume will continue to get consistent high numbers of minutes, which feels high numbers of minutes, which feels about right for the business Chelsea about right for the business Chelsea have done so far. have done so far. Yeah. And is is a testament to how deep Yeah. And is is a testament to how deep their squad is. Like I I don't think their squad is. Like I I don't think that should be viewed as a bad thing. that should be viewed as a bad thing. Not I don't know if anybody was viewing Not I don't know if anybody was viewing it that way, but it's it's a reminder of it that way, but it's it's a reminder of wow, they've got a lot of bodies to make wow, they've got a lot of bodies to make it through a long season, which I I mean it through a long season, which I I mean makes sense from a squad building makes sense from a squad building perspective. I know that Pep has pushed perspective. I know that Pep has pushed back against that at times, but yeah, I back against that at times, but yeah, I definitely have Chelsea stock. I don't definitely have Chelsea stock. I don't know how much of it I have or exactly know how much of it I have or exactly how much it's going to net me, but this how much it's going to net me, but this is going to be a good team. is going to be a good team. I mean, changing if if we assume that's I mean, changing if if we assume that's five starters from last season, changing five starters from last season, changing 50% of your team is 50% of your team is that's the model, though. That's the that's the model, though. That's the Chelsea model where they are they're Chelsea model where they are they're keeping the absolute superstars. They're keeping the absolute superstars. They're keeping the the co Palmers. I would keeping the the co Palmers. I would count Cassedo in that category now. And count Cassedo in that category now. And then they're selling the as I say like then they're selling the as I say like the Madawaki, the Jacksons, players they the Madawaki, the Jacksons, players they can make a profit on which then give can make a profit on which then give them a chance to add another superstars them a chance to add another superstars to their team. And I guess the idea is to their team. And I guess the idea is after like five or six seasons, they're after like five or six seasons, they're going to have a team of like superstars going to have a team of like superstars that they're going to keep for a number that they're going to keep for a number of years. I think that's the plan. of years. I think that's the plan. 4D chess, Graeme. 4D chess happening at 4D chess, Graeme. 4D chess happening at Stanford Bridge. Thank you very much, Stanford Bridge. Thank you very much, Joe. Graeme, let's come to you. We'll go Joe. Graeme, let's come to you. We'll go to a different area of London. The to a different area of London. The Crystal Palace, the fanciest sounding Crystal Palace, the fanciest sounding team of all of soccer, a palace made of team of all of soccer, a palace made of crystal. They've got the FA Cup in their crystal. They've got the FA Cup in their hands and the Community Shield now as hands and the Community Shield now as well. Two big Wembley wins for them in well. Two big Wembley wins for them in recent uh games. 12th place finish last recent uh games. 12th place finish last season. What are we thinking about season. What are we thinking about Palace this time around? Palace this time around? The real life AFC Richmond or do you The real life AFC Richmond or do you dispute that, Ryan? dispute that, Ryan? The law the law suggests more of a woman The law the law suggests more of a woman than I would argue, Graeme, but please than I would argue, Graeme, but please continue. Do the colors and the actual continue. Do the colors and the actual stadium that they play in uh are they stadium that they play in uh are they the counterpoint to the counterpoint to the actual stadium that Wimbledon played the actual stadium that Wimbledon played in for a decade? Go on. in for a decade? Go on. That is owned by Crystal Palace. Yes, That is owned by Crystal Palace. Yes, they don't actually play in a in a they don't actually play in a in a palace. And it's a shame for Crystal palace. And it's a shame for Crystal Palace building does seem to be sort of Palace building does seem to be sort of reminiscent of the first season of Ted reminiscent of the first season of Ted Lasso in which they're actively trying Lasso in which they're actively trying to self-destruct and lose a manager and to self-destruct and lose a manager and maybe replace them with uh Ted Lasso. maybe replace them with uh Ted Lasso. We'll see how that goes. That could end We'll see how that goes. That could end up happening if Oliver Glazner gets too up happening if Oliver Glazner gets too frustrated by the situation. frustrated by the situation. Yeah. If Glasnner's assistant takes over Yeah. If Glasnner's assistant takes over at West Ham and all of a sudden has gray at West Ham and all of a sudden has gray hair for no explicable reason, um then hair for no explicable reason, um then maybe that is the the real parallel maybe that is the the real parallel between the two narrative of course. But between the two narrative of course. But yes, they play at Sharers Park, which is yes, they play at Sharers Park, which is unfortunate for Palace because if they unfortunate for Palace because if they played at Wembley, Ryan, as you played at Wembley, Ryan, as you referenced with their Community Shield referenced with their Community Shield wins and their FA Cup wins, they might wins and their FA Cup wins, they might actually win the league. But no, they actually win the league. But no, they don't. They beat Man City in last don't. They beat Man City in last season's FA Cup final, which was one of season's FA Cup final, which was one of the moments of the season for me, one of the moments of the season for me, one of the most memorable moments of the of the the most memorable moments of the of the season. That was um Palace's first piece season. That was um Palace's first piece of major silverware in 119 years of of major silverware in 119 years of existence. Uh grown men crying, all that existence. Uh grown men crying, all that stuff. It was it was magic. And then stuff. It was it was magic. And then just to prove that it wasn't a complete just to prove that it wasn't a complete fluke, Palace beat Liverpool in a fluke, Palace beat Liverpool in a penalty shootout in Sunday's Community penalty shootout in Sunday's Community Shield at Wembley in a game where yes, Shield at Wembley in a game where yes, okay, preseason vibes, but nonetheless, okay, preseason vibes, but nonetheless, they were more than a match for the they were more than a match for the Premier League champions. So, this is a Premier League champions. So, this is a team that is showing that they can beat team that is showing that they can beat the best and they can hang with the best the best and they can hang with the best on their day. Unfortunately, the league on their day. Unfortunately, the league season wasn't quite as successful for season wasn't quite as successful for Palace. In fact, they actually regressed Palace. In fact, they actually regressed in terms of their final position. They in terms of their final position. They finished 10th in 23-24. Last season, finished 10th in 23-24. Last season, they could only finish 12th. That was they could only finish 12th. That was largely down to a bad start where it largely down to a bad start where it took Palace until their ninth game of took Palace until their ninth game of the season to register their first win. the season to register their first win. Do you remember that period of confusion Do you remember that period of confusion where nobody was quite sure why it where nobody was quite sure why it wasn't working? I had predicted Palace wasn't working? I had predicted Palace to be up there in the European spots. to be up there in the European spots. They made me look very silly in those They made me look very silly in those first nine games of the season. But they first nine games of the season. But they did uh they did recover. They turned the did uh they did recover. They turned the corner, but they finished with just two corner, but they finished with just two wins from eight games. So, they started wins from eight games. So, they started poorly, they finished poorly. Of course, poorly, they finished poorly. Of course, that poor finish might have been down to that poor finish might have been down to their FA Cup win. H and winning the FA their FA Cup win. H and winning the FA Cup did qualify Palace for the Europa Cup did qualify Palace for the Europa League, but they were demoted to the League, but they were demoted to the Conference League by UEFA over multi- Conference League by UEFA over multi- club ownership concerns. John Texter club ownership concerns. John Texter also owns Leon who are in the Europa also owns Leon who are in the Europa League, and UEFA was essentially unhappy League, and UEFA was essentially unhappy that there are not separate people that there are not separate people running the two clubs. Other clubs running the two clubs. Other clubs owners have put their shares into blind owners have put their shares into blind uh trusts like Marinakis who was the one uh trusts like Marinakis who was the one that complained to UEFA about this. that complained to UEFA about this. Forest have gone into the Europa League Forest have gone into the Europa League from the Conference League. Palace have from the Conference League. Palace have gone from the Europa League into the gone from the Europa League into the Conference League. And everyone at Sur Conference League. And everyone at Sur Park is very happy about that whole Park is very happy about that whole situation. And that situation has had it situation. And that situation has had it seems an impact on Palace's um summer seems an impact on Palace's um summer planning because it has been a low-key planning because it has been a low-key window for Palace. so low key that window for Palace. so low key that Oliver Glazner has called it out and Oliver Glazner has called it out and expressed his concern over how thin his expressed his concern over how thin his squad is. He has called for at least two squad is. He has called for at least two new signings before the end of the new signings before the end of the window. He says that he was quote window. He says that he was quote promised more by the ownership, which uh promised more by the ownership, which uh those aren't great signs or sounds to be those aren't great signs or sounds to be hearing from your manager before the hearing from your manager before the start of the season, particularly one as start of the season, particularly one as highly rated as as Oliver Glazner. They highly rated as as Oliver Glazner. They have brought in Bora Sosa, a left back have brought in Bora Sosa, a left back from Ajax, and Walter Bonitez from PSV from Ajax, and Walter Bonitez from PSV who will be a second or third choice uh who will be a second or third choice uh Matt Turneres goalkeeper. And that is it Matt Turneres goalkeeper. And that is it so far for this team. The positive thing so far for this team. The positive thing at this stage is that Palace have at this stage is that Palace have managed to keep hold of their best managed to keep hold of their best players. That could and probably will players. That could and probably will change before the end of the window. change before the end of the window. Eberi Ezie has been strongly linked with Eberi Ezie has been strongly linked with Arsenal and Spurs, both of whom are Arsenal and Spurs, both of whom are apparently willing to pay his release apparently willing to pay his release clause of around60 million pounds. Mark clause of around60 million pounds. Mark Gei is now into the final 12 months of Gei is now into the final 12 months of his contract. Steve Parish, who is the his contract. Steve Parish, who is the chairman with lovely quiff hair, has chairman with lovely quiff hair, has come out and basically said that he will come out and basically said that he will be sold before the end of the window, be sold before the end of the window, which I'm not I'm not sure that's the which I'm not I'm not sure that's the best negotiating position to take for best negotiating position to take for the chairman of your club to say that, the chairman of your club to say that, but nonetheless, it seems like he is on but nonetheless, it seems like he is on his way out. Adam Wharton is another his way out. Adam Wharton is another high potential asset who seems destined high potential asset who seems destined for the top level. There isn't much for the top level. There isn't much transfer chat around him at the moment, transfer chat around him at the moment, but nonetheless, coming into the summer, but nonetheless, coming into the summer, it seemed a possibility that he might be it seemed a possibility that he might be a target for some bigger clubs. And then a target for some bigger clubs. And then uh Jean Phipe Mateta, he was linked with uh Jean Phipe Mateta, he was linked with a few clubs earlier in the window as a few clubs earlier in the window as well. He is he has stuck around for the well. He is he has stuck around for the time being, but there's still what a time being, but there's still what a couple weeks left of the window and I couple weeks left of the window and I think one possibly two of those players think one possibly two of those players might be out the door, which would have might be out the door, which would have a big impact on um Palace's team. They a big impact on um Palace's team. They have kept hold of Oliver Oliver Glazner have kept hold of Oliver Oliver Glazner himself, which did not look likely at himself, which did not look likely at the end of last season. He was strongly the end of last season. He was strongly linked with RB Leipzig. He is still at linked with RB Leipzig. He is still at Palace, although he is into the final Palace, although he is into the final year of his contract. and there is a year of his contract. and there is a sense that he is waiting for Palace to sense that he is waiting for Palace to show their ambitious as ambitious as he show their ambitious as ambitious as he is. So it seems like a bit of a unhappy is. So it seems like a bit of a unhappy uh relationship at the moment in terms uh relationship at the moment in terms of their style of play under Glasnar. Um of their style of play under Glasnar. Um Palace aren't really known for being a Palace aren't really known for being a team that want lots of the ball. They team that want lots of the ball. They had the fourth lowest average share of had the fourth lowest average share of possession in the Premier League last possession in the Premier League last season. But that doesn't mean that they season. But that doesn't mean that they are unenergetic. In fact, in fact, are unenergetic. In fact, in fact, Glazner wants his his players to work Glazner wants his his players to work hard off the ball. They actually topped hard off the ball. They actually topped the Premier League for successful the Premier League for successful midfield pressures last season. Um so midfield pressures last season. Um so even though they have a deep starting even though they have a deep starting position a lot of the time uh and a low position a lot of the time uh and a low um point of confrontation, they will um point of confrontation, they will pressure opponents in midfield when the pressure opponents in midfield when the triggers happen and they can spring triggers happen and they can spring attacks from there. And Palace I think attacks from there. And Palace I think are very much in the same bucket as uh are very much in the same bucket as uh Bournemouth and Brenford and Nottingham Bournemouth and Brenford and Nottingham Forest. There's a a bunch of teams that Forest. There's a a bunch of teams that play this well and play this this way play this well and play this this way very well. They want to get into quick very well. They want to get into quick transition. And they have players who transition. And they have players who can hurt you in those phases. And Jean can hurt you in those phases. And Jean Philipe Mateta who I mentioned earlier, Philipe Mateta who I mentioned earlier, he is one of those players. He is the he is one of those players. He is the player at the the head of the Palace player at the the head of the Palace attack. I don't think any player has attack. I don't think any player has benefited more from Glasnner's coaching benefited more from Glasnner's coaching as much as he has. Um this is a bit of a as much as he has. Um this is a bit of a wild um fact but only Erling Holland, wild um fact but only Erling Holland, Alexander Isach, Muhammad Salah and Cole Alexander Isach, Muhammad Salah and Cole Palmer have scored more Premier League Palmer have scored more Premier League goals than Mateta in the time since goals than Mateta in the time since Oliver Glasner arrived at Palace which Oliver Glasner arrived at Palace which which is wild and says a lot about how which is wild and says a lot about how good he has been in front of goal. I good he has been in front of goal. I mentioned him him earlier but Ezie he's mentioned him him earlier but Ezie he's a real differencemaker for Palace as a real differencemaker for Palace as well. The way that Pal is set up, they well. The way that Pal is set up, they have Mateta as the focal point and then have Mateta as the focal point and then Ezie and Isa Sar behind him and they Ezie and Isa Sar behind him and they have kind of the freedom to stretch wide have kind of the freedom to stretch wide but also to come inside into central but also to come inside into central areas. And Ezie is a dribbler. He likes areas. And Ezie is a dribbler. He likes to take players on. He is good for a to take players on. He is good for a long range banger every so often as long range banger every so often as well. He brings a threat on the edge of well. He brings a threat on the edge of the box and then Sar who I just the box and then Sar who I just mentioned there. He brings a bit of mentioned there. He brings a bit of verticality and has the pace to get in verticality and has the pace to get in behind. So I like the variety that behind. So I like the variety that Palace have in and in in that forward Palace have in and in in that forward line. H the width in the team usually line. H the width in the team usually comes from the wing the wing backs and comes from the wing the wing backs and Daniel Munos I think is one of the the Daniel Munos I think is one of the the best wing backs in the league. I think best wing backs in the league. I think he's one of the most underrated players he's one of the most underrated players in in in the entire Premier League. He in in in the entire Premier League. He is up and down that right side all game. is up and down that right side all game. He has a real attacking threat. He's He has a real attacking threat. He's good defensively as well. He has he's an good defensively as well. He has he's an all round kind of wing back and then all round kind of wing back and then it's uh Tyrret Mitchell on the left side it's uh Tyrret Mitchell on the left side who does some of those those same who does some of those those same things. Then it's a back three is a things. Then it's a back three is a pretty consistent back three or at least pretty consistent back three or at least it was in the second half of last season it was in the second half of last season of Mark Gahhee Maxim Laqua and the US of Mark Gahhee Maxim Laqua and the US Mnt's very own Chris Richards and there Mnt's very own Chris Richards and there is a real balance between the three of is a real balance between the three of them. I think Laqua is an excellent them. I think Laqua is an excellent allrounder. He can play out from the allrounder. He can play out from the back. I think he's probably um even more back. I think he's probably um even more so than Mark Gay who keeps being linked so than Mark Gay who keeps being linked with these top teams. I think Laqua has with these top teams. I think Laqua has the the highest ceiling of of of the the the highest ceiling of of of the three of them. Chris Richards most fizzy three of them. Chris Richards most fizzy you could say you could say carbonated in some ways. Sorry. Go on. carbonated in some ways. Sorry. Go on. just as well. I know that's a brand of just as well. I know that's a brand of uh of soft drink you get in the US that uh of soft drink you get in the US that you don't get in the UK. I've never had you don't get in the UK. I've never had in my life. But anyway, Richards has uh in my life. But anyway, Richards has uh really grown over the last six months. really grown over the last six months. He does the defensive basics really He does the defensive basics really well. I think he has a different role well. I think he has a different role for this Palace team than he does for for this Palace team than he does for the US. The US depend on him to play it the US. The US depend on him to play it from the back. Palace don't really do from the back. Palace don't really do that with with Chris Richards, but that with with Chris Richards, but nonetheless, he's an important player. nonetheless, he's an important player. And then uh Dean Henderson in goal seems And then uh Dean Henderson in goal seems to be a penalty kick master. He brings a to be a penalty kick master. He brings a bit of the the the Jordan Pickford bit of the the the Jordan Pickford bance. I don't know if it's an English bance. I don't know if it's an English goalkeeper thing, but he was uh Did goalkeeper thing, but he was uh Did anyone see shenanigans with the cap in anyone see shenanigans with the cap in the Community Shield? Ryan, did you the Community Shield? Ryan, did you watch that part of the game? watch that part of the game? I love a baseball cap goalkeeper. I do. I love a baseball cap goalkeeper. I do. I love it. I love it. Yeah, he went very early with his Yeah, he went very early with his twirling of the hat. I think after the twirling of the hat. I think after the first save he was doing his kind of uh first save he was doing his kind of uh his victory lap, but yeah, it's it's a his victory lap, but yeah, it's it's a team with a lot of team with it's a team with a lot of quality. There's a lot to like about quality. There's a lot to like about Palace as they are now. It's just Palace as they are now. It's just whether they can keep the core of that whether they can keep the core of that team together. And that brings me to my team together. And that brings me to my VSSP, which is that Palace will make the VSSP, which is that Palace will make the semi-finals of the Conference League at semi-finals of the Conference League at least, but it will not be with Oliver least, but it will not be with Oliver Glasner as manager. I think after Thomas Glasner as manager. I think after Thomas Frank, he and Antonia Arola are going to Frank, he and Antonia Arola are going to be the next manager targeted by a big be the next manager targeted by a big club. Whether they should or not is club. Whether they should or not is another matter. We spoke about um Areola another matter. We spoke about um Areola yesterday and how his style of play yesterday and how his style of play maybe doesn't translate. I think the maybe doesn't translate. I think the same about Oliver Glasnner, but that's same about Oliver Glasnner, but that's not how big clubs make decisions. And he not how big clubs make decisions. And he doesn't sound Glasnar. doesn't sound the doesn't sound Glasnar. doesn't sound the happiest at Palace. So, I think Palace's happiest at Palace. So, I think Palace's talent when you see the rest of the talent when you see the rest of the field in the Conference League, they're field in the Conference League, they're going to make the final four, but by the going to make the final four, but by the time they get to the semi-finals, it time they get to the semi-finals, it will be with a different manager in that will be with a different manager in that tugout. tugout. tugout. Wow. Gladness is not going to be glad Wow. Gladness is not going to be glad all over then, I suppose, Graeme, going all over then, I suppose, Graeme, going forward into this season. Something I'd forward into this season. Something I'd like to highlight, Graeme. Um, this I I like to highlight, Graeme. Um, this I I feel like there's a real class system feel like there's a real class system this season in the Premier League. this season in the Premier League. You've got the upper class teams who are You've got the upper class teams who are going to likely finish top four, maybe going to likely finish top four, maybe the European spots. You've got the the European spots. You've got the working-class teams at the bottom. The working-class teams at the bottom. The three teams coming up probably more than three teams coming up probably more than likely the model suggests are going to likely the model suggests are going to go down again. Then you've got this go down again. Then you've got this growing middle class and I think we've growing middle class and I think we've got three of those teams we're probably got three of those teams we're probably talking about in this episode. Palace, talking about in this episode. Palace, Everton, and Fulham. There's a few Everton, and Fulham. There's a few others we put into that bracket. And it others we put into that bracket. And it just feels like they're all kind of just feels like they're all kind of competing in that same little strata in competing in that same little strata in the middle where they've all got very the middle where they've all got very good quality. They've all got really good quality. They've all got really good managers, but they're all kind of good managers, but they're all kind of on tent hooks like this could fall apart on tent hooks like this could fall apart at any second. we we lose one ingredient at any second. we we lose one ingredient and we we move into the working class. and we we move into the working class. Yeah. And and about that um that that Yeah. And and about that um that that middle class of the Premier League, I middle class of the Premier League, I can't remember if this was off mic that can't remember if this was off mic that we were talking about this or or or we were talking about this or or or what, so apologize if I'm repeating what, so apologize if I'm repeating myself here, but it's been that growing myself here, but it's been that growing middle class that has brought the level middle class that has brought the level the overall level up of the Premier the overall level up of the Premier League up in the last couple seasons and League up in the last couple seasons and this summer for the first time in a in a this summer for the first time in a in a while it's felt like a lot of those while it's felt like a lot of those teams have been pillaged for their their teams have been pillaged for their their best players. We've seen like Wolves best players. We've seen like Wolves lose Kuna and Nuri Forest losing anti lose Kuna and Nuri Forest losing anti Alanga almost Gibbs White Palace I think Alanga almost Gibbs White Palace I think are going to lose a couple this summer are going to lose a couple this summer as well. Brenford as I covered yesterday as well. Brenford as I covered yesterday and Bumo Whistles on his way out Thomas and Bumo Whistles on his way out Thomas Frank has gone to Spurs and so it feels Frank has gone to Spurs and so it feels like there might be more of a divide like there might be more of a divide between the top teams in the Premier between the top teams in the Premier League and and like the bottom half this League and and like the bottom half this season. Um, I do wonder how the models season. Um, I do wonder how the models of a lot of these these teams sustain of a lot of these these teams sustain them this season and Palace are one of them this season and Palace are one of the teams that if a few things go the teams that if a few things go against them in the next couple weeks, I against them in the next couple weeks, I might be concerned about. might be concerned about. One one more question for me. I I do One one more question for me. I I do need to email Steve Parish. Is it need to email Steve Parish. Is it info@crystalpalace.co? info@crystalpalace.co? info@crystalpalace.co? That's that's the one I need, right? That's that's the one I need, right? Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, that's the one he checks every day. that's the one he checks every day. Excellent. Good. I'm glad that is a Excellent. Good. I'm glad that is a monitored inbox. All right. Thank you monitored inbox. All right. Thank you very much, Graeme. Let's take one more very much, Graeme. Let's take one more quick break. When we come back, we're quick break. When we come back, we're going to talk about Everton and then going to talk about Everton and then Fulham. Join us then. Total soccer show. Fulham. Join us then. Total soccer show. Welcome back to our Premier League Welcome back to our Premier League preview. We go now to Mr. Taylor preview. We go now to Mr. Taylor Rockwell who's going to tell us all Rockwell who's going to tell us all about Everton football club who Taylor about Everton football club who Taylor have a new stadium in which Jack have a new stadium in which Jack Greish's cast will be paraded. Wonderful Greish's cast will be paraded. Wonderful stuff. How's it going? Great name as stuff. How's it going? Great name as well. well. well. Yeah, buddy. Uh, new stadium, new Yeah, buddy. Uh, new stadium, new ownership, new old manager. ownership, new old manager. Uh, it is a lot of optimism around Uh, it is a lot of optimism around Everton. I think maybe more optimism Everton. I think maybe more optimism than has been there in quite some time. than has been there in quite some time. And a lot of that has to do with the new And a lot of that has to do with the new new new ownership and the new stadium new new ownership and the new stadium and with David Moyes being back because and with David Moyes being back because otherwise I don't know how optimistic I otherwise I don't know how optimistic I would be uh given their season just would be uh given their season just prior. They finished 11th in the table. prior. They finished 11th in the table. 42 goals uh four 44 against which is 42 goals uh four 44 against which is more or less like dead on their xG. Uh more or less like dead on their xG. Uh 41.8 expected goals they scored 42 uh 41.8 expected goals they scored 42 uh expected goals against 44.6 they expected goals against 44.6 they conceded 44. So that's good I guess. But conceded 44. So that's good I guess. But in terms of their other numbers, uh, in terms of their other numbers, uh, last in progressive carries, second last in progressive carries, second bottom in progressive passes, fourth in bottom in progressive passes, fourth in goals per 90. Uh, they had the third goals per 90. Uh, they had the third worst pass completion rate, second worst worst pass completion rate, second worst in possession, most attempted long in possession, most attempted long balls, uh, but ninth balls, uh, but ninth percentage of long balls. So, not the percentage of long balls. So, not the most like stirring of numbers. And I most like stirring of numbers. And I think that says a lot about how things think that says a lot about how things were going under Shawn Dich about how were going under Shawn Dich about how the roster build had not really helped the roster build had not really helped him very much or put him into a very him very much or put him into a very strong position. But then you have the strong position. But then you have the new ownership. You have the the new new ownership. You have the the new stadium uh coming to fruition. You have stadium uh coming to fruition. You have David Moyes back in charge. And it does David Moyes back in charge. And it does feel like things improve from there and feel like things improve from there and they statistically improve uh once Moyes they statistically improve uh once Moyes takes over after a 12-ear absence. Uh takes over after a 12-ear absence. Uh they took 31 points from the 19 games they took 31 points from the 19 games that he had been in charge. They had that he had been in charge. They had gotten 17 from the 19 games under Shawn gotten 17 from the 19 games under Shawn Dichch in that same season. So there is Dichch in that same season. So there is an improvement. There is a response that an improvement. There is a response that feels very David Moyes to have his team feels very David Moyes to have his team perform better in the second half of the perform better in the second half of the season than the first. More on that when season than the first. More on that when we get to my specific prediction. But we get to my specific prediction. But there was still quite a bit of work to there was still quite a bit of work to do in terms of making this squad feel do in terms of making this squad feel more consistent and capable of competing more consistent and capable of competing at a higher and capable of competing at a higher level to which this club aspires. Uh so level to which this club aspires. Uh so in this offseason they've done a good in this offseason they've done a good bit of work. Uh they cleared out a bit of work. Uh they cleared out a number of names almost all of them on number of names almost all of them on Freeze. Uh Abdullah Dore is gone. Covert Freeze. Uh Abdullah Dore is gone. Covert Lewen is gone. Ashley Young, Mason Lewen is gone. Ashley Young, Mason Holgate to name just a few. They have Holgate to name just a few. They have spent thus far uh 75 million pounds on spent thus far uh 75 million pounds on transfers. And the most notable one I I transfers. And the most notable one I I think at time of recording Jack Greish think at time of recording Jack Greish is not yet done but does feel like it is not yet done but does feel like it will be done. Is that correct Graham? will be done. Is that correct Graham? Monitor of all things transfer. He had Monitor of all things transfer. He had his uh he had his medical I think on his uh he had his medical I think on Monday, but his calves are so big they Monday, but his calves are so big they had to get some some new equipment in. had to get some some new equipment in. They didn't they didn't have that. They didn't they didn't have that. That makes sense. That makes sense. And That makes sense. And I think they tried to put him in long I think they tried to put him in long socks for the medical and he was like socks for the medical and he was like not having that. No, thank you. He not having that. No, thank you. He really is a a critical signing even if I really is a a critical signing even if I don't understand how they're going to don't understand how they're going to use him and and how he makes them better use him and and how he makes them better in terms of their lack of depth in in terms of their lack of depth in certain areas. But I think when you look certain areas. But I think when you look at what Moyes targeted and what he has at what Moyes targeted and what he has asked for in this off seasonason, it's asked for in this off seasonason, it's amazing that Oliver Glazner wanted two amazing that Oliver Glazner wanted two signings. Moyes said he wanted nine signings. Moyes said he wanted nine signings. Yeah. And until uh Greish had signings. Yeah. And until uh Greish had only gotten five so far. Uh that only gotten five so far. Uh that includes uh Tiero Barry from Via Royale includes uh Tiero Barry from Via Royale who they got for about 26 million who they got for about 26 million pounds. He prefers to be called Barry. pounds. He prefers to be called Barry. So we're all just going to call him So we're all just going to call him Barry from now on. 6'5 Barry from now on. 6'5 I keep see seeing had a very strong I keep see seeing had a very strong campaign in La Liga last year. 11 goals campaign in La Liga last year. 11 goals for your starting striker in a team that for your starting striker in a team that qualified for Europe. qualified for Europe. I don't know if that's the strongest of I don't know if that's the strongest of campaigns. It does seem like he will be campaigns. It does seem like he will be the backup to betto thus far, but Graham the backup to betto thus far, but Graham has positive things to say. has positive things to say. No, I like Tobo Barry. I think he's got No, I like Tobo Barry. I think he's got potential. My concern with his name is potential. My concern with his name is Barry. Always a positive. Barry. Always a positive. Uh I do I'm about to dish some out. He Uh I do I'm about to dish some out. He um he's got potential. The thing that um he's got potential. The thing that concerns me with him going to Everton is concerns me with him going to Everton is there's a lot that's similar to Beetto, there's a lot that's similar to Beetto, right? Which might be the plan. and he right? Which might be the plan. and he might be like the backup and so they can might be like the backup and so they can they can keep that they can keep that they can keep that kind of approach but I think he's best kind of approach but I think he's best when he's got open space to attack when when he's got open space to attack when he's carrying the ball and so I think it he's carrying the ball and so I think it would be a better idea to have a bit would be a better idea to have a bit more variety but yeah I think he's I more variety but yeah I think he's a decent player. think he's a decent player. There you go. Uh so Graham thinks he's a There you go. Uh so Graham thinks he's a a decent player but is likely to be a a decent player but is likely to be a backup I think at least to start the backup I think at least to start the season. So in terms of starters you want season. So in terms of starters you want brought in in your signings we're 0 for brought in in your signings we're 0 for one so far. Uh Kieran Dubbury Hall from one so far. Uh Kieran Dubbury Hall from Chelsea for 25 million pounds. he will Chelsea for 25 million pounds. he will be a starter and has been starting in be a starter and has been starting in the preseason. They make midfielder the preseason. They make midfielder Carlos Alcarez permanent. So, you've got Carlos Alcarez permanent. So, you've got a starter there. But after that, uh Mark a starter there. But after that, uh Mark Travers, uh backup goalkeeper to Jordan Travers, uh backup goalkeeper to Jordan Pigford from Bournemouth. They bring in Pigford from Bournemouth. They bring in Moroccan left back Adam Aznu from Bayern Moroccan left back Adam Aznu from Bayern Munich for about 8 million pounds or so. Munich for about 8 million pounds or so. Thus far in preseason, he's looked a Thus far in preseason, he's looked a little bit lightweight, looked a little little bit lightweight, looked a little bit errant in his positioning, and is bit errant in his positioning, and is not going to start over uh left back not going to start over uh left back Mikolenko unless Mikoleno gets hurt, Mikolenko unless Mikoleno gets hurt, which he did in that preseason game. So, which he did in that preseason game. So, uh, we'll see if he ends up starting uh, we'll see if he ends up starting this weekend. I think Mik Mikoleno will this weekend. I think Mik Mikoleno will be in there. So, until the Greish be in there. So, until the Greish signing, they had made five signings, signing, they had made five signings, but only two of them are starters. Now, but only two of them are starters. Now, you add in Jack Greish to that mix and you add in Jack Greish to that mix and suddenly you're still at only three suddenly you're still at only three starters. Uh, but you would assume Jack starters. Uh, but you would assume Jack Greish is going to be there, but it does Greish is going to be there, but it does make that attack so much stronger make that attack so much stronger automatically. And if they end up automatically. And if they end up signing a right-winger, which they signing a right-winger, which they desperately need, they've been in desperately need, they've been in prolonged talks with Southampton for prolonged talks with Southampton for Tyler Dibbling, uh, Dribbling Dibbling, Tyler Dibbling, uh, Dribbling Dibbling, I believe Graham calls him. Uh, that I believe Graham calls him. Uh, that does immediately, I think, move them up does immediately, I think, move them up further in my estimations because now further in my estimations because now you've gotten, uh, what, like four, five you've gotten, uh, what, like four, five starters in there right away. It just starters in there right away. It just feels like you are going to have a feels like you are going to have a stronger Everton team across the board. stronger Everton team across the board. There are still vulnerabilities uh There are still vulnerabilities uh including that right now they it's a big including that right now they it's a big old question mark when it comes to who old question mark when it comes to who will start at right wing. Kind of a will start at right wing. Kind of a question mark as to who will start at question mark as to who will start at right back. We would assume it's Nathan right back. We would assume it's Nathan Patterson. I don't think he has covered Patterson. I don't think he has covered himself in glory with Everton supporters himself in glory with Everton supporters which leaves Sheamus Coleman as your which leaves Sheamus Coleman as your other option other option other option forever and always. forever and always. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. He's got to be 97 years old. I'm sorry. He's got to be 97 years old. I'm sorry. There's just no way. There's just no way. They let 40-year-old Ashley Young go. Uh They let 40-year-old Ashley Young go. Uh so I guess they wanted to keep one so I guess they wanted to keep one long-term servant in there. Uh, so you long-term servant in there. Uh, so you bring in Greish, which which gives you bring in Greish, which which gives you an immediate focal point, an immediate an immediate focal point, an immediate like boost of attacking creativity, but like boost of attacking creativity, but we also know he wants to play on the we also know he wants to play on the left, which is where Dwight McNeel left, which is where Dwight McNeel plays. It's also where Injai plays, and plays. It's also where Injai plays, and Enai was such a critical performer for Enai was such a critical performer for them last year. It it leaves some them last year. It it leaves some question marks as to what they're going question marks as to what they're going to do. The assumption would be you move to do. The assumption would be you move one of them to right-wing, you let one of them to right-wing, you let Greish on the left, you keep uh Jbury Greish on the left, you keep uh Jbury Hall in the middle, or you have some Hall in the middle, or you have some rotation in there in a kind of 42-31 is, rotation in there in a kind of 42-31 is, I think, the most likely shape. But it I think, the most likely shape. But it it means that Everton still have uh like it means that Everton still have uh like depth issues and and squad issues across depth issues and and squad issues across the board. But at the same time, I think the board. But at the same time, I think it's just a much more optimistic it's just a much more optimistic picture. And and the Greish again, the picture. And and the Greish again, the Gish standing again is is such an Gish standing again is is such an interesting one because all of the interesting one because all of the discussion around it that I saw was discussion around it that I saw was really split. It was he makes our attack really split. It was he makes our attack instantly better. He's not yet 30. He instantly better. He's not yet 30. He hasn't played a ton of games for Man hasn't played a ton of games for Man City recently, so it's not like he has City recently, so it's not like he has thousands of miles on those legs, those thousands of miles on those legs, those very musly short socked legs. Uh, and very musly short socked legs. Uh, and there is much reason for optimism. And there is much reason for optimism. And though they are subsidizing his wages to though they are subsidizing his wages to the tune, I think the wage package is the tune, I think the wage package is going to be about 10 million pounds uh going to be about 10 million pounds uh this season with an option to buy 50 this season with an option to buy 50 million pounds. It's not a huge transfer million pounds. It's not a huge transfer right away. You're not putting a bunch right away. You're not putting a bunch of money into a player and then crossing of money into a player and then crossing your fingers it works out. you are in a your fingers it works out. you are in a position where if it works out and he position where if it works out and he does a bunch of things you make that does a bunch of things you make that deal permanent and if he really does a deal permanent and if he really does a bunch of things there's a chance that bunch of things there's a chance that you're getting him sort of for good you're getting him sort of for good value almost especially given the value almost especially given the current market at the same time uh under current market at the same time uh under former manager Farhad Mashiri this was former manager Farhad Mashiri this was the type of signing they would make to the type of signing they would make to sort of be like ah we made the one big sort of be like ah we made the one big signing Rodriguez you're welcome and signing Rodriguez you're welcome and that hasn't always worked out so well that hasn't always worked out so well for Everton so there was this feeling of for Everton so there was this feeling of is it the same old business is it new is it the same old business is it new business I'm inclined to say this is new business I'm inclined to say this is new business this is Everton and building business this is Everton and building around what Moyes wants this team to be. around what Moyes wants this team to be. Uh they are bringing in players that I I Uh they are bringing in players that I I do think make this team better and a do think make this team better and a team that already had a good spine- team that already had a good spine- because you have uh Dubbury Hall added because you have uh Dubbury Hall added to a midfield that has James Garner in to a midfield that has James Garner in it. It has Adresa Gay in it, but in your it. It has Adresa Gay in it, but in your in your back line, you've got uh in your back line, you've got uh Branweight, you've got Tarowski, you've Branweight, you've got Tarowski, you've got Michael Keane. Uh so you've got a got Michael Keane. Uh so you've got a kind of strong spine there with good kind of strong spine there with good center backs, and you've got Jordan center backs, and you've got Jordan Pikford in goal. And I think that goes a Pikford in goal. And I think that goes a long way towards explaining their really long way towards explaining their really strong defensive numbers, plus the fact strong defensive numbers, plus the fact that A Moyes team is going to be that A Moyes team is going to be defensive. Uh, but I think adding just a defensive. Uh, but I think adding just a bit more attacking creativity, a bit bit more attacking creativity, a bit more flare, I think makes them a more more flare, I think makes them a more exciting team. Uh that leads to my exciting team. Uh that leads to my specific prediction which I tried to specific prediction which I tried to make this more specific as I went but make this more specific as I went but the basic prediction is that this is the basic prediction is that this is going to be a classic Everton under going to be a classic Everton under Moyes team which is that even with hype Moyes team which is that even with hype even with Jack Greish coming in even if even with Jack Greish coming in even if they sign uh dribbling Dibbling they're they sign uh dribbling Dibbling they're going to start poorly they're going to going to start poorly they're going to start slow and it's going to be a team start slow and it's going to be a team that for a little while are near the that for a little while are near the bottom of the table maybe not in the bottom of the table maybe not in the relegation zone but flirting with it and relegation zone but flirting with it and then in the second half of the season then in the second half of the season will be remarkably better. And so the will be remarkably better. And so the specific prediction here would be that specific prediction here would be that basically in every measurable category basically in every measurable category in a positive way, they will improve in in a positive way, they will improve in the second half of the season. So points the second half of the season. So points per game average, goals scored, goals per game average, goals scored, goals conceded, whatever you want to go with, conceded, whatever you want to go with, those numbers are all going to improve those numbers are all going to improve because they haven't had a full squad because they haven't had a full squad together for preseason. They are using a together for preseason. They are using a ton of different formations. They've ton of different formations. They've used a different formation in like every used a different formation in like every game uh that I watched highlights of, game uh that I watched highlights of, admittedly. Uh, but I I think that admittedly. Uh, but I I think that speaks to me that they are trying to speaks to me that they are trying to figure out the best combination of figure out the best combination of players and personnel, but they're still players and personnel, but they're still bringing in signings. They're kind of bringing in signings. They're kind of trying to make it all work right now. trying to make it all work right now. Moyes, I think, has a good idea of what Moyes, I think, has a good idea of what he wants this team to be, but they're he wants this team to be, but they're still figuring it out. And then on top still figuring it out. And then on top of that, an interesting one, there have of that, an interesting one, there have been some growing pains with the stadium been some growing pains with the stadium in terms of like uh uh like kiosk sales in terms of like uh uh like kiosk sales and uh commercial sales and and vendors and uh commercial sales and and vendors like not like systems not really like not like systems not really working, but also by people who've been working, but also by people who've been to the stadium just a feeling of we're to the stadium just a feeling of we're not quite sure what the vibe is going to not quite sure what the vibe is going to be. We don't know the kind of areas be. We don't know the kind of areas where we're all going to gather the way where we're all going to gather the way we would have at say Goodison Park. we would have at say Goodison Park. There's even been a feeling that they're There's even been a feeling that they're like sort of trying to uh maybe like sort of trying to uh maybe artificially replicate aspects of what artificially replicate aspects of what Anfield has with like big flags behind Anfield has with like big flags behind the goals and and I don't think that the goals and and I don't think that that is necessarily fair or true, but I that is necessarily fair or true, but I think it is an interesting idea that a think it is an interesting idea that a new stadium when you've been in your old new stadium when you've been in your old one for so long and has such history and one for so long and has such history and tradition, it can just create a little tradition, it can just create a little bit of a different atmosphere that you bit of a different atmosphere that you have to figure out the vibe and figure have to figure out the vibe and figure out how to kind of come together as out how to kind of come together as supporters. And so I think they might supporters. And so I think they might even have some awkward moments to start even have some awkward moments to start off the season from a crowd noise off the season from a crowd noise perspective. Uh I heard I saw one perspective. Uh I heard I saw one comment that was basically uh I forget comment that was basically uh I forget who they played in their most recent who they played in their most recent preseason friendly Roma. Roma, but that preseason friendly Roma. Roma, but that like Roma brought a 100 supporters and like Roma brought a 100 supporters and they were almost as loud as the Everton they were almost as loud as the Everton supporters because they you didn't have supporters because they you didn't have sort of a clear understanding of who was sort of a clear understanding of who was leading what and which groups were leading what and which groups were assembling where. assembling where. assembling where. They put pineapple on the pizza in the They put pineapple on the pizza in the stadium. That was what the noise was stadium. That was what the noise was about. about. about. That was a big one. That was a big one. Um I and I do think this is a team that Um I and I do think this is a team that if they have an injury to a key if they have an injury to a key performer or two will be in a really performer or two will be in a really difficult position, but I think as the difficult position, but I think as the season goes on, they're going to figure season goes on, they're going to figure out their best 11. They're going to out their best 11. They're going to figure out how to play together. I think figure out how to play together. I think Jack Greish is going to look, if not Jack Greish is going to look, if not like his old self, a close approximation like his old self, a close approximation thereof and I think they will improve thereof and I think they will improve because I think you've got an ownership because I think you've got an ownership group that is a more positive ownership group that is a more positive ownership group. You've got a new stadium. You've group. You've got a new stadium. You've got a trusted hand in there and David got a trusted hand in there and David Moyes probably the most trusted position Moyes probably the most trusted position he could be in certainly of any of his he could be in certainly of any of his most recent gigs including West Ham most recent gigs including West Ham where he was hired twice lest we forget. where he was hired twice lest we forget. So I think it is positive signs for So I think it is positive signs for Everton. I don't think they will Everton. I don't think they will necessarily start positively. necessarily start positively. Is David Moyes the most likable manager Is David Moyes the most likable manager in the Premier League? Like the one in the Premier League? Like the one you'd most like to go for a beer with? you'd most like to go for a beer with? Uh now that Big An is gone. Yeah. Uh now that Big An is gone. Yeah. Graham resignation Graham resignation Graham resignation Graham sort of has me believing that Graham sort of has me believing that like you don't want to drink with Scots like you don't want to drink with Scots ever though that like my thus far every ever though that like my thus far every Scottish person I've ever consumed Scottish person I've ever consumed alcohol with has been a delight so I'm alcohol with has been a delight so I'm not sure how true that is but Moyes does not sure how true that is but Moyes does seem like maybe you say the wrong thing seem like maybe you say the wrong thing he's going to be a little bit angry he's going to be a little bit angry yeah I was at Oasis in Edinburgh on yeah I was at Oasis in Edinburgh on Friday night and I'm good for being in Friday night and I'm good for being in the same place as Scott's drinking for the same place as Scott's drinking for at least a few years at least a few years I think I think I want to have a beer I think I think I want to have a beer with Herzeler right I mean he's old with Herzeler right I mean he's old enough to drink right enough to drink right is he old enough Mr. Bley. is he old enough Mr. Bley. Yeah, but he's going to like analyze the Yeah, but he's going to like analyze the way you drank the pint and what you way you drank the pint and what you ordered and how cold it should have ordered and how cold it should have been. It feels like he's going to bring been. It feels like he's going to bring a lot of data to that to that. Uh a lot of data to that to that. Uh Taylor, you drank. Taylor, you drank. You do know I I said I was the one who You do know I I said I was the one who wanted to have a drink with Herzel. So, wanted to have a drink with Herzel. So, all those things are just like pros, not all those things are just like pros, not conser. conser. conser. Yeah. So, I I think in seasons past I've Yeah. So, I I think in seasons past I've tried to like talk myself into Everton tried to like talk myself into Everton and talked myself into I think things and talked myself into I think things are going to be okay. And maybe a lot of are going to be okay. And maybe a lot of that had to do with an affinity for that had to do with an affinity for Shawn Dich and a feeling like he didn't Shawn Dich and a feeling like he didn't get a ton of support from the old get a ton of support from the old ownership. And I don't think he did in ownership. And I don't think he did in the end. I think it's kind of a the end. I think it's kind of a disservice to him the way things ended disservice to him the way things ended there. Though I think also it was a there. Though I think also it was a justifiable decision. But I think justifiable decision. But I think Everton supporters should be optimistic Everton supporters should be optimistic even if it's going to be an up and down even if it's going to be an up and down season, an uneven season. I think there season, an uneven season. I think there are going to be growing pains and I are going to be growing pains and I think it's the sign of stability and think it's the sign of stability and progress. progress. progress. Yeah. And I think Moyes is is a big part Yeah. And I think Moyes is is a big part of that that stability. Close your ears of that that stability. Close your ears for this bit, Joe, because despite all for this bit, Joe, because despite all the squad issues and the summer, I don't the squad issues and the summer, I don't think has has been ideal, I just feel think has has been ideal, I just feel like David Moyes will find a way to get like David Moyes will find a way to get this team pointed in the right direction this team pointed in the right direction over the over the course of the season. over the over the course of the season. And I to counter point, I don't And I to counter point, I don't necessarily disagree what you're saying necessarily disagree what you're saying about the stadium, Taylor, because about the stadium, Taylor, because that's always a concern with a team that's always a concern with a team moving to a new stadium is like, have moving to a new stadium is like, have they essentially diminish some of their they essentially diminish some of their own home advantage for a while until own home advantage for a while until they get acclimatized? But at the same they get acclimatized? But at the same time, my read on Everton as a club and a time, my read on Everton as a club and a fan base is they're ready for this new fan base is they're ready for this new era that actually moving stadiums, which era that actually moving stadiums, which is very different to like when West Ham is very different to like when West Ham did it and they were very unhappy about did it and they were very unhappy about leaving Upton Park. I think they're they leaving Upton Park. I think they're they they are very much in the mood for some they are very much in the mood for some of the doom and gloom to be lifted and of the doom and gloom to be lifted and so having the symbol of the new stadium so having the symbol of the new stadium on the river Mercy is really impressive. on the river Mercy is really impressive. There have been some teething problems There have been some teething problems including a big red Budweiser banner including a big red Budweiser banner around the inside of the ground which around the inside of the ground which fans are not very happy about and fans are not very happy about and particularly considering that Everton particularly considering that Everton all the cones around the stadium are all the cones around the stadium are blue because they can't tolerate the the blue because they can't tolerate the the red or the dark orange cones. So some of red or the dark orange cones. So some of those teething problems will be ironed those teething problems will be ironed out and I expect Everton will have a out and I expect Everton will have a broadly positive broadly positive broadly positive I mean that's where you just go bud I mean that's where you just go bud light, right? Then you can get the blue light, right? Then you can get the blue label. That feels like a no-brainer. label. That feels like a no-brainer. Yeah, that's that's the way it goes. Yeah, that's that's the way it goes. Fewer calories and that's what we're all Fewer calories and that's what we're all about. And Graham Herd, I think like about. And Graham Herd, I think like what I would say in response is that I what I would say in response is that I think that stadium is going to erupt think that stadium is going to erupt when there is that first big turnaround, when there is that first big turnaround, that first big comeback. And I think that first big comeback. And I think certainly when there's the first goal in certainly when there's the first goal in the Premier League uh for Everton, the Premier League uh for Everton, they're going this season, they're going they're going this season, they're going to erupt as well. But I think it takes to erupt as well. But I think it takes that minute moment when they turn it that minute moment when they turn it around, when everybody's together, when around, when everybody's together, when you can feel the stadium pulling in the you can feel the stadium pulling in the same direction. And if they do have a same direction. And if they do have a slow start, I'm not sure when that slow start, I'm not sure when that moment occurs. So that that's kind of moment occurs. So that that's kind of where it it kind of folds together for where it it kind of folds together for me. So maybe they have a hot start. me. So maybe they have a hot start. Maybe I'm totally wrong, but I think it Maybe I'm totally wrong, but I think it is going to be growing pains for at is going to be growing pains for at least the first couple months. least the first couple months. All right, fantastic. Thank you very All right, fantastic. Thank you very much, Taylor, for your services to uh much, Taylor, for your services to uh describing Everton. Uh, one last team describing Everton. Uh, one last team left for this episode. Fulham. Did you left for this episode. Fulham. Did you forget about Fulham? I'd forgive you if forget about Fulham? I'd forgive you if you did. What did they do last season? you did. What did they do last season? They finished 11th is what they did. They finished 11th is what they did. They broke their record points tally is They broke their record points tally is what Fulham did last season. They what Fulham did last season. They narrowly missed out on the Conference narrowly missed out on the Conference League and they were one game from League and they were one game from Wembley in the FA Cup as well. 54 goals Wembley in the FA Cup as well. 54 goals scored and 54 conceded. That's scored and 54 conceded. That's satisfying in a bland kind of way. They satisfying in a bland kind of way. They don't get I I think they don't get the don't get I I think they don't get the dues that your Bournemouth or your dues that your Bournemouth or your Brightons or your Brenford, your very Brightons or your Brenford, your very close West London rivals Brenford get close West London rivals Brenford get despite finishing in the same sort of despite finishing in the same sort of area despite having like a good manager area despite having like a good manager who plays fun exciting soccer. Um, I've who plays fun exciting soccer. Um, I've got this theory that kind of Fulham are got this theory that kind of Fulham are like the mild salsa of the Premier like the mild salsa of the Premier League. They're inoffensive. They're League. They're inoffensive. They're unlikely to cause a stir. And maybe I'm unlikely to cause a stir. And maybe I'm being a bit harsh there. They're not being a bit harsh there. They're not spicy burrito. They're lemon and herb spicy burrito. They're lemon and herb are what um Fulham are. Like here's a are what um Fulham are. Like here's a here's a challenge for here's here's a here's a challenge for you. Tomorrow try and name all 20 teams you. Tomorrow try and name all 20 teams in the Premier League off the top of in the Premier League off the top of your head. I bet you forget Fulham. Uh your head. I bet you forget Fulham. Uh Ryan, can I jump in to say uh I was Ryan, can I jump in to say uh I was renewing my license at the DMV when I renewing my license at the DMV when I and when I was sitting waiting uh for my and when I was sitting waiting uh for my number to be called. By the way, I love number to be called. By the way, I love the DMV and I will hear no slander about the DMV and I will hear no slander about the DMV. Go to a place I'm sure Ryan has the DMV. Go to a place I'm sure Ryan has experienced in in Italy. Go to a place experienced in in Italy. Go to a place where there is no organized bureaucracy where there is no organized bureaucracy and you have no idea how it's supposed and you have no idea how it's supposed to operate and you have to go from to operate and you have to go from window to window aimlessly while there's window to window aimlessly while there's no air conditioning. I will happily take no air conditioning. I will happily take sit in a seat in an air conditioned room sit in a seat in an air conditioned room and quietly do what you want until we and quietly do what you want until we call your number and then we'll resolve call your number and then we'll resolve your problem. Yay, the DMV. When I was your problem. Yay, the DMV. When I was waiting, I was trying to come up with my waiting, I was trying to come up with my list of uh the 20 Premier League clubs list of uh the 20 Premier League clubs to then assign our previews. And I got to then assign our previews. And I got to 19 and I did the inevitable like to 19 and I did the inevitable like there are definitely 20 teams, right? there are definitely 20 teams, right? Like I'm not Are there 19? Maybe there's Like I'm not Are there 19? Maybe there's just 19 and I've had it wrong the whole just 19 and I've had it wrong the whole time. It was Fulham that I left out. So time. It was Fulham that I left out. So there you go, Ryan. There you go. there you go, Ryan. There you go. Theory proven. Theory proven. Thank you Theory proven. Theory proven. Thank you very much indeed. Incidentally, I'll very much indeed. Incidentally, I'll just let you in on my wife is at the DMV just let you in on my wife is at the DMV right now. She's been texting me 120 right now. She's been texting me 120 minute wait and they all just went to minute wait and they all just went to lunch. Cool. Great. lunch. Cool. Great. That's the North Carolina DMV. So that's That's the North Carolina DMV. So that's that's a different animal. that's a different animal. Yeah, it's it's supposed to Yeah, it's it's supposed to in South Carolina it's much better. The in South Carolina it's much better. The better Carolina. Yeah. better Carolina. Yeah. Offensive. All right. Offensive. All right. That's the lemon and herb DMV. That's the lemon and herb DMV. Okay. I suppose the point I'm making Okay. I suppose the point I'm making about Fulham is that they they they they about Fulham is that they they they they come across a bit vanilla. Maybe forget come across a bit vanilla. Maybe forget forgettable, but I don't think it's forgettable, but I don't think it's necessarily deserved. They are capable necessarily deserved. They are capable of very entertaining soccer. Last season of very entertaining soccer. Last season they beat Chelsea, they beat Spurs, they they beat Chelsea, they beat Spurs, they beat Li Liverpool last season. They took beat Li Liverpool last season. They took four points from Liverpool. and that 3-2 four points from Liverpool. and that 3-2 win over Liverpool Anfield probably the win over Liverpool Anfield probably the high mark last season for Marco Silva's high mark last season for Marco Silva's side and his style. Uh stability is what side and his style. Uh stability is what they've had over the last few season they've had over the last few season last two years and that's a very good last two years and that's a very good thing that most teams would aspire to. thing that most teams would aspire to. It's something they didn't have It's something they didn't have necessarily in the pre-s era. I will say necessarily in the pre-s era. I will say also very cool stadium to visit uh is also very cool stadium to visit uh is stadium right on the rivers. It's got a stadium right on the rivers. It's got a fancy new stand with a swimming pool in fancy new stand with a swimming pool in it. it. it. Yeah, it does. Yeah, it does. It does indeed. It's quite middle class It does indeed. It's quite middle class and fancy I would say. my my favorite and fancy I would say. my my favorite it's Fulham. It's a it's a very posh it's Fulham. It's a it's a very posh area of London. area of London. It's a health club. So, it's it's like It's a health club. So, it's it's like part of their plan to have recurring uh part of their plan to have recurring uh revenue throughout the week. There's revenue throughout the week. There's like a David Lloyd style, which I don't like a David Lloyd style, which I don't know what that is. Like health health know what that is. Like health health club, like an Equinox style um style. club, like an Equinox style um style. Talk to me when you've gone full America Talk to me when you've gone full America and you have Jacuzzi's on the sidelines and you have Jacuzzi's on the sidelines at games, which is a thing that we've at games, which is a thing that we've definitely had in the NFL. definitely had in the NFL. Well, hang on. That's a Jaguars thing, Well, hang on. That's a Jaguars thing, right? And they're owned by Fulham right? And they're owned by Fulham Shahed Khan. So, there you go. Shahed Khan. So, there you go. It's coming. You're going to be talking It's coming. You're going to be talking to me very soon then. That caught me so to me very soon then. That caught me so good because the Arizona Diamondbacks good because the Arizona Diamondbacks have a pool like just beyond the the have a pool like just beyond the the fence like the home run like you hit a fence like the home run like you hit a home run over the wall. There's a pool home run over the wall. There's a pool right there. Like you can catch the ball right there. Like you can catch the ball if it's coming over to you if it's if if it's coming over to you if it's if it's a home run while you're in the it's a home run while you're in the pool. I've never done it before, but I pool. I've never done it before, but I think Fulham are are just ripping think Fulham are are just ripping straight from Major League Baseball's straight from Major League Baseball's most heralded franchise. Anyway, Ryan, most heralded franchise. Anyway, Ryan, would you like to continue with would you like to continue with You can catch that home run or if you're You can catch that home run or if you're not paying attention, you can catch a not paying attention, you can catch a concussion when that ball nails you in concussion when that ball nails you in the head while you're floating the pool. the head while you're floating the pool. Correct. Correct. Correct. Oh boy. Yeah. Well, uh, maybe one day Oh boy. Yeah. Well, uh, maybe one day one of the TSS listeners will get to go one of the TSS listeners will get to go in the swimming pool at Craraven in the swimming pool at Craraven Cottage. They can tell us all about it. Cottage. They can tell us all about it. My favorite quote from Fulham executives My favorite quote from Fulham executives is Fulham's chief executive Alistister is Fulham's chief executive Alistister Mintosh, who speaking about the new Mintosh, who speaking about the new stand and the pool. He said, "At other stand and the pool. He said, "At other clubs, you hear the C-word. Here the clubs, you hear the C-word. Here the Cwords are champagne and caviar." Cwords are champagne and caviar." What? That can't be a real quote. That What? That can't be a real quote. That can't be. can't be. can't be. Ironically, Graeme, a very cword thing Ironically, Graeme, a very cword thing to say, I would suggest. Anyway, uh they to say, I would suggest. Anyway, uh they kick off Du Fulham against fellow middle kick off Du Fulham against fellow middle class Premier League side Brighton on class Premier League side Brighton on Saturday. Yeah, that's a real quote. Um Saturday. Yeah, that's a real quote. Um what have they done over the summer? I what have they done over the summer? I think they've been so focused on that think they've been so focused on that swimming pool, they're not they've not swimming pool, they're not they've not realized the summer windows open. That's realized the summer windows open. That's what happens at Fulham. Maybe Chelsea is what happens at Fulham. Maybe Chelsea is actually in the London bar of Fulham. actually in the London bar of Fulham. It's not in Chelsea. And I think they've It's not in Chelsea. And I think they've had all of the transfers allocated to had all of the transfers allocated to Chelsea instead of Fulham because all Chelsea instead of Fulham because all Fulham have done at time of recording is Fulham have done at time of recording is backup goalkeeper Mongjaman Lac coming backup goalkeeper Mongjaman Lac coming in from Melier a backup to Bert Leno. Um in from Melier a backup to Bert Leno. Um Marco Silva's quote here, Marco Silva's quote here, "Unfortunately, we don't have players to "Unfortunately, we don't have players to adapt for our group." He said this in adapt for our group." He said this in preseason training in Portugal a few preseason training in Portugal a few weeks ago. We don't have players to weeks ago. We don't have players to adapt for our group. We usually use this adapt for our group. We usually use this time for new signings to adapt. Uh he time for new signings to adapt. Uh he said presumably while twiddling his said presumably while twiddling his thumbs and playing Grow a Garden on thumbs and playing Grow a Garden on Roblox uh as he prepares for the new Roblox uh as he prepares for the new season. In Portugal, Fulham did beat season. In Portugal, Fulham did beat Nottingham Forest and Altiad. In case Nottingham Forest and Altiad. In case you were interested, they've won five of you were interested, they've won five of their six preseason games. Uh many their six preseason games. Uh many Fulham fans are worried. I've spoken to Fulham fans are worried. I've spoken to some saying they worried that they take some saying they worried that they take Silva for granted at this point. They've Silva for granted at this point. They've hinted at, you know, the frustration at hinted at, you know, the frustration at a lack of spending that he appears to a lack of spending that he appears to have. And I think maybe it's a Glasnner have. And I think maybe it's a Glasnner situation where they might they might situation where they might they might lose him to uh to other clims if they lose him to uh to other clims if they don't treat him right, shall we say. don't treat him right, shall we say. I've got a quote actually here from a I've got a quote actually here from a friend of mine who is in Charlotte, friend of mine who is in Charlotte, Matt, who is a Fulham fan. And his quote Matt, who is a Fulham fan. And his quote was of his frustration at this point in was of his frustration at this point in the Premier League. When you stand the Premier League. When you stand still, you go backwards and that's what still, you go backwards and that's what we all fear will happen. I would we all fear will happen. I would estimate, says Matt, a 15th place finish estimate, says Matt, a 15th place finish right now. I don't think it's going to right now. I don't think it's going to be quite that negative. I'd have them be quite that negative. I'd have them maybe a couple places higher than that. maybe a couple places higher than that. good squad, no obvious weaknesses in good squad, no obvious weaknesses in that squad, but I suppose the risk is that squad, but I suppose the risk is not a great deal of depth at Fulham and not a great deal of depth at Fulham and they're not doing much about that. Uh to they're not doing much about that. Uh to come back to Marco Silva, it's his fifth come back to Marco Silva, it's his fifth season at Craven Cottage. He's brought season at Craven Cottage. He's brought them that much needed stability I them that much needed stability I mentioned earlier. It's his final year mentioned earlier. It's his final year of his contract and that's another big of his contract and that's another big fan talking point that he could be off fan talking point that he could be off pretty soon if they don't get the old pretty soon if they don't get the old checkbook out. Uh but for now as I checkbook out. Uh but for now as I mentioned fun attacking style lots of mentioned fun attacking style lots of control that he has focus on short control that he has focus on short passing and wide combos pass and move passing and wide combos pass and move that is the Fulham groove. Uh you know that is the Fulham groove. Uh you know it's all good down there at Craven it's all good down there at Craven Cottage and their swimming pool fun Cottage and their swimming pool fun they're having. The key players I think they're having. The key players I think Fulham have this maybe a reputation for Fulham have this maybe a reputation for sort of rehabbing and regenerating sort of rehabbing and regenerating players who've come from bigger teams. players who've come from bigger teams. Alex Aobi obviously a key player for Alex Aobi obviously a key player for them and Dress Pereira maybe put him in them and Dress Pereira maybe put him in the same boat and Emil Smith Row who the same boat and Emil Smith Row who arguably has a higher ceiling this arguably has a higher ceiling this season after being the club record season after being the club record signing last year and I think if they signing last year and I think if they get more production from um Pereira from get more production from um Pereira from Roby from Smith Row that could be the Roby from Smith Row that could be the real difference maker to push them up real difference maker to push them up the table at this point. Um, in terms of the table at this point. Um, in terms of other key players, Anthony Robinson, other key players, Anthony Robinson, he's quite good. Virtually ever present he's quite good. Virtually ever present last season. Very important cog in the last season. Very important cog in the team. Fan favorite. He might be the the team. Fan favorite. He might be the the best player if you ask fans. Um, one to best player if you ask fans. Um, one to watch out for. Very big player to watch watch out for. Very big player to watch out for. Well, not dimminitive in size, out for. Well, not dimminitive in size, but big in stature. Josh King. Not the but big in stature. Josh King. Not the Norwegian Bournemouth Formouth, former Norwegian Bournemouth Formouth, former Bournemouth one, excuse me. This is the Bournemouth one, excuse me. This is the 18-year-old youth product. Josh King, 18-year-old youth product. Josh King, who's come out of the Fulham Youth who's come out of the Fulham Youth Academy, midfield playmaker, made a few Academy, midfield playmaker, made a few appearances last season, but he is also appearances last season, but he is also a fan favorite at this point, potential a fan favorite at this point, potential breakout star as a sort of number eight. breakout star as a sort of number eight. Maybe could play out wide as well, but Maybe could play out wide as well, but Josh King is your man to look out for at Josh King is your man to look out for at Craraven Cottage. My very specific Craraven Cottage. My very specific prediction for Fulham, I think it's kind prediction for Fulham, I think it's kind of the opposite of what Taylor mentioned of the opposite of what Taylor mentioned for Everton. My prediction is that after for Everton. My prediction is that after match day 10, Fulham will not be higher match day 10, Fulham will not be higher than 10th position in the Premier than 10th position in the Premier League. Last year after Boxing Day, League. Last year after Boxing Day, Fulham only stayed between 9inth and Fulham only stayed between 9inth and 11th spot. They had a very specific band 11th spot. They had a very specific band in which they stayed in that Premier in which they stayed in that Premier League season. I think basically what League season. I think basically what they they start strong and then they they they start strong and then they drop off. So kind of the opposite what drop off. So kind of the opposite what Taylor was saying for for for Everton. I Taylor was saying for for for Everton. I think they're very they were consistent, think they're very they were consistent, but there was a drop off. They gave up but there was a drop off. They gave up 28 points from winning positions last 28 points from winning positions last season. only Spurs Spurs gave up more, season. only Spurs Spurs gave up more, excuse me, and they typically kind of excuse me, and they typically kind of see a little drop off after the new see a little drop off after the new year. So, with squad depth being an year. So, with squad depth being an issue for Fulham, uh I think the back issue for Fulham, uh I think the back half of the campaign could be little bit half of the campaign could be little bit of a creep down. So, the 15th place that of a creep down. So, the 15th place that the fan Matt mentioned, I think maybe a the fan Matt mentioned, I think maybe a bit low, but I I wouldn't be surprised bit low, but I I wouldn't be surprised if they crept a little bit lower than if they crept a little bit lower than their 11th place finish of last season. their 11th place finish of last season. But yeah, I don't think they're going to But yeah, I don't think they're going to get any higher than I don't think get any higher than I don't think they're going to get in the top half of they're going to get in the top half of the table um sort of from Christmas the table um sort of from Christmas onwards. That's my prediction. Okay. onwards. That's my prediction. Okay. The the player that you mentioned in in The the player that you mentioned in in your preview there, um, Ryan Smithro, he your preview there, um, Ryan Smithro, he he is the one who could move the needle he is the one who could move the needle for them because there was a lot of for them because there was a lot of excitement about him last summer. What excitement about him last summer. What did you say? Club record signing and did you say? Club record signing and then he basically did nothing last then he basically did nothing last season. He got injured, which is kind of season. He got injured, which is kind of the Emil Smith role um way at this point the Emil Smith role um way at this point unfortunately for him. He got injured unfortunately for him. He got injured that knocked him out of his stride, that knocked him out of his stride, found it difficult to get back into the found it difficult to get back into the team. Um, but if he can hit the sort of team. Um, but if he can hit the sort of levels that convince Fulham to pay that levels that convince Fulham to pay that sort of money for him in the first sort of money for him in the first place, that is that that that's the sort place, that is that that that's the sort of player that could maybe push them up of player that could maybe push them up the the table a little bit. But I sure the the table a little bit. But I sure you're concerned that they don't have you're concerned that they don't have they haven't done a lot in in the summer they haven't done a lot in in the summer market, which is this is a trend for a market, which is this is a trend for a lot of these middle class teams in the lot of these middle class teams in the Premier League this season. I don't know Premier League this season. I don't know if they're leaving their business on if they're leaving their business on until late, but I need to see more to until late, but I need to see more to suggest that they can really push into suggest that they can really push into the into the top half. the into the top half. Yeah, agreed there. As I mentioned, I Yeah, agreed there. As I mentioned, I think he he has much more potential this think he he has much more potential this season as Smith row, injuries season as Smith row, injuries permitting, I think. and he's going to permitting, I think. and he's going to be like the the dictate the tempo kind be like the the dictate the tempo kind of guy in this team as you say the of guy in this team as you say the difference maker. So I would definitely difference maker. So I would definitely agree there. Unless Josh King is the agree there. Unless Josh King is the super duper breakout at 18 years old. super duper breakout at 18 years old. Could happen. H who knows? There we go. Could happen. H who knows? There we go. Fool him everybody. Fool him everybody. Huzzah. Huzzah. Huzzah. Huzzah. Did you forget about them Huzzah. Did you forget about them already, Joe? already, Joe? already, Joe? No. I I was locked in. Absolutely locked No. I I was locked in. Absolutely locked in. I'm buying all the Josh King stock in. I'm buying all the Josh King stock and if it doesn't hit Ryan, I'll be and if it doesn't hit Ryan, I'll be blaming you. blaming you. blaming you. You go, King. You go, King. I'm still confused about this lack of I'm still confused about this lack of signings and to be fair, lack of sales. signings and to be fair, lack of sales. like they've let what Carlos Phoenicius like they've let what Carlos Phoenicius go. I think Willian is no longer go. I think Willian is no longer employed by anybody. employed by anybody. He'll be back. He'll be back. He probably will. Um He probably will. Um he said they've got Puma. he said they've got Puma. Is this them? Is this like a PSR thing? Is this them? Is this like a PSR thing? Is this truly them just forgetting to Is this truly them just forgetting to make signings? Do we feel like it's them make signings? Do we feel like it's them being comfortable with their squad depth being comfortable with their squad depth and not trying to disrupt? Forgive me, and not trying to disrupt? Forgive me, Ryan, if you've already like trod this Ryan, if you've already like trod this ground, but I'm still a little ground, but I'm still a little headscratchy on that one. headscratchy on that one. It's a headscratchy proposition, Taylor, It's a headscratchy proposition, Taylor, but uh they the their sporting director but uh they the their sporting director is Shahi Khan's son, I believe. And I is Shahi Khan's son, I believe. And I think he's very proud of running the think he's very proud of running the numbers and saying, "We've got exactly numbers and saying, "We've got exactly what we need. I'm just going to sit back what we need. I'm just going to sit back here and watch the thing that worked here and watch the thing that worked last season work again to keep us in the last season work again to keep us in the middle of the table." middle of the table." I mean, when you come from the proud and I mean, when you come from the proud and winning tradition of the Jacksonville winning tradition of the Jacksonville Jaguars, you don't want to mess up that Jaguars, you don't want to mess up that model. model. model. Thank you. Thank you, John. Thank you. Thank you, John. You're welcome. And to you. You're welcome. And to you. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. I miss that shot I miss that shot wi-i wi-i wi-i with their houseboat elementary schools. All right, that's Fulham. Plenty of All right, that's Fulham. Plenty of house boats on the temps by their house boats on the temps by their stadium. Good link, Taylor. Well done. stadium. Good link, Taylor. Well done. Very good indeed. All right, that is Very good indeed. All right, that is episode two of our Premier League episode two of our Premier League previews. Plenty more coming on the previews. Plenty more coming on the feed. See if you can guess which. If you feed. See if you can guess which. If you know the alphabet, you'll know what's know the alphabet, you'll know what's coming next. But for now, on this coming next. But for now, on this episode, Taylor Rockco, thank you very episode, Taylor Rockco, thank you very much indeed for your services. My much indeed for your services. My pleasure, my friend. I enjoyed in the pleasure, my friend. I enjoyed in the Discord when somebody gave us credit for Discord when somebody gave us credit for doing our whole preview in an hour and doing our whole preview in an hour and 15 minutes and then was immediately 15 minutes and then was immediately corrected with it was their first five corrected with it was their first five teams. teams. teams. Yeah. and then and then then the Yeah. and then and then then the collective oh boy. collective oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy. There's a lot of teams to get through. There's a lot of teams to get through. Everyone deserves their credence in this Everyone deserves their credence in this year Premier League and that's what year Premier League and that's what we're doing here. Joe Larry, thank you we're doing here. Joe Larry, thank you very much indeed for your help here. very much indeed for your help here. Thank you. Ryan Champagne and Caviar is Thank you. Ryan Champagne and Caviar is on the way to your place as we speak. on the way to your place as we speak. Those are my kind of seaw words. Thank Those are my kind of seaw words. Thank you very much Joe and Graeme Robin. you very much Joe and Graeme Robin. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you Ryan Bailey. I don't know how Thank you Ryan Bailey. I don't know how to how to add to that frankly. to how to add to that frankly. Let's not them then. Let's close this Let's not them then. Let's close this one up listener. Thank you for joining one up listener. Thank you for joining us on this one. Part three coming to us on this one. Part three coming to your feed very shortly. But for now, B