================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: c_ARFCC_XEw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c_ARFCC_XEw
TITLE: Is Football Too Online? | Libero 58
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-03
DURATION: 1h 10m 49s
VIEWS: 2,815
LIKES: 142
COMMENTS: 23
TAGS: football, podcast, soccer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Dressing rooms sharing posts about refereeing decisions, managers complaining about their nicknames on X and social media troll campaigns, football is very online these days. Is this just another case of football predicting society? Is it completely a bad thing? Miguel Delaney, James Horncastle and Tariq Panja discuss.

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky.social
Follow us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/liberopod
Follow us on TikTok https://www.tiktok.com/@liberopod
Follow us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/liberopod

Chapters
00:00 Intro
13:55 The influence of online culture on football
30:24 The impact of social media
41:00 The pressure of online criticism
45:41 Social media manipulation
50:44 The changing landscape of football media
57:26 The conditioning effect of online discourse
01:00:56 Gianni Infantino's Instragm
01:07:0
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 12,450

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hello and welcome to Libro. This the 58th episode of the podcast about the most important of the least important things as Marcus Aurelius famously said in meditations. Please be sure to like, leave ratings on Apple and comment if you support the podcast and want to continue in its best form. I'm Miguel Delaney of the Independent and I'm joined today by James Wcastle of The Athletic and Tariq Panga of the New York Times. Uh now today we're discussing how something that's been in the background for quite a long time but is increasingly feeling like it's running through football shaping it guiding its destiny a bit like the force really. Uh and that is the online world and whether the game itself is too online. Now, yes, uh some of us on this podcast who have been made into memes are fully self-aware of all this. But there is something bigger going on that we want to discuss that's um I would say having um a manifest influence on football actually tangibly affecting the way the game works. But before we get into that, we better just suppose chat a little bit about uh how we're recording today on Wednesday uh for a very specific reason in between Champions League match days. And that's because straight after this, uh, me and TK are heading to the glory of, I'd say, the decidedly non Libero HQ that is Twickenham, uh, for, uh, for leaders week. That's right. Yeah. Uh, it comes around quicker and quicker every year and you kind of drag yourself to Twickenham. And you know what this I remember there was a highlight of this was I think almost older than Twitter or early Twitter. We're going to talk about social media was Jack Warner, the arch rogue um of FIFA, the vice president. He showed up when Leaders was in uh Stanford Bridge and he he barricked the English FA for trying to buy him and the others with Malbury handbags for their wives. You think we're that cheap? Well, turns out they're not that cheap, but yeah. A few years later, the indictment was unsealed. But yeah, Leaders Leaders was a place that that used to break quite a lot of news back in the day. Um maybe less so now. It's just kind of a an event that is on the board. Right, Mig? Um do you think it being hosted at Twickenham is just more evidence that uh football is sliding towards rugby? Um there is definitely a bit of that. Yeah. Although it's funny as well. I was there last year and there was a very famous rugby international or a former rugby international who was basically sort of just sat there lamenting well this is 90% about football now and it's got to be because that's where the money is. Uh which I suppose is a little bit quite sad in some ways and now and now football's absorbing rugby as well. I mean just the cannibalism of of English sport but I think T's right. Think this applies to a few of these sort of conferences and there's two or three a year and like for about the year or two after co when people could finally meet again felt they were quite explosive for a while. I know, you know, people slacking each other off on stage, especially about the Super League because there was so much to pitch and like there was this kind of like latent energy from um from from everyone being cooped up for two years and that's kind of subsided now into a lot of talks about you know the future of sport and tech um and you know it's it's already tepid these days. Yeah, it's I I think it's it's also become much more American in the way the Premier League or football has become much more American as well. the guest American, you know, you get the ownership class, um, and you get the, I guess, the cross-pollination of American investors this year. So, you got a guy from NASCAR coming in. You also have, which might be quite interesting, Roger Goodell, the best paid chief executive in all of sports. He'll be there. He's from the NFL. And I guess if you track the way leaders has gone, you can almost see what's happened to football in a way in terms of ownership and and and the way it's marketed, etc. But guys, you you mix, you were at the uh Chelsea game against Benfica. I was really interested in hearing what what it might be like for those Chelsea fans having Jose back. I mean, I was going to go into quite a nice segue there from, you know, t it at a conference to tid again at Sanford Bridge. It was just such uh like I know we've discussed this in the podcast but you really feel it at some of the Champions League games just how sort of like h what half games they are how meaningless they've become like that game last night and again I should stress yeah we're recording on on Wednesday morning because myself and TK have to go to this event Wednesday and Thursday so we'll miss some of the Wednesday night Champions League games but if it's anything like last night I'd say what two or three of them will end up being of any substance. I mean like this Chelsea game, okay, yes, Chelsea had to win because of all the noise around Moresca and Mourinho added to that, but he didn't really have to win like I mean because we know there's enough safety nets in this competition and you can feel that in so many of the games like last night which just felt a little bit of a kind of a faximile of real football right down to I have to say Mourinho all looking a bit halfass with the whole thing like I mean Yeah. Yeah, even the like I was at the press conference the night before and he did he came around and the handshakes, you know, like some of the media, there are some photos of some members of that media being especially delighted with receiving those handshakes. I was But that's the meaning behind this. You say there's no meaning behind these games. It's it's it's a photo op for journalists to, you know, handshake and and hug Jose or bring him his favorite biscuits. You know, how that that to be fair was quite nice. Like we all know Brian who's going to Chelsea for years. That said, it was striking that Jose did these two touching moments, one with two of them with um Chelsea's kind of longer serving members of staff. They were in full glare of the cameras. Uh so make make sure to get that in. Yeah, I don't know why you're going to these two days at Leaders. I I I'm skipping this because uh someone who is going to leaders is organizing a dinner in Soho tonight at Steakhouse where most of the people will be there. Um they'll be unguarded, red wine flowing, steak on the table. Um you know, I think you've got it the wrong way round, you two better. Yeah. So I think I think um James Horn Castle is is winning there. But on on the Champions League, the It depends which way you look at it because we look at it rose tinted. It wasn't that great before either to be honest. So you know, they're trying this thing. those those group stage games that we used to have, they were quite intermittent and you'd have these kind of foe battles and you have to build a narrative around them with with Jose returning etc. Even if even if it was that but James you you mentioned it in the I think in the in in the chat yesterday when watching these games wherever we were the the intensity in Istanbul though probably stands in stark contrast to Miguel described what a tepid atmosphere I I I've that the whistling was coming through the screens in a way that was was absolutely insane uh at the uh was it the Rams Arena there? the Rams Arena in Istanbul. Now that that felt like a completely different pitch um in terms of what what Miguel described. So I suppose these each of these games is a moment I guess. Yeah, look I mean there were big moments for clubs outside of the elite by which I mean the top five leagues which aren't the top five leagues as I keep saying. um Turkey Galatasai spent a lot of money um signed a player in Victor Osman who you know a lot of people thought oh he'd be good at Chelsea he'd be good at Man United um and Bolo glimpmped um where Jonathan Wilson was present in the Arctic Circle uh another Libero member uh who has who has who's has visited glimpmped uh as I believe it's called not Rory Smith not not Rory Smith um but so if if you're UEFA Sephron will point to this say look we're levering leveling the playing field here you know we're we're getting these teams into a more expanded Champions League um and you know you see Bodo Glimp who've become a almost like uh Rosenborg were in the in the '9s you know regularly qualifying upsetting AC Milan you know sort of Bodo started to have that reputation but the the thing is like I I said to this I put this in the WhatsApp group again we're too online We're two in our WhatsApp groups here, but I I I said it feels like there's only one big game per match day um now. And it felt like there were more in the group stages. So for this week, it's it's PSG Barcelona. Um in a fortnight's time, I think if you're Continental, it's it's Real Madrid Juventus. And I thought the purpose of this expanded Champions League um in in order to kind of satisfy the big teams was you'll play each other more often. You'll get your kind of Super League experience. Um and instead what this has done, it's it's given the teams more games and more money, but in more games it's a more diluted um uh experience. the I know this from speaking to the big Italian clubs who are sort of um yeah your likes of AC Milo and in who are only marginally ahead of what West Ham and Aston Villa make in revenue. They look at like sort of having more games as like, okay, well, if we kind of screw up in the one or two big games that we we've placed, we've got enough rope to pull ourselves out of trouble with. And if that's the case, it means that that rope is you're playing against teams you should be beating. And you I mean, I remember last at the end of the league phase last year, AC Milan were on a four-ame winning streak going into the final uh match day. And apart from beating Madrid at the Bernabau, they were playing, you know, teams that were frankly Europa League teams. Um, and it it does feel um a little bit like like that when you're watching these these Champions League match days at the moment. On the Galatasoy point as well, let's not forget it's only two years ago and the old system where they had an identical game against Manchester United. So that I think that's separate to the format. And like just to touch on everything that James said there, another point that to be fair to Mourinho he did make, he did have his moments despite this feeling like a bit of a kind of um just a kind of diluted version of Maximum Mourinho. But he he mentioned this before the game and then after the game he had a line, what about Malagusto? He goes, Malagusto is having a difficult night. Uh and then Moresca brings on a better player because Chelsea can do that. uh and just because of the difference in the squads and and it is true and actually one of the things that struck was how like given Benfica for years had been this kind of model club like Porto I suppose bringing in talents from South America selling it on for high money replenishing that way just how like what a random bunch their squad seemed compared to Galataseray which is also a bit of a random bunch but in a different way it's a very expensive random bunch and like Benfica didn't have the sort of the the glamour that Galatas had Yeah. The the the I think also the um the crowd plays a role in in these Chelsea fans I guess um have maybe spoiled over the years and just seeing what they're seeing and they seem a really unhappy bunch. So I know a few and they kind of they're going to these games miserable whereas I don't know what's going on in in in Istanbul but those guys arrived ready ready for action and um you know it does create a different vibe in in the stadium if if if the team comes out to a flat atmosphere they'll put a flat performance in as well and I guess the repetitive nature of some of these games but the thing the thing with what James was saying about the intensity of this competition and why why kind of lacking is is because of that lack of jeopardy and the the safety net. And the interesting thing here is when they were coming up with this format, the the seedings were supposed to be kind of a big deal. So you're going to you you every game will count because it will um you know lessen the ordeal as you go through the rounds. But that that didn't seem to pass. And the other critical thing here was the playoff round. um some of the senior UEFA guys that devised this, they were going to have a one match playoff, i.e. the teams that finished higher up uh and didn't finish in the top eight, they will get a home advantage and and that's a massive advantage. But again, because of TV and money and clubs wanting as many safety nets as possible, the big ones, we've got this kind of watered down version of what this thing was supposed to be. They have changed that now for this year though. So apparently one of the biggest feedbacks in the um in the end of season survey of the clubs which Real Madrid did not fill in um you know their little protest the clubs did say well there needs to be more of a reward for where you finish in the group. So I think from now then every single knockout stage will be shaped by who finished higher in the in the uh in the table. And just on the Chelsea point to give us quite a nice another nice segue. It has often been said of course that uh a lot of the some of the Chelsea hierarchy are particularly attuned to online discussion themselves. I think Moresca is a coach who provokes a lot of that h which why it's probably worth getting into now in terms of what we actually mean by how online football is. And I suppose it's probably best to start off with a little bit of a framework here because I mean obviously we're talking about the primarily the discussion that spills out from uh social media platforms like like Twitter/X 15 years ago I suppose which is when all three of us were kind of you know in the earlier stages of our journalism career but very much still anchored I suppose to the old print world. Certainly I was I used to work on a on a classic Sunday newspaper which almost feels a relic now and it did feel like Twitter and that whole online discussion. It was a bit like yes it was growing. It was a bit like message boards though and that was something adjacent to football but not really something the game was too bothered with. Whereas now 15 years on and I'd say actually Euro 2012 was probably the first Twitter tournament. But now it just feels like it's this is actually where discussion of the game happens despite kind of how only a certain proportion of the game's fans are actually online engaged in this. It just it frames so much like what what do you guys think of that? Yeah, we'll go to James first. Yeah, I mean I looked on my Twitter account uh last night and realized um that uh I've been on Twitter for since 2009. Um that was that was sobering. Um it's like wow that that's a that's yeah that's more than 15 years. God um how much time have I have I lost to Twitter? But I mean it's online has given us some incredible sort of uh moments you know sort of be it um you know Waggatha Christie um with with Colleen and Rebecca Vardy um you know in terms of it like framing the game you know I've seen sort of transfer reporters um who are not the big two transfer reporters and Romano or even Dimatio but I've seen transfer reporters set up burner accounts and then go and try and discredit other people's transfer reporting or say um you were late to this story. Um so and so got to it first blah blah blah. Um I've seen fan bases cancel a manager um you know say no to um when you know sort of Tottenham were going after Gatuso um fans found a few of his lines translated them without any context. Um and uh yeah, Gatuso didn't get that job, which um I I thought was you know, whilst 2021 sensitivities at that time were heightened, I think if you look at what he said, you know, he was neither really misogynistic or racist. Um but he was cancelled um from the Premier League. and you know and then in terms of how it affects our job I think along with sort of 24-hour rolling news channels um you know the the debate doesn't stop when um you know you send your copy for the first print edition you know the debate keeps going it's live uh it is an animal that is is constantly seeking attention and and wants feeding um And uh you know that in turn has has created new kind of categories of um of journalists um you know be it the transfer reporters and how transfer reporters have become the the ones with the biggest followings and therefore um everything has been skewed towards transfer reporting. It's given a space to sort of tactics writers and uh wannabe analysts um some of whom who have to be fair been recruited by clubs on the basis of their blogs um and stuff like that. Um it's it's created space for um you know I don't know who would want to be this but wannabe accountants just like celebrity accountants celebrity accountants um and and and and again that has that has radically altered like how we go about our jobs um and what we're responsive to. I know for a fact that in you know sort of editorial meetings you know where whereas in the past it would be okay what were the results last night or something like that how do we react to them or um you know now it's like what is trending on on Twitter you know what are people talking about on Twitter we need to basically we we see these waves of traffic and we we we need to send R. Kelly Slater out to catch that wave. Um, and that's and that and so it's it's it's massively altered um how how we do things. It's um you you forgot another guy who was cancelled there in Italy. James, you're the Latio Eagle guy. Yes. Yes. For for for posting uh how his new penis enhancement worked. Um just push a button. Um yeah, he pushed one button. Um, we we all got to see it in any pushed post uh on Instagram. No, but it's it's the kind of immediacy and and the kind of mayhem it causes perhaps, you know, obviously for that guy. But but the the other thing here is the anonymity. So, you know, it was interesting that you mentioned, you know, these transfer guys having a burner account, etc., and creating this noise. the the kind of in real life IRL versus whatever's going on there. Sometimes I the real world's being overtaken by what's happening in this place and we really don't know the motivations or who who a lot of people are. Um and and it has you know you've described it really well there and and the the impact it's had on the game but another really massive one and we're talking about Twitter really. I think Twitter is the football medium um and it and it still is um is what's happened with Musk I think and the monetization of what he's selling. So accounts are able to generate income. So the more extreme views you have the more engagement you get and obviously that's going to skew the discussion in in in certain directions. um you know and add at at the the role of his algo. So when you were saying that your desk or or clubs are looking at what's trending and what's doing what this this element has a huge part to play and it in some ways it's it's it can be quite dangerous. Um but on on the on the positive side early Twitter I think was really good. Um it introduced us to new voices. It gave people new opportunities to to work in football as well. Um, some of them were quite good. Um, and it kind of bought stories to certainly to me that I would never have been able to get or even understand parts of the world that the the kind of broader football landscape. Um, yeah. And even not just like overseas, but within football. It's such a such a big industry what's happening in certain certain parts of the game. We we we wouldn't be seeing that stuff. And I think we know a lot more um and I say this in a positive sense about the game than than we might have done before. Yeah, it it is probably worth acknowledging that actually. I I feel exactly the same. And to be honest, as someone who obvious grew up in Ireland and um worked in Ireland, which is obviously a smaller media market, had started to do stuff in England and then was at a new a Sunday newspaper that went bust in January 2011. Twitter helped me basically branch out. I would say it directly helped me move and meet a lot of you. It was good to get work out there. It say like it it did play into that sort of globalization or the kind of breakdown of barriers for a lot of media and a lot of football. But I suppose naturally because of the very power of that it evolves. And maybe just to kind of you know further frame this discussion, it does feel another case of where and again this is something that is a recurring theme on Libro yet another element where football predicts the world where something that happens in football before it actually it's it's almost sometimes like feels like because football is so popular and reaches so many people it almost becomes this testing ground for or case study for what's going to happen later. And I think you can definitely see parallels with how the online has shaped football um and the way the online is now shaping politics. And I think that there probably is a point to be made in how two things have raced sorry three things have raced around the world faster than anything in in the 21st century. One is actually the spread of football and league football. That's gone hand in hand with the spread of social media. And then that's gone hand in hand with um the spread of a particular type of right-wing politics. Yeah. I think Rory um who you know may go to Glimpse one day. He he wrote a piece in in in 2017 uh when when he was at the New York Times did this it was really interesting guy from from Ireland. this guy Declan Vley who's a journalist or is I don't know if he still is a journalist in Ireland for a local newspaper and he he was like I think he was an Arsenal fan he was just getting frustrated with all these transfer stories like cuz he obviously he's a fan of the club hoping that these these guys are linked to his team are going to come and he was like god this is just all crap and so he did a a social experiment um where he invented a Moldovven player. Yes. And and put him on so to see to see if it gains traction. And yeah, the the story gained traction. And you you know, Rory's point was fake news. You know, the big Trump slogan which is now, you know, a uniform that's fake news. It was invented in football. So, as you say, Miguel, you know, where where football leads, others follow. So, there there is this. I also remember during it's a petri dish as well like the football chat and the kind of um stuff you put into the water, the chum you put in the water during the Gulf blockade. I noticed there was quite a lot of this um kind of testing ground for what was happening between um you know this was Qatar being uh ostracized I guess by its the neighbors with Saudi Arabia, UAE etc. But there was a lot of kind of targeting of the the football elements I felt first. We sort of felt it in football first before almost before the the the kind of big diplomatic spat exploded. Well, and exactly on that. I mean precisely what you're talking about there because wasn't weren't the first big noises about the 2022 World Cup which did become this massive political issue in the region initially because of dismissal guitar and then afterwards because of jealousy that the the kind of the social media noise about that started around 2014 basically and and there's been and we specifically targeting issues like you know migrant workers obviously the most legitimate issue possible that we've all written about But it was funny that then that was found to have been driven by actors who it from what a lot of reports suggested wouldn't necessarily have felt the most concerned by that. Yeah. Yeah. This this this was interesting um in that it was um you know rival states using you know allegedly using these kind of public relations companies corporate PRs and and we're going to get into this a little bit because it then evolves into maybe later with football teams adopting the same thing. you know, you have um public relations companies that actually specialize in this type of um you know, negative activity against arrival. Yeah, it's um it's remarkable in terms of why these PR managers are um being brought in uh by clubs, uh coaches and players. So in addition to agents they have PRs and you know why why is that and a lot of it is to because of this expansion of media um it's no longer just on your TV radio it's in your pocket you carry it with you all the time you know there's so much more to manage now and you know if you look at around if you look at the swirl around the club you know I was struck um going to Arsenal Man City the other day, you know, I've never seen more people putting tripods up or having selfie sticks or, you know, sort of handicams and someone with a microphone, sort of influencers, but you know, what was once upon a time called citizen journalists, all of whom have their own Arsenal channels, you know, Arsenal fan TV, the the kind influence of that um in terms of what it was and the discourse it led to and the tone of discourse online about a club was kind of something we never seen before and I would say became if not more important than what was going in the newspapers the next day. It was something that the club had to be aware of and sort of had to if not seek to control and seek to counter, you know, in in in some ways. And yeah, that has um that has changed, you know, for for a long time. And as as as TK was saying about the ability to monetize um in this be it from having uh subscription following on YouTube on that please uh like and subscribe uh sorry we don't know but but that has created an entirely new information stream an information stream that is is often Um it it's we're not going to tell you the news. We're going to tell you what we think about the news. Um without sort of going through any of the sort of stuff that we have to do as journalists. So speak to as many people as possible around the story who are close to a story. Check it. Um you know goes to an editor sub sub editor. Are we confident in what we're printing? Yes. Publish it. Because you know, for example, TK will know this. If if you publish something at the New York Times and it's wrong, the New York Times aren't taking it down, they're issuing a kind of correction and a clarification, which becomes a story in itself. For these online actors, they just delete the tweet and hope hope someone's not screen grabbed it and kept it as a receipt. And and yet the the churn on on the on from the scroll on Twitter, some people won't have seen the deleted tweets. They'll have just take they'll have just swallowed the information, accepted it as true. And it creates a narrative or a pressure around a subject, be it a player, a club, um referees, whatever. Um that um is is kind of out of control and again has altered the atmospherics I would say um around uh around football and around what we do. on exactly that point and I think Arsenal are a very interesting entry point into that into this not just because of how sizable their fan base is online but partly because of that. Um so I know for a fact that when a lot of noise grew around Madu when they were signing him once he was in the door pretty senior figures in the club felt they had to start to do things to counter this negative noise around them. So they did take tangible steps to uh to address that and I think that that has actually been partly successful. It's been helped by performances of course but then they would say that's why they signed them because they could be this good despite kind of the fan noise. Uh and the other side of this because this is actually the way we kind of got into this discussion why we we we decided we'd talk about it this week. We were talking about the games the weekend obviously and it was yet another game particularly Arsenal Newcastle or Newcastle Arsenal that had some contentious refereeing decisions in um and I'd been told before that Arsenal was one dressing room. Now, I I believe this actually relates to a lot of Premier League dressing rooms and a lot of football dressing rooms really where tweets about refereeing decisions have been passed around among the players. Yeah. And if that like and I suppose this kind of gets to the point where we talk about how this has changed because like 15 years ago that that didn't feel like it would have happened. Twitter was just this kind of yes it was valuable to media but it was a media thing whereas now it's be kind of it's kind of become just this this central mind within the central consciousness in the game from which a lot radiates from and if players are sharing in that way that means they and by extension clubs starting to think about all this stuff. Yeah, I mean they're they're in they're in the world as we are. Like think about how many times you picking your phone up. It's it's like, you know, it's the thing that's in your hand all of the time when they're not on the pitch. They are everyone else, aren't they? Immediately, especially like this current generation of players, they they're born online. And and all of these social media companies have grown in their lifetime to to what they are. And it's interesting. I saw um uh some comments from Phil Jones who who famously talked about his mental health issues and why he walked away from from social media um when when I think it was two or three years ago he he gave an interview to MUTV, but one of the things he said in the interview was like obviously he he kind of predates this. He was just there as a meme and the the abuse that he got um that affected his family. But what he said about young players I thought was really interesting. He said um you know he said I know as a young player that's the first thing you do cuz he looks around the the dressing room there. You come off the game and you want to see what people are saying about you when you strip it all back in reality. Uh it doesn't really matter what they're saying because they don't pick team. But it does matter, doesn't it? It does matter because that's why they're picking it up and and in this case you talked about refereeing decisions. But the first thing these guys are looking at is what they're saying about them presumably, right? And then I was wondering, I don't know what you guys think about this, is do you think it would affect player actions on the pitch? Like, should I play a safe pass? Should I not take a risk? Um, and should I not take a penalty, TK? Because if if you look at the reaction, the players who missed penalties at the Euro 2021 shootout, England, Italy, the racist abuse that those players got, then, you know, it it maybe would make you think twice, you know, do I want to be um the subject of well, essentially a hate crime online over and over and over and over again? And you know again not to not to dwell on Arsenal Mick, but I think Arsenal use a an AI tool or a provider called signify which is is is there to identify online abuse, investigate it and basically help them I think report it and prevent it. Now I think so again the fact that that's another layer of managing this this um this online phenomenon uh is again a new layer um to to to football that wasn't there 15 years ago. I I do feel we this is a moment where we should we should make a distinction because it's something we have to think about as well because we're obviously talking about online and a lot of people I I'd imagine would be responding now well this is just reflecting what people are talking about but I don't think that's necessarily true. It's a bit like politics now and I suppose how like the difference with online and I think why this matters so much and why it shapes football a different way is because of the amplification and distillation of very specific points. So they become much more pronounced than they would otherwise be and hence I think say clubs can get obsessed with or teams can get obsessed with refereeing decisions in a way they shouldn't necessarily be just as a kind of the most obvious example or as you say a player starts dwelling on some aspect of his game that actually the coaching staff they've got the analytics they can see with their own eyes they don't think is actually as prominent as people online go on about to be sure I mean look it used to be the idea that they weren't crit exercise was is is not right either. But it used to be not so immediate or urgent, right? You'd have, you know, the someone in the paper and you know, I don't read any of that rubbish. You know, that's what it used to be. I'll just throw it away fish. But it is it it's more immediate and urgent than say a commentator in a newspaper or the fellow in the pub. You know, people would be talking about these things. But it's that, as you said, the amplification maybe and the and the urgency of this. you literally haven't taken your socks off and you got your phone in your hand and someone or or a barrage of this stuff coming straight in. Um I don't know it some of it obviously I think these uh players are are now coached and I know they are in the US as well about while they're learning to be professional footballers what we're seeing in the pitch crossing heading tactics all the rest of it they're learning how to operate in a world where they are under the glare of of social media. It's a big part of learning inademies now as well. And that kind of tells you where where we are with some of this as well, doesn't it? Yeah. I think there's there's a couple things to say there. Um, decisions that should ordinarily come and go that instead stick around and become the basis of analysis and debate um for the hours after the game and then the days after the game. I think that is I I was at a game a few weeks ago. I was sat behind the kind of visiting press team um and a corner led to a goal and someone must have put online a photo of was was the ball actually in the uh they call it Lunetta in Italy the the the half moon kind of where the for for the corner you know so you know what was it outside of the the half moon was it inside and of course you can always find an angle that suggests that it's kind of sort of outside you know there's always the kind of zuda footage um like okay this proves my my my point here and you know sort of watched watch them um be sent that photo and then send it to all the executives of the club send it into the into the WhatsApp group for for the players. So, it's it's kind of there that even even if you're watching the game as an executive or playing the game as a player, you know, when you and you've moved on, there's something there that brings you pulls you back in. It's like, you know, people that must mean that means someone to someone in the club, so it must mean something to me. I have to care about this now. Um, and you know, I I in Italy they call it monitor. you know this this this the the phenomenon of monitoring monitoring monitoring monitoring and you know one of the things that I was struck by is you know one of the tools that um football clubs use particularly in recruitment or analysis is scout okay scout for those who don't know is a online platform it's got like a map of the world if you click on Azabaijan it'll have every league in Aabaijan every game you can watch every game scout the player sign the player blah blah blah Now, yeah, that that was a a company set up in a place called Kavity in Italy. And it was like sort of a hotbed for startups. And I remember being shown one of these startups. And um it was it was for clubs that were thinking about recruiting a player, but it was essentially monitoring all of their social media accounts. Okay. So, you know, you could if if you're interested in signing Miguel Delaney, um, you know, 18-year-old League of Ireland superstar in the making. Nice are a bit slow. You could you could click on a box and it would give you all of sort of Miguel Delane's um yeah, his Twitter, uh, god forbid, um, his his Instagram. And you know, it was there supposedly to help um a clubs who already have those players to monitor their players. What what my what's my player what's my employee up to? Who's he socializing with? Where's he going out? What's he eating? But also for clubs interested in buying that buying that player and say and and and forming a kind of profile of them. Um and it would scrape the internet for news stories and all all that sort of stuff. And and so you know we we should also consider this that you know this is a big part of recruitment as well. Um, you know, everyone thinks like, okay, clubs these days go off sort of XG, advanced analytics, blahy blahy blah. Um, you know, let's get the nerd in to model how this player fits. And instead, clubs add on top of that profiling, which is um, which is done by essentially looking at, okay, what's this? what what what can I learn about this player from their online activity? Yeah. Which is is is there on a public platform, you know, that's that certainly wasn't there 15 years ago. That was uh I'll go and see if I can talk to the lads uh the the lads he grew up with at school or, you know, who were on his street or speak to his grandparents, you know, and that sort of thing. and instead um they're forming a picture online which sometimes isn't necessarily an accurate picture. You know, it's Instagram versus reality, isn't it? I was talking remember talking to Mark Palios of Tranmir Rovers two years ago about this and he said he has found that he thinks it's harder for clubs to withstand pressure on a manager after a few results and ultimately supposed to take the decision on their future because as he put it it's much easier to raise the pitchforks online and again I do think there's actually a political parallel here h I'm not going to compare debate over a manager to certain political views. But I suppose what what happens in politics now is that certain viewpoints that at one point would have been consigned to the fringes of the internet or the most frenetic message boards if you can put them on a public space like X then they can suddenly coales and come together and like-minded people can make something that was disparate can become a block of noise and I suppose the same can potentially happen in a much faster way now with with managers. there. And again, we keep coming back to this phrase, I suppose, the the noise around the club. And just on another one on that actually that I feel it's worth mentioning. I got it in the notes here, but it kind of just jumps out with me. I think it was around 2018 maybe where Guardiola at that point already considered one of the most influential figures in football history at that at the peak of his game in the process of winning everything in Manchester City. and he's referring to people calling him fraudola. Now that isn't something that journalists were saying that is something exclusively a manager of Guardiola's standing should not give a single toss about a phrase like that. Again, it's just I suppose the way all this kind of comes together to like to infect the mind of one of the greatest minds in football history. No, but wasn't wasn't um this also the case with now I I I wasn't covering England at the Euros. Um I don't know what the tone of the questioning was like or I saw some of the coverage obviously, but Bellingham when when Bellingham gave the press conference um for an England qualifier after the Euros and he sort of hit hit out, didn't he? Yeah. But he did it unprompted. He he sort of manifested his own storyline, I suppose. What was he criticized for? What was the do you remember what the issue was? So, well, he's gone on a bit in two ways. First of all, he was talking about kind of I suppose he was referring to the criticism or alluding to criticism he was getting. And since then, he's kind of he's hinted at being sort of made a scapegoat for Euro 2024. Like none of which were true. I need I need to find the exact quotes, but that would that was sort of the the thrust of it. I only say that because again, it speaks to the fact that you you've sort of come off the off the pitch and you whack your phone up in your in your hand again, right? And it it's that self it's that repetitive reflexive reaction from the player and the repetitive easy to find the criticism on the algo, right? Nice things are not the things that are promoted on social media. I mean that it's it's that's you don't get engagement by saying didn't you have a good game? Um and and and that's and that's how that world works. Um but you're right. I mean for someone Guardiola if if you're getting to the level here of and he all the managers in in a way they're the father figures of of the clubs whether they like it or not aren't they? They're looking after these young lads. So if if it if they become that chippy or it gets under the the skin of someone like that you you can only imagine um he's not the only one, right? you you you hear from all sorts of um managers when they when they start um the presses these days isn't something that they've read in the papers, right? It's this whatever's percolating in the air. All the noise you said. We had Graeme Potter being asked about face swaps the other day, which quite it's quite whenever you think about Potter and his coaches, that is quite an undignified way to unfortunate way to end his West Ham time. His last act to the club was fielding questions on this. Yeah, they did. They did swap his face with Nunos. Uh straight afterwards, but um yeah. Sorry. You go. No, I was going to say like for all we're like at the so far it's felt like we've been talking about this sort of organic um I don't want to use the word noise again, but that's what it is. We've talked about something that's felt quite organic that's kind of grown. it's been kind of self-perpetuating bit like Skynet. Um whereas this has actually evolved as something also more deliberate and it's something you've written about a fair bit TK when we've got two quite specific cases at two of the biggest European clubs. Yeah. and kind of around the same time as well you know around 2022 23 so a couple of years ago quite massive scandals as well and we're talking about um Barcelona and Paris Sanjaman so the Barcelona case they're very similar as well hiring external I guess deniable public relations companies to effectively pump out tweets social media posts dispar maraging rivals and in in some cases your own players which was it's a remarkable thing to do um in in Bartameo and this was the Bartameo regime at Barcelona this was a company called I3 Ventures um and they targeted Messi Messi was at his kind of pomp and peak at the time you know PK ch all the all the all the kind of royal family of Barcelona effectively getting it from the club itself. Um, and then around the same time, Paris Sanjgeran, uh, well, its communications department was accused of hiring what was called a digital troll army. Um and this was like a huge scandal there targeting um Bape Adrianne Rabio but also um journalists um in France in particular Leip and and Mediaart who happen to break this story but that it's quite it tells you a a couple of things. These clubs are extremely sensitive to what's happening in on on social media and this battle for narrative to to control it within the club as well as outside of it. The it's it just tells you quite a lot about how modern modern life works really right now. how how online everything is and and I guess the this battle uh among the hierarchy, the people kind of running the club and their own, you know, petty castles they're living in versus their rivals. It's it's um um it was really instructive and I dare say these aren't the only two clubs doing it. These might have been the only two that have been found out to be doing it. I mean, I think it's interesting to segue a little bit from that. Barcelona, Messi to we've done a podcast about this before, the most famous person on the planet, Cristiano Ronaldo, right? And the reason why I bring up Cristiano and and being online is the opportunity Juventus saw in Cristiano, which is if we can basically get some of Ronaldo's fans to follow us and stay on our social channels following us. um not only when he's with us but also when he leaves then that's that's valuable for all the reasons we've spoken about sort of influences people starting their own YouTube channels monetizing that for clubs you know ultimately yeah the sole reason for Juventus signing Cristiano wasn't um uh just to to boost their social media following they wanted to to win in one of the Champions League finals that they they they kept losing, you know, in two of the three years before they signed him. They thought he was the the the guy who would get the more of the line. But they also saw the business opportunity in terms of like he will bring us more commercial opportunity because sponsors will say well if Ronaldo is appearing in your jersey with um a sleeve sponsor, back shirt sponsor, front shirt sponsor, and that's appearing on his social media channels, then that is, you know, so much so much more valuable and Juventus could basically go and say, you know, pony up. Um then COVID hit, stadiums were were empty for 18 months. Um I think one of the deals they did was inhouse with Jeep uh a kind of you know exor company. Um but that that it was a way of thinking that was it was an opportunity that wasn't there ago that wasn't there 15 years ago in terms of how do we leverage the star power of this player to make our business bigger. Um, and you know, a lot of these, yeah, I hate to say it, but these football players are the biggest content creators in the in the world. And on that as well, hence I suppose why clubs themselves see themselves as rivals to media. They are content machines. And I like we've kind of danced around it's always been at the fringes of discussion which is the actual effect on media itself because I do feel it's something we should briefly get into because it kind of I think brings this ties all this together. Uh cuz like I mean like look you can see what happens you can see the state of the financial state of journalism across the world right now. And yet in football that's at the same point where the thirst for content has never been intense or more greater. And then you have the monetization of a lot of these uh and like success of a lot of these sort of you know quasi media entities and like I know big clubs in Europe like we're talking about the super clubs that were involved in the super league some of their media people willingly say now if they want a message out there that they need to get to their fans they will go to the big online entities over kind of traditional journalists which I think is quite striking I suppose and there there's two other ways I would say this shapes discussion around football or certainly kind of again the the atmosphere around football and how it's affected media. I mean one and something we wrestle with a lot obviously is if there's some sort of contentious court case and we have to follow the law and then you get accused of all sorts like being involved in some sort of conspiracy for for following the law. Why haven't you mentioned this? Yeah, because we don't want to be in contempt of court and we want uh we want the the people involved to have a fair trial. That's why yeah kind of you you you know you know we know the line I guess one you know um either we've got too close to a lawyer a story a sensitive story would have to be lawyered as well um whether it's a court case or not even if you're going to write about any anyone or any allegation we have to go to the line uh especially if you do anything I don't know if you find something out the the amount of lawyering required for for the most contentious stories is is enormous but then we are also in an environment where with with random people at home um pushing news out and and this is always a tension and we've had this very recently with um a number of players being arrested for all sorts of crimes and once they are charged it is inconceivable we can write about or report about this stuff yet online all of this stuff is is proliferating and and as you said you look like you have something to hide but effectively that's that's the law. Now I think to be honest that's out of our remit as well, isn't it? I mean this is something for for the government and for for whoever you know people who make the law here to to enforce this given the fact that these people get a lot more traction than a lot of lot of journalists. So this I I you know and it isn't it isn't being handled is it? Um so if if someone is charged my pen or my my my finger is off the keyboard pretty much until we get to the trial. That's not the case for everyone. Yeah. But it's it's it's um a stone to throw at sort of legacy or mainstream media. Um you you always you always hear it. They're keeping stuff from us. Um and it's like no, we're just acting within the law here. Um but there are accounts online who who essentially will I I I I look at tweets and I just think that's lious, that's defamation. And um it it doesn't get checked, it gets retweeted, you know, like well, it's it's the most the loudest voice wins the argument, right? Or the the most extreme view or the most scandalous piece of information is the one that's going to get traction presumably. That that's how the the algorithm works, I guess. But this this comes into that free speech debate that, you know, sort of certain bad faith actors are pushing online. It's like we have freedom of speech in this country. uh we also have the rule of law and and we're here to abide by it so that you know the news that you get you could you should be able to trust um because you know we've gone through all the checks and it's been lawyered and you know if if we've published the story we're confident in the story you know it's that that's you know it's it's the the fog that social media has created around this stuff um has has led to a lot of distrust in legacy see in mainstream media because they're like, "Oh, I'll get I'll get my news from that, you know, account with an avatar with a anonymous name um that is just suggesting stuff because they feel like it or it don't understand the law. You know, it's Yeah. Well, free free speech for you and maybe not for me is also the thing. Everyone is so siloed and and football perhaps is the most tribal uh environment of any. So I guess it's the footballification of the rest of the world and to go back to I guess what we were saying right at the start where football leads the rest of the world followers. In many ways football is brilliant that's why we love it but there are elements of it which has become quite toxic and are leeching into into the rest of the conversation elsewhere. Right. And there are two very distinctive things I think actually and this is important thing in it how it influences the way the entire game thinks and how people within it and around it think which is that when you have all this fog maybe better use that a better word that James used rather than noise. When you have this fog it um it pushes all discussions in certain directions and also shifts the overton window of what's acceptable to say. So like I I have to say I've spotted this in terms of uh when you cover certain clubs and like I would say even 10 to 20 years ago it would like it was essentially easier or sorry you got less blowback for criticizing clubs than you do now because now there's now so much of an ecosystem around clubs which is telling fans what they want to hear. By the same token, I often I remember having this conversation with a friend of the podcast, Ken Early H, and we were talking about say like one of Ireland's great journalists and former players, Aiman Duny, who used to kind of throw out kind of these, you know, mad opin throw kind of, you know, fiery opinions like like Sweden and like in 1982, I think it was, he he wrote Michelle Platini was a a monument to mediocrity. Now, yes, there are people that do that today, but people in the media a like Duny at that point, he wasn't going online to get people calling him a [ __ ] every every two minutes because his opinion and wouldn't have had that column thrown back at him in Euro 84 when h when Patini scored nine goals, the player in the tournaments. But so I I think it's had a a conditioning effect on on media itself. And by extension then that means it's had a conditioning effect on on conversation in football. Yeah, I think that's it's fair to say, you know, in terms of people, you know, aware that as soon as I type these these words, the they they're going to come. They're on their way. I can I can hear their hooves from a long way off. Uh but but I think I think it's harder and you know you could see why for beat reporters people who cover specific clubs say that they are the the kind of people the fans of a particular team are waiting to hear from and unless they give them good news they're going to come for them and then you see it. So you saw it particularly over the summer with the transfer window with you know as as don't don't rock the boat, don't upset the fans, just keep telling them you know um Honey and Sugar is coming this way. Um we're we're the club is doing everything it's it can and and putting this stuff out and it it kind of riles people up because they're so ready for the good news to happen. But when facts interfere with this and the reality of all of this is, you know what, guys, it's not good at all, you know, these people, you know, are kind of like absolutely showered with with disdain. But it's the issue of balance, isn't it? You save save the bad news for the end. It's going to come back hard. It's don't shoot the messenger. But online the messenger does get shot in a way that you know essenti he gets machine guns you know in in a way that if if you just publish something that's in the newspaper tomorrow and you've got no online platforms it's like okay you know whatever might get some some stuff in the mail uh when I go to my pigeon hole at the office but um yeah online it's u the messenger is is is there to to get it you Um, I've made this point before in relation to all this actually about how football has become the most popular sport in the world by and by like to to the point it's damaging I think sport itself. But I think it's also very relevant to this because and I I think this is such a direct illustration of how online as we're describing it works in this way because again 20 years ago people the way most people consumed media was obviously to TV or newspapers and newspapers say or even on in TV you had to consume what was put in front of you whereas that relationship is now flipped. So media tracks what people click on and I the more of something people click on the more media will give them because that is what and I it does I think it creates a sort of a damaging cycle here because then people might miss out on something they actually they didn't know they agreed with or some sort of alternative point that they okay they mightn't even they might necessarily agree with it but if they read it they can see where they're coming from. Whereas now, if something's kind of headlined in a certain way, they're just going to immediately react to the headline. I mean, we've we've all seen this in action, but producer Tom did make a point to me that this shouldn't be a kind of an inside baseball woe is me journalist complaining about nasty tweets, but but I do to to kind of I am going to make this point on that um another quite hopefully neat segue. Someone who has closed comments on their uh or at least limited comments on their official account is maybe the most senior most online person in football which is probably the president of FIFA Jan the first person who who runs a football body through Instagram. It's certainly where we hear a lot of decisions first. He really does. As you said, I think um Oh, it's remarkable. Jan and Fantino's Instagram account. Um it does really in a way, and this is for the person, it's it's not great, but it really gives you a window into the soul of these people. In some ways, it could be great. You get you get a look at the character of of of some of these guys. And for for fans of of of football, you get access to these players in ways you might have not got in the past, which is great. But in Johnny Fantino's case, it is a remarkable Instagram account. It really tells you everything you need to know about who the FIFA president is, what his priorities are, and and how much um the, you know, the ego has grown in the role. You can see it evolve as he's been in that seat. Of course, he was like the accidental president, the guy who was pulling out the balls from the the UEFA draws in 2016 to the man who can't keep himself away from Donald Trump's office. You know, it is a it is an incredible journey he's b been on and he's shown us every element of of who he is as a man. And um as you said, a lot of these announcements, these proclamations, these are some of these are big seismic football things. You know, this is the the top governing body of the world's most popular sport. So what he has to say about what's going to happen in football is obviously quite important. And you would have thought there would have been a plan, a media plan to get this stuff out or to to to um to manage the the news flow. This dude is firing this stuff out on Instagram and the very um you know, expensively assembled large communications department at Zurich HQ has no idea what's going on half the time. Miami HQ these days. No. Yes. Yeah. Over in Miami or Yeah. It's it's incredible how how how he's doing this and this this is the guy at the top of world football. So maybe where he leads others will follow. Well interesting an executive at another highprofile football body I remember once sent me you know the link to one of these and and made the point that it is quite striking the these posts unintentionally give away a lot especially when the little videos that show them appearing somewhere and how people kind of behave with each other. you know the um the people in the room as well that actually and if this is another consequence of all this suppose and how much can be immediately out there without you necessarily realizing it. No, I look I I actually think, you know, whilst it it it does do everything that TK and and Miguel have said in terms of offer um a window into the soul of uh Instantino, um like part of me and yeah, I know you guys have called me and Rory Janney Boys for our enjoyment of the Club Cup. Jani, it takes a particular kind of person to like embrace um uh Instagram in the way that he has like I mean Janney is not like um sort of young I mean he's obviously younger than Blatter and that sort of thing but he's not when he started you didn't think he was obvious kind of an obvious choice to sort of really embrace social media. He did have the showmanship that we saw in kind of pulling the balls out for Champions League draws and, you know, a bit of rack on on stage. But the way this 55year-old former redhead um has embraced this, he's got 3 million followers um on there, it allows him to speak, like subscribe. It allows him to speak to his followers in a way that he doesn't have to speak to us. That's the other thing with social media. He he'll do these maybe like small event fireside chats which are announced, you know, quite late and not widely publicized or he just does social media and that's that's that that's that he he doesn't do the big FIFA Congress Q&A or stuff in the past because he's he's got he's got instantino and that's it. Well, that that's a great point to be honest and that that is uh you know obviously I'm going to say this but a great frustration in the lack of accountability. So he's got that phone he could put this stuff out and his comments are obviously they aren't fully closed. They're open to his friends. So I assume the Janney Juice drinkers here James Rory they might they might they might have some they might be able to put the odd comment in there when he's when he's done a good job. But the the the impossibility to to actually have a presser and ask this guy a question is is incredible. I think as you said, he might have done his little fire. They're hit and runs though. Suddenly you hear rumors. There's rumors somewhere in the Janney might be appearing at a um at BNQ down the road. If you get there in 10 minutes, you might be able to ask a question. But the idea of a proper setpiece press conference, they have disappeared. Even even at the last two FIFA congresses, the annual meeting of FIFA where where you know everyone arrives, this is you you set the year ahead or whatever you're going to do. Um he has swerved the media every time in in favor of this. So James, if you do get into those comments as a friend, if you could ask a couple of questions for us, that would be great. that that feels actually quite um a neat place to kind of bring this you know discussion and maybe debate now to a kind of a to kind of natural culmination because well we can carry it on online surely exactly please do please do our commenters or our followers um but I mean it feels like the the obviously Libro view the official stance is that none of this is a good thing but is that completely true I mean a lot a lot of people won't responding to this and point say this is actually the democratization of football in the same way as politics. It's direct access. It's um it's some of it is actually positive for the game. Where where do we stand on that? Um I I think uh the origins of these platforms did what you said just then democratized gave you more greater access to people. Um but they have been manipulated and they are they are toxic places to be. Um and uh the discourse around so many things have just been poisoned really. Um and uh yeah, I mean uh don't watch this reel. Um don't like and subscribe. Delete Instagram. Delete X. Um and get yourself a dummy phone. Uh play snake. That's what I'm going to say. I'm so far over. I can't disagree with James here. So yeah, I mean it was it was a great environment. It was a great environment. We learned a lot in the early days. We we got to meet Miguel Delaney. Um you know, it it it did bring new voices to the sport and new new ways of appreciating it. But it's now um sadly, you know, not what it was because of the the the type of characters who are running the social media company as much as anything else. The lack of regul didn't happen and we are living in the sewer. Like and subscribe if you have enjoyed this podcast. I think is I suppose just living in the sewer is the bleakest ending to a Libro podcast. That should be the title for this podcast as well. Um well the titles doesn't see good but I mean I is there any argument to be made say that this is actually this can help is to be said that it curbs club's uh worst instincts that a club's journalist's you know own unconscious bias uh perhaps but I I I think um you're outnumbered by by fans who are tribal about their club and as as TK was saying only want the the sugar and the honey about their club. um clubs can use it in the same way that we've talked about um uh Jenny Fatino FIFA um um giving the perception that doing social media is enough doing actual media doesn't matter anymore can just basically um side sidestep it and and push their narrative um relatively unchecked you know um you know I think that the the balance the checks and balances have moved so far um that it's it's holding people accountable and people being less brazen is is harder than ever, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, also the tribalism just to for me to close just I've had people online, I'm not going to call them fans, we don't know who these people are, to say, "Well, why do you need to know that?" Well, we're journalists. We're trying to find information out. people only seem to want good news about themselves and the very worst of everybody else. Um, and that's the the kind of siloing of social media. Um, and uh, yeah, on a positive note, this has been a really interesting conversation. Yeah, and that is probably as good a place to close as ever. If you are online, like, subscribe, and please leave comments. H, thank you for joining us. Powered by Riverside FM.