================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: CXox9fzgDgE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXox9fzgDgE
TITLE: What are Tuchel's big World Cup decisions?
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-09
DURATION: 1h 4m 58s
VIEWS: 1,296
LIKES: 47
COMMENTS: 12
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo's got Duncan Alexander, Colin Millar and Carl Anka along for some international break fun and games.

England have been under Thomas Tuchel's tutelage for a year - and his latest squad inclusions and omissions have certainly raised eyebrows. So where do the Three Lions stand at the moment - and how set is the team heading into next summer's World Cup? Plus - a word on the fortunes of the other home nations as qualifying reaches its climax across Europe.

CAF qualifiers have thrown up more than a few eye-catching storylines, no least the remarkable Cape Verde on the brink of a place in the 2026 tournament - and the drama surrounding South Africa's docked points. African football expert Maher Mezahi joins us for a deep dive into some of the key issues across the continent.

Plus - we react to the news that Uefa have 'reluctantly' granted permission for La Liga and Serie A to stage a game each abroad this winter, meaning European league games will be played on different continents f
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 12,992

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally Football Show. Today, for the last time ever, let's do an October international break special as the countdown continues to World Cup 26. There's England Wales, and that's just the reaction to the squad announcement. There's big UEFA fixtures. There's news from the CF appropriately when you're looking forward to a big cup. What's brewing there between black stars and blue sharks and more? Plus, from bad to Perth has the game now quite literally gone with UEFA's green light for globe trottting league matches is the Totally Football Show. Listener, it's Thursday the 9th of October. We have for you Duncan Alexander. I also Colin Miller. Hello Colin. Hello James. And Carl Anker. Hi James. Hi Carl. You're down in the London that London cuz you were at the OPA quiz last night. I was indeed. I was with my friend Adam Clearary on the independence quiz team. Uh we finished eighth. Eighth out of how many teams go? Uh I want to say 17. Okay. So uh yeah mid table respectable. How big how prestigious is the optic quiz? Uh it's been running for I want to say 12 years now. Really? But in quiz terms 2010. Yeah. So in terms of quizzing it's this is the uh the creme de creme of London football quiz national perhaps. They got all the big boys represented. So, Sky Sports uh Sky Sports stats team. They're the real They're the Real Madrid of the seeing. They've won the most, right? And they were the the favorites and reigning holders. Yeah. The reigning champions. Who else you got in there? BBC. Are they there? Uh so, we had Premier League had a stats team. Uh Racing Post were there with the team. Daily Mail was there independent. The Sun was there. Uh Lad Bible was there as well. The Times were there as well. So you really really and would this would this be this here this trophy the Opto quiz 2025 winner trophy this would be the trophy that would be the winning trophy that is not the trophy that I won I did not win a trophy that trophy was won by the athletics team I Yay congratulations athletics team uh Duncan you the kind of the de facto manager no yeah I I had to pull out of actually taking part due to a work commitment but Um, I assembled the team, gave them a pep talk, told them, you know, that Sky were the danger danger. Mhm. And, uh, I think they were four points up at Halime and defended that lead in the second half. Brilliant. Yeah. They being James Moore, Will Jeans, Producer Charlie. Producer Charlie and Michael Cox. I like to think that, you know, totally provided the back backbone of the I mean, yeah. that athletic the totally was very much the sort of uh the Premier League for getting into the Champions League that was there. So yeah. Yeah. Very very nice. I think they finished with 82 points. Uh the independent team finished with 69. So yeah, there there's the athletic and there is everyone else really in terms of quiz answering that really. What kind of are they very difficult questions? Uh the the quiz took a heavy owed a heavy debt to tenable Warren Davis's quiz show. So there were one round for example was named the last 10 uh European Cup champions. So before the Champions League so named the last 10 which I believe will Jeans just spat out machinery. There was a which is what is harder than it sounds cuz producer Charlie mentioned this to me in and around our coffee station and I was trying to assemble the list in my in my head. Colin, do you want to have a bang at that? The last 10. So from 91 sorry 81 to 91. Yeah, because there was a few in a row around the late 70s, early 80s where it was Ajax and Bayern had a run of wins, but you would have had like like a story in there. 81 was 81 was Liverpool. Oh, you want to go? You don't have to go in order, but No, we do. We do. 81 Liverpool. 82 Hamburg. Yes. 83 Villa. 84 Liverpool. 85 Juventus. Juventus. 86 to Yeah. 87 Port PSV. Yes. PSV1 and then they 88 and then Porto and then Milan 89 Red Star. Yeah. And then 91 would be Barcelona who beat Sam Dory at Wembley. Correct. It's easy. So that's a 10. That's 10. Bingo. There you go. All right. Excellent. Another question was which player has scored the most goals in FA Cup finals? Yes. What's the answer to that one then? It used to be Ian Rush. It is still Ian Rush. Still Ian Rush. Okay. And one more says, "Producer Charlie, this is a question I don't think anyone got, even the athletics team. Which team has had the most games at the World Cup without ever drawing nil nil?" Colin, ever drawing nil, you can rule out Switzerland. Um, ah God, that's I I thought this is I wagered it with I waged it was Sweden and I was wrong. What about like a Saudi Arabia? Somebody who would South Korea? No. No. North Korea? Nigeria. No. Oh, they do know in England. No, the answer was Austria. Austria. Well, there you go. Wow. Anyway, they've certainly played out some some dodgy draws, not a draw. So, credit to the to the quiz makers. It was it was really enjoyable and uh yeah, congratulations to the athletics winning team. Very magnanimous of you, Carl Ananka. And congratulations to everyone who took part. Splendid. Okay, October International break. Did you know that this is the last ever October international break as we know it? I do because I read Colin Miller's piece about it. Colin, this had completely passed me by. But this is a revolution. Next year we'll have effectively two international breaks stuck together and about 3 weeks off club football. Yeah. So this this change was actually passed by uh the FIFA council in 2023. So a little while ago, but it kind of gone under the radar. Um and it's for essentially the change of the football calendar as we know it between 2026 and 2030. So a 5year cycle. And the international breaks now that we have, we've got five during the year, not including the major tournaments that tend to take place in the summer. And each of those breaks tend to last for two weeks and every team has a maximum of two matches within those breaks. What FIFA have done is to merge the September and October breaks um into the one. Now, what that does is it doesn't reduce the number of international matches. So we're still going to have four during that period, but it's going to be played it's going to be condensed into into one 3 week window rather than two two weeks. So essentially what you have is a reduction in in the sort of the traveling and the sort of the kind of admin involved and all that movement between club and international teams and a reduction of that. So you've got an extra week of club football essentially as a result of that. That sounds like it's a good idea. I think in in theory it's it's a good idea. I mean it's a good idea in a lot of ways. It's a good idea environmentally certainly because you have a lot lot less traveling which you could kind of say is unnecessary and I think as well at the start of a football season you've got the sort of three breaks kind of back to back the early September early October mid November that feels like quite a lot certainly at the start of a season it feels like it's a very stop start both for club and internationals and I think this will benefit everyone in a way I think even for international sides it does benefit you to have maybe three or four games in a row rather than two and then a six break and then another two because you've got maybe players getting injured or whatever coming back into fitness. You don't really get that continuity and selection. So, I think certainly from international managers, they'll enjoy it. Obviously, from a club point of view, you've got a longer break in between in between the two windows. But that being said, I think I think they prefer it as well because there's less disruption to your season. So, I do kind of think that in theory everyone will win from this and I do think it's a good move. Okay. Airbnb as well with football journalists booking holidays and that's window important. Yeah. The November break though that will remain very much out there on its own. Yeah. So the November break, the March break and there's obviously the one in June as well which is typically offseason anyway. They they remain unchanged for now for this 5year cycle that's that's coming up. Okay. Interesting. One last time then should we have a look at what this October international break looks like? Already had been a bunch of games played on Wednesday night which saw the 19th team book their place at the next World Cup. That's Egypt who join fellow African sides Morocco and Tunisia the hosts USA, Mexico and Canada and South American qualifiers Brazil, Ecuador, Argentina, Uruguay, Colombia and Paraguay. Plus Asian teams Japan, New Zealand, Iran, Usbekistan, South Korea, Jordan and Australia. Yay. uh this Wednesday, right? Sorry. Yay. We're going to have six more African sides also confirmed this week. Ghana is almost certainly going to be one of them. A car unless they lose like 8- nil this weekend to Comos. To Comos, although I'm still stung by the uh AFCON defeat to Commerce as well. So, I'm not going to count my chickens just yet. Okay. But still four points clear. No, sorry. three points clear on top of the group with uh an an 8 plus eight better on goal difference. So, you know, looking good. Also poised to go through Algeria. Cape Verde who are two points clear in that group with a population of just 525,000 if they do get through as it seems they probably will will become the second smallest nation ever to qualify for the World Cup. Well, we hear about those stories and more a little bit later on from Mahair Mazaki. Also potentially qualifying this week from Europe are England in their game next Tuesday with Lapia, Slovakia who on Friday are going to be at Northern Ireland. Colin, Portugal who will be hosting bottom of their group, Republic of Ireland on Saturday and also Switzerland, France, Spain, Norway, and Croatia could all go through. Some other big games that may be of interest in Group J, which is Wales's group. On Saturday, Belgium will be hosting North Macedonia. North Macedonia are actually topping that particular group. Belgium are a point back level with Wales who they will be visiting on Monday after Wales of course play England on Thursday night in a friendly. Belgium by the way under Rudy Garcia won both their fixtures in September 6n both of them. Criy. Also in group C which is the most closely contested UEFA qualifying group. You've got four points separating the four teams. Denmark and Scotland are level at the top. Greece are a point behind and Scotland will be hosting Greece again this evening as we record Thursday. Scotland bidding to make it through to their first World Cup since 1998. Yeah. Of course, they did so well at the last tournament they pitched up. Was that don't come home too soon? I think it was. Uh yes, it was getting a thumbs up from Bruce. They did come home too soon. No one's laughing. Amidst all of that, as I mentioned, England play Wales tonight in a friendly. England v Wales in a friendly on a Thursday night. It screams item one. So, let's get on to that. This Wednesday marked one year to the day since Thomas Tukul signed on to become England manager. And he kind of marked the occasion by dropping quite the squad selection. No Phil Foden, no Jack Greish, no Adam Walton, and no Jude Bellingham. This less than 48 hours after Jude Bellingham had been named England's men's player of the year for 24-25. Krikey, why? Why no Warden? Why no Grinish? Why no Foron? Why no Bellium? Well, that's uh Thomas's decision. Um, I think we're kind of seeing the the impact of a manager that's just signed up for one tournament and he everything's focused on that and he's kind of had, you know, five or six squad get togethers now and in he's kind of slowly coalesing on the players that he thinks can do the job for him which still includes Jordan Henderson. So, um, yeah, it's it's quite interesting because obviously some of those players, Walton and Greish in particular, have started the season really well. Um, but he seems to be happy with the the players. Obviously, the to be fair, the the start was slow, but the last set of games was his sort of his the most progress he's shown. So, I guess it's sort of fair enough to stick with with those lads and Bellingham missed out on the last one because of his shoulder injury and and operation. So, there is a slight fitness question over him. He hasn't been he didn't start, for example, for Real Madrid at the weekend and his appearances have been limited for the Spanish giants. What do you think, Carl? Is there a bit of a message here? Maybe. I think this might be too short saying for the players who started the season well, keep it up. You're not going to immediately be rewarded with a call up. And also for Jude Bellingham, I suppose this is sort of keeping at arms length saying, "Yes, you're important, but don't expect to waltz back in." This is the England team is quite strange now in that there is still a very clear spine of Southgate trusted deputies. So Pikford will be the starting goalkeeper. I mean it used to be Harry Maguire as and John Stones as your center back partnership but now it looks to be Mark Guy and another um Declan Rice will certainly be the the starting defensive midfielder box midfielder. Then there is a space for the 10 which should be Bellingham but I'm saying that with the upward inflection with question marks and then you've got Harry Kane as your striker Saka will be the starting right-sided attacker um there but this sort of who's going to be the midfielder next to Dean Rice has been hotly contested for even before the last Euros who's going to be the center back next to the left side center back which is probably now going to be Guay hotly contested who's going to be the left back that should be Miles Lewis Skellyy maybe but also question marks there and this number 10 situation is also that should be Bellingham's role there has been conversation about Phil Fodden in that role but I don't think Phil Foden's had a particularly good England career and honestly at this point if you are only if you're too sure you only have this World Cup to bind for you are well within your rights to go I'm not picking Foden yeah and and football and English football is littered with the history of players who were great at club football and never translated into England four from the point of view of Phil Fodden, you think? Yeah, I mean, as Carl says, he's, you know, he's come into tournaments being player of the year before. He's been, you know, clearly the one of the best players in the Premier League and yet he's never really done it for England. Um, Bellingham has, Bellingham has, and we saw kind of how decisive he can be at the last Euros, but and this is where club form versus international form gets quite interesting because Morgan Rogers has been brilliant the last couple of games for England. He's not had a very good season for Villa. um although he has been better in the last few games but but as an international manager I think it is sensible to look at how your team played in the last international rather than you know did they do well against Brenford or something. So um yeah I think this is quite a big week for Morgan Rogers because he can really I think cement a place in this team um at a crucial period. So this this is what we were talking about earlier with the two separate breaks. This is pretty much an unchanged squad from September barring the injuries to I think Tino Lever and Nani Madwe are injured but this is pretty much the same group of players. I think um there's two ways of looking at it. There's the one thing if you know this is this is a continuity squad. This is this is Thomas took looking at players who who have worked in the last international break. Obviously they they chocked up two wins. I think the 5-0 win away to Serbia is a a pretty pretty landmark result in the grand scheme of things. I mean England were always going to qualify for this tournament. Um but when you look at the the squad itself, it's actually very inexperienced. Um you've got Jonah, Nikico Riley, uh James Trafford, they're all uncapped. Um Carl's obviously talking about a lot of the players in the defense. Miles Skelly only has four caps. Dan Burn has three. Jed Spence has one. And even the likes of Morgan Rogers, Morgan, uh Morgan Gibbs White, uh and Anderson as well. They're all in single figures in terms of cups. So that's that's pretty much a quarter of the squad with very little international experience. who Thomas was obviously brought in and so are these some players that we can get a tune out of and and build into some sort of team. Obviously there's a lot of experience that has been left out. Another way of looking at that is that a lot of those players who have been left out are players who've got you know obviously big expectations but are big characters as well and it'll be interesting to see once they do come back into the squad what the sort of dynamic change does that have in terms of the relationships that have been built up in that team right and that could be quite significant. Thomas Tukul answering a question about that saying, "Yeah, we're building a great team rather than necessarily focusing on the best players and there's a tactical side to that, but also a personality one, which is something that we've inferred that he might have an issue with with Belling and perhaps unfairly, but yeah, interesting from that point of view. Also, we're heading into the biggest World Cup ever with an an entire extra round. So, that means longer there, um, a lot of travel. You're you're picking players not only for for their footballing skills, but also I think the the verbiage during the Southgate era was uh players who are good tourists. So, okay, you're number 19 or number 24 in that 26 person squad or you might not play, but are you are you going to sit in the corner and play Fortnite on on your phone or are you going to participate in the team games and bonding and and all these things that are really really important to prevent this? It really feels like now a lot of the modern international managers half of their job is just preventing a France style implosion. Forgive always bring up front here. But yeah, that seems like half of Desamp's job is just making sure the kids are all right. And that was something that Southgate seemed really preoccupied with, particularly in the up until this Euro 2020. Inflatable unicorns. Yes, indeed. You know, they created an England team that was likable, which seemed unfathomable in 2012. It sounds silly in some respects, but the England's best performance at World Cups has been when there's been that camaraderie. Like 1990, 2018, slightly different types of camaraderie, but you know, the same principle applies. I mean, those just got on and and got far. This week, we've just had Steven Gerald on on a podcast say you found England duty really difficult. when you call them, you said we're egotistical losers, which I thought was cuz the way that top four battle. Well, I think 2006 and 2010 are probably the the lowest points for England scores in ter in terms of that cohesion cuz and it was a lot of sort of big four superstars who didn't really like each other. What was I think it was Rain Rooney watched Jermaine Defoe's wedding video twice cuz he was so bored during the 2010 camp. Really? I think it was Rooney. someone watched an engage a wedding the full video of someone's wedding twice cuz there was nothing to do in the capello style atmosphere. Um tactically this England team is still a bit head scratcher for me in that the problems England had in the year Euro 2024 was far too narrow on the left hand side cuz Shaw clearly they thought Shaw would be back for the end of the group stage and wasn't so there was just no width on that left hand side. uh build up play in century was super stodgy because they it took them far too long to cycle through all the Declan Rice partners before they oh it's Mayu um and the fact May is not here and it looks like Elliot Anderson has now sort of barged past Trent Gallagher Mayu and now Walton is really really interesting. So that situation needs to get sorted. And then there is always going to be uh an asterisk footnote question mark over Harry Kane uh and whether or not should it still be Harry Kane. Is Harry Kane mobile enough or who's going to play if Harry Kane can't do it right which he can't do this Thursday evening against Wales in the friendly. His numbers in the Bundesliga admittedly with different teammates suggested he is still very much able to do it. He's a decent star. Yeah, but he won't be available for the friendly against Wales. Uh they are confident or Thomas Tukul is confident publicly at least that he will be available for the match against Latapia in which if England win and Serbia meanwhile don't win both of their matches which are against Albania and England will be through to the World Cup. So, Wales first on Thursday. England's last friendly was a 3-1 defeat at home to Sagal, which probably the low point of Thomas Tukul's reign so far. What are the chances of similar this time? Well, Wales don't have a great record against England. They've only ever once beaten them away before. That was in 1977. However, Craig Bellamy in his reign as Wells manager has seen them climb from 45th to 30th in the FIFA World Ranking. So they're very much on an upward trajectory except however however the last three games have seen them lose to Belgium 4-3. Beat Kazakhstan 1 nil but then lose at home to Canada in a friendly last month. So h Bellamy said that he doesn't want to sit back. He doesn't believe in it. So I think it'll be quite an open game. Okay, good. No Aaron no Aaron Ramsey in this game. He's had to pull out through injury. Hands up if you knew that he was playing in Mexico now. and Ramsey with Pumis. Yeah. Yeah. It was one of the sort of stranger summer moves, wasn't it? Kind of went under the radar a little bit. Um because he he'd gone back home to to Cardiff and uh things maybe hadn't hadn't quite worked out, but Ramsey's obviously a player who who's had a lot of injury problems the latter half of his career as well. Um and maybe and maybe in terms of his international career being pumas maybe isn't isn't the greatest thing in the world because you're so first of all you're so far removed from from your teammates and then international duty then does become an issue as well. Um this this is obviously not not a massive game for Wales in in themselves but they still have quite a good chance of certainly getting into the playoff stage um for the World Cup finals. They're second behind leaders North Macedonia in group J level with Belgium who will be visiting them on Monday. They've got a great record at home of Wales. And they have um so obviously they have Belgium at home who are the group favorites, but they also still have North Macedonia at home and that's going to be on the final match day as well. So I mean that that's a big ask, but if they could get four points plus from those games, they're certainly they're certainly going to be in the playoffs at least uh going into this tournament. And I mean it is a it is one of those things that wheels ideally from a 48 team expanded tournament should be aiming to be on the fringes of that. And yeah I guess this is a really good test for them. Just just quickly going back to England. One of the and not not so much to England but to Tukul himself and to international football in general is the sort of I guess the the disparency between a coach like Thomas Tukul and a coach like Craig Bellamy. um just from very different backgrounds and probably very different ways of communicating with players and understanding certainly from an international point of view what those players want and need out of those camps. And I guess when you actually look at international football in general, there's a lot of big name managers there from the club scene and not really any of them have impressed in terms of certainly the results so far and it's always difficult when you're outside of major tournaments but certainly looking at Julian Nagelsman at Germany um and their sort of ongoing struggles at the minute. Obviously, Mauricio Pochettino has come in in the US camp and that was a such a massive massive appointment for them, but results really haven't improved at all. In fact, quite the opposite. Carl Ancelotti, okay, the Brazil situation was a bit of a mess that he walked into, but again, doesn't really seem to have been any uptick there. So there is there is as Carl was alluding to earlier with sort of the Shamps at France maybe somebody who's a coach who not necessarily is is is the biggest name or not necessarily somebody who would naturally succeed in club football but the demands of what you'd need as an international manager are very different. So that's that's why it's very fascinating to see going into this tournament with so many bigname managers, will any of them actually be able to to replicate what they've done at club level. Yeah. Before before Euro 20 partway through Euro 2020, I should say when he was the then Belgian manager, he said he has three training sessions as an international manager to get across what he has maybe 40 to do as a club manager when he when he was at Everton. And I mean this is the Roberto Martinez experience, but it's really interest. I mean, he's now in charge of Portugal and on an absolute tear with he's trusted with two golden generations. And I think part of that is when we talk about the communication needed. Um, this is the fun bit about international football in that one of the misconceptions is it's the best of our country versus the best of yours, which I don't think is true. But I think it international football is a less refined version of club football and because you have those training imbalances and because you can have a golden generation or indeed now we've seen in the major European nations you can always sort of make one via your footballademies the or through clever use of diasporas indeed uh you can get this really really interesting thing where you have a manager like Nsman or or someone like Deams and they are competing on maybe close to an equal footing with someone with Craig Bellamy because if Craig Bellamy can properly communicate the message needed to get to get across to his players in a certain round of football, why not? So yeah, I love international football. I know there's a lot of Premier League watchers that go they can't they can't stand the the international break, but uh as uh the great Ellie said at Copper 90, if you're bored of international football, just stop watching the tier one European nations and everything becomes way more interesting. Huh, good shout. Uh, leads trio Carl Darlow, Joe Rhoden and Ethan Ampedu, Brennan Johnson and Ben Davis of Spurs and Fulham's Harry Wilson among the Premier League representatives who could well be involved Thursday night and then in the key match against Belgian who have a whopping advantage on goal difference after those two 6-nil wins back in September. You mentioned Germany, Colin, who are one of the opponents coming up for your Northern Ireland. The first one is Slovakia who could qualify when they visit Windsor Park. When's that? On Saturday, I think, is it not? Yeah. This is this is potentially the most interesting group in that Germany are genuinely in a bit of jeopardy. And they're probably the only nation who were expected to really just go out and win the group who aren't doing that at the minute. And that is a result of them losing 2-0 in Slovakia in their in their opening game. And this is only a 14 group. So each result really does matter. And it is it is quite tricky because even even Luxembourg who were the the four fifth team in that Slovakian had a 90th minute winner there in their second game. So that shows that there is kind of jeopardy in each of those games. Um Northern Ireland Slovakia is Michael O'Neal's 100th game in charge of Northern Ireland across his two spells which really is quite significant in in international um terms. It's also a repeat of the uh playoff match for Euro 20 uh 2020 which Slovakia won in extra time. These are probably two relatively well-matched teams. I think Northern Island are certainly on the up again under Michael O'Neal and uh I wouldn't say they were unfortunate to lose in Germany in the last game, but they certainly give a very good account to themselves and they're a team who who can mix it up and they've sort of regained their strength at set pieces, but they're also they're also relatively quite good on the ball and they've also got a really nice blend of players um that they've managed to introduce into this sort of cycle. Um probably the stand out of those certainly in terms of goals is Isaac Price uh the West Brom attacking midfielder who's who's now the double figures in international terms but yeah this is a massive double header for Northern Ireland. I don't really think there was a massive there wasn't any expectation really of qualification for the tournament but I think there was an outside hope of certainly getting a playoff spot um and that is definitely dependent on this Slovakia game if they can win that and then it really does need other results to go their way as well. But I I think there is a chance and and it's it's certainly this is certainly a group worth looking at because Germany are genuinely under pressure and certainly with Germany going to Belfast as well in the second game of this break could be could be a bit of a banana skin. Northern Ireland have won their last four competitive matches at Windsor Park without conceding a single goal. A single goal krik so we could be seeing Wales at the World Cup quite possibly England maybe Northern Ireland. What what about Scotland? because their group, group C pretty exciting as well. Four points separating the four teams there. Denmark and Scotland level on four points with Greece a point behind and Greece visiting tonight. They then play Bellarus to the Scots. Criy Greece actually won 3-1 against Scotland in the promotion relegation playoffs of the Nations League just last March. But that's a that's a huge set of fixtures. could could have an on plan of the so-called home nations at the at the World Cup. Very exciting though. Truly, this is a fun group. It feels like Greek football's having a little bit of a uh renaissance now. Um and the national team seems to be in good shape and they have a couple of younger younger players under 21 players who who are coming through. So, I I'll expect Greece to be in and around the next Euros next time. I I also think this group is just also uh evidence testament to the strength of the nations league in that all of these teams have benefited in some way from nations league football and playing more international games against teams of comparable size and I think that that sort of iron sharpens iron has been reflected here. I mean Scotland's growth perhaps they their promotion to the top league in in the last nations league round hurt them a little bit but they definitely seem quite comfortable in beating city right also a testament to the strength of selier Scotland poised to become very much Italy's second team should the Azuri themselves not make it through to a third straight world cup Scotland haven't been at the World Cup as I mentioned since 1998 uh Northern Ireland haven't in 40 years next year. Yeah. 1986. It's been it's been a long wait. Um I guess I mean like I guess that in a way that the expanded tournament albe it more focused on Asian and African nations is is an opportunity uh for for others to to sort of come back in. One of the thing I mean I I was always initially very skeptical of it um and I and I still am to some degree because 32 teams is like the perfect balance of a format of tournament in terms of you know you go through the last 16 and so on and so forth. But I do think that if you're expanding it to from the 48 50 teams that there's not really a drop off in quality, not not in terms of that sort of shortage of games, I don't think. And also each of those teams isn't actually playing more games within themselves because you're only playing two group games and then possibly an extra round. So each team's games isn't the same, just the overall number of games in a tournament has increased. So in terms of the obviously player welfare is such an issue that isn't really related to the expansion of the World Cup albeit it kind of looks like on a superficial level but no I don't think there'd be any drop off in quality and I mean K was saying about the sort of what international football is is it is about you know like finding these nations and these stories and I I've said it before that when whenever you look at the club game and it's so heavily focused in Western Europe and maybe four or five nations and the the sort of richest clubs from each of those that's all we ever seem to focus I want to talk about international football is totally different and a nation like Greece as we were just talking about I mean they've won 10 of the last 13 games they won at Wembley a year ago um this week and their group of players they've only got one player Mafropanos at West Ham in the Premier League for instance so this is a group of players who you know probably goes under the radar quite a bit a lot of them are playing Greece and a lot of them play for clubs like Benfica and sporting in the Champions League but really a really talented group of players from a nation who've been a bit unheralded in recent years but it's the international football's full of that and I think an expanded World Cup gives those sides an opportunity to to really come to the forefront tonight. I think that that's good for football and it's it's it's good for the overall health of the game. Um albeit I understand that the reasons for the expansion are certainly not driven towards that. They're driven certainly more financially. But I do think that there are benefits as well. definitely got my reservations about a 48 team World Cup, if only because one of my I grew up in the '90s, so I'm constantly yearning for a World Cup to when is the next World Cup going to be entirely held in Mexico cuz everyone who was alive for the previous Mexico World Cup say those tournaments are the best. Um, and I think when it's 48 teams, you do get to a point where now you can't you cannot really host the World Cup in a single nation now, unless it is those nations in Western Europe or nations that are in somewhat autocratic governments. Um, because you need that long-term planning to build hotels, build stadiums, build stadiums now. Yeah. So, I mean, Colin's right. This is the the the really interesting thing about international football is that you're getting so many stories, but also for as many good stories there are going on at any point in time, they're also a collection of bad stories if you sort of like lift under the or even just try and buy a ticket to the next World Cup or try and buy the right to buy a ticket. This might be the only ever 48 team world cup. It might be 64 by the next one which which actually won't have that many games. It does mean at least you don't have the cuz we're going to have eight third place teams going through in the next from the uh from the 12 groups. So when you put it like that, good luck to anyone doing the sort of World Cup in. We shall see. Who knows where the world's going to be in 5 years time. True. There you go. True. All right, let's talk about calf qualifying because it's a huge week for the African teams bidding to make it to the World Cup. Of course, Morocco and Tunisia are already through. Morocco, you recall, fourth place finishers last time around. Egypt as of Wednesday night have joined them. We've got Ghana, Cape Verde on the brink. Joining us now, Maher Mazahi Maher, lovely to see you. So good to be back on the show. It's been uh it's been a long time, but uh yeah, happy to talk about African football. Excellent. From the inside of a red cube in a hotel in Cincinnati. Exactly. Yeah. um have that's the nice thing about having really young children is you don't really have to follow the the school calendar. So um cheap flights are are now the time to travel. So so I took the opportunity to come see my family. Yeah. Ah perfect. Okay. Good. Now uh on the qualifying front as I mentioned Egypt have gone through seventime African champions but they've kind of stunk the joint joint out on all their three previous appearances at the World Cup failing to win a match ever. Are they going to do better this time? Do you think it's not certain? Um, you know, about 20 months ago, they went to the African Cup of Nations with a coach that was on the highest salary of any other coach at the tournament. Uh, Rio Victoria, Portuguese coach, currently friends with Jose Mourinho. Jose Mourinho has a lot of friends that he refers to African federations that end up getting jobs at big countries. Jose Pacero was another one at Nigeria. Anyways, um, they had a horrific AFCON, bounced out in the group stages. Muhammad Salah if you remember was injured uh about halfway through and he went back to Liverpool even though they weren't eliminated and he faced a lot of criticism for that from many former internationals including the all-time leading goal scorer Hassam Hessen that very same Husam Hessen is now his coach and he's on a tenth of the salary that Ria was so €20,000 and the problem with Husam Hessen he's a complete madman if you don't know who he is I don't know the equivalent would maybe be Paul Gascoin or something like that and he never really coached at even one of the biggest clubs in Egypt So this was a lot of question marks surrounding this appointment but they managed to make it work and Muhammad Salah scores a brace against Djibouti yesterday. they do qualify for the fourth time in their history which is not enough for a country like Egypt and and the the standing they have within African football and Muhammad Salah is just uh four goals away from Husam Hassan and the leading goal scorer ever for the Egyptian national team and he's also the leading goal scorer of all time in African football for uh FIFA World Cup qualifiers with 20 goals surpassing DJ Drogba excellent the second of his goals absolutely beautiful that that volley and and interesting given that he's seemed to be a little bit out of form for his club that he's very much doing it for the the Pharaohs who are under their unexpectedly successful manager doing it pretty well at both ends. They've scored 19 goals in the nine qualifying matches and only conceded two. I had very low expectations for Egypt tactically after the appointment of Hassan. But one of the things that's been very fun about them is he's just tries to shoehorn all of his attacking players onto the pitch. So if you remember Trezig who was formerly Aston Villa, sometimes he'll play as a left back for Egypt under Hassan Hessen. uh he'll he'll throw on Omar Marmush and Muhammad Salah and Tresay and this wonderful attacking midfielder who's playing in the Emirates named Ibrahim Adel just get five six attacking midfielders on and he gets them to buy into doing the defensive work as well. So um it helps that you know the World Cup qualifying groups are not as difficult that they as they used to be in Africa because we used to only have five slots and now we have nine and a half. Um but that said I've been slightly impressed with the Egypt the way Egypt have played. They've exceeded my expectations under this coach. Despite the lineup of players that you mentioned there, who's going to be next out of CF to book their place? Well, Ghana look pretty much nailed on. A car crushed the central central African Republic 5-nil on Wednesday. Wasn't enough to seal the deal, but you know, superstition aside, I mean, you're there. No. Yeah, nearly there. Wasn't able to. The win wasn't enough due to results elsewhere in the group, but they are they just need a positive result against Commerce and they're playing at home. One thing that's really remarkable about the national team now is they've someone's been studying Arsenal for a little bit. They've suddenly become very very good at corner kicks. Uh so a lot of whipped in back post deliveries and Sulamana got a goal at the back post and it that felt very much like a like a goal Mel Arteta would be proud of. I believe there's been a new addition to Otto Ado's coaching team and Otto Ado has been quite gracious and saying well this gentleman I'm sorry his name escapes me is is in charge of our set pieces so there's been improvement there and also um Jordan Aayou found third wind for Ghana really really really strange so in in this uh qualifying group he's got six goals he's got six assists and Jordan Au is one of the more heavily criticized uh uh Ghanaian national team players of all time when I was there for the when I was in Ghana for their World Cup playoff against Nigeria. That was two legs I was in for Marci for that game and I s you know overpacked the stadium and one more constant things I kept overhearing was just people constantly criticizing Jordan I just I is playing this Jordan's doing this if Jordan I's dad wasn't Abd Pelle he wouldn't be doing this but now not only is there an appreciation of what he does off the ball and why he gets picked so much because he he does the dirty work but he's found some form of attacking rhythm in a way that never seen him play like this before in a Ghanaian in a Ghana Uh and I'm loving it. Some of the Premier League stars featuring in the the black stars. Antoine Sammenus doing who's doing brilliantly for Bournemouth Makudas as well. Quite the turnaround given what happened at the at the well what didn't happen when they failed to even qualify for the last cup of nations. Yeah, this is Mia's spoken already about how this World Cup qualifying is really different because now they're nine and a half slots compared to the five that have been there previously. And I mean if you got memory of Italian night, there was only one. Yeah. Only historically speaking, there's only been one Egypt. Yeah. Cameron in Egypt. So it's true. There's been a mini explosion of qualifying places. This is because Infantino throughout his FIFA presidency has really made an effort to to in his words try and promote African football. Uh in his critics's words, him and the CF president are very very very closely linked. and he's he's trying to do what BL used to do, which is African nations has more voting blocks. So, if I give more to Africa football, I'll make sure I can stay present forever. Um, but you're now seeing this really interesting thing where teams that are performing quite badly in terms of AFCON and AFCON rhythms are becoming World Cup qualifying juggernauts because the World Cup groups are quite are easier compared to AFCON groups. Um, Nah will be able to tell you a little bit more about this, but yeah, this is good at a time for I mean, Ghana had backto-back worst evercon performances ever and they've decided, well, we're just going to avoid that embarrassment by not even qualifying for the next one. Um, and it's also as because we're talking about Ghana, I also have to talk about Nigeria as well. So, while Nigeria are doing very well in AFCON and they got to the final the last tournament, they probably should have won it. Um, they're having really bad problems in their World Cup qualifying, too. Although May they've been thrown a real lifeline by the decision to take a victory away from South Africa in their group and uh award that now as a loss which has left four teams with a real chance of topping the group Nigeria amongst them. Yeah, this is a problem that we used to deal with a lot around a decade ago in African football was that you know players would pick up yellow cards, federations wouldn't be tracking them and then an ineligible player would be used and a team would be later dock points. And this is exactly what happened. But we're in 2025. This is the only case of it happening that I can remember over the last since 2018 when Nigeria did it in FIFA World Cup qualifiers. So, it's been it's been a little while and basically what happened was Mamaludi Sundown's midfielder Tibbo Mua, one of South Africa's best midfielders. He was great at the club world cup. Uh he's been great in the African Champions League. Um he had picked up two yellow cards. He was supposed to be suspended against Lazutu. And with all due respect to Lazutu, South Africa can beat Lazutu without Tibbo McQuena. Still, he plays the match. They win 2-nil. Uh they're top of the group with 17 points. And what happens is nobody actually appeals. I guess in the FIFA regulations, somebody has to actually lodge a complaint within 48 hours. Nobody did that. It took FIFA about 6 months to actually make a decision. They end up sanctioning South Africa. They dock them to three points. Uh they make them forfeit and they take away those two goals scored and they give they add three goals conceded as well. And so all of a sudden, South Africa go from first place uh to second place uh in their group. And Benin, the cheetahs of Benin are now top of group C ahead of the cheaters of South Africa. That was very good actually. Um, still I I do expect South Africa to go through because Benin have two tough matches. They go to Rwanda and then they go to Nigeria within 72 hours whereas South Africa host two matches. Uh, even though technically one is away to Zimbabwe, they'll be hosting that match in Durban. Uh, because Zimbabwe doesn't have a homologated stadium. So I still expect South Africa to go through and taking into account their form since the last Afghan, they've been one of the more impressive sides on the continent. Sagal and Ivory Coast also well placed to go through as are Mah you're Algeria who will qualify if you beat Somalia. Yeah, they're the worst ranked side in African football. We are playing that match at home as well. Technically it's an it's an away match but you know the federations they say let us host you. You can have accommodation for free. We have these beautiful pitches over here and and Somalia has nothing to lose. They're already eliminated and they say sure why not. And so uh we'll be hosting them. I think u people are not too chuffed with what's going on in Algeria. you have Vladimir Pekco as a coach, former Swiss national team manager, former Bordeaux manager and um basically he's relying on the same old players that have been there for the longest period of time. People are sick of Riyad Mahrez. People in Sagal are sick of Sadio Mané um and they just want him to change. You know, there's a really good player in League playing for Paris FC. He's the leading scorer of league, Elon Cabel, four goals and two assists so far. He plays the exact same position. People want to see some change. So, I expect to see some change. I expect Cabel to start instead of Mahrez. And I do expect Luca Zidane actually uh son of Zidedin Zidan uh the third goalkeeper uh for Algeria but I think Zidane there's heavy rumors that he'll be in Algeria to watch his son perhaps make his debut against Somalia. So another wonky headline coming out of international football. Excellent. Excellent. One kiss of headlines though will be if the Blue Sharks make it through to the World Cup, they would become the second smallest side ever nation ever to qualify for the biggest national tournament of all. Smallest ever were Iceland of course with about 300,000 population. Blue Sharks being Cape Verde who count about 525,000 people in their population. They beat Cameroon 1 nil last time. They very nearly sealed it this Wednesday when they came back from 3-1 down away at Libya. They made it 3-3. Thought they'd scored a winner in the 96th minute only for it to be choked off or offside somewhat dubiously, but there's no VAR incredibly early offside call. The player didn't look to be offside. Uh Adam clearly shared the clip uh about how the if you watch it that the substitute bench sort of on their feet about to storm the pitch in celebration of this goal hopefully going in and then once the offside goes they immediately descend on the line in rage. um couple of minutes before that offside decision there they brilliant twoon-one counterattack and it's one of those classic situations where it's it's you goalkeeper it's your play it's your teammate to your right and you go just square it your teammate has has the tap in and the striker involved did not shoot had a shot on goal keeper saves it and again you can see the entire subspace just all collapse to the ground so Kate Verie should hopefully make this world cup this is again one of those I I think generally what we're seeing now with the African nations is they're all getting better because of a lot of the uh Jose Marinia friends, Jose Maria friends and grants from Infantino, right? Um so Mah and I worked on a piece years and years and years ago about the work that the Moroccan FA, the Algerian FA and the Tunisian FA did successfully lobbing FIFA in order to go can we have that player who's been picked up like two caps from France is under 21s but he's never been picked. Um so you're seeing that as well. Morocco has their has their center of excellence that please forgive me I don't remember the name it's named after the king Muhammad yeah Muhammad 6 complex in Mamura outside of Rabbatia yes so that sort of Morocco's forgive me for what I'm about to do that is Morocco's version of Cle Fontaine in terms of their sort of center of excellence and we're seeing more African nations have that or have their version of that so how are Cape Verde with half a million inhabitants how are they able to qualify for a world cup and top their group mahare yeah no but Carl's right like them relying on their diaspora because they have such a big Portuguese uh or Portuguese-based diaspora is is a part of why they're doing so well. Um if you go down to a squad list, uh you can find about half their players are either born in Portugal. A few of them are actually born in Roderdam. I don't know what the the the actual connection is over there. Um, and then they come through, you know, thesemies, these teams, Estoreil, uh, Braga, uh, things like, you know, they're never going to play for the Portuguese national team, but they're good enough to raise the floor a little bit. You know, it's not like they have world class players that can rival Cameroon. Uh, Cameroon's dysfunction was more a factor uh of them really finishing first than than anything else. But it raises the floor. So, they don't beat themselves. Uh, they force you to beat them. And and they've been really really good since the last AFCA. They have a a coach named Bubista who has been there over the last decade when they qualified for their first uh AFCON. Uh he was there as an assistant. Um and it's a romantic story in in the sense especially with characters like him who you know were played in Cape Bird, coaches in Cape Bird. uh he's he's somebody that is local and well bred. It's one of those where it's like, you know what, if somebody really loves football enough, if they're intelligent enough, if they pay attention enough, if they try enough, you know, they can still have some, you know, like pretty damn impressive results on a global scale. Um and so I I do think they're going to impress a lot of people. If you watch them, they play a wonderfully a wonderful 4-3-3. They pass the ball on the floor. They're technical. They're tactical. They just need to have maybe a little bit better defending, but they're missing their best defender from Villa Royale, Logan Costa. I think when he returns from a long-term injury, uh they're going to be, you know, again, tough to beat. and and Mahair, we've we've talked in this um in this show already about the tournament expansion for for the World Cup and for other international tournaments and AFCON is one that relatively recently expanded to the 24 teams. And is that something that benefits nations like Cape Ver Islands? Because probably a nation who had no real presence on the international stage prior to that, but are now sort of well regular, semi-regulars at a tournament of that stature and that attracts players to play for that team and but it also helps helps that cohesion longterm in World Cup qualification processes. Yeah, absolutely. Um I think we sometimes amongst journalists we um poratively call them second tier teams you know like you have the top teams which is like the teams that you usually see at a world cup you have the four north African teams Morocco Algeria Tunisia Egypt you have Nigeria Cameroon Ivory Coast Sagal you could throw South Africa in there and then there's a a tier right under which is like Mali Bkina Faso you know teams that are incredibly competitive on the African scene that have really good players um but because the places were so restricted. They never really had a chance to show showcase that on a global level. To be quite completely honest, I don't think Cape Bird were quite in that second tier yet. Um, and that's what makes this such an exploit. Uh, but I do think that those teams in in the sort of second tier in air quotes. I know I feel horrible as this is coming out of my mouth. It's so patronizing. Um, but those teams are are the teams that are are set really to to benefit the most because all of a sudden they have a chance uh to qualify for the World Cup. And that's something that we haven't seen on the African continent since 2006 when we had like Togo and Angola um qualify, but that was more because of a really weird qualifying format than anything else. Well, they can seal qualification capability if they win at home to Esatini in their final group game on Monday evening. Ewatini Swisilland, thank you so much for joining us. Enjoy Cincinnati. Uh I hear that the American football team are called the Bengals because they have a great zoo. So I'm going to try to look out for some Bengal tigers. So see if um there's anything special about them. Wow. I just I mean every day a school day with Mah Mazahi. Thank you so much Maher. Let's make sure we speak again soon and enjoy yourself in the meanwhile. Many many thanks Mah Mazahi. Thanks for having me on. Take care guys. Shout out Fabio Kavaro who is the newbistan manager. So he's definitely going to be at the World Cup. Canavaro the last defender to win the balon door has had a eclectic managerial career. Udinazi, Bento, Al-Nasa, H Chinese clubs Kanjang and Ghou ever Grande and also the Chinese national team. He's now taken over Usbekistan after they binned the man who'd qualified them for the 2026 World Cup. Nobody's entirely sure why, he said, having done limited research. The uh so sobbistan's uh qualification campaign, they had two managers. It was so it was originally uh Kadnik, the Slovenian who for ill health reasons. Yeah. Who left for health reasons and then it was uh his name? It was Kapad. Tumor Capad. Yeah. And then it was more Capad uh who took over to sort of get that over the line. I'm not sure if he was ever permanently appointed as manager. So I'm not sure if that position was a was open or not prior to that. So I don't know if it was his job to to lose so to speak. Um but yeah, Canavar as well had coached at Dynamo Zagreb and had sort of overseen their um Oh recently. Yeah. had to seen the loss of their sort of longunning hedgeimonyy of um Croatian League titles. Um so yeah, didn't didn't get on too well there, but yeah, to to be back at the World Cup um two decades on is uh yeah, he's he's part of the furniture, I think. Lovely stuff. I mean, he can at least uh you know, Kenov loves a slide tackle, so he's got the right manager now. So, Women's Champions League group stage this week. Uh hold Arsenal lost at home to Leon at the Emirates on Tuesday. They're now four games without a win in all competitions. Uh last season's beaten finalists at the hands of Arsenal. Barcelona laid down a pretty big marker. Also on Tuesday, they beat Bayern Munich 7-1. Well, Chelsea had a shock 1-1 draw with 20 in the Netherlands on Wednesday night. And Man United, K. Yes. Beat Vara Valerena, the biggest team in Norwegian football. Mhm. Hope I haven't annoyed half Oslo with that thing. 1 nil My Tuesday with the penalty in the first half elude run the show player of the match performance. The week's other big news which came on I think Tuesday afternoon was the announcement by UEFA that they are reluctantly to borrow Mahair's air quotes granting permission for La Liga and Sydia to stage a league game abroad each this coming winter because say UEFA there is no legal frame framework to stop it. So, La Liga are going to go ahead and play Val against Barcelona in Miami in December, which makes a lot of sense. Miami in December, big, you know, potential Spanish audience and all that. Sydia are going to send Milan and Ko to Perth in Western Australia, much as we would do, you know, in this country to people who'd stolen an apple a couple hundred years ago. Milan and Ko, you'll note, studying a map, are only 50 km apart. So, their match on February the 8th was essentially a derby, but one that they'll now play almost 14,000 km away. Now, sorry, Carl, you go on. No, I was going to bring up Rabio's quotes. Yeah, Rabio kind of refreshingly said Rabio is potentially involved in this because he's a Milan player and called it completely crazy and and really absurd and it does seem bizarre. Certainly Sansero is unavailable on the weekend of the 8th of February because it's being it's going to be staging the opening ceremony for the Winter Olympics, but this just in there are other stadiums near nearby. Um and you know even going further abroad short of the Easter Islands, it's hard to think where where beyond Perth direct flight to Perth. There is that's true. There isn't. But I think that the clubs could probably have arranged a plane themselves. Sar chief exe I've got the quote in front of me now. Sera, our chief executive, Luigi Deerro, said Rabio should respect his employer. Um, which you don't. And I think he also made comment about the amount of money Rabio makes as a football player, right? Which is is real. Um, come on, man. Great news for Christian Vieier though, isn't it? So every cloud beyond the perplexity over deciding on Perth rather than if you're going to Australia, Sydney or Melbourne, although they are a little bit further away and a slightly bigger time difference. So that might be a factor, but still if you're worried about the time difference, maybe don't go to Australia. But broadly speaking, the bigger picture here, have we opened a pand or have Cyia and La Liga open a Pandora's box? Is this the end of football as we know it? Well, I mean, UF's statement is pretty much saying that that's not the case because this essentially the legal framework doesn't exist for them to legally block these moves even though that's that's their wish. It very much is going to be well but but there's their suggestion would be well, you know, this is what we want to change. We want to change this framework so that we we do have a have a a legal say to stop the I mean that that's certainly my reading of it. the fact that they went so strongly both through their own statement and through the words of Sephron that you know was like this is something that we don't want to see ever happening again and we're going to put our position now on record and again I I sort of see the disconnect here um this is this is a topic that's been going on for 8 years now which is hard to believe that was whenever La Liga first proposed taking Barcelona against Chiron to Miami um so they've they've they've been trying to do this and they one of the things is they their strategy La Liga's strategy has been that if we keep speaking about this enough, we keep talking about this enough, they already had a contract with relevant that eventually if we just keep this sort of narrative going for a prolonged period of time, eventually we'll get our way. And that does seem to be the case. What I do find really interesting is what what is this going to achieve, right? Because there's so many clubs who institutionally are opposed to this within Spanish, I'm sure within Italian football, too, but let's let's keep within Spain for for the purposes of this example. So, we've got Via Real against Barcelona. So, for this match to work on any level, it needs to be one of Barcelona, Real Madrid or potentially Atletico Madrid as at least one of those teams in that match for it to to fulfill its purpose of selling out the stadium. That that is a fact, right? But Real Madrid institutionally do not want to do this. They certainly do not want to do it on the terms of La Liga and Javier Tbas who they're very institutionally opposed to. So, it has to be either Barcelona against Atletico. And who are they going to play? They they have to play each other which was the game proposed last year which didn't go through or they have to play a club like let's say Via Royale who for all intents and purposes do will not have a massive backlash against this based on the fact that they just don't have a huge fan base to begin with. So what but what is then the objective of Val like so Barcelona already have a massive fan base in the US right? So it's not really going to grow their fan base there. Is it going to grow a Valale fan base? No. This stadium is going to be full of people supporting Barcelona. Ceramics flying off the shelves up and down the panhandle. Very, very much so. And this is Well, they'll earn I mean, they'll earn a bunch of money, I guess, from it. They they will earn money and that's that's the purpose, but like so what I mean you know you mean like so what if you're going to earn money in the short term because ultimately their whole their whole strategy here is saying this is just going to be this one game per season. It's not going to be the same clubs. So this isn't going to be like a regular source of income. Certainly not for Via Real. Who's who's it going to be next year? Is it going to be Jirona again next year? Because that's one of the sort of few clubs that they have in the rotation who are definitely open to that. But the whole the whole point is this is desperation, right? This is desperation from the leagues involved and desperation stems from the financial gap to the Premier League. But they're missing the point because the the Premier League have never done this, right? the pair well talked to this with game 39 but in interestingly there doesn't seem to be any movement within English football to try and exploit this new opening and and bring that idea back to life. Yes. And and the Premier League's main attraction for certainly for a lot of sort of fans outside of England is you look at the stadiums and their full stadiums and they all each have their own unique atmospheres and unique points to it and you have the big away fans as well and it's all that culture that is sold as a product. Right now, I'm not saying that culture doesn't exist elsewhere, but the packaging of it and the and the way it's advertised is been done so well by the Premier League, by its advertisers, by the likes of Sky and other companies involved. They have done that so much better than than other leagues have. And that has that is essentially what's led to this gap to begin with. So, it's that that sort of image of authenticity even if it regardless of the actual facts behind it, it's the image that it is authentic. I remember watching I think Channel 4 used to show Ser in the '90s and um you know it was that same thing wasn't it? The the the look of it, the feel of it, the atmosphere, the selling the presentation of the TV, you have to sell your football. Yeah. One of the reasons why the Super League failed among others it was a bad idea but it failed to understand it was selling a television product. So when it launched it launched it was very unclear what it wanted to be. It was very it had no natural broadcast partner. Immediately Amazon goes, "No, this doesn't work as a television product." And then you end up with Florentino Perez on the uh Enigos, my apologies for pronunciation there, on on that television program like vaguely explaining how it worked, but also forgetting that Tottenham Hotspur were in in there as well. Like the Premier League is the number one because it works as a television product in a way that La Liga and Ser haven't been able to do. I think part of that is also to do and I think one thing that the other leagues very often forget or or very often stumble over is one of the reason why Premier League so successful is because it's in it's English language first so there is less of that need to localize and take it to other nations because when you if you take it to say India or Nigeria you don't necessarily have to put it through the trans you know the translated services like you already speak this language you already understand this where Ser Liga's attempts to to sort of take their product it's really really hard to get all of the SA games in one place un unless you fork out across two or three packages. I think S's getting better in England now with their work with the broadcast to zone. Yeah, you see even with things like Spanish teams will now put their team sheets out in English and it's like little subtle things like that that you know you say that 20 years ago they' gone no way we'll do that but they're market forces. But you're right, it is the economic divide with the Premier League which is a virtuous circle from the Premier League's point of view because they are so rich that they bring in all the best players which make them that much more appetizing as an international product which makes them richer etc and so on. Colin your point that this doesn't really shift the needle whereas I don't know the NFL stage regular season games in Europe they've just done one at Tottenham the NBA do as well. Yeah, that doesn't seem to provoke an uproar, but it's not a transferable concept. These leagues are closed leagues, so there is no the NBA is the is the major basketball league in the world. So when they are going over to the UK, they are taking they're not necessarily in competition with Euro Basket in the same way that the Premier League is in competition with La Liga. Um and and again, the nations that they are taking the league to, when they did at the start, they're going, "Let's go to the English speaking nations first and then we're going to slowly expand." And I mean I don't know as much about NBA but with the NFL it's not the biggest teams that you come across. It's definitely the Yeah. Yeah. But also the the sort of home away sort of roundroin format of a league system in European football is different from the American sports whereby away matches are it's a very different formula they use based over several seasons. So that doesn't actually disrupt the the kind of the sort of justness and fairness of a league. Whereas I mean if you're if you're an opposition team of of say Barcelona because they're not going to have this away match now. It's going to be on a neutral ground. So they're going to have one fewer away match than every other but they will have a match that will see them fly across uh the Atlantic. Well yeah I mean I mean yeah I don't think this is necessarily an advantage to the teams involved but I think there is an argument that they that there is an advantage of having one fewer away game which every other team in that league has to fulfill. And they all I mean all these teams all these clubs signed up to the same agreement to be part of a league system and that league system has now been compromised by the home away balance being disrupted. So there's just so many elements of this but the fundamental one is that they're all trying to chase the Premier League dream right but the Premier League has never done what they're doing. So the Premier League success has been done without this. They did talk of it but essentially say let's say Tottenham Hotspur have a massive fan base in the US compared to say a via Royale or even a Sevilla or a Bettis. They've got a massive fan base there. How have they done that? It's not it's not through playing regular uh league season games there. And the argument would be different, I think, if it was a cup match even because that cup match doesn't have the same builtin. You know, people have bought season tickets and all the rest of it. And this bears mentioning Spain and Italy have for a long time been doing their Super Cup matches abroad. In fact, Italy have been doing this since 1993. It's they started doing it in in United States back in 1993. This for them is not in terms of a a fixture not that wild an idea. It's just the fact that it's a league fixture and it's in Perth football. Eh, just when you think you know it goes and throws up another twist. Some good, you know, some perplexing like this one, but some good as we've been hearing today. So, uh, with all of that in mind, hope you enjoy this, uh, October International break. We'll be back together on Monday morning to review the action thus far. Many thanks Carl for being with us to Mah was with us earlier on to Duncan to Colin to Jake and producer uh championship winning sorry quizwinning producer Charlie in the booth and you listener have a great weekend and see you hopefully sometime after Monday morning. The Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a week bringing you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around. And the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the link below.