================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: e9n0TpjFoho
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e9n0TpjFoho
TITLE: Trent's Real debut and a glimpse of the new Man City
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-20
DURATION: 49m 8s
VIEWS: 5,303
LIKES: 112
COMMENTS: 13
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Trent Alexander-Arnold made his debut for Real Madrid at the Club World Cup but Al-Hilal stun Los Blancos with a 1-1 draw. Has everyone been sleeping on Simone Inzaghi’s side?

Man City got off to a winning start against Wydad, as we look at new-look City and ask whether they’ve fixed some of their issues from last season. Or this season.

In the other big cup competition, Benji takes on Julien Laurens in the opening match of the 2025 Inter Totally Cup! Plus Man United’s tough start and Juventus at the White House.

Jimbo is joined by James Horncastle, Duncan Alexander, Carl Anka and Benji Lanyado in a stacked Totally Football Show.

Listen to the audio version of the Totally Football Show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or by following this link: https://podfollow.com/totallyfootballshow

00:00:00 Intro 
00:02:39 Headlines in football 
00:06:28 Real Madrid v Al-Hilal
00:10:14 Trent’s Madrid debut 
00:14:35 Best CWC moments so far 
00:17:16 IFAB’s new time-wasting law
00:19:09 Pachuca vs RB
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 16,955

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally football show today. Club World Totally football show today. Club World Cup latest shock at the hard rock as Cup latest shock at the hard rock as Trent and Javi's Real Madrid debut ends Trent and Javi's Real Madrid debut ends in draw in Alhill Alhillarity. in draw in Alhill Alhillarity. Meanwhile, Man City give Casablanca a Meanwhile, Man City give Casablanca a sad ending. And group G rivals U Juve sad ending. And group G rivals U Juve also win, beating a line, but also also win, beating a line, but also crossing a line, meeting Trump in crossing a line, meeting Trump in bizarre old lady with old man Oval bizarre old lady with old man Oval Office photo op. Also today, Premier Office photo op. Also today, Premier League calendar drama, underperforming League calendar drama, underperforming under21s and madeup competition raising under21s and madeup competition raising more questions than it answers. Must be more questions than it answers. Must be the Inter totally Cup 2025 edition. It's the Inter totally Cup 2025 edition. It's the Totally Football Show. Thursday the the Totally Football Show. Thursday the 19th of June. Listener, hello. 19th of June. Listener, hello. It's another special remote show cuz It's another special remote show cuz we're repainting our studio. Did you we're repainting our studio. Did you know? I don't know what the design's know? I don't know what the design's going to be, but as of next week, you'll going to be, but as of next week, you'll be able to catch us on our YouTube be able to catch us on our YouTube channel and see. I think probably channel and see. I think probably flowers. That's what I'm expecting, but flowers. That's what I'm expecting, but who knows? Everything will be revealed who knows? Everything will be revealed next week. Duncan Alexander is here. next week. Duncan Alexander is here. Hey, Duncan. Little bit blur eyed there, Hey, Duncan. Little bit blur eyed there, Duncan. Duncan. Duncan. Slightly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Up late Slightly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Up late watching Puka FC Saltsburg. I'll be watching Puka FC Saltsburg. I'll be honest, no. But I was working till quite honest, no. But I was working till quite late last night and I'd just come back late last night and I'd just come back from some very hot cycling in Spain, from some very hot cycling in Spain, possibly too hot. So, I'm slightly possibly too hot. So, I'm slightly fatigued, but you know, happy. Well, fatigued, but you know, happy. Well, that's the main thing. You've got some that's the main thing. You've got some hot cycling on the way as well, haven't hot cycling on the way as well, haven't you? Because the athletics tour to you? Because the athletics tour to France coverage is very much helmed by France coverage is very much helmed by you, I believe. you, I believe. Yeah, very exciting. So yeah, that all Yeah, very exciting. So yeah, that all kicks off on July the 5th and there will kicks off on July the 5th and there will be plenty to get your uh teeth and cleat be plenty to get your uh teeth and cleat stuck into if that's sort of thing you stuck into if that's sort of thing you enjoy. If a football match can be said enjoy. If a football match can be said or a competition can be said to kick or a competition can be said to kick off, what what what does a a a cycling off, what what what does a a a cycling competition generally do? Clip in maybe. competition generally do? Clip in maybe. Yeah, definitely clip in and set off. Yeah, definitely clip in and set off. Lovely stuff. Carl Anker, nice to see Lovely stuff. Carl Anker, nice to see you. Hi James. take a break from saving you. Hi James. take a break from saving up for that Man United season ticket. up for that Man United season ticket. Absolutely. I'm uh changing to a Absolutely. I'm uh changing to a slightly cheaper form of balsamic slightly cheaper form of balsamic vinegar just to watch the pennies. vinegar just to watch the pennies. Excellent. Excellent. And Benji Liardo Excellent. Excellent. And Benji Liardo is with us as well of Pig Fair, CEO is with us as well of Pig Fair, CEO thereof and uh also Benji in first game thereof and uh also Benji in first game of our Inter totally later on. Are you of our Inter totally later on. Are you excited? Sure. Yeah. I'm um it's excited? Sure. Yeah. I'm um it's actually a grudge match because Julia actually a grudge match because Julia has knocked me out I think twice before has knocked me out I think twice before really. So I mean you might have to sort really. So I mean you might have to sort of like hold us back virtually of like hold us back virtually um as as the questions are firing. um as as the questions are firing. Okay. Excellent. Excellent. Uh headlines Okay. Excellent. Excellent. Uh headlines listeners since our last show what has listeners since our last show what has happened? Well in the Euro under21s happened? Well in the Euro under21s England and Germany met Wednesday night England and Germany met Wednesday night in the final group game. Germany already in the final group game. Germany already threw to the last date. Lee Carsley's threw to the last date. Lee Carsley's side needed a point to progress. They side needed a point to progress. They didn't get it even though the Germans didn't get it even though the Germans obligingly fielded their B team. obligingly fielded their B team. However, results elsewhere meant that However, results elsewhere meant that England's under 21 still went through. England's under 21 still went through. Very different story in the under 19s. Very different story in the under 19s. Did anyone catch the remarkable game Did anyone catch the remarkable game between again Germany and England's side between again Germany and England's side in the group stage of the competition in in the group stage of the competition in Bucharest? young lines going 5-1 down Bucharest? young lines going 5-1 down after 48 minutes but storming back with after 48 minutes but storming back with four goals in 11 minutes to get a 5-5 four goals in 11 minutes to get a 5-5 draw. It is a remarkable highlights draw. It is a remarkable highlights package. Um there when you watch package. Um there when you watch football at that sort of youth level or football at that sort of youth level or or the youth version of these or the youth version of these tournaments there's always a sort of 10 tournaments there's always a sort of 10 15 minute period where midfield starts 15 minute period where midfield starts being more of a casual suggestion and being more of a casual suggestion and games be more of a basketball game of games be more of a basketball game of twoing and throwing and that sort of twoing and throwing and that sort of four goal flurry is remarkable to watch. four goal flurry is remarkable to watch. So highly recommend hunting it down if So highly recommend hunting it down if you can. Highest scoring game in the you can. Highest scoring game in the history of the under 19 Euros. history of the under 19 Euros. Excellent. Both teams could be Excellent. Both teams could be eliminated on Friday though when the eliminated on Friday though when the final group games take place. England final group games take place. England facing the already qualified Netherlands facing the already qualified Netherlands while Germany meet Norway. Meanwhile, while Germany meet Norway. Meanwhile, transfer news. If you enjoyed last transfer news. If you enjoyed last year's Barcelona signed Danny Elmo but year's Barcelona signed Danny Elmo but can't play because they spun their wage can't play because they spun their wage allowance on other people fun and games, allowance on other people fun and games, then you'll love word that Barcelona then you'll love word that Barcelona have now signed or reached personal have now signed or reached personal agreement with Nico Williams and agreement with Nico Williams and apparently don't see his 60 million euro apparently don't see his 60 million euro release clause as a problem. Even release clause as a problem. Even though, says the Spanish League, they though, says the Spanish League, they already are way beyond their wage budget already are way beyond their wage budget on their other supposed signings. on their other supposed signings. This one's a really weird one in that This one's a really weird one in that well, well, well, how many more bad things can Barcelona how many more bad things can Barcelona press say about Andre Toen in order to press say about Andre Toen in order to him to either leave or accept a pay cut? him to either leave or accept a pay cut? because that appears to be their big because that appears to be their big game plan now of we're going to bring in game plan now of we're going to bring in Nico Williams because Terstean is Nico Williams because Terstean is leaving and Terstean who is a captain leaving and Terstean who is a captain seems very content with things. I seems very content with things. I suppose you can go have a nice chat with suppose you can go have a nice chat with Rafinia about what it's like when or Rafinia about what it's like when or Frankie Deong about what it's like when Frankie Deong about what it's like when Barcelona press don't like you anymore Barcelona press don't like you anymore but you are content to stay because but you are content to stay because Barcelona is a lovely place to live and Barcelona is a lovely place to live and play football. So awesome. taken very play football. So awesome. taken very much goalkeeper, but the key factor here much goalkeeper, but the key factor here is his wages. Ana Williams, if there's a is his wages. Ana Williams, if there's a player he would be displacing in player he would be displacing in football terms, it might be the football terms, it might be the affforementioned Rafiniah, who as I affforementioned Rafiniah, who as I recall did pretty well for Barcelona recall did pretty well for Barcelona last season. But hey, what do I know last season. But hey, what do I know about transfer strategies? H uh very about transfer strategies? H uh very good. We'll keep an eye on that one. good. We'll keep an eye on that one. Meanwhile, in the club World Cup, Meanwhile, in the club World Cup, dominating everyone's attention. We now dominating everyone's attention. We now reached the point where all 32 teams reached the point where all 32 teams have played. Headlines since our last have played. Headlines since our last podcast podcast podcast included Champions League runners up in included Champions League runners up in drawing their opening match against drawing their opening match against Montterrey with Sergio Ramos Montterrey with Sergio Ramos doing trade trademark Sergio Ramos doing trade trademark Sergio Ramos things opening the scoring in that. Man things opening the scoring in that. Man City beat Wedad Casablanca 2. goals from City beat Wedad Casablanca 2. goals from Fodden and Jeremy Douku. While group Fodden and Jeremy Douku. While group rivals and White House hostage video rivals and White House hostage video subjects Juventus also won their opener subjects Juventus also won their opener against Alain of the United Arab Arab against Alain of the United Arab Arab Emirates 5n. Emirates 5n. Emirates 5n. So they're actually topping in the So they're actually topping in the group. And then there was Real Madrid group. And then there was Real Madrid and their one more draw with Al Hal. and their one more draw with Al Hal. Real Madrid now excitingly trailing FC Real Madrid now excitingly trailing FC Sortsburg in their group or Red Bull Sortsburg in their group or Red Bull Saltsburg to give them their common name Saltsburg to give them their common name after the Austrian side beat Pachuka in after the Austrian side beat Pachuka in a game which Benji's especially keen to a game which Benji's especially keen to tell us about later on much much later tell us about later on much much later on I'm guessing listener. Anyway, let's on I'm guessing listener. Anyway, let's begin with events at the Hard Rock. begin with events at the Hard Rock. Al-Hilal goalkeeper Bonos dramatic Al-Hilal goalkeeper Bonos dramatic penalty save right at the end of their penalty save right at the end of their opening round clash with Real Madrid. opening round clash with Real Madrid. some pro bono defending I'm calling it. some pro bono defending I'm calling it. We're joined now by our friend James We're joined now by our friend James Horncastle who was present. Of course he Horncastle who was present. Of course he was at the Hard Rock for this quite was at the Hard Rock for this quite historic match. Hey James. Hey Jimbo. historic match. Hey James. Hey Jimbo. Yeah. Wow. You just keep clocking up the Yeah. Wow. You just keep clocking up the the big encounters there at the Club the big encounters there at the Club World Cup. This, for example, was the World Cup. This, for example, was the first time ever that an Asian team has first time ever that an Asian team has avoided defeat against a European side avoided defeat against a European side since the Club World Cup began 25 years since the Club World Cup began 25 years ago. How about that? ago. How about that? I I didn't know that. I mean, partly I I didn't know that. I mean, partly because I I I thought that Al-Hilal because I I I thought that Al-Hilal would be decent. Maybe not as good as as would be decent. Maybe not as good as as they actually proved to be. Um but you they actually proved to be. Um but you know when you get rid of Neymar and your know when you get rid of Neymar and your starting 11 is still worth you kind of starting 11 is still worth you kind of 350 million euro and you have a coach 350 million euro and you have a coach who you are paying sort of 25 million a who you are paying sort of 25 million a year um maybe they're quite good. So um year um maybe they're quite good. So um yeah I still it was surprising I suppose yeah I still it was surprising I suppose that you know Simony Zagi was only sort that you know Simony Zagi was only sort of two and a half weeks ago sort of um of two and a half weeks ago sort of um you know on the sidelines for into in you know on the sidelines for into in that Champions League final which they that Champions League final which they lost 5-0 to PSG um and has not had a lot lost 5-0 to PSG um and has not had a lot of time to work with these players. Um of time to work with these players. Um but um you know even sort of playing a but um you know even sort of playing a system that is not really his own system that is not really his own because they played with a back four you because they played with a back four you know he's always played with a back know he's always played with a back three. um they looked like the more three. um they looked like the more cohesive unit, the team that um knew cohesive unit, the team that um knew what its um jobs were better um than what its um jobs were better um than than Real Madrid who also have a new than Real Madrid who also have a new coach in Chavono and uh a few new coach in Chavono and uh a few new players. There have been some games that players. There have been some games that haven't drawn the crowds that haven't haven't drawn the crowds that haven't perhaps lit the imagination in this perhaps lit the imagination in this tournament so far. This though very much tournament so far. This though very much contrary absolutely banging affair with contrary absolutely banging affair with a a rockous Real Madrid support there at a a rockous Real Madrid support there at the Hard Rock. Yeah, it was a very big the Hard Rock. Yeah, it was a very big uh Madrid crowd. Um Madrid themselves uh Madrid crowd. Um Madrid themselves were kind of boasting before the game were kind of boasting before the game that they had sold 60 of the 65,000 um that they had sold 60 of the 65,000 um tickets uh available for it. So uh and tickets uh available for it. So uh and you were really struck how how big Real you were really struck how how big Real Madrid are um in in the US. you know, Madrid are um in in the US. you know, they've been sort of touring here quite they've been sort of touring here quite regularly over the last few years, but regularly over the last few years, but uh America just likes winners. Um and uh America just likes winners. Um and and Real Madrid are the ultimate winners and Real Madrid are the ultimate winners and and and um uh and it was interesting watching um uh and it was interesting watching them in Miami as well because, you know, them in Miami as well because, you know, so much is made of kind of the uh the so much is made of kind of the uh the Hispanic Latino community here and, you Hispanic Latino community here and, you know, how much they kind of love their know, how much they kind of love their football. And I think people um have football. And I think people um have looked at Messi moving to into Miami as looked at Messi moving to into Miami as being just like, you know, the perfect being just like, you know, the perfect alignment of all these things, but you alignment of all these things, but you know, Messi's Argentine. Um and you know, Messi's Argentine. Um and you know, a lot of Hispanic and and Latinos know, a lot of Hispanic and and Latinos here are from Colombia. They're from here are from Colombia. They're from Cuba. They're from they're from other Cuba. They're from they're from other South American countries that don't like South American countries that don't like Mercy's Argentina. Um but they do like Mercy's Argentina. Um but they do like the the most successful Spanish-sp the the most successful Spanish-sp speakaking side of all, which is Real speakaking side of all, which is Real Madrid. Um and um they were probably a Madrid. Um and um they were probably a little bit disappointed by some aspects little bit disappointed by some aspects of uh of of Madrid's performance um of uh of of Madrid's performance um against Alhila. They came to see a win. against Alhila. They came to see a win. They didn't see a win. Um and They didn't see a win. Um and um yeah, that Madrid have spent quite a um yeah, that Madrid have spent quite a lot of money this summer without lot of money this summer without addressing the real issue, which is they addressing the real issue, which is they they still don't have a Tony Kros and they still don't have a Tony Kros and yeah, 40-year-old Luka Modric will leave yeah, 40-year-old Luka Modric will leave for for AC Milan at the end of this uh for for AC Milan at the end of this uh this at the end of this tournament. H this at the end of this tournament. H they have got a trend. What did you make they have got a trend. What did you make of his debut? Stats showed that Al Hilal of his debut? Stats showed that Al Hilal were repeatedly targeting his side of were repeatedly targeting his side of the field. Yeah, they they they were I the field. Yeah, they they they were I mean mean mean Trent I think it was quite an awkward Trent I think it was quite an awkward debut really um because um he had debut really um because um he had Rodrigo playing in front of him and and Rodrigo playing in front of him and and and Real Madrid at this moment in time and Real Madrid at this moment in time just don't really press uh like um just don't really press uh like um Liverpool did, you know. So, Liverpool did, you know. So, um, he's expected to do more defending. um, he's expected to do more defending. He's a little bit more exposed. Um, you He's a little bit more exposed. Um, you could see that in in in some of his, um, could see that in in in some of his, um, some of his early foray in the team, he some of his early foray in the team, he was trying to go into the midfield. Um, was trying to go into the midfield. Um, and didn't know where he wanted he and didn't know where he wanted he needed to be all of the time. And, you needed to be all of the time. And, you know, they did target him. I mean on know, they did target him. I mean on that first goal which was disallowed for that first goal which was disallowed for Renal Lodi um you know that comes from Renal Lodi um you know that comes from kind of Ala's center back Khaled kind of Ala's center back Khaled Kulubali kind of marauding forward and Kulubali kind of marauding forward and then Trent being drawn to the ball and then Trent being drawn to the ball and then just playing it into the position then just playing it into the position where Trent should have been in and where Trent should have been in and luckily Renan Loi was offside. Um but luckily Renan Loi was offside. Um but also you you were kind of struck by how also you you were kind of struck by how Al Hilal Al Hilal Al Hilal you know both of their fullbacks are you you know both of their fullbacks are you know one's played for Barcelona Man City know one's played for Barcelona Man City Bayern Munich in Juventus and that's Bayern Munich in Juventus and that's Jiao Canel u the other's Renan Loi who's Jiao Canel u the other's Renan Loi who's who's played for Atletico Madrid so like who's played for Atletico Madrid so like yeah those two boys are not really yeah those two boys are not really phased by playing Real Madrid and phased by playing Real Madrid and playing their wide players and you sort playing their wide players and you sort of going for their fullbacks and so of going for their fullbacks and so Trent was um Trent was exposed a little Trent was um Trent was exposed a little bit at times, but you know, Tabulants bit at times, but you know, Tabulants are very diplomatic afterwards, sort of are very diplomatic afterwards, sort of saying, you know, it's early days. It saying, you know, it's early days. It was hot out there. We're playing at was hot out there. We're playing at 3:00. It's crazy. Um, so, you know, 3:00. It's crazy. Um, so, you know, we'll we'll have to see how it develops we'll we'll have to see how it develops for Trent. Okay. We'll have to see how for Trent. Okay. We'll have to see how it develops for Al Hellau. You mentioned it develops for Al Hellau. You mentioned the the the amount of money that their the the the amount of money that their squad costs and there's all sorts of squad costs and there's all sorts of other names in there like Ruben Nevice other names in there like Ruben Nevice who got the equalizer after Gonzalo who got the equalizer after Gonzalo Garcia had opened the scoring somewhat Garcia had opened the scoring somewhat against the runner play to put Real against the runner play to put Real Madrid in the lead. Then late on there Madrid in the lead. Then late on there was that controversial penalty in I was that controversial penalty in I think the 89th minute uh which saw Fed think the 89th minute uh which saw Fed Valve step up with a chance to give Real Valve step up with a chance to give Real Madrid an opening day uh win. Bono Madrid an opening day uh win. Bono though throwing an arm out just before though throwing an arm out just before he took the kick perhaps winning the he took the kick perhaps winning the mind game battle. I'm not sure but a mind game battle. I'm not sure but a nice save anyway and I think a fair nice save anyway and I think a fair result one. Broadly speaking, from this result one. Broadly speaking, from this performance, how far do you think Alhal performance, how far do you think Alhal could go? Well, you know, I I didn't could go? Well, you know, I I didn't really hear them mentioned all that much really hear them mentioned all that much um in the buildup to this tournament. Um um in the buildup to this tournament. Um I think you know much of the focus has I think you know much of the focus has been on like can the South American been on like can the South American teams step up and you know that's teams step up and you know that's probably a legacy of of just like the probably a legacy of of just like the last iteration of this tournament where last iteration of this tournament where yeah the only competition for the yeah the only competition for the European teams was was with the South European teams was was with the South Americans and there were some really Americans and there were some really really good affairs in the kind of 60s really good affairs in the kind of 60s you battles in wenosaries and that sort you battles in wenosaries and that sort of thing. So um I think people were kind of thing. So um I think people were kind of sleeping on on Alhill a bit. Didn't of sleeping on on Alhill a bit. Didn't maybe expect much from Simony and Zagi maybe expect much from Simony and Zagi after losing 5-nil to in uh to PSG after after losing 5-nil to in uh to PSG after only having two and a half weeks with only having two and a half weeks with this squad um after Neymar's departure. this squad um after Neymar's departure. Um but you know he was kind of saying Um but you know he was kind of saying yesterday that in the first half they yesterday that in the first half they Marcus Leonardo um had a couple of Marcus Leonardo um had a couple of chances. they could have been 2-0 up chances. they could have been 2-0 up maybe um at Halime maybe um at Halime um and and so he felt there was some um and and so he felt there was some regrets but he was really confident he regrets but he was really confident he was confident going into the game that was confident going into the game that they would put in a really good they would put in a really good performance and said that you know they performance and said that you know they didn't have Alexander Mitravich um you didn't have Alexander Mitravich um you know imagine if they'd only had know imagine if they'd only had Mitravich available uh they could have Mitravich available uh they could have absolutely buried Real Madrid um so uh I absolutely buried Real Madrid um so uh I no I look I I actually think they can no I look I I actually think they can they can do pretty well I don't think they can do pretty well I don't think they're a match for PSG. Um but I think they're a match for PSG. Um but I think um in in these conditions they're um in in these conditions they're they'll probably fancy themselves they'll probably fancy themselves against you know most most other teams against you know most most other teams you know sort of PSG and I'm not sure you know sort of PSG and I'm not sure what to make of Bayern. I I wasn't what to make of Bayern. I I wasn't convinced by them in the Champions convinced by them in the Champions League. They've obviously put 10 past League. They've obviously put 10 past Oakland. Um but you know I I think they Oakland. Um but you know I I think they they'd back themselves against everyone they'd back themselves against everyone but PSG. Just with all the stuff that's but PSG. Just with all the stuff that's been going on. What's been the best bit been going on. What's been the best bit for you so far? for you so far? Uh I mean Baka Bucka was great. I mean Uh I mean Baka Bucka was great. I mean Buck Bucka have have come to every game Buck Bucka have have come to every game in Miami even though they've only played in Miami even though they've only played one game in in Miami. So you know you one game in in Miami. So you know you their fans have have sort of uh decided their fans have have sort of uh decided to make Miami home for for for the to make Miami home for for for the summer. There are lots of Argentines summer. There are lots of Argentines here. You know you can't you can't go here. You know you can't you can't go sort of five minutes in an Uber without sort of five minutes in an Uber without seeing an Argentine pizza place, an seeing an Argentine pizza place, an Argentine steakhouse and and and all Argentine steakhouse and and and all that sort of thing. Um so you know that sort of thing. Um so you know you've heard Bocker songs even at sort you've heard Bocker songs even at sort of into Miami against Alaki. Um it was of into Miami against Alaki. Um it was true yesterday Real Madrid Al-Hilal you true yesterday Real Madrid Al-Hilal you heard Baka songs. Um so FIFA owe these heard Baka songs. Um so FIFA owe these Bckera fans Bckera fans Bckera fans quite quite a lot for bringing the quite quite a lot for bringing the atmosphere. Um and then sort of atmosphere. Um and then sort of generally like when you are at these generally like when you are at these games the games do feel like they matter games the games do feel like they matter and the fans that are at the games and the fans that are at the games They don't feel like they're tourists or They don't feel like they're tourists or just plastic fans. They actually feel just plastic fans. They actually feel like they're legitimate fans who know like they're legitimate fans who know the songs, who come out singing. Um and the songs, who come out singing. Um and and so you you feel like you're at a and so you you feel like you're at a football event, but but the strange football event, but but the strange thing is is that you know, sort of the thing is is that you know, sort of the Hard Rock Stadium is in the middle of Hard Rock Stadium is in the middle of nowhere. Um you you can't really reach nowhere. Um you you can't really reach it by public transport. So it's got it by public transport. So it's got 26,000 car parking spaces. Um, so sort 26,000 car parking spaces. Um, so sort of uh that means like football is kind of uh that means like football is kind of on an island here in Miami like like of on an island here in Miami like like you Miami is so big, it's so vast that you Miami is so big, it's so vast that you know if you're not going to if you know if you're not going to if you're not at the stadium, you wouldn't you're not at the stadium, you wouldn't know there's a game going on. Um, unless know there's a game going on. Um, unless you're on Miami Beach when some Boka you're on Miami Beach when some Boka fans are there. Um, so it it's it's fans are there. Um, so it it's it's weirdly discombobulating because like um weirdly discombobulating because like um you know in all of the hours that you're you know in all of the hours that you're not at a football stadium um you know not at a football stadium um you know you're you're just sort of even if you're you're just sort of even if you're in a sports bar you know they've you're in a sports bar you know they've got ESPN on um or got ESPN on um or FX sports and Club World Cup is not on FX sports and Club World Cup is not on those kind of traditional mainstream those kind of traditional mainstream media sports channels that they have in media sports channels that they have in um here in the US. So, um, so yeah, it's um here in the US. So, um, so yeah, it's you almost feel like you pass into you almost feel like you pass into another dimension when you go to the, another dimension when you go to the, uh, the Hard Rock Stadium. Lovely stuff. uh, the Hard Rock Stadium. Lovely stuff. Lovely stuff. Well, enjoy, uh, wherever Lovely stuff. Well, enjoy, uh, wherever you're going to be over the next day or you're going to be over the next day or two and the Club World Cup as it rolls two and the Club World Cup as it rolls on and we'll catch up with you hopefully on and we'll catch up with you hopefully soon. James Horn Castle, Duncan, did we soon. James Horn Castle, Duncan, did we leave something out in that Real Madrid leave something out in that Real Madrid al-Hillal? al-Hillal? al-Hillal? Yeah, the best bet the um the referee Yeah, the best bet the um the referee whistling uh for a corner uh for Real whistling uh for a corner uh for Real Madrid because Boner had held on to the Madrid because Boner had held on to the ball for the the 8 seconds that now ball for the the 8 seconds that now triggers a corner under the new IFAB triggers a corner under the new IFAB regulations. So um and Real Madrid kind regulations. So um and Real Madrid kind of took it a bit hurriedly. I know it of took it a bit hurriedly. I know it was injury time, but it would have been was injury time, but it would have been we we wait to see a team actually score we we wait to see a team actually score from one of those, which will uh I'm from one of those, which will uh I'm sure cause much nashing of teeth, but sure cause much nashing of teeth, but yeah, it was good to see it bit in yeah, it was good to see it bit in action at least. the corner awarded for action at least. the corner awarded for goalkeeper hanging on to the ball too goalkeeper hanging on to the ball too long. One of the many exciting long. One of the many exciting innovations of this tournament. The innovations of this tournament. The others include others include others include uh ref cam. Not sure how you feel about uh ref cam. Not sure how you feel about that. Beginning to see that increasingly that. Beginning to see that increasingly folded into the coverage. Oh, and also folded into the coverage. Oh, and also probably your favorite, the individual probably your favorite, the individual walk-ons. Will it catch on? Ah, it's walk-ons. Will it catch on? Ah, it's it's delayed some early kickoffs, hasn't it's delayed some early kickoffs, hasn't it? So, it's delayed every game, I it? So, it's delayed every game, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I mean think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I mean European soccer post Last Dance has European soccer post Last Dance has stolen some of American opening. So at stolen some of American opening. So at both Euro Euro 2020 and year 202 24 both Euro Euro 2020 and year 202 24 stadiums would play the Chicago Bills stadiums would play the Chicago Bills opening music cuz they're trying to opening music cuz they're trying to build an atmosphere there. But I think build an atmosphere there. But I think that's probably as far as it can go that's probably as far as it can go there. But also American sports, they there. But also American sports, they don't do walkons unless it's I don't don't do walkons unless it's I don't know the the Stanley Cup final or know the the Stanley Cup final or whatever. I mean skateons in that case. whatever. I mean skateons in that case. But do you know what I mean? They don't But do you know what I mean? They don't do it for a regular fixture. It does do it for a regular fixture. It does seem madness to me. Um I'm just glad seem madness to me. Um I'm just glad they don't do it for the second half as they don't do it for the second half as well. But anyway, well. But anyway, can't see it catching on in League 2. can't see it catching on in League 2. Can't see, you know, on a cold day at Can't see, you know, on a cold day at Barnett, Barnett, Barnett, 22 men slowly coming out. Just get get 22 men slowly coming out. Just get get on with the game to be honest. on with the game to be honest. Uh now Benji, Real Madrid's next game Uh now Benji, Real Madrid's next game will see them take on Pachuka in group will see them take on Pachuka in group H. Pachuka who lost to Red Bull but H. Pachuka who lost to Red Bull but don't call them that FC Saltsburg don't call them that FC Saltsburg on kind of Wednesday night maybe on kind of Wednesday night maybe Thursday morning depending upon your geo Thursday morning depending upon your geo location you wanted to talk about this location you wanted to talk about this fire away it yeah don't worry not for fire away it yeah don't worry not for too long the um the um I think the um too long the um the um I think the um Puka Real Madrid game is going to be in Puka Real Madrid game is going to be in North Carolina which is okay but this North Carolina which is okay but this game was in Ohio and there was there in game was in Ohio and there was there in I think it was in Cincinnati's stadium I think it was in Cincinnati's stadium it was and 5,000 fans turned And and I it was and 5,000 fans turned And and I think it's disappointing. I've been think it's disappointing. I've been looking forward to seeing the Mexican looking forward to seeing the Mexican teams in this competition because, you teams in this competition because, you know, obviously it's it's, you know, know, obviously it's it's, you know, there's a huge Mexican diaspora in there's a huge Mexican diaspora in America. And what I don't understand is America. And what I don't understand is why they haven't put them down in like why they haven't put them down in like California or Texas or something like California or Texas or something like that. Anyway, they went to Ohio, which that. Anyway, they went to Ohio, which is um if you rank American states of how is um if you rank American states of how Mexican they are, it's the 40th most Mexican they are, it's the 40th most Mexican state. Um it does feel like a Mexican state. Um it does feel like a bit of a Yeah. Um it just I just think bit of a Yeah. Um it just I just think it's there's a few like you know stadium it's there's a few like you know stadium choices that are just a bit baffling and choices that are just a bit baffling and I thought this was one of them because I thought this was one of them because sure you know Puka the the Conquer CF um sure you know Puka the the Conquer CF um you know Champions League holders you know Champions League holders Mexican team playing in in America. Mexican team playing in in America. Anyway, that was um you know no more Anyway, that was um you know no more worrying about the tendencies for now worrying about the tendencies for now until about that was a game which saw until about that was a game which saw for the second day running a match for the second day running a match suspended because of lightning strikes suspended because of lightning strikes by the way. It took about an hour to get by the way. It took about an hour to get the second half back underway. Uh at the the second half back underway. Uh at the end of which Saltsburg emerged as end of which Saltsburg emerged as winners. Yeah, that's right. And and winners. Yeah, that's right. And and talking of uh you know lightning talking of uh you know lightning strikes, there was a fantastic strike strikes, there was a fantastic strike from Oscar Gluke in this game from from Oscar Gluke in this game from Salsburg to open the state open the um Salsburg to open the state open the um open the scoring and I thought it was open the scoring and I thought it was quite interesting. We obviously this is quite interesting. We obviously this is this is happening in the same week as this is happening in the same week as the uh Euro under 19 the the under9 the uh Euro under 19 the the under9 Euros. Um and the last under 19 euros he Euros. Um and the last under 19 euros he was one of the real stars um for Israel. was one of the real stars um for Israel. Um they got to the final and lost to Um they got to the final and lost to England. Of course we win quite a few of England. Of course we win quite a few of these. Um but he scored against England these. Um but he scored against England in the final and there was a lot of in the final and there was a lot of competition for his signature and he competition for his signature and he ended up at um RB Salburg um and and and ended up at um RB Salburg um and and and actually he's played incredibly well actually he's played incredibly well there last couple of years. I think 20 there last couple of years. I think 20 goals in in in in 70 games and he's only goals in in in in 70 games and he's only just turned 21. So I think really just turned 21. So I think really definitely one to watch and I'll be very definitely one to watch and I'll be very unsurprised if he's uh you know turned unsurprised if he's uh you know turned up at you know let's pick a team at up at you know let's pick a team at random uh Leipzig uh in in the next random uh Leipzig uh in in the next season or so. Group G Man City trailing season or so. Group G Man City trailing Juventus on goal difference after Juventus on goal difference after Wednesday night's action. Whoever by the Wednesday night's action. Whoever by the way finishes second in this group might way finishes second in this group might well be facing Real Madrid in the well be facing Real Madrid in the knockout phase by which point Real knockout phase by which point Real Madrid might have got their act together Madrid might have got their act together as they generally do in competitions. as they generally do in competitions. Man City 2nil winners against Wedad. A Man City 2nil winners against Wedad. A goal after 1 minute and 51 seconds from goal after 1 minute and 51 seconds from Phil Foden Phil Foden Phil Foden in what is seen as an important in what is seen as an important tournament for him with Jeremy Dou tournament for him with Jeremy Dou adding the other one. Rico Lewis pick up adding the other one. Rico Lewis pick up a red card later on. So he'll miss the a red card later on. So he'll miss the next game which is against Alain. Good next game which is against Alain. Good news there for Man City. Alain are not news there for Man City. Alain are not very good and they got pumped 5-0 by very good and they got pumped 5-0 by Juventus on Wednesday night. Actually Juventus on Wednesday night. Actually Thursday morning. Uh, Juve looking Thursday morning. Uh, Juve looking absolutely brilliant under Igor Tudor. absolutely brilliant under Igor Tudor. Thoughts on Man City? Who saw this game? Thoughts on Man City? Who saw this game? Um, yeah, I was watching this game. It I Um, yeah, I was watching this game. It I mean, fans of the show might remember mean, fans of the show might remember our exciting debate last week about our exciting debate last week about whether this tournament was in this whether this tournament was in this season or last season or next season. season or last season or next season. Well, Phil Fodden said, "I didn't play Well, Phil Fodden said, "I didn't play very well last season, and I wanted to very well last season, and I wanted to start the new season." Well, so he is start the new season." Well, so he is he's classing this as 25 26, which is he's classing this as 25 26, which is technically incorrect, but he did look a technically incorrect, but he did look a lot sharper. um and not only scored but lot sharper. um and not only scored but also assisted Jeremy Dou. Um Rangers also assisted Jeremy Dou. Um Rangers looked really good. I thought Turkey looked really good. I thought Turkey less so but I thought City, you know, less so but I thought City, you know, kind of looked a bit more back to their kind of looked a bit more back to their old selves. Defensively still a little old selves. Defensively still a little bit shaky. I mean, they had Vtori bit shaky. I mean, they had Vtori playing at center half and he he looked playing at center half and he he looked a little bit weward at points, but um a little bit weward at points, but um but generally, yeah, pretty positive but generally, yeah, pretty positive start for them and you can tell that start for them and you can tell that they they are using this as a real sort they they are using this as a real sort of reset. Um and obviously have a lot of of reset. Um and obviously have a lot of new players to to do that with. So um new players to to do that with. So um yeah, pretty good. And and obviously yeah, pretty good. And and obviously Marush Mammoo from last season and Sinho Marush Mammoo from last season and Sinho from being last season is making me from being last season is making me increasingly convinced that this is increasingly convinced that this is going to be Pep's last season there. Um going to be Pep's last season there. Um because it reminds me of what Klopp did because it reminds me of what Klopp did at Liverpool in that kind of the couple at Liverpool in that kind of the couple of seasons before he left. He kind of of seasons before he left. He kind of padded out the squad with really good padded out the squad with really good players. I remember there's one summer players. I remember there's one summer when they got gakpo and Nunes and they when they got gakpo and Nunes and they already had sort of four attacking already had sort of four attacking players that they could use there. It players that they could use there. It feels like Pep is just throwing a lot of feels like Pep is just throwing a lot of talent into this squad and saying like talent into this squad and saying like I'm I'm I'm leaving you with with all I'm I'm I'm leaving you with with all the resources. I think it's time for the resources. I think it's time for someone else to work this out. someone else to work this out. Interesting. I Interesting. I Interesting. I They've got an ominous glow. On the They've got an ominous glow. On the 16-minute mark, Pepgardio brought on Ern 16-minute mark, Pepgardio brought on Ern Harland and Rodri and Yagan. Really? Harland and Rodri and Yagan. Really? Surely, this is, you know, this is the Surely, this is, you know, this is the greed that they talk about in the holy greed that they talk about in the holy scripture. They look good. They they scripture. They look good. They they look as if some of the frailties we saw look as if some of the frailties we saw for the majority last season have for the majority last season have solutions in game. Rodri was there and solutions in game. Rodri was there and he looked a little bit like Rodri. Okay, he looked a little bit like Rodri. Okay, there was some ring rust, but he had a there was some ring rust, but he had a little phase where he he carried the little phase where he he carried the ball from the halfway line, did a ball from the halfway line, did a dribble or two, and then chipped it into dribble or two, and then chipped it into the final third, and the pass didn't the final third, and the pass didn't quite get there. But you go, there it quite get there. But you go, there it is. That was one of the big problems is. That was one of the big problems with ball progression they had. I'm with ball progression they had. I'm going to call it for them, it's still going to call it for them, it's still this season, but it's last season for this season, but it's last season for me. Last season, everything. Yeah. So, me. Last season, everything. Yeah. So, some of the problems they had last some of the problems they had last season, um, Rainders is going to be a season, um, Rainders is going to be a delight if you're a Manchester City fan. delight if you're a Manchester City fan. I think I think the partnership he will I think I think the partnership he will have with Rodri going forward will be have with Rodri going forward will be very very very good and and they've just very very very good and and they've just re they're slowly approaching a critical re they're slowly approaching a critical mass of footballing talent again and I I mass of footballing talent again and I I disagree Benji this is the this is the disagree Benji this is the sort of thing where Pep Guardella gets sort of thing where Pep Guardella gets all this talent and goes why would I all this talent and goes why would I leave I've got all these new action leave I've got all these new action figures the short-term future for Man figures the short-term future for Man City as mentioned season face Alain next City as mentioned season face Alain next but after that Thursday in a week's time but after that Thursday in a week's time essentially they'll up against Juventus essentially they'll up against Juventus who while Man City looked good looked who while Man City looked good looked even better in their game against Alain. even better in their game against Alain. Alain had Rupetricio the veteran former Alain had Rupetricio the veteran former Wolves and Roma keeper who'd signed just Wolves and Roma keeper who'd signed just for this tournament for this tournament had faced four shots in the first half had faced four shots in the first half conceded on all of them as Juve romped conceded on all of them as Juve romped to their first 4-nil halftime lead since to their first 4-nil halftime lead since 2018. and Juuve who been pretty stodgy 2018. and Juuve who been pretty stodgy for a couple of seasons now looking for a couple of seasons now looking absolutely absolutely absolutely enthralling in this first half and enthralling in this first half and finishing the game off 5-nil with all finishing the game off 5-nil with all their front three scoring. Rand Kolmani their front three scoring. Rand Kolmani got a brace so did uh concal from Yield and a brilliant goal that was from Yield and a brilliant goal that was too. Uh looking less good on the UV too. Uh looking less good on the UV front was their pregame which saw them front was their pregame which saw them on the very afternoon of the match on the very afternoon of the match shuffling into the Oval Office in the shuffling into the Oval Office in the White House to stand awkwardly behind White House to stand awkwardly behind Donald Trump as he let rip on a variety Donald Trump as he let rip on a variety of topics including countdown to World of topics including countdown to World War II, transgender athletes which he War II, transgender athletes which he quizzed Uveu about and probably the most quizzed Uveu about and probably the most awkward moment of awkward moment of and just generally did themselves and just generally did themselves absolutely no favors. The players looked absolutely no favors. The players looked absolutely miserable at being there. absolutely miserable at being there. Western McKenna in particular who had to Western McKenna in particular who had to shake Trump's hand and I think said that shake Trump's hand and I think said that they they were there was no choice in they they were there was no choice in the matter. They were told they had to the matter. They were told they had to go. uh John Elcan who basically has go. uh John Elcan who basically has retaken control of of Juventus now retaken control of of Juventus now another of the Anelli dynasty has uh a another of the Anelli dynasty has uh a number of a dealing should we say with number of a dealing should we say with with Donald Trump and uh yeah with Donald Trump and uh yeah interesting to see the team suddenly interesting to see the team suddenly wheeled in there only hours before they wheeled in there only hours before they kicked off in their club world cup kicked off in their club world cup opener just bizarre no other way to put opener just bizarre no other way to put it absolutely bizarre Donald Trump it absolutely bizarre Donald Trump talking about how uh US military planes talking about how uh US military planes are undetectable because they have are undetectable because they have stealth stealth stealth while West McKenna and Timothy Wear while West McKenna and Timothy Wear stand there looking very very awkward. stand there looking very very awkward. Uh I think Adam Croftton's written a Uh I think Adam Croftton's written a piece that you can see on the Athletic piece that you can see on the Athletic and I believe Timothy where ex described and I believe Timothy where ex described the experience as a bit weird which I the experience as a bit weird which I mean he is the son of a diplomat so you mean he is the son of a diplomat so you can you can see it. Very diplomatic tone can you can see it. Very diplomatic tone there. Yeah. President of Liberia of there. Yeah. President of Liberia of course. Um, also present at the historic course. Um, also present at the historic meeting was uh FIFA President Janney meeting was uh FIFA President Janney Keep Politics Out of Football, Keep Politics Out of Football, Infantino. Infantino. Infantino. So, no dichotomy there. Excellent. We So, no dichotomy there. Excellent. We talked about how Infantino's name is on talked about how Infantino's name is on the Club World Cup trophy twice. Twice. the Club World Cup trophy twice. Twice. Yeah. Oh, twice. So in the engraving Yeah. Oh, twice. So in the engraving there there is a bit that refers to there there is a bit that refers to Infantino as the uh founding president Infantino as the uh founding president of the tournament and there is also of the tournament and there is also another bit that refers to him as the another bit that refers to him as the tournament's inspiration. Um I'm I'm tournament's inspiration. Um I'm I'm sure some of our listeners have already sure some of our listeners have already seen that you can get an Infantino seen that you can get an Infantino sticker in the CWC sticker album pack sticker in the CWC sticker album pack where it refers to him as the emblem where it refers to him as the emblem of the tournament as well. So, uh, I of the tournament as well. So, uh, I never thought I'd miss the lowkey never thought I'd miss the lowkey skull dugy of set blatter, but, uh, skull dugy of set blatter, but, uh, there were just some days when I was there were just some days when I was like, like, like, turn it in. Elsewhere at the club world turn it in. Elsewhere at the club world cup, I mean, loads of things, but cup, I mean, loads of things, but briefly I mentioned interd drawing with briefly I mentioned interd drawing with Montterrey and Sergio Ramos opening the Montterrey and Sergio Ramos opening the scoring there, and it's one of the scoring there, and it's one of the delights, I think, of the Club World Cup delights, I think, of the Club World Cup is seeing all these old stages. is seeing all these old stages. Sergio Ramos very much still effective, Sergio Ramos very much still effective, others not so much. Cavani not even others not so much. Cavani not even featuring for Bocka in their game. The featuring for Bocka in their game. The Montter starting lineup is an absolute Montter starting lineup is an absolute triumph. I saw Sergio Canales and Oliver triumph. I saw Sergio Canales and Oliver Torres in that starting lineup and and I Torres in that starting lineup and and I mean I'm sure there's certain listeners mean I'm sure there's certain listeners that have played various football uh that have played various football uh computer games that have special computer games that have special feelings towards both of those players, feelings towards both of those players, but that yeah, that Montter starting but that yeah, that Montter starting lineup was a who's who of dudes naming lineup was a who's who of dudes naming all sports players and just having the all sports players and just having the best time. On the other end of the age best time. On the other end of the age spectrum, Joe Bellingham made his spectrum, Joe Bellingham made his Dortmund debut back on Tuesday in Dortmund debut back on Tuesday in British Dortmund's nil nil draw with British Dortmund's nil nil draw with fluminency who for their part fielded fluminency who for their part fielded 41-year-old Chuggo Silva and a 44 year 41-year-old Chuggo Silva and a 44 year old goalkeeper Fabio and we should shout old goalkeeper Fabio and we should shout out as well for River Plate who while out as well for River Plate who while Bcker ended up drawing that game with Bcker ended up drawing that game with Benfica 2-2. River plate with 3-1 Benfica 2-2. River plate with 3-1 winners over Japan's Urawa Red Diamonds winners over Japan's Urawa Red Diamonds on Tuesday. By the way, can I just say on Tuesday. By the way, can I just say one more thing? One more thing about the one more thing? One more thing about the Club World Cup that um Yes, I know I've Club World Cup that um Yes, I know I've been moaning about um attendance. I been moaning about um attendance. I thought Flamingo versus Espirants looked thought Flamingo versus Espirants looked like it had a proper atmosphere and I like it had a proper atmosphere and I was I loved um I loved the um massive was I loved um I loved the um massive banks of Espirants fans behind the one banks of Espirants fans behind the one one end and Flamingo at the other end one end and Flamingo at the other end and you could see that they weren't and you could see that they weren't actually like segregated but there was actually like segregated but there was even though it was it was only the even though it was it was only the bottom tier of whatever gigantic huge bottom tier of whatever gigantic huge NFL stadium it was, right? It was a NFL stadium it was, right? It was a proper game with proper atmosphere and I proper game with proper atmosphere and I think Flamingo are going to be both think Flamingo are going to be both teams I think it'd be really fun to teams I think it'd be really fun to watch for the rest of the tournament. watch for the rest of the tournament. Yeah, FIFA have done that thing where Yeah, FIFA have done that thing where all the fans at that ground and you all the fans at that ground and you could argue they should have just picked could argue they should have just picked a smaller ground but they they've a smaller ground but they they've shifted everyone down to the the lower shifted everyone down to the the lower tier and the director's been very clever tier and the director's been very clever in that game in particular at framing in that game in particular at framing the fans so you would never guess. Um a the fans so you would never guess. Um a lot of people talking about the fact lot of people talking about the fact that they had tickets not specifically that they had tickets not specifically for this game but other matches. Uh they for this game but other matches. Uh they I think the bottom foger one up at Lumen I think the bottom foger one up at Lumen Field was um that they had tickets kind Field was um that they had tickets kind of along the halfway line in the top of along the halfway line in the top tier and suddenly got an an email from tier and suddenly got an an email from FIFA saying no you've been relocated to FIFA saying no you've been relocated to buying the goal on the the bottom tier buying the goal on the the bottom tier but equal value tickets. Um yeah just but equal value tickets. Um yeah just for you know I it looked good. Yeah, but for you know I it looked good. Yeah, but the I got to say they got the optics the I got to say they got the optics right in in that case for that game right in in that case for that game because I thought it looked like it had because I thought it looked like it had a proper atmosphere. I don't think come a proper atmosphere. I don't think come the end of the tournament that we're the end of the tournament that we're going to be talking about these these going to be talking about these these the opening round and the low the opening round and the low attendances anymore. I think that the attendances anymore. I think that the the story will have moved on so much. I the story will have moved on so much. I think that this will be a really think that this will be a really successful tournament. But Duncan, successful tournament. But Duncan, sorry. Yeah, I think we need to be sorry. Yeah, I think we need to be careful about sort of attendance bashing careful about sort of attendance bashing too much given at year 96 some of the too much given at year 96 some of the attendances were abysmal. You know, attendances were abysmal. You know, Bulgaria, Romania, St. James's Park, a Bulgaria, Romania, St. James's Park, a hot bed of of football fans, only 19,000 hot bed of of football fans, only 19,000 people turned up to see Stokov take on people turned up to see Stokov take on Georgie So, I think it's, you Georgie So, I think it's, you know, it's a bit low. It It is low. It's know, it's a bit low. It It is low. It's 56% attendance so far, which is like 56% attendance so far, which is like it's not bad. Yeah, I mean I'd say that it's not bad. Yeah, I mean I'd say that that is equally good. It's a brand new that is equally good. It's a brand new MK Dons would kill for that, mate. MK Dons would kill for that, mate. Can I can I can I mention Can I can I can I mention just a couple more curios because that's just a couple more curios because that's one of the things I've enjoyed most one of the things I've enjoyed most about this tournament is like oh Botti's about this tournament is like oh Botti's playing for Benfica. There's lots of playing for Benfica. There's lots of kind of players we likely like what's kind of players we likely like what's Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well and and but Botti Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well and and but Botti by the way scored 11 goals in four by the way scored 11 goals in four years. sort of mad cliff he's fallen years. sort of mad cliff he's fallen off. Um but in that Yeah. And actually off. Um but in that Yeah. And actually another another two things that slightly another another two things that slightly blew my mind in the Bocka Benfica game. blew my mind in the Bocka Benfica game. First of all was that Otto Mendi is the First of all was that Otto Mendi is the fifth most capped Argentinian footballer fifth most capped Argentinian footballer of all time. How how's that happened? of all time. How how's that happened? Like he's just been there for reliable. Like he's just been there for reliable. He is old reliable. Yeah. And then um He is old reliable. Yeah. And then um the the other one and this is lovely is the the other one and this is lovely is that Dimaria is is is about to have a that Dimaria is is is about to have a palindroic beginning and end to his palindroic beginning and end to his career. So he started his career at career. So he started his career at Rosario and then moved to Benfica and Rosario and then moved to Benfica and he's finishing his career by going from he's finishing his career by going from Benfica to Rosario. That that warmed my Benfica to Rosario. That that warmed my heart when I realized that Amid Baka heart when I realized that Amid Baka says World Cup gets much criticism but says World Cup gets much criticism but offers interesting games uh with lots of offers interesting games uh with lots of I mean to precy amid a amid lots of I mean to precy amid a amid lots of fixtures that you would never ever see fixtures that you would never ever see outside of perhaps a competition that outside of perhaps a competition that you yourself would build on your FIFA you yourself would build on your FIFA tournament on your PlayStation. I think tournament on your PlayStation. I think I think if you are a listener to this I think if you are a listener to this podcast or you've not watched much Saudi podcast or you've not watched much Saudi Arabian league um I think this is Arabian league um I think this is perhaps the best gauge of what the top perhaps the best gauge of what the top four or the top you know the the piff four or the top you know the the piff owned Saudi Arabian clubs now have to owned Saudi Arabian clubs now have to offer and compete it's an interesting offer and compete it's an interesting barometer there. So the work Inzagi's barometer there. So the work Inzagi's done, I I think it was quite interesting done, I I think it was quite interesting watching Inzagi play against a Jab watching Inzagi play against a Jab Allonzo team and neither of them use the Allonzo team and neither of them use the back three. That That's a weird That was back three. That That's a weird That was a interesting tactical cure for me. And a interesting tactical cure for me. And if you're a Man United fan, you're if you're a Man United fan, you're going, "Hang on, wait, what?" Um, so I want to be really, really careful here I want to be really, really careful here because, and it's not just with football because, and it's not just with football fandom, but as I'm getting slightly fandom, but as I'm getting slightly older and slowing down a little bit, I'm older and slowing down a little bit, I'm trying to get better at trying to get better at calling fewer things crap or rubbish and calling fewer things crap or rubbish and dismissing them, and I'm trying to dismissing them, and I'm trying to instead say, I can see the appeal, but instead say, I can see the appeal, but it's not for me, or this probably isn't it's not for me, or this probably isn't my tempo, or I'm probably not the target my tempo, or I'm probably not the target audience for that. Uh, and when I look audience for that. Uh, and when I look at the reasons why I'm perhaps not at the reasons why I'm perhaps not watching the Club World Cup with the watching the Club World Cup with the same intensity or further that I'm same intensity or further that I'm watching the Champions League or or or watching the Champions League or or or the FA Cup, that's probably to do with the FA Cup, that's probably to do with the fact that I've watched nine months the fact that I've watched nine months worth of European football and I'm worth of European football and I'm knackered rather than this tournament knackered rather than this tournament being bad as it is right now. And I'm being bad as it is right now. And I'm sure if there are I'm sure there are sure if there are I'm sure there are many many fans across the world and many many fans across the world and listening to this who this is their listening to this who this is their tempo, this is their speed and they are tempo, this is their speed and they are enjoying it. And all power to you. Um, enjoying it. And all power to you. Um, I'll I'll probably check back in and I'm I'll I'll probably check back in and I'm sure there's going to be quite a few sure there's going to be quite a few fans that will try and check back in fans that will try and check back in around like the quarterfinals when some around like the quarterfinals when some of the Yeah, this is it's a bit it's a of the Yeah, this is it's a bit like it's a bit like the Europa bit like it's a bit like the Europa League that you that you kind of don't League that you that you kind of don't pay that much attention to at the group pay that much attention to at the group stages, but once it gets into the stages, but once it gets into the knockout stages, like hold on, this is knockout stages, like hold on, this is this is pretty serious and good fun and this is pretty serious and good fun and there's good teams there. And actually there's good teams there. And actually just just um you know Carl's point about just just um you know Carl's point about benchmarking the Saudi league is a benchmarking the Saudi league is a really good one to the extent that it really good one to the extent that it you know and this purely on football you know and this purely on football terms obviously but um it made me think terms obviously but um it made me think actually do you know what it's not so actually do you know what it's not so mad saying that maybe Ivan Tony can mad saying that maybe Ivan Tony can still be in an England squad you know if still be in an England squad you know if he's playing in a league that has got he's playing in a league that has got some actual decent quality in it. Um so some actual decent quality in it. Um so yeah really I think that's a very good yeah really I think that's a very good point. Excellent. Well we'll have more point. Excellent. Well we'll have more on the Club World Cup in our next show on the Club World Cup in our next show but lots of big games coming up between but lots of big games coming up between now and then. Uh, also writing in though now and then. Uh, also writing in though is Dicky Burn who says, "No Boxing Day is Dicky Burn who says, "No Boxing Day football for the Premier League. Is the football for the Premier League. Is the game gone?" This follows the release of game gone?" This follows the release of the next season's fixtures. Or is it the next season's fixtures. Or is it this season? This season's fixtures. this season? This season's fixtures. This season? Well, yeah. Well, it it's This season? Well, yeah. Well, it it's sort of a quirk and as our colleague sort of a quirk and as our colleague Phil Buckingham explained on the Phil Buckingham explained on the Athletic yesterday, what it is is Athletic yesterday, what it is is because Boxing Day December the 26th is because Boxing Day December the 26th is on a Friday, then the fixes are sort of on a Friday, then the fixes are sort of automatically set to the 27th as the automatically set to the 27th as the weekend fixes rather than a normally the weekend fixes rather than a normally the Boxing Day fixtures would be a midweek Boxing Day fixtures would be a midweek set of fixtures. So, what's going to set of fixtures. So, what's going to happen is that the TV companies, our happen is that the TV companies, our friends, are going to move some of those friends, are going to move some of those fixtures, uh, quite a few of them, I fixtures, uh, quite a few of them, I imagine, to the Friday, aka Boxing Day, imagine, to the Friday, aka Boxing Day, and we will have Boxing Day football and we will have Boxing Day football after all, and the game will not have after all, and the game will not have gone quite yet. So, it's fine. gone quite yet. So, it's fine. Magnificent. July 9th, I believe, is the Magnificent. July 9th, I believe, is the date for when the TV broadcasters start date for when the TV broadcasters start carving things up. So, carving things up. So, wait and see. Wait and see. July the wait and see. Wait and see. July the 9th. Many thanks for that. Man United, 9th. Many thanks for that. Man United, by the way, Carlos you'll have spotted by the way, Carlos you'll have spotted ranked by the Athletic as having the ranked by the Athletic as having the most difficult start to the season in most difficult start to the season in terms of fixtures. Obviously, everyone terms of fixtures. Obviously, everyone plays everybody else twice, but if plays everybody else twice, but if you're a manager who's coming off a you're a manager who's coming off a historically bad campaign and looking historically bad campaign and looking for some validation, a tough run of for some validation, a tough run of fixtures at the start of the tournament fixtures at the start of the tournament isn't the best thing. No, it's not the isn't the best thing. No, it's not the best start. Uh, some comparisons have best start. Uh, some comparisons have been drawn to David Moyes's season in been drawn to David Moyes's season in charge of Manchester United where he had charge of Manchester United where he had a particularly difficult start as well. a particularly difficult start as well. Look, you've got to start your campaign Look, you've got to start your campaign with a game against Arsenal at home. If with a game against Arsenal at home. If you are a Premier League watcher who you are a Premier League watcher who remembers the 90s, that's really remembers the 90s, that's really exciting because that used to be a match exciting because that used to be a match that would define the title race and now that would define the title race and now you get to start off with it. A very you get to start off with it. A very early Manchester derby as well. And then early Manchester derby as well. And then a couple weeks after that first five, a couple weeks after that first five, you're off to Anfield. So, uh, no rest, you're off to Anfield. So, uh, no rest, no rest for the wicked, Mr. Amaran, I no rest for the wicked, Mr. Amaran, I hope you have some new setpiece routines hope you have some new setpiece routines cuz you're going to need them. Okay. cuz you're going to need them. Okay. You'll also need a certain amount of You'll also need a certain amount of money to see any of this if you are a money to see any of this if you are a matchgoing spectator. The cheapest matchgoing spectator. The cheapest ticket for a Premier League game at Old ticket for a Premier League game at Old Trafford has gone up, Carl, is this Trafford has gone up, Carl, is this right? By 50%. A move described by the right? By 50%. A move described by the Man United supporters trust as a fresh Man United supporters trust as a fresh kick in the teeth. Although I imagine kick in the teeth. Although I imagine they must have said fresh kick of the they must have said fresh kick of the truth. If you know it's it's truth. If you know it's it's gling. It's it's really difficult. gling. It's it's really difficult. Andy Mitten has done a very good Andy Mitten has done a very good interview with Omar Bara in United We interview with Omar Bara in United We Stand. And we've run clip uh snippets of Stand. And we've run clip uh snippets of that in the athletic right now. And that in the athletic right now. And Barada in his very Harvard Business Barada in his very Harvard Business School way of speaking. It talks about School way of speaking. It talks about how money has to be found uh and how how money has to be found uh and how they've apologized for the previous they've apologized for the previous ticket increases by saying it was ticket increases by saying it was communicated poorly, not by apologizing communicated poorly, not by apologizing for actually increasing prices. Uh, and for actually increasing prices. Uh, and there's this there's always this counter there's this there's always this counter argument about how there was a ticket argument about how there was a ticket price freeze for the better part of a price freeze for the better part of a decade. And this is this is the way you decade. And this is this is the way you keep revenue going because you want to keep revenue going because you want to keep season ticket prices at a certain keep season ticket prices at a certain level and the best way to keep RKU those level and the best way to keep RKU those I'm putting air quotes losses is to I'm putting air quotes losses is to charge more for the individual ticket. charge more for the individual ticket. However, I am I'm sat here going you are However, I am I'm sat here going you are charging me more money for a worse charging me more money for a worse product. This is the first Premier product. This is the first Premier League season season Manchester United League season season Manchester United will play without Europe since 1415. Um, will play without Europe since 1415. Um, and this is on top of everything else and this is on top of everything else going on in the world where you are going on in the world where you are paying more money for a worse product. paying more money for a worse product. Uh, I'm sure someone is now furiously Uh, I'm sure someone is now furiously clicking away in the comment section clicking away in the comment section going like the athletic snarf. Um, yeah, going like the athletic snarf. Um, yeah, it I I don't like it. It sucks. And I it I I don't like it. It sucks. And I very much agree with what must. Uh, very much agree with what must. Uh, Benji, were you excited for your Benji, were you excited for your fixtures briefly? West Ham. Um, yeah. fixtures briefly? West Ham. Um, yeah. Yeah, I mean I don't think I've ever Yeah, I mean I don't think I've ever ever been more apathetic about West Ham. ever been more apathetic about West Ham. So, not really. The only the thing So, not really. The only the thing that's interesting is that we got leads that's interesting is that we got leads on the last day of the season and which on the last day of the season and which made me think, uh-oh, could that could made me think, uh-oh, could that could that be a sort of relegation playoff? that be a sort of relegation playoff? But yeah, let's see. Point Auro, Evan But yeah, let's see. Point Auro, Evan Ferguson's six-month loan. What What Ferguson's six-month loan. What What happened there? I'm not convinced it happened there? I'm not convinced it happened. I think I mean I I can't I've happened. I think I mean I I can't I've got nothing to say. Um, it will be one got nothing to say. Um, it will be one of the most forgettable in fact I mean of the most forgettable in fact I mean I've forgotten I who is Evan Ferguson. I've forgotten I who is Evan Ferguson. Fascinating. Thank you. Just to quickly Fascinating. Thank you. Just to quickly flag up if you were listening to flag up if you were listening to Daniel's story talking about Sheffield Daniel's story talking about Sheffield Wednesday on Tuesday Wednesday on Tuesday and their perilous position currently, and their perilous position currently, you may be interested to know that you may be interested to know that because of their failure to pay their because of their failure to pay their own staff, the EFL have now banned the own staff, the EFL have now banned the Owls from paying any transfer fees for Owls from paying any transfer fees for any players until January 2027. So any players until January 2027. So situation precipitating there in situation precipitating there in Sheffield. Very good. Well, um we're Sheffield. Very good. Well, um we're almost at the end of today's podcast, almost at the end of today's podcast, but you'll be excited listener perhaps. but you'll be excited listener perhaps. I certainly am to know that we're going I certainly am to know that we're going to finish off today with the very first to finish off today with the very first matchup in this year's or is it next matchup in this year's or is it next year's or is it last year's Inter year's or is it last year's Inter totally Cup? Match one is on the way. totally Cup? Match one is on the way. It's time everybody. Inter totally Cup. It's time everybody. Inter totally Cup. Match one. Let's meet our contestants. Match one. Let's meet our contestants. Yes, indeed. Julian, he's had no sleep Yes, indeed. Julian, he's had no sleep for the last week. How are you, sir? for the last week. How are you, sir? Hello, guys. I'm very well, thank you Hello, guys. I'm very well, thank you very much. Well, indeed, your your PSG very much. Well, indeed, your your PSG bas Champions League, excuse my French, bas Champions League, excuse my French, but will this be a 5-nil? Hey, Julian. but will this be a 5-nil? Hey, Julian. Well, this is a bit of a classic, isn't Well, this is a bit of a classic, isn't it? Uh, in our game, so I I just can't it? Uh, in our game, so I I just can't wait for it. Okay, Jules is a perennial wait for it. Okay, Jules is a perennial semiinalist. uh sometimes putting out semiinalist. uh sometimes putting out the man he's about to face in this the man he's about to face in this opening match of the Interody Cup. opening match of the Interody Cup. Benji, thank you so much for taking Benji, thank you so much for taking part. Uh Benji, who was runner up, of part. Uh Benji, who was runner up, of course in this competition, listener, course in this competition, listener, you're just thinking to yourself in you're just thinking to yourself in 2021. So plenty of pedigree for you as 2021. So plenty of pedigree for you as well. How do you feel about this rematch well. How do you feel about this rematch with Julian Leon? What's the history with Julian Leon? What's the history here? here? here? Well, you know, I actually knocked him Well, you know, I actually knocked him out on the way to that final in 2021, out on the way to that final in 2021, but he's then proceeded to he's whooped but he's then proceeded to he's whooped me twice in a row. And I've got to me twice in a row. And I've got to listen, I'm just a I'm just a civvy listen, I'm just a civvy James, right? You know, at best at best James, right? You know, at best at best I am the uh I am the Conference League I am the uh I am the Conference League to Julian's Champions League. Um you to Julian's Champions League. Um you know, he's the hardest working man in know, he's the hardest working man in football journalism. You're you're the football journalism. You're you're the Oakland City and he's obviously Yeah, Oakland City and he's obviously Yeah, that's it. That's it. Yeah, I'm I'm that's it. That's it. Yeah, I'm I'm happy to be here. Yeah, I happy to I'm happy to be here. Yeah, I just hope the fans have a great time just hope the fans have a great time along the way. It's a great thing for along the way. It's a great thing for the CV, you know. Brilliant. You are the the CV, you know. Brilliant. You are the prince of PF fair. You can get prints at prince of PF fair. You can get prints at Pigfair, I think. Is that right or not? Pigfair, I think. Is that right or not? Oh, yeah. You can. And actually, you can Oh, yeah. You can. And actually, you can set up your own photography print store set up your own photography print store in under a minute. So, anyone can get in under a minute. So, anyone can get prints on Pair. Amazing. Right, five prints on Pair. Amazing. Right, five questions on football are coming up to questions on football are coming up to each of you. Then, if required, we'll go each of you. Then, if required, we'll go to a tie breaker. And just to let you to a tie breaker. And just to let you know, whoever does come through today's know, whoever does come through today's match will be facing either Tom Williams match will be facing either Tom Williams or Charlie Ecklesche in the semi-finals. or Charlie Ecklesche in the semi-finals. So with that, let's get underway with So with that, let's get underway with question one. Julian, you're up first. question one. Julian, you're up first. Julian, question one. For which Saudi Julian, question one. For which Saudi pro league team does Ivan Tony currently pro league team does Ivan Tony currently play? play? play? Uh, Ali Uh, Ali Uh, Ali is correct. You're on the scoreboard. is correct. You're on the scoreboard. Benji, your first question. For which Benji, your first question. For which Saudi Pro League team does Angulo County Saudi Pro League team does Angulo County currently play? currently play? currently play? Oh, Oh, Oh, Al-Nasa, Al-Nasa, Al-Nasa, I'm afraid not. It is Oh, actually I'm afraid not. It is Oh, actually Julian, do you know? Yeah, Alihad, but Julian, do you know? Yeah, Alihad, but on loan to Al-Hilar right now, I on loan to Al-Hilar right now, I believe. So, on to question two. believe. So, on to question two. Julianne, Julianne, Julianne, in which of the following countries has in which of the following countries has Roy Hodson not managed? Sweden, Denmark, Roy Hodson not managed? Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, Belgium or Norway? Switzerland, Belgium or Norway? Uh, Belgium is correct. Uh, Belgium is correct. Julian, on to two points. Benji, your Julian, on to two points. Benji, your second question. In which of the second question. In which of the following countries has Alan Pardio not following countries has Alan Pardio not managed? Netherlands, Greece, Bulgaria, managed? Netherlands, Greece, Bulgaria, and Switzerland? and Switzerland? and Switzerland? Switzerland is correct. Two-1 score as Switzerland is correct. Two-1 score as we move on to question three. Jewels. we move on to question three. Jewels. Which World Cup winners career path is Which World Cup winners career path is this? FC Holberg, Kaiser Schloutton, this? FC Holberg, Kaiser Schloutton, their de Breman, Bayern Munich, Latio. H H H Mir closer. No is correct. Yes. Jules Mir closer. No is correct. Yes. Jules moves on to three points. Benji, you moves on to three points. Benji, you need this. Which World Cup winners need this. Which World Cup winners career path goes Na, Sora, Real Madrid, career path goes Na, Sora, Real Madrid, Middlesborough, Olympia, Sevet, Bastia, Christian Carbo. Boom. Christian Carbo. Boom. 32 the score as we move on to question 32 the score as we move on to question four. four. four. Jules, what disrespectful behavior from Jules, what disrespectful behavior from a match official did Sheffield United a match official did Sheffield United manager Chris Wilder take exception to manager Chris Wilder take exception to in 2024? I don't know. Uh, so I will say so is I don't know. Uh, so I will say so is it's something a referee did to Chris to it's something a referee did to Chris to Chris Wilder that he didn't like. Is Chris Wilder that he didn't like. Is that a match official did this in front that a match official did this in front of Chris Wilder in front? He celebrated. of Chris Wilder in front? He celebrated. No, he ate a sandwich tool. It's far No, he ate a sandwich tool. It's far worse than celebrating. He ate a worse than celebrating. He ate a sandwich. You'd rather have your leg sandwich. You'd rather have your leg broken than that. I think your question broken than that. I think your question Benji and for this with this the chance Benji and for this with this the chance to pull level in today's quiz. to pull level in today's quiz. Alan Parardu was given a seven match Alan Parardu was given a seven match suspension for headbutting an opposing suspension for headbutting an opposing player one Newcastle manager in 2014. player one Newcastle manager in 2014. Who was that player? You can see it, can't you? Yeah. Did you say who the opposition team was? Did you say who the opposition team was? I did not. I'm not even going to guess. I did not. I'm not even going to guess. Don't know. Jules, do you know the Don't know. Jules, do you know the answer? answer? answer? David Maylor of Hull M. So, with the David Maylor of Hull M. So, with the score poised at 3-2 in favor of Julian score poised at 3-2 in favor of Julian Orons, we move on to the final question. Orons, we move on to the final question. Remember, there's a tiebreaker if Remember, there's a tiebreaker if they're tied after five. With that in they're tied after five. With that in mind, let's start with you, Benji. Which mind, let's start with you, Benji. Which current player is the all-time Premier current player is the all-time Premier League top goalcorer for two different League top goalcorer for two different clubs? clubs? clubs? He's a current player. He's currently He's a current player. He's currently playing. Current player listeners haven't got all day. listeners haven't got all day. I got this. I don't know. I I got this. I don't know. Pass. No. Pass. And with don't know. Pass. No. Pass. And with that, you're hold on, hold on. Current that, you're hold on, hold on. Current player, two different Premier League player, two different Premier League clubs, top scorer. This is really annoying. Benji, your This is really annoying. Benji, your answer, please. Put me out my misery. answer, please. Put me out my misery. Don't know. It's Chris Wood. Chris Wood Don't know. It's Chris Wood. Chris Wood currently top goalcorer for both Burnley currently top goalcorer for both Burnley and Nottingham Forest. and Nottingham Forest. George, your question five would have George, your question five would have been which club's top two all-time been which club's top two all-time Premier League goal scorers are Premier League goal scorers are Australian Australian Australian leads United. leads United. leads United. Isn't that just the way? Leads. Leads. Isn't that just the way? Leads. Leads. Yeah. But there you go, Benji. I'm Yeah. But there you go, Benji. I'm afraid that's three for three for you afraid that's three for three for you against Jules. against Jules. against Jules. Yeah. Yeah, it is. It is. But listen, he Yeah. Yeah, it is. It is. But listen, he uh he deserved that. Great answers. uh he deserved that. Great answers. Great answers. Julian, you are the Great answers. Julian, you are the player who has participated in more player who has participated in more inter totally cups without ever winning inter totally cups without ever winning the tournament than any other. Could the tournament than any other. Could this be your year? this be your year? If it's PSG's year, that could well be If it's PSG's year, that could well be my year as well in this quiz, you know. my year as well in this quiz, you know. So, I have to believe I've got So, I have to believe I've got Louis and Enrique just, you know, he's Louis and Enrique just, you know, he's been coaching me for the last few days been coaching me for the last few days getting ready for this big big clash getting ready for this big big clash with Benji. So, you know, I believe in with Benji. So, you know, I believe in Louis. All right, we'll have another Louis. All right, we'll have another exciting match up in the Inter totally exciting match up in the Inter totally Cup next Thursday on the Totally Cup next Thursday on the Totally Football Show. But for now, it's many Football Show. But for now, it's many thanks to Benji and congratulations to thanks to Benji and congratulations to Julian Laurance. And with that listener, Julian Laurance. And with that listener, we come to the end of today's show. Hope we come to the end of today's show. Hope you enjoyed it. Many thanks as I you enjoyed it. Many thanks as I mentioned to Benji, obviously to Jules mentioned to Benji, obviously to Jules as well, to producers Charlie and Liam, as well, to producers Charlie and Liam, to Duncan and Carl Ananka as well, and to Duncan and Carl Ananka as well, and you uh for listening in. We'll be back you uh for listening in. We'll be back with you on Monday with a totally gold with you on Monday with a totally gold episode. And then on Tuesday with the episode. And then on Tuesday with the latest on all the big stories around latest on all the big stories around football. Do hope you'll be joining us football. Do hope you'll be joining us for that and that you have a great for that and that you have a great weekend. In the meanwhile, for now, from weekend. In the meanwhile, for now, from all of us here, it's goodbye. The all of us here, it's goodbye. The Totally Football Show podcast is Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a week bringing available three times a week bringing you all the football news you could you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care about. reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of the best got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around, and the whole football writers around, and the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the all the usual places by clicking on the link below.