================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 6lNNQV0DlFQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6lNNQV0DlFQ
TITLE: Premier League season preview: The title contenders
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-13
DURATION: 57m 19s
VIEWS: 8,043
LIKES: 255
COMMENTS: 57
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo's back for the 2025-26 season and he's got Charlie Eccleshare, Duncan Alexander and Daniel Storey alongside him to bring you our first preview episode ahead of the shiny new Premier League campaign.

Today, we’re shining the spotlight on the six clubs who qualified for the Champions League last season.

Liverpool have made the most eye-catching signings over the summer - but are they favourites to retain their crown?

Could world champions Chelsea be the surprise package? Can Arsenal *finally* go from bridesmaid to bride and take home their first title since 03-04?

And Will Pep Guardiola's new-look coaching staff help take them back to the heights of seasons past?

How will Newcastle recover from their tumultuous off-season? George Caulkin joins us with the latest on the Alexander Isak saga after it was revealed he has no intention to play for the Magpies again - even if he isn't sold.

And, can Thomas Frank take Europa League winners Tottenham from 17th in the table to a seriou
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 23,600

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally football show today. After a mad Totally football show today. After a mad summer of cash splashing and ahead of a summer of cash splashing and ahead of a bold new campaign, we'll look at this bold new campaign, we'll look at this season's title favorites. Can the best season's title favorites. Can the best team in the world make top three in team in the world make top three in England? Will Liverpool play WS? Now England? Will Liverpool play WS? Now they're playing words. How will the two they're playing words. How will the two pet program work out for Man City? And pet program work out for Man City? And after more bridesmaid's performances after more bridesmaid's performances than a man I feel like a woman, our than a man I feel like a woman, our Arsenal now anyone's match. Plus, we Arsenal now anyone's match. Plus, we peer through the EAC Haze to talk peer through the EAC Haze to talk Newcastle, chat some Spurs and Newcastle, chat some Spurs and Championship 2 in this Totally Football Championship 2 in this Totally Football Show. Tuesday, 13th of August. Lovely to Show. Tuesday, 13th of August. Lovely to be back with you, listener. Lovely to be be back with you, listener. Lovely to be back in the studio with my pals Charlie back in the studio with my pals Charlie Eckleshare. Hello, Duncan Alexander. Eckleshare. Hello, Duncan Alexander. &gt;&gt; Hello. &gt;&gt; Hello. &gt;&gt; Hello. &gt;&gt; And watching from a safe distance, &gt;&gt; And watching from a safe distance, Daniel Story. Daniel Story. Daniel Story. &gt;&gt; Good morning. Happy new season. &gt;&gt; Good morning. Happy new season. &gt;&gt; Happy new season, Daniel of the Eye. &gt;&gt; Happy new season, Daniel of the Eye. Daniel, Daniel, Daniel, what does the man who's done the 92 do what does the man who's done the 92 do next? next? next? &gt;&gt; He goes on the road. Uh, he notes that &gt;&gt; He goes on the road. Uh, he notes that 60 games is quite a lot fewer than 92 60 games is quite a lot fewer than 92 and he does 60 long reads around England and he does 60 long reads around England and Scotland and Europe and anywhere and Scotland and Europe and anywhere else. else. else. &gt;&gt; I like it. Was that from your editor or &gt;&gt; I like it. Was that from your editor or from Mrs. Story? from Mrs. Story? &gt;&gt; Uh, that was me. Uh, um, Mrs. Story &gt;&gt; Uh, that was me. Uh, um, Mrs. Story would be both offended at being called would be both offended at being called Mrs. story, I think, and be offended at Mrs. story, I think, and be offended at the notion that she didn't want me away the notion that she didn't want me away for 92 games. She was fine last season. for 92 games. She was fine last season. &gt;&gt; Excellent. Well, there's so much to look &gt;&gt; Excellent. Well, there's so much to look forward to this summer, not least your forward to this summer, not least your on the road. What's what's the catchy on the road. What's what's the catchy title for it? title for it? &gt;&gt; Yeah, on the road. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah, on the road. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Has that been used before? Anyway, &gt;&gt; Has that been used before? Anyway, &gt;&gt; certainly 150 times. Yes. &gt;&gt; certainly 150 times. Yes. &gt;&gt; Anyway, so much to look forward to in &gt;&gt; Anyway, so much to look forward to in this new season. Loads of new faces. this new season. Loads of new faces. &gt;&gt; Crazy summer is spending. Not sure what &gt;&gt; Crazy summer is spending. Not sure what the kind of total figure is so far on the kind of total figure is so far on Premier League's outlay, but I'm Premier League's outlay, but I'm thinking it's going to be mad. Of all thinking it's going to be mad. Of all the players coming in or young faces the players coming in or young faces breaking through, which which ones got breaking through, which which ones got you most excited, Duncan Alexander? you most excited, Duncan Alexander? &gt;&gt; I mean, there's so many. Um, I enjoyed &gt;&gt; I mean, there's so many. Um, I enjoyed seeing Florian Verts in the Community seeing Florian Verts in the Community Shielded darting around being bull like, Shielded darting around being bull like, "Oh, didn't know you could pass like "Oh, didn't know you could pass like that. That's good." Um I'm pretty that. That's good." Um I'm pretty excited about the prospect of Cesco excited about the prospect of Cesco versus Gawkarez on the opening weekend. versus Gawkarez on the opening weekend. Just a narrative classicalico to kick Just a narrative classicalico to kick the season off. Um obviously Cesco might the season off. Um obviously Cesco might start on the bench, but yeah, I mean start on the bench, but yeah, I mean that's going to be very much a here's that's going to be very much a here's what you could have bought scenario. Um what you could have bought scenario. Um but yeah, I mean I think it's been but yeah, I mean I think it's been notable, isn't it, that pretty much notable, isn't it, that pretty much every club bar maybe Fulham um and some every club bar maybe Fulham um and some Spurs fans would also raise their hands, Spurs fans would also raise their hands, but everyone's splashed out and uh yeah, but everyone's splashed out and uh yeah, it's um no matter how jaded you feel in it's um no matter how jaded you feel in May May May &gt;&gt; when August rolls around, the excitement &gt;&gt; when August rolls around, the excitement mount shuffle the deck, we're ready for mount shuffle the deck, we're ready for a fresh hand of action, Charlie. a fresh hand of action, Charlie. &gt;&gt; Yeah, those were some of the the ones I &gt;&gt; Yeah, those were some of the the ones I was going to say as I mean Akitik is it was going to say as I mean Akitik is it Liverpool but definitely having a guy Liverpool but definitely having a guy like Verts come in for that amount of like Verts come in for that amount of money just buying a seemingly ready-made money just buying a seemingly ready-made start and having I mean like I think the start and having I mean like I think the most exciting thing about transfers is most exciting thing about transfers is always a number nine the kind of will always a number nine the kind of will they score on their debut and you know they score on their debut and you know this feels like a big summer for number this feels like a big summer for number nines. I'm curious to see how Trent does nines. I'm curious to see how Trent does at Real Madrid. Um sort of an opposite at Real Madrid. Um sort of an opposite one of these and Zubame Mendy looks like one of these and Zubame Mendy looks like being quite a player being quite a player &gt;&gt; perhaps perhaps narrative changing at &gt;&gt; perhaps perhaps narrative changing at Arsa. I'm I'm pretty pumped to have a Arsa. I'm I'm pretty pumped to have a look at Greish Jack Gish at Everton as look at Greish Jack Gish at Everton as well as all the names you you mentioned well as all the names you you mentioned Esteo lining up for for Chelsea after Esteo lining up for for Chelsea after his banging goal for the against them his banging goal for the against them &gt;&gt; in the club world cup. Daniel, if you're &gt;&gt; in the club world cup. Daniel, if you're still talking to me, who who are you still talking to me, who who are you most looking forward to seeing? I'm most looking forward to seeing? I'm looking forward to seeing Morgan White. looking forward to seeing Morgan White. Morgan is white after signing in July. Morgan is white after signing in July. That was good. Uh, and the shamelessly That was good. Uh, and the shamelessly hipster answer is Maxim Diper, new hipster answer is Maxim Diper, new Brighton left back looks really really Brighton left back looks really really kind of what exactly what you'd imagine kind of what exactly what you'd imagine a Brighton left back look like, like a Brighton left back look like, like flying up the pitch and flying back. flying up the pitch and flying back. They've obviously loaned out or got rid They've obviously loaned out or got rid of Pervvis Stupinan to Milan, I think. of Pervvis Stupinan to Milan, I think. Um, so yeah, he's going to start and he Um, so yeah, he's going to start and he looks Yeah, he looks like one of those looks Yeah, he looks like one of those players that in 3 months time Chelsea players that in 3 months time Chelsea will try and work out why they haven't will try and work out why they haven't already paid 60 million. already paid 60 million. &gt;&gt; I was going to say how long till he's &gt;&gt; I was going to say how long till he's downing tools to get that Chelsea move. downing tools to get that Chelsea move. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, &gt;&gt; good luck to him. &gt;&gt; good luck to him. &gt;&gt; Speaking of downing tools, of course, &gt;&gt; Speaking of downing tools, of course, the buildup to the new season very much the buildup to the new season very much dominated by the tale of one man and his dominated by the tale of one man and his desire to break free of that gilded desire to break free of that gilded prison up on time side. We'll come to prison up on time side. We'll come to that very, very shortly. Uh the bulk of that very, very shortly. Uh the bulk of today's show, uh the plan is that we're today's show, uh the plan is that we're going to be looking at you as we start going to be looking at you as we start our Premier League preview. We're our Premier League preview. We're looking at the contenders for the number looking at the contenders for the number one slot, the big four, if you will, one slot, the big four, if you will, which I've kind of got down as Liverpool which I've kind of got down as Liverpool cuz they're the champions, Chelsea cuz cuz they're the champions, Chelsea cuz they're the world champions, Man City they're the world champions, Man City cuz Man City, and Arsenal because I will cuz Man City, and Arsenal because I will not learn. No Man United in there, which not learn. No Man United in there, which I know based on last season's result is I know based on last season's result is not a surprise, but because it's Man not a surprise, but because it's Man United is there's still a bit of a United is there's still a bit of a twitch thinking, "Oo, twitch thinking, "Oo, &gt;&gt; and no Europe and &gt;&gt; and no Europe and &gt;&gt; no Europe signed a load of players." &gt;&gt; no Europe signed a load of players." &gt;&gt; The no Europe thing is just &gt;&gt; The no Europe thing is just &gt;&gt; ever since Leicester. Well, I was &gt;&gt; ever since Leicester. Well, I was concentr now though that does make a massive now though that does make a massive difference. Like when you're talking difference. Like when you're talking about Yeah. Oh, when you're talking about Yeah. Oh, when you're talking about eight group eight games in about eight group eight games in football as in the country. football as in the country. &gt;&gt; Get the players on the grass and they &gt;&gt; Get the players on the grass and they learn so much. They learn more on learn so much. They learn more on midweek days than weekends. midweek days than weekends. Scientifically proven. Scientifically proven. Scientifically proven. &gt;&gt; Daniel, should we have included United &gt;&gt; Daniel, should we have included United as opposed to holding them back to our as opposed to holding them back to our second preview show actually to draw in second preview show actually to draw in the listeners for that cuz they're the listeners for that cuz they're always a bit of a always a bit of a &gt;&gt; I don't want to be all Harry hot take, &gt;&gt; I don't want to be all Harry hot take, but I I don't think Manchester United but I I don't think Manchester United will win the Premier League. They seem will win the Premier League. They seem to me to have bought sort of luxury to me to have bought sort of luxury items when they still have a need for I items when they still have a need for I mean it's still the same defense mean it's still the same defense goalkeeper in central midfield is my goalkeeper in central midfield is my point point point &gt;&gt; and we should probably point out that um &gt;&gt; and we should probably point out that um Kuna and Bremo were the two big Kuna and Bremo were the two big overperformers on XG last year and Cesco overperformers on XG last year and Cesco did not exactly rip up the goalc scoring did not exactly rip up the goalc scoring charts in Germany. Now, that doesn't charts in Germany. Now, that doesn't really mean that much cuz, you know, really mean that much cuz, you know, they might all click and it might be they might all click and it might be lovely. But yeah, it's I think they're lovely. But yeah, it's I think they're very much a wait and see how they they very much a wait and see how they they start. Wait and see until Thursday. I start. Wait and see until Thursday. I got them down as when in our second got them down as when in our second preview show. preview show. preview show. &gt;&gt; We'll go deep on Man United. We're also &gt;&gt; We'll go deep on Man United. We're also today going to be looking at the other today going to be looking at the other two teams who did make the Champions two teams who did make the Champions League, one of whom is Spurs, courtesy League, one of whom is Spurs, courtesy of that Europa League victory. Another of that Europa League victory. Another one is Newcastle, who I read in the one is Newcastle, who I read in the athletic, their fans have won this athletic, their fans have won this season's prize as the most pessimistic season's prize as the most pessimistic ahead of the new campaign. This ties in ahead of the new campaign. This ties in largely with the story we were just largely with the story we were just referencing Alexander Each's desire to referencing Alexander Each's desire to do one. There's been fresh talk of that do one. There's been fresh talk of that this morning, Tuesday, as we record. So, this morning, Tuesday, as we record. So, let's begin today by quickly wrapping up let's begin today by quickly wrapping up with George Corkin live from Tyside. with George Corkin live from Tyside. what exactly the situation is with what exactly the situation is with Alexander Isac and whether he will end Alexander Isac and whether he will end up giving the magpies the bird. George up giving the magpies the bird. George Corkin joins us now. Corkin joins us now. &gt;&gt; Let me tell you, I'm loving life. &gt;&gt; Let me tell you, I'm loving life. &gt;&gt; Excellent. Newcastle top of the table, I &gt;&gt; Excellent. Newcastle top of the table, I read. Top of the pessimism table. Top of read. Top of the pessimism table. But yeah, that's a the pessimism table. But yeah, that's a very optimistic way of looking at very optimistic way of looking at pessimism. Yeah. pessimism. Yeah. pessimism. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Are fans right? Newcastle fans is are &gt;&gt; Are fans right? Newcastle fans is are they right to be so concerned about the they right to be so concerned about the season ahead? season ahead? season ahead? &gt;&gt; I mean, it's a very interesting one, &gt;&gt; I mean, it's a very interesting one, isn't it? I mean, as a Newcastle, as isn't it? I mean, as a Newcastle, as someone who's watched Newcastle all my someone who's watched Newcastle all my life and as you know, someone of a life and as you know, someone of a certain age, I'd always thought about certain age, I'd always thought about winning something, that being the sort winning something, that being the sort of the final goal. They did it a few of the final goal. They did it a few months ago. And so, bigger picture, I months ago. And so, bigger picture, I don't really care anymore. But I don't don't really care anymore. But I don't suppose that's like the answer you want suppose that's like the answer you want to I mean, it it has been, you know, to I mean, it it has been, you know, it's been a very weird summer. you know, it's been a very weird summer. you know, for the first time after three transfer for the first time after three transfer windows without uh bringing in a first windows without uh bringing in a first team ready player. They had money to team ready player. They had money to spend. They're trophy winners. They're spend. They're trophy winners. They're in the Champions League uh for the in the Champions League uh for the second time in three seasons. They've second time in three seasons. They've got a fantastic coach. They've got a got a fantastic coach. They've got a fantastic team in the oldfashioned sense fantastic team in the oldfashioned sense of the world word. They've got some of the world word. They've got some great players. There was a lot to look great players. There was a lot to look forward to, but it's been it's been a forward to, but it's been it's been a real mess. There've been a host of real mess. There've been a host of rejections rejections rejections um from from their sort of top targets. um from from their sort of top targets. They haven't got a sporting director. They haven't got a sporting director. they haven't got a CEO in place and you they haven't got a CEO in place and you know hanging over all of it has been know hanging over all of it has been Alexander Isach. So I mean the big Alexander Isach. So I mean the big picture stuff that I said at the top in picture stuff that I said at the top in terms of you know having having a good terms of you know having having a good platform to attack their season does platform to attack their season does remain the case and if they bring in remain the case and if they bring in another couple of players before the end another couple of players before the end of the window which I'm sure they will of the window which I'm sure they will do they could still go on and have a do they could still go on and have a good season but it it does feel like a good season but it it does feel like a sort of crossroads moments for the club sort of crossroads moments for the club I would say I would say &gt;&gt; and a crossroads moment for Isak as you &gt;&gt; and a crossroads moment for Isak as you referenced where do you think we're referenced where do you think we're going to be in two weeks time on him? I going to be in two weeks time on him? I wish I could say um it's one of those wish I could say um it's one of those sagas that has a multiple of truths and sagas that has a multiple of truths and very few facts. So if you you know if very few facts. So if you you know if you speak to the club it's he's not for you speak to the club it's he's not for sale or to put that a different way a sale or to put that a different way a valuation of £150 million. Uh and they valuation of £150 million. Uh and they would need you know they would need big would need you know they would need big replacements to come in as the as the replacements to come in as the as the days move on that gets less and less days move on that gets less and less likely. As our colleague David Ornstein likely. As our colleague David Ornstein has has reported this morning, Isach is has has reported this morning, Isach is saying he won't play for the club again. saying he won't play for the club again. The big sort of strategy this summer was The big sort of strategy this summer was to keep Isach um and hopefully to to to keep Isach um and hopefully to to give him a uh you know a better give him a uh you know a better contract, an enhanced contract possibly contract, an enhanced contract possibly with a release clause. As the summer has with a release clause. As the summer has gone on, that strategy has changed gone on, that strategy has changed slightly and it's been to try and tough slightly and it's been to try and tough it out. I mean, I think there's been it out. I mean, I think there's been that thought that if they can get to the that thought that if they can get to the end of the window, um, Eddie How can use end of the window, um, Eddie How can use his powers of motivation to sort of his powers of motivation to sort of reintegrate him and get him and get him reintegrate him and get him back playing for the team. But at this back playing for the team. But at this point, I just honestly I I can't I can't point, I just honestly I I can't I can't call it and it's, you know, it's really call it and it's, you know, it's really sad because he has been an astonishing sad because he has been an astonishing player for Newcastle. He's the their player for Newcastle. He's the their most complete center forward since Alan most complete center forward since Alan Sheira. I would say he was part of that Sheira. I would say he was part of that incredible moment at at Wembley and um incredible moment at at Wembley and um for him to behave the way he has albeit for him to behave the way he has albeit there's a context you know to it has there's a context you know to it has just been really just been has just been really disappointing. disappointing. disappointing. &gt;&gt; The thing I don't really understand with &gt;&gt; The thing I don't really understand with this is that what leverage does EAC have this is that what leverage does EAC have you know this reminds me a lot of Harry you know this reminds me a lot of Harry Kane in 2021 when I was covering Spurs Kane in 2021 when I was covering Spurs he had three years left on his deal. He he had three years left on his deal. He said I'm not coming back to training. said I'm not coming back to training. You missed the first day. That's it. I'm You missed the first day. That's it. I'm done with this club. And Spurs's like, done with this club. And Spurs's like, "Okay, well, City need to come in with a "Okay, well, City need to come in with a huge offer. If they do, maybe we'll huge offer. If they do, maybe we'll think about it, but you're our player. think about it, but you're our player. You're under contract for three more You're under contract for three more years. You're not going." And as much as years. You're not going." And as much as he can say, "I'm never playing for you he can say, "I'm never playing for you again." Ultimately, I kind of feel like again." Ultimately, I kind of feel like if Newcastle can sit out the window, if Newcastle can sit out the window, he'll miss three league games max if he he'll miss three league games max if he does stick to this, so I'm going to does stick to this, so I'm going to sulk. And then what does he do? He'll sulk. And then what does he do? He'll get bored and he'll play again and get bored and he'll play again and everyone will kind of forget about it. I everyone will kind of forget about it. I know this feels huge and epo and like, know this feels huge and epo and like, "Oh, this is the biggest thing ever." "Oh, this is the biggest thing ever." But Suarez was the same with Liverpool. But Suarez was the same with Liverpool. He was like, "I'm never playing for you He was like, "I'm never playing for you again." Well, guess what? He did and he again." Well, guess what? He did and he had his best season ever with them. Kane had his best season ever with them. Kane stayed for two more years. Was stayed for two more years. Was brilliant. I know it's like awful when brilliant. I know it's like awful when your best player is doing this, but I your best player is doing this, but I just don't really see what he can do. just don't really see what he can do. Newcastle hold all the power here. He's Newcastle hold all the power here. He's got three more years on his deal. If he got three more years on his deal. If he stays one more year, gives them a great stays one more year, gives them a great year, they can then sell him next year year, they can then sell him next year and they'll still get huge money. Like, and they'll still get huge money. Like, I don't know. It feels very I don't know. It feels very &gt;&gt; It's another tough summer for &gt;&gt; It's another tough summer for Gentleman's agreement. Gentleman's agreement. Gentleman's agreement. &gt;&gt; Yeah. but he doesn't really he's got no &gt;&gt; Yeah. but he doesn't really he's got no leverage. leverage. leverage. &gt;&gt; I I totally agree. Yeah, I to I totally &gt;&gt; I I totally agree. Yeah, I to I totally agree with you, Charlie. And I think agree with you, Charlie. And I think that's what Newcastle would would hope. that's what Newcastle would would hope. And obviously, you know, you can say you And obviously, you know, you can say you don't you're not going to play again, don't you're not going to play again, but then oh, look, here come the but then oh, look, here come the Champions League. You know, this is the Champions League. You know, this is the this is absolutely the platform that ESO this is absolutely the platform that ESO would want. There's a World Cup at the would want. There's a World Cup at the end of it. There's that to play for. So, end of it. There's that to play for. So, you know, sort of logically absolutely you know, sort of logically absolutely what you say what you say there is what you say there is correct. And I'm sure that's what kind correct. And I'm sure that's what kind of Newcastle are hoping for. In the of Newcastle are hoping for. In the present though, it's very very toxic. present though, it's very very toxic. And you know to to have somebody And you know to to have somebody training apart from the first team as he training apart from the first team as he has been um you know that sort of thing has been um you know that sort of thing can be a dressing room killer and you can be a dressing room killer and you know you're talking so you're talking know you're talking so you're talking about uh something bigger than you know about uh something bigger than you know something bigger than one player. And I something bigger than one player. And I think again to look at it from a from think again to look at it from a from from a you know purely Newcastle from a you know purely Newcastle perspective, this is the second summer perspective, this is the second summer in the row in a row where there has been in the row in a row where there has been huge flux a at the top of the club but huge flux a at the top of the club but then also around the dressing room. So then also around the dressing room. So you go back 12 months and it was Anthony you go back 12 months and it was Anthony Gordon who'd had his head turned um by Gordon who'd had his head turned um by by Liverpool. by Liverpool. by Liverpool. Ultimately that didn't lead to anything Ultimately that didn't lead to anything and ultimately how brought the dressing and ultimately how brought the dressing room back round but the first half of room back round but the first half of last season I mean it gets forgotten now last season I mean it gets forgotten now because of of how it ended up but the because of of how it ended up but the first half of last season was a real first half of last season was a real struggle and he had he had a he struggle and he had he had a dressing room I don't want to say had a dressing room I don't want to say was disunited but were rumblings through was disunited but were rumblings through in the dressing room there were some in the dressing room there were some players who were disaffected and it took players who were disaffected and it took a massive effort to turn it around and a massive effort to turn it around and you can you can never say with any cert you can you can never say with any cert certainty how a season with any cert certainty how a season will go. So yes, Isak, will go. So yes, Isak, you know, can and could be reintegrated, you know, can and could be reintegrated, but there's no guarantee that it leaves but there's no guarantee that it leaves Newcastle facing a good season. Newcastle facing a good season. &gt;&gt; And the options to bring in should he &gt;&gt; And the options to bring in should he leave are getting fewer and fewer of the leave are getting fewer and fewer of the ones that were on Newcastle's list, I ones that were on Newcastle's list, I imagine. Is George, by the way, is there imagine. Is George, by the way, is there a good Newcastle podcast that people can a good Newcastle podcast that people can keep a breast of ESAC and Newcastle keep a breast of ESAC and Newcastle related developments on? related developments on? &gt;&gt; That's a very good question. Uh, sadly &gt;&gt; That's a very good question. Uh, sadly no. Um, no. There are there um yeah well no. Um, no. There are there um yeah well there are there are there are many good there are there are there are many good Newcastle uh podcasts. Uh Pon um Newcastle uh podcasts. Uh Pon um formerly brought to you by The Athletic formerly brought to you by The Athletic is um has has gone independent this is um has has gone independent this summer. We're uh really proud of our summer. We're uh really proud of our association with The Athletic. They've association with The Athletic. They've been brilliant in terms of helping us uh been brilliant in terms of helping us uh go independent. But yeah, we're go independent. But yeah, we're relaunching this week and uh with the relaunching this week and uh with the same team, with the same usual mix of um same team, with the same usual mix of um nonsense and uh more nonsense and uh nonsense and uh more nonsense and uh yeah, really really excited about that. yeah, really really excited about that. &gt;&gt; Okay. You were under contract for &gt;&gt; Okay. You were under contract for another 3 years, but you said there's no another 3 years, but you said there's no way we're integrating with these people way we're integrating with these people again and looking forward to hearing again and looking forward to hearing your new direction. Uh the good news, your new direction. Uh the good news, let's talk about the good news for let's talk about the good news for Newcastle. The trophy drought is over. Newcastle. The trophy drought is over. The time where derby is back as well. The time where derby is back as well. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I'm not sure if if &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I'm not sure if if how many Newcastle fans would say that's how many Newcastle fans would say that's um that's that's good news. Um I mean, I um that's that's good news. Um I mean, I love it. I love I love that day. Um you love it. I love I love that day. Um you know, it's just it's it's unique. It's know, it's just it's it's unique. It's different to anything else. It's different to anything else. It's different to any other, you know, I'm different to any other, you know, I'm not saying it's unique in the world of not saying it's unique in the world of football. Certainly unique to the to our football. Certainly unique to the to our part of the world, though. There is just part of the world, though. There is just that feeling of heaviness around the that feeling of heaviness around the day, of meaning. In the past, it's been day, of meaning. In the past, it's been horrible in the sense that it's been one horrible in the sense that it's been one club dragging the other one down. club dragging the other one down. Usually, um my my dream has always been Usually, um my my dream has always been that it could be two clubs lifting each that it could be two clubs lifting each other up and competing for things at the other up and competing for things at the top of the table. Um obviously it's top of the table. Um obviously it's going to be very tough for Sunderland, going to be very tough for Sunderland, although they've done a they've done a although they've done a lot of business in the window, so see lot of business in the window, so see how that pans out. But yeah, I can't how that pans out. But yeah, I can't wait. Those um those fixtures are what wait. Those um those fixtures are what it's all about. it's all about. &gt;&gt; Newcastle supporters topping the &gt;&gt; Newcastle supporters topping the athletics pessimism league. Where do you athletics pessimism league. Where do you stand? And are you cautiously stand? And are you cautiously optimistic? What what would where would optimistic? What what would where would you forecast Newcastle you where would you forecast Newcastle season going? season going? season going? &gt;&gt; Don't want to make it all about me. I &gt;&gt; Don't want to make it all about me. I mean, I do obviously, but um when I was mean, I do obviously, but um when I was at the times, I used to um when I was at the times, I used to call myself um a chronicler of misery call myself um a chronicler of misery because Northeast football was was so because Northeast football was was so sort of bad at the time. What I didn't sort of bad at the time. What I didn't know was that my bosses, my my know was that my bosses, my my colleagues at the time times actually colleagues at the time times actually called me the pope of mope, called me the pope of mope, which I I found out about after I left which I I found out about after I left to join the athletic. And I I kind of to join the athletic. And I I kind of love that. So this is my natural love that. So this is my natural habitat. This is me at my very best. I habitat. This is me at my very best. I mean I don't want joy, you know. Don't I mean I don't want joy, you know. Don't I mean being good as this summer has shown mean being good as this summer has shown being good is vastly overrated. It's being good is vastly overrated. It's really quite difficult. So you know just really quite difficult. So you know just give me give me misery. I think you know give me give me misery. I think you know to be serious they they they do have a to be serious they they they do have a great team and they have a great coach. great team and they have a great coach. I think if they can get to I think if they can get to sixth or above then I think in these sixth or above then I think in these circumstances that would be a terrific circumstances that would be a terrific season. George, that would be a terrific season. George, look forward to hearing you on Pod on look forward to hearing you on Pod on the Giant and hopefully from time to the Giant and hopefully from time to time with us here on Totally Football time with us here on Totally Football Show and enjoy what's set to be a busy Show and enjoy what's set to be a busy week or two in the meanwhile. week or two in the meanwhile. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Well, from the Pope and Mope &gt;&gt; Well, from the Pope and Mope to the guys with size. to the guys with size. Daniel, what's your take on uh Isak and Daniel, what's your take on uh Isak and his hatred for everything Newcastle his hatred for everything Newcastle related? I do think I you I know those related? I do think I you I know those examples of Kane and Suarez uh and you examples of Kane and Suarez uh and you can go back to kind of the '9s and Van can go back to kind of the '9s and Van Hoyon and you know Autumn Wingy driving Hoyon and you know Autumn Wingy driving to a different literally driving to a to a different literally driving to a different club and all that stuff. This different club and all that stuff. This one feels slightly different to me just one feels slightly different to me just because I think since then we now because I think since then we now increasingly live in the age of kind of increasingly live in the age of kind of transfer rumor micro update. So that transfer rumor micro update. So that everything that happens get is is is the everything that happens get is is is the big is a big story of that day. big is a big story of that day. I think just the amount of briefings and I think just the amount of briefings and the severity of the briefings and how the severity of the briefings and how quickly this is and how badly this has quickly this is and how badly this has escalated does feel different. I also escalated does feel different. I also think the two fan bases concerned make think the two fan bases concerned make it different. Newcastle invest a heck of it different. Newcastle invest a heck of a lot emotionally into players. Uh and a lot emotionally into players. Uh and they definitely have done with Isach and they definitely have done with Isach and rightly so because he they created an rightly so because he they created an environment in which he has developed environment in which he has developed and flourished and taken them on. And and flourished and taken them on. And let's face it, they've taken him on as let's face it, they've taken him on as well. they paid a lot of money for well. they paid a lot of money for someone who was not a guaranteed product someone who was not a guaranteed product um when they signed him and the demand um when they signed him and the demand of Liverpool fans initially for the g of Liverpool fans initially for the g for this deal to be done probably more for this deal to be done probably more online I think than in person but it online I think than in person but it just feels like a kind of this sort of just feels like a kind of this sort of really nasty title wave sort of washed really nasty title wave sort of washed over everything and I do think that over everything and I do think that makes it different. I also think you makes it different. I also think you know George touched on it but um the know George touched on it but um the lack of structure at Newcastle really lack of structure at Newcastle really hasn't helped this situation. And I hasn't helped this situation. And I think we're led to believe that he's think we're led to believe that he's believes he was due a contract when Paul believes he was due a contract when Paul Mitchell came in as as director of Mitchell came in as as director of football and then that was sort of put football and then that was sort of put to one side and then there was a messy to one side and then there was a messy exit for Mitchell and then that's he exit for Mitchell and then that's he still hasn't been formally replaced and still hasn't been formally replaced and I think that absence of structure that I think that absence of structure that kind of leadership vacuum has really kind of leadership vacuum has really that's the thing that should be of some that's the thing that should be of some regret here. You can't really change. regret here. You can't really change. Newcastle couldn't have done any more Newcastle couldn't have done any more for Isak in terms of creating an for Isak in terms of creating an environment for him and in making him environment for him and in making him feel loved and in, you know, turning him feel loved and in, you know, turning him into an elite footballer and but they into an elite footballer and but they could have done something else there and could have done something else there and that will probably be the lasting regret that will probably be the lasting regret &gt;&gt; if the deal goes ahead. &gt;&gt; if the deal goes ahead. &gt;&gt; I think that's true, Daniel, but I just &gt;&gt; I think that's true, Daniel, but I just think by September were they to stick it think by September were they to stick it out, we'll have moved on to something out, we'll have moved on to something else and else and else and &gt;&gt; well then we won't have all the transfer &gt;&gt; well then we won't have all the transfer obsession in quite the same micro update obsession in quite the same micro update kind of way. kind of way. &gt;&gt; That is true. But the only thing in &gt;&gt; That is true. But the only thing in between now and that glorious between now and that glorious era of freedom is uh Newcastle v era of freedom is uh Newcastle v Liverpool on Monday the 25th of August Liverpool on Monday the 25th of August which a you imagine be quite a good which a you imagine be quite a good atmosphere. Um and b you do wonder atmosphere. Um and b you do wonder whether you know something might happen whether you know something might happen after that like you know if you were in after that like you know if you were in Newcastle and you were resigned to Newcastle and you were resigned to selling these you'd probably hold out selling these you'd probably hold out till after then for viz if nothing else. till after then for viz if nothing else. There was a good one a few couple of There was a good one a few couple of years ago as well I really like when years ago as well I really like when Kaisedo in the January 23 window was Kaisedo in the January 23 window was basically like I'm not coming to basically like I'm not coming to training I'm done with this club and training I'm done with this club and they were like okay yeah take a couple they were like okay yeah take a couple of weeks off and we'll see you in of weeks off and we'll see you in February and sure enough that's what February and sure enough that's what happened kind of got bored came back and happened kind of got bored came back and was really good and then left for loads was really good and then left for loads of money that summer of money that summer &gt;&gt; at work everyone should try that &gt;&gt; at work everyone should try that &gt;&gt; it's like as a kid you sulk you go into &gt;&gt; it's like as a kid you sulk you go into your room and you're like I'm the door your room and you're like I'm the door and then you're just like I'm quite and then you're just like I'm quite bored of being in my room on my own I bored of being in my room on my own I think I'm going to go go back downstairs think I'm going to go go back downstairs &gt;&gt; yeah I do I You mentioned there Danny &gt;&gt; yeah I do I You mentioned there Danny about kind of micro updates and I do about kind of micro updates and I do think it is interesting with a club like think it is interesting with a club like Newcastle that you know they have the Newcastle that you know they have the most pessimistic fans off the back of most pessimistic fans off the back of this summer and I get it but it does this summer and I get it but it does also speak to the fact that summers now also speak to the fact that summers now are so dominated by transfer talk and are so dominated by transfer talk and the fact that day by day you've got the fact that day by day you've got these dopamine rushes of oh my gosh these dopamine rushes of oh my gosh we're linked with this player oh he's we're linked with this player oh he's gone for someone else and it's this kind gone for someone else and it's this kind of like these whirlwind romances that of like these whirlwind romances that develop in fans mind. If you actually develop in fans mind. If you actually take a step back, if you actually kind take a step back, if you actually kind of take a step back, you say they've of take a step back, you say they've just they're in the Champions League. just they're in the Champions League. They've just won a trophy. They have They've just won a trophy. They have made a you know they've they're about to made a you know they've they're about to sign Mior for what 35 million. They sign Mior for what 35 million. They signed a Langanger 55 minutes. You know, signed a Langanger 55 minutes. You know, those are two signings. The window's those are two signings. The window's still few weeks left. They might make still few weeks left. They might make some more signings. And if he's a Zach some more signings. And if he's a Zach were to stay that they might end up and were to stay that they might end up and it's not been like this horrendous it's not been like this horrendous period that in the round it's just that period that in the round it's just that day by day now that we're these updates day by day now that we're these updates are so transparent and we have all these are so transparent and we have all these ups and downs it kind of feels that way. ups and downs it kind of feels that way. Liverpool Premier League champions are Liverpool Premier League champions are they the team to beat question mark. they the team to beat question mark. Well Crystal Palace did on Sunday. Well Crystal Palace did on Sunday. Palace has spent I think about two Did Palace has spent I think about two Did they thunken they thunken they thunken h did though took a they took that h did though took a they took that trophy trophy trophy &gt;&gt; not trophy it's a shield so &gt;&gt; not trophy it's a shield so &gt;&gt; took the shield &gt;&gt; took the shield after a draw not the &gt;&gt; took the shield after a draw not the trophy after a win I think is the trophy after a win I think is the official stunt official stunt official stunt &gt;&gt; well one or two takeaways from Wembley &gt;&gt; well one or two takeaways from Wembley which are always a slightly dodgy which are always a slightly dodgy proposition but uh what's going on at proposition but uh what's going on at the back for Liverpool how's Mo Salah the back for Liverpool how's Mo Salah going to fit in but then also on the going to fit in but then also on the other side how brilliant does Does it other side how brilliant does Does it look like the season's going to be for look like the season's going to be for Liverpool fans watching Ekit and Verts? Liverpool fans watching Ekit and Verts? What do you think? Liverpool, are they What do you think? Liverpool, are they the team to beat? Daniel, I the team to beat? Daniel, I &gt;&gt; I really can't work them out. It's It's &gt;&gt; I really can't work them out. It's It's really unusual for a title winner to really unusual for a title winner to basically try and rebuild half a squad basically try and rebuild half a squad in the same transfer window, which is in the same transfer window, which is pretty much what Liverpool have done. pretty much what Liverpool have done. Um, some of that was enforced by the Um, some of that was enforced by the sale of Trent Alexander Arnold and the sale of Trent Alexander Arnold and the want the need to upgrade the forward want the need to upgrade the forward line and and obviously part of that is line and and obviously part of that is the horrific circumstances surrounding the horrific circumstances surrounding the the passing of Diego Jotta. But what the the passing of Diego Jotta. But what Liverpool now have is a is a to my mind Liverpool now have is a is a to my mind is a team that dominated last season is a team that dominated last season because they were brilliant at because they were brilliant at controlling games particularly with controlling games particularly with midfield. And I don't really know how midfield. And I don't really know how that works now. I'm not saying it that works now. I'm not saying it doesn't work. I'm just saying I don't doesn't work. I'm just saying I don't know how it works because Jeremy Fing know how it works because Jeremy Fing Pong is is one of if not the most Pong is is one of if not the most attacking fullback in Europe if that's attacking fullback in Europe if that's where Liverpool are going to play him where Liverpool are going to play him every week. Uh Milos Kirk is not that every week. Uh Milos Kirk is not that far behind on the left. Uh and I think far behind on the left. Uh and I think it's fair to say that whether they sign it's fair to say that whether they sign Alexander Isak or not now they will have Alexander Isak or not now they will have more of a front three front three. So if more of a front three front three. So if it's Ekkit, Salah and Isak, they are all it's Ekkit, Salah and Isak, they are all players who want to stay really high and players who want to stay really high and they are now trying to integrate Florian they are now trying to integrate Florian Vvers into a three-man midfield. I guess Vvers into a three-man midfield. I guess that and he is a really attacking player that and he is a really attacking player as well and that's what he wants to do. as well and that's what he wants to do. He is also really hardworking but it He is also really hardworking but it it's hard to see how that balance it's hard to see how that balance remains and how they can control games remains and how they can control games if the players are playing to their if the players are playing to their strengths because I think you basically strengths because I think you basically have seven outfield players who want to have seven outfield players who want to play high up the pitch and that's really play high up the pitch and that's really hard to manage. They are still the team hard to manage. They are still the team to beat, but this is not a case of kind to beat, but this is not a case of kind of to use a Liverpool phrase, we go of to use a Liverpool phrase, we go again. It's not like a business as usual again. It's not like a business as usual situation. It's almost a it almost feels situation. It's almost a it almost feels like more of a first season for Anna like more of a first season for Anna slot than last season did, which is is a slot than last season did, which is is a bizarre thing to say. bizarre thing to say. &gt;&gt; Could be a slightly overbalance. Good &gt;&gt; Could be a slightly overbalance. Good thing Virgan Dyke shows no sign of thing Virgan Dyke shows no sign of suddenly falling out of form. suddenly falling out of form. &gt;&gt; He always is rusty in preseason and then &gt;&gt; He always is rusty in preseason and then it's fine when it starts. I mean we saw it's fine when it starts. I mean we saw in the community shield that yeah I in the community shield that yeah I don't think a midfield of um shoppers don't think a midfield of um shoppers lion Jones is going to stop many teams. lion Jones is going to stop many teams. So I mean Grain Burch obviously was one So I mean Grain Burch obviously was one of their key players last year. He of their key players last year. He suspended for the first game so you'd suspended for the first game so you'd imagine Mallister will be back in pro imagine Mallister will be back in pro you know has been managed carefully you know has been managed carefully during preseason. He's had a minor during preseason. He's had a minor injury. So, um, yeah, I share Daniel's, injury. So, um, yeah, I share Daniel's, well, fears, concerns, interest, uh, well, fears, concerns, interest, uh, delete is applicable, but I do think delete is applicable, but I do think just as this time last year, no one just as this time last year, no one really had Liverpool as title winners. I really had Liverpool as title winners. I do think everyone has just gone, "Oh, do think everyone has just gone, "Oh, yeah, they're going to win the league." yeah, they're going to win the league." I I I don't really I can't really make a I I I don't really I can't really make a case for anyone to win the league. case for anyone to win the league. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I've had this exact same thought, &gt;&gt; Yeah, I've had this exact same thought, Daniel, that it is uh it is really Daniel, that it is uh it is really unusual. And I think and I looked at Ole unusual. And I think and I looked at Ole Kay's written in his piece that the last Kay's written in his piece that the last time the champions were the biggest time the champions were the biggest spenders was 2019 and before that it was spenders was 2019 and before that it was was Man City. Before that was 2007 which was Man City. Before that was 2007 which was United. So it is quite rare for the was United. So it is quite rare for the team to to I mean team to to I mean &gt;&gt; although they're not the biggest &gt;&gt; although they're not the biggest spenders and I hesitate to use this spenders and I hesitate to use this phrase in net spend. phrase in net spend. &gt;&gt; This is true. &gt;&gt; This is true. &gt;&gt; I think only fifth. &gt;&gt; I think only fifth. &gt;&gt; True. But even so, &gt;&gt; True. But even so, &gt;&gt; unless they bring in Isak, in which case &gt;&gt; unless they bring in Isak, in which case &gt;&gt; the next net next clon. &gt;&gt; the next net next clon. &gt;&gt; Sure. But even that speaks to the churn &gt;&gt; Sure. But even that speaks to the churn like you know it's kind of amazing and like you know it's kind of amazing and and you think as well I think maybe we and you think as well I think maybe we are slightly underestimating the the are slightly underestimating the the importance of you know Trent importance of you know Trent &gt;&gt; and and Robertson like &gt;&gt; and and Robertson like &gt;&gt; that that has been such a key part of &gt;&gt; that that has been such a key part of their success for the best part of a their success for the best part of a decade and because Trent happened so decade and because Trent happened so long ago and we and it was heavily long ago and we and it was heavily trailed it feels like that's old news trailed it feels like that's old news but that's a that's a big thing but that but that's a that's a big thing but that was also part of the good news I guess was also part of the good news I guess of of Sunday was watching Friong and of of Sunday was watching Friong and Kirk cuz if you have to replace two full Kirk cuz if you have to replace two full bites like that. You couldn't. You'd be bites like that. You couldn't. You'd be hardressed to come up with better hardressed to come up with better alternatives than Kirk and Fringon. alternatives than Kirk and Fringon. Fring pong obviously looked electric Fring pong obviously looked electric &gt;&gt; for sure. But I mean, how many times &gt;&gt; for sure. But I mean, how many times have we seen great debuts and then have we seen great debuts and then actually is that sustainable over one actually is that sustainable over one year? year? year? &gt;&gt; Let alone two, five, 10 like these guys. &gt;&gt; Let alone two, five, 10 like these guys. &gt;&gt; Remember the community shield three &gt;&gt; Remember the community shield three years ago where Nunez looked amazing. years ago where Nunez looked amazing. Harland missed a complete sitter and Harland missed a complete sitter and &gt;&gt; and that yeah, that's not to say those &gt;&gt; and that yeah, that's not to say those two aren't great replacements. They they two aren't great replacements. They they do look ideal, but we're talking about do look ideal, but we're talking about two really critical players for two really critical players for Liverpool on top of then all the the Liverpool on top of then all the the change that's happened at the top end of change that's happened at the top end of the pitch. the pitch. the pitch. &gt;&gt; I mean, the counter is that Liverpool do &gt;&gt; I mean, the counter is that Liverpool do still have Andy Robertson and they do still have Andy Robertson and they do have Connor Bradley who would kind of have Connor Bradley who would kind of almost solve those issues if they wanted almost solve those issues if they wanted to become less attacking. I did think to become less attacking. I did think Kirk was was caught out position quite a Kirk was was caught out position quite a lot on Sunday. lot on Sunday. &gt;&gt; But Roberts isn't Robinson isn't what he &gt;&gt; But Roberts isn't Robinson isn't what he was. I mean, he's he's clearly not they was. I mean, he's he's clearly not they don't deem him now to be at the level to don't deem him now to be at the level to be the regular star. be the regular star. &gt;&gt; True. as a but that's when he's been &gt;&gt; True. as a but that's when he's been playing every week I think as a sort of playing every week I think as a sort of occasional occasional occasional &gt;&gt; true &gt;&gt; true &gt;&gt; true &gt;&gt; left back in big games where Liverpool &gt;&gt; left back in big games where Liverpool need to defend more I think he's still a need to defend more I think he's still a pretty reliable option pretty reliable option &gt;&gt; Duncan you don't see Liverpool as being &gt;&gt; Duncan you don't see Liverpool as being a step above the other contenders a step above the other contenders &gt;&gt; not really I think that you can you can &gt;&gt; not really I think that you can you can make it just as good if flawed case for make it just as good if flawed case for City or Chelsea or Arsenal that's not to City or Chelsea or Arsenal that's not to say Liverpool won't do it but I do think say Liverpool won't do it but I do think none of the contenders is like um you none of the contenders is like um you know Manchester City were a couple of know Manchester City were a couple of seasons ago or Manchester United were at seasons ago or Manchester United were at various points in Premier League various points in Premier League history. They've all they're all in a history. They've all they're all in a state of flux. They're all trying state of flux. They're all trying something new this season. something new this season. &gt;&gt; I think as well there's the Salah AFCON &gt;&gt; I think as well there's the Salah AFCON factor as well and we and also just factor as well and we and also just &gt;&gt; he's going to be away from mid December &gt;&gt; he's going to be away from mid December to mid well depending on how long Egypt to mid well depending on how long Egypt in the competition till potentially mid in the competition till potentially mid January. January. January. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I think he'll miss some quite &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I think he'll miss some quite big games then. And and also you know big games then. And and also you know someone like him who was at such a crazy someone like him who was at such a crazy level last season that's always a level last season that's always a curiosity can he sustain that especially curiosity can he sustain that especially the age that he's at. I also think, and the age that he's at. I also think, and this is boring to say in some ways, but this is boring to say in some ways, but last season showed, you mentioned last season showed, you mentioned Duncan, that Liverpool didn't go in as Duncan, that Liverpool didn't go in as the big favorites. Last season kind of the big favorites. Last season kind of showed us that stuff does happen that showed us that stuff does happen that you just can't really foresee. Like the you just can't really foresee. Like the the things fell like I'm not saying they the things fell like I'm not saying they didn't deserve to win the league. Of didn't deserve to win the league. Of course, they did. They were by far and course, they did. They were by far and away the best team, but you know, things away the best team, but you know, things fell for them. Other City lost Rodri for fell for them. Other City lost Rodri for the season. Who's you know, we didn't the season. Who's you know, we didn't know that was going to happen. And I know that was going to happen. And I think I think think I think &gt;&gt; Arsenal Odigard then Saka in &gt;&gt; Arsenal Odigard then Saka in &gt;&gt; Yeah. And and you just don't know that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And and you just don't know that. Maybe Liverpool will lose a key player, Maybe Liverpool will lose a key player, but I think you're right, Duncan, that but I think you're right, Duncan, that they're all close enough they're all close enough &gt;&gt; that it, you know, any of them could win &gt;&gt; that it, you know, any of them could win if things certainly fall in their favor. if things certainly fall in their favor. &gt;&gt; I think it's it's exciting. I think it's &gt;&gt; I think it's it's exciting. I think it's one of the most kind of like up up in one of the most kind of like up up in the air starts supremacy season for a the air starts supremacy season for a long time. That that actually makes it long time. That that actually makes it good. good. good. &gt;&gt; In particular, looks like being &gt;&gt; In particular, looks like being potentially tremendously exciting, potentially tremendously exciting, Daniel, with the prospect of what four Daniel, with the prospect of what four up top with Salik Vertz and if they up top with Salik Vertz and if they bring in EAC, is that madness or gakpo bring in EAC, is that madness or gakpo if not? Yeah, I mean they they have got if not? Yeah, I mean they they have got a huge amount of options. I do think a huge amount of options. I do think that um under Jurgen Klopp Liverpool that um under Jurgen Klopp Liverpool tended to go in tended to go in I think non-deliberate. It's just how it I think non-deliberate. It's just how it shook out but Liverpool tended to go in shook out but Liverpool tended to go in waves of targeting Premier League and waves of targeting Premier League and Champions League. I do wonder whether Champions League. I do wonder whether having won the Premier League last having won the Premier League last season whether like I don't know if you season whether like I don't know if you ask supporters now maybe this is like a ask supporters now maybe this is like a a Champions League Liverpool season. It a Champions League Liverpool season. It feels like a a team that is has got so feels like a a team that is has got so many weapons that in an individual match many weapons that in an individual match they the options they're going to be they the options they're going to be able to bring off the bench in the final able to bring off the bench in the final third are are extremely good. Um if third are are extremely good. Um if Muhammad Salah gets to AFCON unscathed Muhammad Salah gets to AFCON unscathed and he's back to hit the Champions and he's back to hit the Champions League knockout stages uh at full speed League knockout stages uh at full speed assuming Liverpool get there. I wonder assuming Liverpool get there. I wonder if this is a season of Liverpool kind of if this is a season of Liverpool kind of maybe just going for the Champions maybe just going for the Champions League. still want obviously supporters League. still want obviously supporters want both but I I I mean I completely want both but I I I mean I completely agree with the other two that it's the agree with the other two that it's the excitement of this season for me. I I I excitement of this season for me. I I I did my you know enforced predictions for did my you know enforced predictions for the paper this morning and I think I the paper this morning and I think I pretty much had them all all the same pretty much had them all all the same top four in order with the caveat that top four in order with the caveat that I'm just doing this cuz I don't know I'm just doing this cuz I don't know enough enough enough &gt;&gt; uh that's changed from last season if &gt;&gt; uh that's changed from last season if there's enough evidence and you could there's enough evidence and you could genuinely roll them all out in a genuinely roll them all out in a completely different order. completely different order. &gt;&gt; But one little prediction now will Isak &gt;&gt; But one little prediction now will Isak end up at Anfield in the next few weeks end up at Anfield in the next few weeks Duncan? Uh, yes, Daniel. Duncan? Uh, yes, Daniel. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm leaning towards yes, &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm leaning towards yes, &gt;&gt; Charlie. &gt;&gt; Charlie. &gt;&gt; Charlie. &gt;&gt; I've felt like no throughout, so I'm &gt;&gt; I've felt like no throughout, so I'm going to stick with that. So, Liverpool going to stick with that. So, Liverpool have toled up for another campaign. Who have toled up for another campaign. Who are their likeliest opponents for the are their likeliest opponents for the title? Arsenal, who've been runners up title? Arsenal, who've been runners up for the last three seasons. City trying for the last three seasons. City trying to bounce back from their first to bounce back from their first trophless campaign in eight years, or trophless campaign in eight years, or champions of the world at Chelsea, who champions of the world at Chelsea, who were also about months before that the were also about months before that the fourth best team in the Premier League. fourth best team in the Premier League. Who's your money on Charlie? Who's your money on Charlie? &gt;&gt; I don't know. It It is really difficult. &gt;&gt; I don't know. It It is really difficult. Um, City so much depends on Rodri and Um, City so much depends on Rodri and and how uh fit and injury-free he's able and how uh fit and injury-free he's able to stay this season. Obviously, we we to stay this season. Obviously, we we gather he'll miss the first few games of gather he'll miss the first few games of the season. Um, as it is, and you tend the season. Um, as it is, and you tend to see, you know, post ACL players are to see, you know, post ACL players are more at risk of other injuries, even if more at risk of other injuries, even if they're not serious ones necessarily. they're not serious ones necessarily. Um, it's tough. I mean like when you Um, it's tough. I mean like when you what's so kind of ridiculous about what's so kind of ridiculous about making predictions is all anyone really making predictions is all anyone really does is say what the status quo is. You does is say what the status quo is. You know if you look at predicted tables know if you look at predicted tables it's kind of uh what last season was and it's kind of uh what last season was and we'll probably all end up we'll probably all end up &gt;&gt; but this is a different team to the one &gt;&gt; but this is a different team to the one that certainly started last season. A that certainly started last season. A couple of the players came in in couple of the players came in in January. You've got a bunch of other January. You've got a bunch of other arrivals since then arrivals since then &gt;&gt; for City you mean? Yeah. &gt;&gt; for City you mean? Yeah. &gt;&gt; For City. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I &gt;&gt; For City. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I guess given their pedigree under guess given their pedigree under Guardiola, you'd have to say Guardiola, you'd have to say you'd imagine they'd be in the top two. you'd imagine they'd be in the top two. &gt;&gt; And they've also got new arrivals on the &gt;&gt; And they've also got new arrivals on the bench next to Pep with Colour bench next to Pep with Colour and Pep Lindes joining the double Pep. and Pep Lindes joining the double Pep. Yeah. So what does that Pep Linders who Yeah. So what does that Pep Linders who was with Klopp in his heavy metal was with Klopp in his heavy metal &gt;&gt; and also James French who was the &gt;&gt; and also James French who was the Liverpool set piece uh guy he's gone Liverpool set piece uh guy he's gone over to City. So, City are kind of like over to City. So, City are kind of like in some ways they're the Klopp team now. in some ways they're the Klopp team now. So, they Yeah, I think you can almost if So, they Yeah, I think you can almost if you took Arsenal's defense, Chelsea's you took Arsenal's defense, Chelsea's midfield and City's attack and crunched midfield and City's attack and crunched them together. them together. them together. &gt;&gt; That would be a team that would &gt;&gt; That would be a team that would &gt;&gt; Would you rather have City's attack or &gt;&gt; Would you rather have City's attack or Liverpool's attack? Liverpool's attack? Liverpool's attack? &gt;&gt; Well, this was a team to challenge &gt;&gt; Well, this was a team to challenge Liverpool, I was thinking. Liverpool, I was thinking. &gt;&gt; Oh, right. That would be difficult, &gt;&gt; Oh, right. That would be difficult, wouldn't it? Logistically, but as we wouldn't it? Logistically, but as we said before, they're all good teams, but said before, they're all good teams, but with with issues. And I think unlike a with with issues. And I think unlike a lot of seasons, we don't know until the lot of seasons, we don't know until the season starts how that that's going to season starts how that that's going to play out. You know, Arsenal in preseason play out. You know, Arsenal in preseason looked looked looked a bit like last season when they were a bit like last season when they were struggling to create clear clearcut struggling to create clear clearcut opportunities. They did a bit better opportunities. They did a bit better against Athletic Club in their last against Athletic Club in their last friendly, but a lot of them it was a lot friendly, but a lot of them it was a lot of the same issues they saw last season. of the same issues they saw last season. So, there's a lot of things for these So, there's a lot of things for these teams to fix and we're about to find out teams to fix and we're about to find out whether they have. whether they have. &gt;&gt; Charlie mentions Rodri's fitness as &gt;&gt; Charlie mentions Rodri's fitness as being the thing that City need to fix. being the thing that City need to fix. Do you think that's the the big question Do you think that's the the big question mark for you Daniel? mark for you Daniel? &gt;&gt; Yeah, there are three really. The one is &gt;&gt; Yeah, there are three really. The one is undoubtedly Rodri and I think it is a undoubtedly Rodri and I think it is a concern that he he does seem to be concern that he he does seem to be getting those muscle injuries having getting those muscle injuries having been very sl you know very well managed been very sl you know very well managed minutes wise by Guardiola last season to minutes wise by Guardiola last season to try and ensure that doesn't happen and try and ensure that doesn't happen and it has still happened. My big question it has still happened. My big question with City is is it possible for players with City is is it possible for players who effectively had a year off form wise who effectively had a year off form wise to come back and be exactly what they to come back and be exactly what they were. Phil Foden was was way off it last were. Phil Foden was was way off it last season for various reasons. Um Erling season for various reasons. Um Erling Harland only scored four league goals Harland only scored four league goals from February onwards which is you know from February onwards which is you know it's completely offkilter for him. I it's completely offkilter for him. I just don't know whether adding new just don't know whether adding new players to that makes it more likely for players to that makes it more likely for those players to get back really quickly those players to get back really quickly or actually it will take a lot more time or actually it will take a lot more time for that to happen and therefore whether for that to happen and therefore whether they might be playing catchup again as they might be playing catchup again as they were last season. the kind of they were last season. the kind of elephant in the room here and the reason elephant in the room here and the reason it's so hard to predict is that the it's so hard to predict is that the title winners last season only got 84 title winners last season only got 84 points. points. points. &gt;&gt; They did though they tailed last four &gt;&gt; They did though they tailed last four games when they'd won it they only got games when they'd won it they only got two points slightly two points slightly &gt;&gt; skewed but second place and second place &gt;&gt; skewed but second place and second place was 10 points below that. So there's was 10 points below that. So there's quite there's there is a significant gap quite there's there is a significant gap to bridge for those players we're to bridge for those players we're talking if if we think that Liverpool talking if if we think that Liverpool are going to be at least as good as 84 are going to be at least as good as 84 points again and I don't think that's points again and I don't think that's particularly controversial. There is particularly controversial. There is quite a big gap to bridge and I just I quite a big gap to bridge and I just I think there are enough questions about think there are enough questions about City that um yeah that I'm not I'm not City that um yeah that I'm not I'm not completely sold. I think their third completely sold. I think their third favorites for a reason put it that way favorites for a reason put it that way which would have been an unthinkable which would have been an unthinkable thing to say 12 months ago. thing to say 12 months ago. &gt;&gt; Well am I the only one who talking about &gt;&gt; Well am I the only one who talking about Man City Daniel mentioning an elephant Man City Daniel mentioning an elephant in the room thought he was going in a in the room thought he was going in a completely different the charges. Yeah. completely different the charges. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Sorry Charlie you wanted to make a &gt;&gt; Yeah. Sorry Charlie you wanted to make a point. point. point. &gt;&gt; Uh no I was I think that's an &gt;&gt; Uh no I was I think that's an interesting point that Daniel raises interesting point that Daniel raises about the can they lift themselves. All about the can they lift themselves. All I would say on that is if you remember I would say on that is if you remember in 201920 very similar season they had in 201920 very similar season they had Liverpool won the league by a caner and Liverpool won the league by a caner and city were way off it and it felt like city were way off it and it felt like absolutely the end of a cycle. It felt absolutely the end of a cycle. It felt like players had lost motivation. A lot like players had lost motivation. A lot of them we read didn't want to play for of them we read didn't want to play for Pep. They went and won the next four. So Pep. They went and won the next four. So so who know I mean I'm not saying that so who know I mean I'm not saying that will necessarily happen again but he has will necessarily happen again but he has got previous pep for regenerating in got previous pep for regenerating in that way that Ferguson used to do and that way that Ferguson used to do and the way that Liverpool are the way that Liverpool are has seen that Liverpool in the club has seen that Liverpool in the club &gt;&gt; knows it better than anyone. Yeah, &gt;&gt; knows it better than anyone. Yeah, &gt;&gt; issues for City issues certainly for &gt;&gt; issues for City issues certainly for Arsenal and Chelsea too. Are there Arsenal and Chelsea too. Are there equivalent issues or or fewer question equivalent issues or or fewer question marks? marks? marks? &gt;&gt; Uh Chelsea are are they the most &gt;&gt; Uh Chelsea are are they the most intriguing question ahead of this new intriguing question ahead of this new season? season? season? &gt;&gt; I mean, we're two years on from me &gt;&gt; I mean, we're two years on from me saying they'd come second and being saying they'd come second and being widely mocked for two years. Um but widely mocked for two years. Um but they're world champions now, so who's they're world champions now, so who's who's laughing now? Um no one. Um but who's laughing now? Um no one. Um but yeah, I think they they've probably got yeah, I think they they've probably got the a high ceiling Chelsea, but they've the a high ceiling Chelsea, but they've you know, the goalkeeping situation is you know, the goalkeeping situation is still a concern. Um but I do think still a concern. Um but I do think they've upgraded um in attack, which is they've upgraded um in attack, which is obviously what they needed to do. And obviously what they needed to do. And they look like a team transformed at the they look like a team transformed at the club World Cup. They looked like a team club World Cup. They looked like a team that had assimilated what Moresca wanted that had assimilated what Moresca wanted of them that with uh Dilap and of them that with uh Dilap and particularly with with Shia Pedra coming particularly with with Shia Pedra coming in no longer that had shaken off those in no longer that had shaken off those finishing issues which had been a real finishing issues which had been a real problem. I think in some ways they they problem. I think in some ways they they kind of the club world cup was Masca kind of the club world cup was Masca shaking off his own philosophy a little shaking off his own philosophy a little bit. He did sort of did cut loose a bit. He did sort of did cut loose a little bit more which I think you know little bit more which I think you know obviously PSG found out what that can obviously PSG found out what that can result in in the finals. So I think result in in the finals. So I think &gt;&gt; for me it's whether Moresca kind of &gt;&gt; for me it's whether Moresca kind of overthinks it a little bit this season overthinks it a little bit this season and whether he can get that balance of and whether he can get that balance of of getting Cole Cole Palmer as a sort of of getting Cole Cole Palmer as a sort of creative fulcrum versus you know there creative fulcrum versus you know there were points particularly in the middle were points particularly in the middle of last season where it wasn't much fun of last season where it wasn't much fun watching Chelsea. They were very very watching Chelsea. They were very very controlled and I know the Chelsea fans controlled and I know the Chelsea fans were getting increasingly irate with were getting increasingly irate with with how controlled it was. Um but yeah, with how controlled it was. Um but yeah, I I do feel like they've they've got I I do feel like they've they've got definitely got something and their definitely got something and their squad, you know, through many many years squad, you know, through many many years of purchasing players is is very deep. of purchasing players is is very deep. 230 million odd this this summer. 230 million odd this this summer. Daniel, would your issues about Chelsea Daniel, would your issues about Chelsea include the fact that they were at the include the fact that they were at the Club World Cup right to the end and Club World Cup right to the end and therefore had almost no preseason and therefore had almost no preseason and that Levi Cowwell is out with a torn ACL that Levi Cowwell is out with a torn ACL and will miss most if not all of the and will miss most if not all of the season. Would those rank highly? season. Would those rank highly? &gt;&gt; Yeah, Chelsea of this group of four by &gt;&gt; Yeah, Chelsea of this group of four by by far the ones I'm least high on. Um I by far the ones I'm least high on. Um I I still don't think that defense for all I still don't think that defense for all the money spent, I don't think the the money spent, I don't think the defense and goalkeeper are elite. defense and goalkeeper are elite. Certainly not with Cole missing as well. Certainly not with Cole missing as well. He was a really strong part of that. I I He was a really strong part of that. I I still don't know. Like if you push all still don't know. Like if you push all their left wingers into one left winger, their left wingers into one left winger, you get a really elite player. And if you get a really elite player. And if you push all their right wingers into you push all their right wingers into one right winger, you get a really elite one right winger, you get a really elite players, but I don't really see it. I players, but I don't really see it. I don't think there's enough in them don't think there's enough in them individually. The rotation of them might individually. The rotation of them might really work, but I don't see that. And really work, but I don't see that. And and as you say, they've also played 64 and as you say, they've also played 64 competitive matches since the start of competitive matches since the start of last season, which at some point, you last season, which at some point, you know, we talk about the no Europe joke. know, we talk about the no Europe joke. at some point come February or March at some point come February or March that really has to both harm players in that really has to both harm players in terms of energy levels and also I think terms of energy levels and also I think psychologically a lot of those players psychologically a lot of those players who have played a lot of those matches who have played a lot of those matches are going to have a World Cup next are going to have a World Cup next summer a really long sevenweek World Cup summer a really long sevenweek World Cup in really hot weather. I just think in really hot weather. I just think psychologically it's quite hard to deal psychologically it's quite hard to deal with that. Um I do think they've with that. Um I do think they've upgraded the attack. I think Jao Pedro upgraded the attack. I think Jao Pedro already looks a better signing than I already looks a better signing than I thought he might be. A kind of more thought he might be. A kind of more ready to go signing, but I don't think ready to go signing, but I don't think Yeah, I have them kind of in a in their Yeah, I have them kind of in a in their own league of in fourth place basically. own league of in fourth place basically. &gt;&gt; They also have the Champions League this &gt;&gt; They also have the Champions League this season. Last season had the Conference season. Last season had the Conference League which they would heavily rotate League which they would heavily rotate for. So that's that's a big ask of your for. So that's that's a big ask of your squad. We saw that with all the teams in squad. We saw that with all the teams in the Champions League last season the Champions League last season suffered injuries to varying degrees. suffered injuries to varying degrees. &gt;&gt; Right. So not Chelsea then. What about &gt;&gt; Right. So not Chelsea then. What about another London team, Charlie? What about another London team, Charlie? What about the Arsenal? the Arsenal? the Arsenal? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean they're the I think they're &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean they're the I think they're the only team in the top in top flight the only team in the top in top flight history that have come second three history that have come second three times in a row and they've done it twice times in a row and they've done it twice now and the last time they did it they now and the last time they did it they then won the league off the back of then won the league off the back of those consecutive second place finishes. those consecutive second place finishes. Um Um Um &gt;&gt; there's no reason why they can't. I mean &gt;&gt; there's no reason why they can't. I mean they've they've they've they they've they've established some they they've they've established some very strong foundations in each of the very strong foundations in each of the last two seasons. They've conceded the last two seasons. They've conceded the fewest goals. And we used to talk about, fewest goals. And we used to talk about, you know, defense defenses winning you know, defense defenses winning titles and you kind of think whoever had titles and you kind of think whoever had the best defense would win. I think the best defense would win. I think that's probably flipped a bit, but it's that's probably flipped a bit, but it's still a great foundation to have. The still a great foundation to have. The question, you know, last season the question, you know, last season the injuries notwithstanding the the biggest injuries notwithstanding the the biggest issue that they had was drawing games. issue that they had was drawing games. They d they drew so many games and I They d they drew so many games and I think and they were ahead in a lot of think and they were ahead in a lot of those games and I think the issue they those games and I think the issue they had was that they didn't because partly had was that they didn't because partly because of the injuries they didn't have because of the injuries they didn't have the firepower to bring on to close those the firepower to bring on to close those games out. they have addressed that and games out. they have addressed that and I think what may be decisive uh having I think what may be decisive uh having talked about transfers and their talked about transfers and their importance is you know can they get importance is you know can they get another player into bolster the left another player into bolster the left hand side because they've been so strong hand side because they've been so strong on the right for a long time it's the on the right for a long time it's the left where they're kind of good but not left where they're kind of good but not great um which means teams can focus on great um which means teams can focus on getting Sacker and Odigard out the game getting Sacker and Odigard out the game if they were to bring in an EZ or if they were to bring in an EZ or someone like that that obviously someone like that that obviously elevates them the factor is a big elevates them the factor is a big unknown because finally they've done unknown because finally they've done what everyone has said which is you know what everyone has said which is you know you've got this great team all you need you've got this great team all you need is a guy to come in and score a load of is a guy to come in and score a load of goals simple you'll win the league uh goals simple you'll win the league uh we'll see if Yres well a if he can do we'll see if Yres well a if he can do that but b whether the team not suffers that but b whether the team not suffers necessarily but has to shift in the way necessarily but has to shift in the way that City did with Harland um you know that City did with Harland um you know they had to alter their way of playing they had to alter their way of playing so it's going to be really interesting so it's going to be really interesting and Zuba Mendy who I mentioned at the and Zuba Mendy who I mentioned at the top he he looks like he might be the top he he looks like he might be the most important signing more so than most important signing more so than Yokarez I mean he looks uh like he could Yokarez I mean he looks uh like he could be their Rodri be their Rodri &gt;&gt; him and Rice are combined running really &gt;&gt; him and Rice are combined running really well. I mean again with the massive well. I mean again with the massive caveat that you can never judge anything caveat that you can never judge anything from preseason games but they they have from preseason games but they they have worked well together. worked well together. &gt;&gt; How strong are you on Arsenal Daniel? &gt;&gt; How strong are you on Arsenal Daniel? &gt;&gt; Uh yeah I am strong. I think my big it's &gt;&gt; Uh yeah I am strong. I think my big it's fear is the wrong word is too strong but fear is the wrong word is too strong but my big kind of question mark is whether my big kind of question mark is whether they can deal psychologically with what they can deal psychologically with what I would now call as a no excuse league I would now call as a no excuse league season. I think there were valid reasons season. I think there were valid reasons to finish second in each of the last to finish second in each of the last three years and they should feel very three years and they should feel very proud to have done that. But the signing proud to have done that. But the signing of Yokers, as well as changing how the of Yokers, as well as changing how the team operates, it also has to change the team operates, it also has to change the mindset. Everybody knows that everybody mindset. Everybody knows that everybody has said, as Charlie mentioned, this has said, as Charlie mentioned, this they only need this and they win the they only need this and they win the league. Well, they've got this now and league. Well, they've got this now and there are no excuses. And finishing there are no excuses. And finishing second this season will not be viewed as second this season will not be viewed as a success in the way that it may have a success in the way that it may have been in the last three years. Sometimes been in the last three years. Sometimes &gt;&gt; you're saying there are no excuses, but &gt;&gt; you're saying there are no excuses, but what about the ball? It's going to be what about the ball? It's going to be manufactured by Pummer and I understand manufactured by Pummer and I understand they've had difficulties with that in they've had difficulties with that in the past. the past. the past. Well, that that kind of play that brings Well, that that kind of play that brings me to you bring me to Micheletta there me to you bring me to Micheletta there because there have been times when his because there have been times when his management style of playing on the edge management style of playing on the edge or manage coaching on the edge literally or manage coaching on the edge literally of the touch line if you ask Richard of the touch line if you ask Richard Keys but it's all felt quite fraught and Keys but it's all felt quite fraught and the weird thing about last season as the weird thing about last season as Charlie mentioned is that they drew Charlie mentioned is that they drew quite a lot of games and it actually quite a lot of games and it actually felt quite flat. It's going to be felt quite flat. It's going to be finding the balance between, you know, finding the balance between, you know, having that upbeat, we need to be having that upbeat, we need to be uptempo to win games and also not going uptempo to win games and also not going getting too frayed because they did get getting too frayed because they did get a bit too frayed in previous seasons, a bit too frayed in previous seasons, the one particularly two seasons ago. the one particularly two seasons ago. I'm fascinated to see how that works. If I'm fascinated to see how that works. If they manage that right, there's no they manage that right, there's no reason why they can't win the league. reason why they can't win the league. But I kind of fear that if Arsenal are But I kind of fear that if Arsenal are comfortably second or third in November, comfortably second or third in November, December, it's quite easy to see how December, it's quite easy to see how everyone gets a bit frantic and thinks everyone gets a bit frantic and thinks this is our time and it's we can see it this is our time and it's we can see it slipping away. slipping away. slipping away. &gt;&gt; Just on Keezy, he did point out that &gt;&gt; Just on Keezy, he did point out that Yokresz has used the Puma ball before in Yokresz has used the Puma ball before in Portugal, so he should be up to speed Portugal, so he should be up to speed with it. with it. with it. &gt;&gt; Excellent. and did so well with &gt;&gt; Excellent. and did so well with &gt;&gt; he also pointed out Jack Reish might &gt;&gt; he also pointed out Jack Reish might play at Goodison which seems unlikely play at Goodison which seems unlikely but um I mean Arteta is I think the fan but um I mean Arteta is I think the fan base the wider Arsenal fan base is base the wider Arsenal fan base is probably this is Arteta's last big probably this is Arteta's last big chance to win a league for them I think chance to win a league for them I think in terms of it's come so close for so in terms of it's come so close for so long I think if you look at why it long I think if you look at why it didn't work as well last season why as didn't work as well last season why as Daniel says they drew a lot of games Daniel says they drew a lot of games Odigard really dropped off and was Odigard really dropped off and was unable to sort of break down obviously unable to sort of break down obviously defenses defenses defenses &gt;&gt; out for a lot of season and then recover &gt;&gt; out for a lot of season and then recover &gt;&gt; yeah yeah True. True. But um you wonder &gt;&gt; yeah yeah True. True. But um you wonder how much um firstly Ethan Raneri will how much um firstly Ethan Raneri will get a chance to play the season and get a chance to play the season and whether Arta will be tempted to to whether Arta will be tempted to to plunge 15year-old Max Dman into action. plunge 15year-old Max Dman into action. &gt;&gt; 15-year-old Max Dman who has featured &gt;&gt; 15-year-old Max Dman who has featured heavily in preseason. How excited should heavily in preseason. How excited should fans broadly across the spectrum be fans broadly across the spectrum be about this youngster? about this youngster? &gt;&gt; He does look special. I mean it's it's &gt;&gt; He does look special. I mean it's it's impossible to get your head around the impossible to get your head around the fact that he's 15. I mean it's so fact that he's 15. I mean it's so crazily young and he does I mean again crazily young and he does I mean again it is different intensity but you know it is different intensity but you know he played against teams like Newcastle he played against teams like Newcastle and it didn't feel like they were going and it didn't feel like they were going easy on him. The opposite in fact you easy on him. The opposite in fact you know he got an early reducer from know he got an early reducer from Joelenon and yeah he he does look Joelenon and yeah he he does look &gt;&gt; pretty pretty tasty. I I don't imagine &gt;&gt; pretty pretty tasty. I I don't imagine we'll see a huge amount of him this we'll see a huge amount of him this season. That feels a bit crazy. season. That feels a bit crazy. &gt;&gt; What position is he? &gt;&gt; What position is he? &gt;&gt; He plays out on he plays kind of where &gt;&gt; He plays out on he plays kind of where Saka and Weri do. I mean, they've Saka and Weri do. I mean, they've they've produced this crazy um group of they've produced this crazy um group of incredibly talented left- footed incredibly talented left- footed attackers who play out on the right. So, attackers who play out on the right. So, in preseason, he's played as a kind of in preseason, he's played as a kind of conventional right winger. I don't know conventional right winger. I don't know if as he develops, he might move inside if as he develops, he might move inside a little bit like which is what Nineri's a little bit like which is what Nineri's done having played on the wing last done having played on the wing last season. The idea, I think, is that he'll season. The idea, I think, is that he'll play a bit more centrally, but he's I play a bit more centrally, but he's I mean, at the moment, he's he just gets mean, at the moment, he's he just gets the ball, stands defenders up, twists the ball, stands defenders up, twists them inside out, can get to the by line, them inside out, can get to the by line, seems like he's got a decent right foot seems like he's got a decent right foot as well. I mean those in the no sort of as well. I mean those in the no sort of say he's the best English prospect since say he's the best English prospect since Wayne Rooney if it doesn't go perfectly Wayne Rooney if it doesn't go perfectly for Arsenal you know will Arteta just for Arsenal you know will Arteta just start using everything at his disposal start using everything at his disposal which could include that one the Arsenal which could include that one the Arsenal youth right they've got a tough start youth right they've got a tough start haven't they uh in their first six games haven't they uh in their first six games they visit Old Trafford Anfield and St they visit Old Trafford Anfield and St James's while also welcoming Man City James's while also welcoming Man City and Nottingham Forest to the Emirates it and Nottingham Forest to the Emirates it all begins with Man United away Spurs all begins with Man United away Spurs winning the Europa League seems so long winning the Europa League seems so long ago now, doesn't it? Of course, so much ago now, doesn't it? Of course, so much has changed since then. Sun has gone. has changed since then. Sun has gone. Madison's done his ACL. An is gone. Madison's done his ACL. An is gone. Morgan Gibbs White has left them at the Morgan Gibbs White has left them at the alter. But as the new season rules into alter. But as the new season rules into view, not only have you got Champions view, not only have you got Champions League football, you've also got one of League football, you've also got one of the most exciting managers in the the most exciting managers in the Premier League, Thomas Frank. Is that Premier League, Thomas Frank. Is that fair? fair? fair? &gt;&gt; Mudus &gt;&gt; Mudus &gt;&gt; Mudus &gt;&gt; coming in from West Ham. and less &gt;&gt; coming in from West Ham. and less exotically but still I mean almost exotically but still I mean almost perhaps more more influentially a Jeia perhaps more more influentially a Jeia Palingia coming in from Bayern Munich Palingia coming in from Bayern Munich which when you think of the numbers he which when you think of the numbers he used to produce at Fulham could be a used to produce at Fulham could be a real uh change for for Spurs Daniel what real uh change for for Spurs Daniel what are your thoughts on Tottenham Hotspur are your thoughts on Tottenham Hotspur this season higher than 17th this season higher than 17th &gt;&gt; higher than 17th Japinia is um I cannot &gt;&gt; higher than 17th Japinia is um I cannot think of a better a more fitting player think of a better a more fitting player for that kind of you walk into a pub and for that kind of you walk into a pub and hear someone saying you No, I really hear someone saying you No, I really like that Japellini sign. That's exactly like that Japellini sign. That's exactly what Tottenham needed, that energy in what Tottenham needed, that energy in midfield. It is perfect for that. And to midfield. It is perfect for that. And to be fair, that man in the pub is pretty be fair, that man in the pub is pretty much right. Um I I'm still slightly much right. Um I I'm still slightly underwhelmed at how I I hope that underwhelmed at how I I hope that getting Thomas Franken, who was at a getting Thomas Franken, who was at a club at Brenford who were, as well as club at Brenford who were, as well as being smart on a lot of things, were being smart on a lot of things, were really efficient with transfers. Um in really efficient with transfers. Um in the last few days, Frank has kind of the last few days, Frank has kind of slightly hinted at this. He sort of slightly hinted at this. He sort of said, paraphrasing, but he sort of said, said, paraphrasing, but he sort of said, "Brenford is a club that gets stuff "Brenford is a club that gets stuff done, whereas at Tottenham we seem to be done, whereas at Tottenham we seem to be talking quite a lot and there's a lot of talking quite a lot and there's a lot of meetings about things and then we push meetings about things and then we push forward." That I'm slightly surprised forward." That I'm slightly surprised that they haven't gone harder early that they haven't gone harder early because what new managers need, because what new managers need, particularly those that step up to a particularly those that step up to a club in the same league in a club with club in the same league in a club with more pressure and more scrutiny, they more pressure and more scrutiny, they obviously need a full preseason, which obviously need a full preseason, which he's had, but they really like getting he's had, but they really like getting the transfer business done early. So the transfer business done early. So then that they can effectively create a then that they can effectively create a squad and not have to, you know, do squad and not have to, you know, do anything with it during August while the anything with it during August while the games start. And they haven't really games start. And they haven't really done that. I know they've signed Kudus done that. I know they've signed Kudus and I know they've signed Pellinia, but and I know they've signed Pellinia, but there's still quite a lot of work to do, there's still quite a lot of work to do, I think, with that squad. I think he I think, with that squad. I think he will benefit massively from being a very will benefit massively from being a very good defensive coach, replacing a guy good defensive coach, replacing a guy who played with a suicidally high line who played with a suicidally high line at times for most for most of his at times for most for most of his Tottenham reign. I think that will help Tottenham reign. I think that will help him and I think that organization will him and I think that organization will probably take a little bit of getting probably take a little bit of getting used to for Tottenham fans cuz it won't used to for Tottenham fans cuz it won't be quite as swashbuckling, but it will be quite as swashbuckling, but it will make more sense. But I just don't know make more sense. But I just don't know how those attackers create chances how those attackers create chances playing as Brenford did. I I don't quite playing as Brenford did. I I don't quite get that working yet. And I think they get that working yet. And I think they really need a number 10 because Madison, really need a number 10 because Madison, it looks like he's going to be out for a it looks like he's going to be out for a while. Sadly, I don't think Tottenham while. Sadly, I don't think Tottenham can ever fully trust that they're going can ever fully trust that they're going to get a full season out of him. So to get a full season out of him. So yeah, they need a player to sort that yeah, they need a player to sort that and I'm slightly concerned that it's and I'm slightly concerned that it's happening so late, but then Tottenham happening so late, but then Tottenham fans will say that's always the way. fans will say that's always the way. &gt;&gt; A they are in back in for apparently &gt;&gt; A they are in back in for apparently &gt;&gt; they're back in for Good point. Good &gt;&gt; they're back in for Good point. Good point. Yeah. Young men's son now of point. Yeah. Young men's son now of LAFC. LAFC. LAFC. I was I felt a little bit sad that he I was I felt a little bit sad that he didn't get to bow out in North London as didn't get to bow out in North London as opposed to it all kind of coming out in opposed to it all kind of coming out in the middle of an Asian tour. Was an the middle of an Asian tour. Was an Asian tour, wasn't it? Asian tour, wasn't it? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I mean he may subsequently &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I mean he may subsequently get a organ I'm sure they will organize get a organ I'm sure they will organize something because he has been something because he has been &gt;&gt; Mr. Spurs. &gt;&gt; Mr. Spurs. &gt;&gt; He has been I mean it's incredible &gt;&gt; He has been I mean it's incredible really but also you're it was very sad really but also you're it was very sad but I think the fact that he won the but I think the fact that he won the trophy just before that made it feel trophy just before that made it feel like a kind of he was leaving on a high. like a kind of he was leaving on a high. He'd done what he had always wanted to He'd done what he had always wanted to do. He sort of finally scaled that do. He sort of finally scaled that mountain. I think it would have felt mountain. I think it would have felt very differently if he'd left not with very differently if he'd left not with his tail between his legs because he his tail between his legs because he achieved so much but if because he achieved so much but if because he didn't play so much in his final season didn't play so much in his final season if the season had just peted out and if the season had just peted out and then he was always remembered as being then he was always remembered as being the best player to have never won a the best player to have never won a trophy with Spurs and all of this uh trophy with Spurs and all of this uh alongside Harry Kane obviously um but alongside Harry Kane obviously um but he's got that he had that crowning he's got that he had that crowning moment and I think that's massive for moment and I think that's massive for his legacy and standing his legacy and standing &gt;&gt; goodbye to one of the great xG over &gt;&gt; goodbye to one of the great xG over performers of Premier League history performers of Premier League history &gt;&gt; right one of the great two-footed &gt;&gt; right one of the great two-footed performers as well I I think he he had performers as well I I think he he had the one of the highest if not the the one of the highest if not the highest proportion with his of goals highest proportion with his of goals with his weaker foot. with his weaker foot. &gt;&gt; Spurs this season. &gt;&gt; Spurs this season. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean it's it's funny because &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean it's it's funny because Posta Kogloo felt like this huge gamble Posta Kogloo felt like this huge gamble where like it felt like in some ways the where like it felt like in some ways the sky was the limit but also that they sky was the limit but also that they could fall quite far. And weirdly they could fall quite far. And weirdly they sort of did both last season. I mean sort of did both last season. I mean they plunged in the league. I I always they plunged in the league. I I always found it so interesting covering him in found it so interesting covering him in the first few months and you listen to the first few months and you listen to him and he was so incredibly persuasive. him and he was so incredibly persuasive. I think where's this going to end? I think where's this going to end? either he's like he is the messiah or either he's like he is the messiah or maybe there's there's not enough maybe there's there's not enough substance and yeah it's kind of both substance and yeah it's kind of both happened. Frank is I'd say a very happened. Frank is I'd say a very different extreme like I think it's hard different extreme like I think it's hard I'm not saying it won't happen but it's I'm not saying it won't happen but it's hard to imagine them kind of being hard to imagine them kind of being incredible under him but at the same incredible under him but at the same time I think they'll be a lot better time I think they'll be a lot better than what they were. They'll be a lot than what they were. They'll be a lot more organized I think against you even more organized I think against you even saw it they played Arsenal in a friendly saw it they played Arsenal in a friendly and they won the game 1 nil and they and they won the game 1 nil and they were very dogged and I know ultimately were very dogged and I know ultimately Spurs won the Europa League by doing Spurs won the Europa League by doing that but that was kind of a an extremist that but that was kind of a an extremist thing. Um but I think it'll be good. I thing. Um but I think it'll be good. I think it'll get them back on a solid think it'll get them back on a solid footing and you know clearly they're footing and you know clearly they're going to finish higher than they did going to finish higher than they did last season but I think they they should last season but I think they they should finish finish finish &gt;&gt; 15. &gt;&gt; 15. &gt;&gt; 15. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think they should finish uh &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think they should finish uh quite quite quite &gt;&gt; we should just underline how mad that &gt;&gt; we should just underline how mad that last season was. The 22 defeats is the last season was. The 22 defeats is the most in a 20 team season for a team most in a 20 team season for a team that's not that didn't go down ever. that's not that didn't go down ever. Ever. Yeah. Ever. Yeah. Ever. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Um they had a goal difference of minus &gt;&gt; Um they had a goal difference of minus one. They scored 64 goals but let in 65. one. They scored 64 goals but let in 65. It it doesn't make any sense and I you It it doesn't make any sense and I you do worry slightly that if they get off do worry slightly that if they get off to a slow start under Frank it could be to a slow start under Frank it could be a bit noo. a bit noo. &gt;&gt; Well reminis did he have a history of &gt;&gt; Well reminis did he have a history of getting off to slow starts? He rather getting off to slow starts? He rather does. lost seven of his first 10 at does. lost seven of his first 10 at Brenford at Bramby before that also Brenford at Bramby before that also didn't win any of his first four. We didn't win any of his first four. We shall see. They begin Spurs at home to shall see. They begin Spurs at home to &gt;&gt; Burnley. &gt;&gt; Burnley. Yeah. While Arsenal are away at &gt;&gt; Burnley. Yeah. While Arsenal are away at Old Trafford as we mentioned, City are Old Trafford as we mentioned, City are at Wolves and Liverpool begin Friday at at Wolves and Liverpool begin Friday at home to Bournemouth. We'll get home to Bournemouth. We'll get predictions from you all and check in on predictions from you all and check in on the championship as well in a second or the championship as well in a second or &gt;&gt; finally of course uh the fixture where &gt;&gt; finally of course uh the fixture where Sun produced his uh push gas winning Sun produced his uh push gas winning goal goal goal &gt;&gt; December 2019 just ran and ran &gt;&gt; December 2019 just ran and ran &gt;&gt; brand new Premier League campaign &gt;&gt; brand new Premier League campaign getting underway officials getting ready getting underway officials getting ready some new regulations for them. If you some new regulations for them. If you watch the Club World Cup, you'll know watch the Club World Cup, you'll know all about the 8-second rule, which sees all about the 8-second rule, which sees a corner awarded the opposition if your a corner awarded the opposition if your goalkeeper hangs on to the ball beyond goalkeeper hangs on to the ball beyond that time limit. The Athletics Adam that time limit. The Athletics Adam Leventar has been along to the referee's Leventar has been along to the referee's preseason training camp to ask why on preseason training camp to ask why on earth they do what they do and how earth they do what they do and how they're getting ready to do it this they're getting ready to do it this season. That's a special podcast that season. That's a special podcast that you can hear from the Athletic. Is that you can hear from the Athletic. Is that out now? Guest producer Lucy. Yes, it out now? Guest producer Lucy. Yes, it is. There you go, listener. Uh, stick is. There you go, listener. Uh, stick around here though for a minute or two around here though for a minute or two more because very shortly we'll be more because very shortly we'll be chuckling away at some top four chuckling away at some top four predictions right after I ask if anybody predictions right after I ask if anybody saw what happened this weekend in the saw what happened this weekend in the Championship. Championship got underway. Championship. Championship got underway. Duncan, I know you'll have been Duncan, I know you'll have been concerned with Wickham in League One. concerned with Wickham in League One. &gt;&gt; Lost two out of two about to sell your &gt;&gt; Lost two out of two about to sell your top scorer from last season. top scorer from last season. &gt;&gt; Yeah, Richie Kane is off to QPR I think &gt;&gt; Yeah, Richie Kane is off to QPR I think which I mean fair enough. He's earned which I mean fair enough. He's earned the move. Yeah, they they I went to the move. Yeah, they they I went to Bradford on the opening day. That's how Bradford on the opening day. That's how hyped up I was for the new year last hyped up I was for the new year last season. They play they've played okay. season. They play they've played okay. They've been a bit defensively laxed, They've been a bit defensively laxed, but they the they're playing a new but they the they're playing a new style. They're the they're the team um style. They're the they're the team um with the highest sort of possession and with the highest sort of possession and pass completion rate in in League One. pass completion rate in in League One. So, So, So, &gt;&gt; that's nice. &gt;&gt; that's nice. &gt;&gt; It's a it's a whole new ball game. &gt;&gt; It's a it's a whole new ball game. &gt;&gt; Daniel, you went across to Leicester &gt;&gt; Daniel, you went across to Leicester against Sheffield Wednesday, Crisis against Sheffield Wednesday, Crisis Club. Well, both Crisis Clubs to be fair Club. Well, both Crisis Clubs to be fair on Sunday. How was that? on Sunday. How was that? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I went to Yeah. spend the day with &gt;&gt; Yeah, I went to Yeah. spend the day with Sheffield Wednesday supporters who were Sheffield Wednesday supporters who were protesting organized by the supporters protesting organized by the supporters trust trust trust um against the ownership of Deson um against the ownership of Deson Chanceri by staying out of the ground or Chanceri by staying out of the ground or staying out of the seats until 5 minutes staying out of the seats until 5 minutes in. And it's one of those you hear about in. And it's one of those you hear about these sort of protests quite a lot and these sort of protests quite a lot and they seem to be slightly you know they seem to be slightly you know whether they're badly communicated or whether they're badly communicated or whether people some people just don't whether people some people just don't think it's worth it or don't fancy it think it's worth it or don't fancy it but it says a lot about the severity of but it says a lot about the severity of the situation and the way in which it's the situation and the way in which it's brought Sheffield Wednesday supporters brought Sheffield Wednesday supporters together that this that the end was together that this that the end was basically empty at the kickoff and it basically empty at the kickoff and it was it was the game was on sky that's was it was the game was on sky that's why they did it. It got big coverage. why they did it. It got big coverage. Leicester fans when the Chev fans came Leicester fans when the Chev fans came in came you know the referee delayed a in came you know the referee delayed a free kick and there was a big standing free kick and there was a big standing ovation from Leicester fans. It felt a ovation from Leicester fans. It felt a big deal. So fair play to them and big deal. So fair play to them and congratulations for that. I hope it congratulations for that. I hope it makes one iota of difference in Chance makes one iota of difference in Chance Siri lowering his asking price for the Siri lowering his asking price for the club and selling because that club and selling because that relationship is is completely and you relationship is is completely and you know irreparably broken. Uh and Sheffer know irreparably broken. Uh and Sheffer Wednesday are one of the crisis clubs. Wednesday are one of the crisis clubs. Yes, they they are they have now paid Yes, they they are they have now paid all outstanding salaries to players and all outstanding salaries to players and staff because I think they got their staff because I think they got their Premier League solidarity payment Premier League solidarity payment through, but yeah, effectively the through, but yeah, effectively the club's not really being funded. So, we club's not really being funded. So, we see what happens next month and the see what happens next month and the month after and so on and so forth. They month after and so on and so forth. They only had 16 first team players at the only had 16 first team players at the start of the season. Um, they lost 2-1 start of the season. Um, they lost 2-1 and were absolutely magnificent. Took a and were absolutely magnificent. Took a 1-0il lead. Um, but they had Barry 1-0il lead. Um, but they had Barry Madden sent off for two yellow cards. Madden sent off for two yellow cards. only missed one game, but they also got only missed one game, but they also got two players injured, muscle injuries, two players injured, muscle injuries, which because they haven't had a which because they haven't had a preseason, that's going to happen. Uh, preseason, that's going to happen. Uh, so they're down very much to the bare so they're down very much to the bare bones. bones. bones. &gt;&gt; Elsewhere in the Championship, uh, lots &gt;&gt; Elsewhere in the Championship, uh, lots of interest around the two clubs of interest around the two clubs automatically promoted from League One, automatically promoted from League One, uh, Birmingham City and Rexom, both of uh, Birmingham City and Rexom, both of whom threatened to get important opening whom threatened to get important opening day wins. Rexom ultimately were denied day wins. Rexom ultimately were denied by those late goals from Wils by those late goals from Wils Southampton. Well, Birmingham City Southampton. Well, Birmingham City cheated were they, by that cheated were they, by that been around since the 1880s. So, been around since the 1880s. So, &gt;&gt; wasn't there at Sunday at Wembley &gt;&gt; wasn't there at Sunday at Wembley though, was it? though, was it? &gt;&gt; No. Fair. But I mean, as as someone who &gt;&gt; No. Fair. But I mean, as as someone who supports a team who's who battled supports a team who's who battled Birmingham Rexom last season and Birmingham Rexom last season and ultimately lost out, it was quite quite ultimately lost out, it was quite quite pleasant to see them both uh concede pleasant to see them both uh concede very late in their opening games. M very late in their opening games. M &gt;&gt; um Rex and Phil Hugson complaining about &gt;&gt; um Rex and Phil Hugson complaining about the disparity in resources uh in the the disparity in resources uh in the championship which uh yeah championship which uh yeah &gt;&gt; is true. &gt;&gt; is true. &gt;&gt; All right. There were winning starts for &gt;&gt; All right. There were winning starts for Rob Edwards at Middlesborough. Ryan Rob Edwards at Middlesborough. Ryan Mason at West Brom. A Gard Struber who Mason at West Brom. A Gard Struber who led Bristol City to a 4-1 win at led Bristol City to a 4-1 win at Sheffield United. Did you catch Scott Sheffield United. Did you catch Scott Twain's delicious set piece and less Twain's delicious set piece and less delicious knee slide afterwards? Yeah, delicious knee slide afterwards? Yeah, heart and mouth stuff that heart and mouth stuff that &gt;&gt; I mean I've said before you should only &gt;&gt; I mean I've said before you should only be allowed to knee slide uh during GMT, be allowed to knee slide uh during GMT, not BST. So from October to March, slide not BST. So from October to March, slide away because of the pitch conditions. away because of the pitch conditions. &gt;&gt; Yeah, softer softer turf, slicker grass. &gt;&gt; Yeah, softer softer turf, slicker grass. &gt;&gt; Would October to March, why would the &gt;&gt; Would October to March, why would the turf be softer? turf be softer? &gt;&gt; Uh winter. &gt;&gt; Uh winter. &gt;&gt; Doesn't that make the turf harder? &gt;&gt; Doesn't that make the turf harder? &gt;&gt; No. &gt;&gt; No. &gt;&gt; No. &gt;&gt; Colder, more dewy. &gt;&gt; Colder, more dewy. &gt;&gt; Yeah. A lot of dew. Lot Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. A lot of dew. Lot Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. Drier. Because I mean looking for &gt;&gt; Okay. Drier. Because I mean looking for non dry non dry non dry &gt;&gt; Scotty was genuinely lucky not to like &gt;&gt; Scotty was genuinely lucky not to like &gt;&gt; Yeah, he really was. &gt;&gt; Yeah, he really was. &gt;&gt; He looked in a lot of pain. &gt;&gt; He looked in a lot of pain. &gt;&gt; He Yeah, he sort of limped away but &gt;&gt; He Yeah, he sort of limped away but yeah, don't do it. yeah, don't do it. &gt;&gt; Yeah, but Ryan Ma I am interested having &gt;&gt; Yeah, but Ryan Ma I am interested having twice covered him as sort of interim twice covered him as sort of interim Spurs manager. Um curious to see how he Spurs manager. Um curious to see how he does get on in his first managerial job. does get on in his first managerial job. &gt;&gt; Who they got this weekend, Charlie? &gt;&gt; Who they got this weekend, Charlie? &gt;&gt; They're away at Rexom. &gt;&gt; They're away at Rexom. &gt;&gt; Oh &gt;&gt; Oh &gt;&gt; Oh &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt; good. Tough place to go. Before we wrap &gt;&gt; good. Tough place to go. Before we wrap up, let's just return to the Premier up, let's just return to the Premier League and after much rumination, get League and after much rumination, get your picks for who's going to finish your picks for who's going to finish where of the the four teams we were where of the the four teams we were discussing before. Have your have your discussing before. Have your have your predictions changed at all in the course predictions changed at all in the course of the today's show, Charlie? of the today's show, Charlie? &gt;&gt; Maybe slightly. &gt;&gt; Maybe slightly. &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Who who &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Who who I don't know. I I think I'll go I don't know. I I think I'll go Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool &gt;&gt; as the winners. &gt;&gt; as the winners. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, no. I'm going to go City as &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, no. I'm going to go City as well. well. well. &gt;&gt; City to win. Yeah. &gt;&gt; City to win. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Arsenal second, Liverpool third, Chelsea &gt;&gt; Arsenal second, Liverpool third, Chelsea fourth. fourth. fourth. &gt;&gt; Chelsea fourth. And that has has that &gt;&gt; Chelsea fourth. And that has has that shifted at all in the course? shifted at all in the course? &gt;&gt; Oh, in the last two seconds. I mean, I I &gt;&gt; Oh, in the last two seconds. I mean, I I suddenly suddenly suddenly &gt;&gt; Yeah. I find it impossible to call it &gt;&gt; Yeah. I find it impossible to call it really. really. really. &gt;&gt; Right. Okay. Daniel, any shorter? &gt;&gt; Right. Okay. Daniel, any shorter? &gt;&gt; Uh, no, but significantly more boring. &gt;&gt; Uh, no, but significantly more boring. I'm going for the same order as last I'm going for the same order as last season, I think, which is Liverpool, season, I think, which is Liverpool, Arsenal, City, Chelsea. Arsenal, City, Chelsea. &gt;&gt; Good lord. And Duncan? &gt;&gt; Good lord. And Duncan? &gt;&gt; Um, I think I'll go Arsenal first. &gt;&gt; Um, I think I'll go Arsenal first. &gt;&gt; Really? &gt;&gt; Really? &gt;&gt; Really? &gt;&gt; Yeah. just to win the title. &gt;&gt; Yeah. just to win the title. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it sounds outlandish, but it is &gt;&gt; Yeah, it sounds outlandish, but it is technically possible. I've checked the technically possible. I've checked the regulations. Um, and then I'll go regulations. Um, and then I'll go City, Liverpool third, Chelsea fourth. City, Liverpool third, Chelsea fourth. Well, on Thursday, we'll come back and Well, on Thursday, we'll come back and talk about the other 16 positions that talk about the other 16 positions that are up for grabs in this bold new are up for grabs in this bold new Premier League campaign and other stuff, Premier League campaign and other stuff, too, as we countd down. Of course, by too, as we countd down. Of course, by then it'll only be 24 hours or so by the then it'll only be 24 hours or so by the time Thursday show drops till the first time Thursday show drops till the first game that that Liverpool Bournemouth game that that Liverpool Bournemouth clash. So, make sure you join us for clash. So, make sure you join us for that a listener. For now, it's many that a listener. For now, it's many thanks to Charlie Akushchair. thanks to Charlie Akushchair. &gt;&gt; Thank you to Daniel's story and to &gt;&gt; Thank you to Daniel's story and to Duncan Alexander and also to George Duncan Alexander and also to George Corkin who joined us earlier to producer Corkin who joined us earlier to producer Lucy and you listener. Have a great Lucy and you listener. Have a great week. And remember, by the way, that week. And remember, by the way, that this season we'll be doing four shows a this season we'll be doing four shows a week on Tony Football Show. Not this week on Tony Football Show. Not this week cuz there's no Euro show, but there week cuz there's no Euro show, but there is an extra show that will be with you is an extra show that will be with you at the end of the week, probably at the end of the week, probably Saturday, which uh keep an eye out for Saturday, which uh keep an eye out for on here as well for that. Anyway, that's on here as well for that. Anyway, that's enough of me rambling from all of us enough of me rambling from all of us here. It's goodbye. The Totally Football here. It's goodbye. The Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a Show podcast is available three times a week, bringing you all the football news week, bringing you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care you could reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of we've got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around. And the best football writers around. And the whole thing is absolutely free. So the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the link below.