================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: rVYdm_QOWNk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rVYdm_QOWNk
TITLE: Making Predictions For Real Madrid And Barcelona For The 2025 - 2026 Season. CHURROS!
CHANNEL: Managing Madrid
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-13
DURATION: 1h 6m 18s
VIEWS: 927
LIKES: 52
COMMENTS: 1

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Patreon.com/churrosytacticas

On this episode of the Churros y Tácticas Podcast, Kiyan Sobhani and Diego Lorijn discuss:


Barca - Villarreal in MiamiReal Madrid’s stance against itIñigo Martinez departureMarcus Rashford’s pre-season performanceSeason predictions: Pichichi, most assists, breakout starWho will win La LigaWill Barcelona and Real Madrid improve from last year? Regress? Be stagnant?How much will Real Madrid improve with Xabi Alonso? Kiyan’s story about his son is seeing the light And more.


Did you enjoy these Churros? Get a more raw version once per week exclusively on Patreon.com/ChurrosyTacticas.
Co-host and chief editor of the Managing Madrid Podcast, Kiyan Sobhani, along with Diego Lorijn — Barca TV, VIVA La Liga TV host, delve into La Liga’s hottest topics. We scrutinize the biggest games, dissect the main talking points, and bring a unique and fresh perspective to Spanish football.
Do you enjoy this podcast? Become a patron and get access to a ton of bonus content!
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 22,696

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
And we are live folks. Yes indeed it is And we are live folks. Yes indeed it is Wednesday. It is the 13th of August. And Wednesday. It is the 13th of August. And look at that handsome man on my left. It look at that handsome man on my left. It is Kia Diego. We are back in the house. is Kia Diego. We are back in the house. How beautiful shirt with a beautiful tan How beautiful shirt with a beautiful tan as well. I've come out guns blazing as well. I've come out guns blazing because hey it is the first churus of because hey it is the first churus of the pre season. The 2526 season is about the pre season. The 2526 season is about to kick off this weekend. It is. And we to kick off this weekend. It is. And we are here for all of y'alls with our are here for all of y'alls with our predictions. So get ready. Strap predictions. So get ready. Strap yourselves in because these will not yourselves in because these will not leave anyone indifferent. Here we are, Keon. We are back at it Here we are, Keon. We are back at it once again. Like I said, at the cusp at once again. Like I said, at the cusp at uh the near beginning of match day one uh the near beginning of match day one to kickoff in La Liga EA Sports. And to kickoff in La Liga EA Sports. And dude, we're about to drop our dude, we're about to drop our predictions. I think predictions. I think for the eighth time, maybe even the for the eighth time, maybe even the ninth time, we're like eight seasons ninth time, we're like eight seasons in Churros. And so that in and of in Churros. And so that in and of itself, I think deserves a little round itself, I think deserves a little round of applause. Thank you all for joining of applause. Thank you all for joining us. And uh yeah, what do you got to say us. And uh yeah, what do you got to say about that, son? about that, son? I mean, when you put it that way, it's I mean, when you put it that way, it's really unbelievable to think about. really unbelievable to think about. eight seasons these day this day and eight seasons these day this day and age. How many marriages last like one age. How many marriages last like one season, let alone eight seasons of doing season, let alone eight seasons of doing this? And in the if there's any this? And in the if there's any any podcast that has a good reason to any podcast that has a good reason to break up, it's us. It's like break up, it's us. It's like just two completely polar opposite just two completely polar opposite views, a lot of salt, and uh we're still views, a lot of salt, and uh we're still going strong. And people people like the going strong. And people people like the salt. So I guess that's part of it is salt. So I guess that's part of it is like you guys demand it and we we show like you guys demand it and we we show up. So, uh, we have been active this up. So, uh, we have been active this summer for our patrons over on summer for our patrons over on patreon.com/churositacticas patreon.com/churositacticas patreon.com/churositacticas and will continue to be. But, um, now and will continue to be. But, um, now that the season is starting, we're back that the season is starting, we're back to the free and paid schedule. So, one to the free and paid schedule. So, one free, one paid episode per week and we free, one paid episode per week and we got got got this is it, man. It's it it's hard to this is it, man. It's it it's hard to believe, isn't it? Like like just we believe, isn't it? Like like just we snapped our fingers and the season is snapped our fingers and the season is starting already. starting already. starting already. It's crazy. It's crazy. I like you. I It's crazy. It's crazy. I like you. I like that analogy with the marriages and like that analogy with the marriages and that is why, you know, I've I've come that is why, you know, I've I've come out with the the summary shirt, you out with the the summary shirt, you know, unbuttoned, trying to keep this know, unbuttoned, trying to keep this relationship, you know, keep it relationship, you know, keep it exciting, keep it fresh, keep it uh exciting, keep it fresh, keep it uh you don't need to impress me, bro. You you don't need to impress me, bro. You don't need to impress me. I love you don't need to impress me. I love you just the way you are. Unbutton shirt or just the way you are. Unbutton shirt or not. not. not. Well, look, man, I had to match that Well, look, man, I had to match that beautiful tan. And I hope you and your beautiful tan. And I hope you and your family enjoyed your time off. We family enjoyed your time off. We certainly did as well. And as you said, certainly did as well. And as you said, rightfully said, we have been of course rightfully said, we have been of course providing content for our Patreons, but providing content for our Patreons, but we're back on the uh DSpot as well as we're back on the uh DSpot as well as Keon's channel, of course. And I feel Keon's channel, of course. And I feel like this is our year because we're like this is our year because we're starting fresh. You know, there's no starting fresh. You know, there's no exclusivity, exclusivity, exclusivity, interruptions, clauses that will mess interruptions, clauses that will mess with the flow of uh providing you guys with the flow of uh providing you guys with our opinions on Spanish football. with our opinions on Spanish football. uh you know it's it's it's like I I'm uh you know it's it's it's like I I'm gone from Bara so this is the first full gone from Bara so this is the first full season that I'll be able to devote to season that I'll be able to devote to our our humble podcast and like I said I our our humble podcast and like I said I feel like this is the year with the feel like this is the year with the support of all of you watching and support of all of you watching and listening you know keep uh spreading the listening you know keep uh spreading the love because I feel like this is our love because I feel like this is our true breakout season as I always say the true breakout season as I always say the most underrated and undervalued podcast most underrated and undervalued podcast right here that has been going for eight right here that has been going for eight seasons straight without fail and that seasons straight without fail and that deserves I a larger audience as well. deserves I a larger audience as well. Before we jump into predictions, can we Before we jump into predictions, can we do a quick summary of the things in the do a quick summary of the things in the past few weeks? Like I haven't watched a past few weeks? Like I haven't watched a lick of Barcelona preseason. I'm sure lick of Barcelona preseason. I'm sure you did not tune into Real Madrid's game you did not tune into Real Madrid's game against T-roll yesterday. Um and uh against T-roll yesterday. Um and uh maybe like things like Rashford, Inigo maybe like things like Rashford, Inigo Martinez is gone. You got this whole Martinez is gone. You got this whole weird weird weird Bara via Royale in Miami controversy Bara via Royale in Miami controversy that there's a lot of people with split that there's a lot of people with split opinions on that. Actually, I think most opinions on that. Actually, I think most people are against it, but I I don't people are against it, but I I don't know what you think about it. know what you think about it. We got some things to catch up on, We got some things to catch up on, right? right? right? Absolutely. Absolutely. So, you let me Absolutely. Absolutely. So, you let me know where you want to start, man. I know where you want to start, man. I mean, uh it is uh a little bit I would mean, uh it is uh a little bit I would say the hot potato right now is probably say the hot potato right now is probably this game against Varal that will be this game against Varal that will be played in Miami. This was a proposal played in Miami. This was a proposal that uh we discussed or had to entertain that uh we discussed or had to entertain a couple seasons ago. can I I want to a couple seasons ago. can I I want to say it was precoid or no was it postcoid say it was precoid or no was it postcoid Jesus Christ there was at some point I Jesus Christ there was at some point I think it was a barona that was going think it was a barona that was going it was not long ago I think it was after it was not long ago I think it was after co co co after co okay that obviously didn't come after co okay that obviously didn't come to fruition but it looks like this one to fruition but it looks like this one will um will um will um with the okay for president the with the okay for president the president of varal he's given the green president of varal he's given the green light Bara have as well of course now light Bara have as well of course now the uh I guess elephant in the room is the uh I guess elephant in the room is the fact that this game is supposed to the fact that this game is supposed to be disputed in Laamika over in Val so be disputed in Laamika over in Val so it's an away game for Barad tough it's an away game for Barad tough stadium I say tough I mean Val is a good stadium I say tough I mean Val is a good team they have strengthened themselves team they have strengthened themselves even though that uh last season it was even though that uh last season it was not so much of a contest for us but not so much of a contest for us but usually on the calendar it's one of usually on the calendar it's one of those that is marked red seeing as Val those that is marked red seeing as Val is one of the top contenders for the is one of the top contenders for the Champions league spots. Um the argument Champions league spots. Um the argument from Debas and company is to promote La from Debas and company is to promote La Liga. We've seen this initiative uh take Liga. We've seen this initiative uh take place with the Super Cup as well, the place with the Super Cup as well, the Spanish Super Cup. Obviously, as you Spanish Super Cup. Obviously, as you pointed out, Kean, the money, money, pointed out, Kean, the money, money, money. It is all about the money, isn't money. It is all about the money, isn't it? And uh I don't really see how this it? And uh I don't really see how this bene benefits anybody uh other than bene benefits anybody uh other than maybe Debbas's pockets. I mean, how does maybe Debbas's pockets. I mean, how does I think it benefits Barca I think it benefits Barca and it well I I will agree with that. I and it well I I will agree with that. I think the fact that we Well, look, I I think the fact that we Well, look, I I say I agree with that. Via Real away is say I agree with that. Via Real away is always a tough game, but the fact that always a tough game, but the fact that both teams have to travel to foreign both teams have to travel to foreign lands, distant lands, play in a venue lands, distant lands, play in a venue that nobody is really used to with the that nobody is really used to with the time zone difference, the jet lags, you time zone difference, the jet lags, you know, the the uncomfortable nature of of know, the the uncomfortable nature of of these longdistance travels being kind of these longdistance travels being kind of shoehorned into the midst of a La Liga shoehorned into the midst of a La Liga season. I don't know if you could really season. I don't know if you could really call it a benefit for Barca. The fact call it a benefit for Barca. The fact that they're not that Bal are not that they're not that Bal are not playing at home ground is clearly not a playing at home ground is clearly not a benefit for them. Um, and you know, here benefit for them. Um, and you know, here we are again, man, at at these kind of we are again, man, at at these kind of like creative innovative ways from La like creative innovative ways from La Liga to try to promote the uh Spanish Liga to try to promote the uh Spanish league within the US. I I you know, I league within the US. I I you know, I don't like it. I I don't see the purpose don't like it. I I don't see the purpose of it on uh in the greater scheme of it on uh in the greater scheme either. I don't see the benefit really either. I don't see the benefit really in the grand scheme of it for anybody. I think other than the fans in Miami I think other than the fans in Miami actually that get to see of course you actually that get to see of course you know yeah that that they're the big know yeah that that they're the big benefit benefit benefit and and most of those guys will and and most of those guys will obviously be Barcela fans because I obviously be Barcela fans because I don't imagine there's many VR fans in don't imagine there's many VR fans in Miami. I'm sure they exist and uh Miami. I'm sure they exist and uh apologies for offending you guys, but apologies for offending you guys, but it's certainly not going to be a big it's certainly not going to be a big scale of people. I do like the fact that scale of people. I do like the fact that they can offer the VR Royale fans they can offer the VR Royale fans travel and accommodation and tickets is travel and accommodation and tickets is to me like how much money are they to me like how much money are they making to be able to offer that? That's making to be able to offer that? That's crazy. I mean like to be able to offer crazy. I mean like to be able to offer to that and still make a profit is I to that and still make a profit is I mean they must be making a killing doing mean they must be making a killing doing something like that. I do like I think something like that. I do like I think the argument like the people who I don't even know if there's any people I don't even know if there's any people who actually do support that aspect of who actually do support that aspect of it. But like I think it's not just the it. But like I think it's not just the travel and accommodation being paid for travel and accommodation being paid for that makes it easy or difficult for that makes it easy or difficult for these guys. I still think it's difficult these guys. I still think it's difficult for the fans to travel to Miami cuz you for the fans to travel to Miami cuz you think about like you need to take time think about like you need to take time off. You need to like you buy food. It's off. You need to like you buy food. It's not cheap in Miami. You are still going not cheap in Miami. You are still going to be in the hole financially as opposed to be in the hole financially as opposed to just walking to the stadium. And I as to just walking to the stadium. And I as you saw like Real put out the statement you saw like Real put out the statement where they are like vehematly against where they are like vehematly against the idea and they're they're writing to the idea and they're they're writing to FIFA and UEFA to to stop this from FIFA and UEFA to to stop this from happening. happening. happening. I mean like as a Real Madrid fan, I mean like as a Real Madrid fan, I personally want Barca to play that I personally want Barca to play that game in the Salam and not in Miami game in the Salam and not in Miami because I just know that for a direct because I just know that for a direct rival of ours, rival of ours, it is more likely for Barcela to drop it is more likely for Barcela to drop points at the Sam than it is in Miami points at the Sam than it is in Miami where a ton of Barca fans are going to where a ton of Barca fans are going to show up to that game. Right. And it's show up to that game. Right. And it's not going to feel like an away game for not going to feel like an away game for them, I think, even if you get a bunch them, I think, even if you get a bunch of ERL fans out. of ERL fans out. Mhm. Yeah. It'll feel like a friendly Mhm. Yeah. It'll feel like a friendly where you know that three important where you know that three important points are at stake, but it'll be like points are at stake, but it'll be like one of those weird one of those weird preseason like atmospheres. preseason like atmospheres. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um now like there is part of me that Um now like there is part of me that like as a if if Real Madrid played in like as a if if Real Madrid played in Miami mid-season as like a you know and Miami mid-season as like a you know and I have some bias towards this like you I have some bias towards this like you know it's pretty easy for me to get to know it's pretty easy for me to get to Miami. It's a nice city to go to. I Miami. It's a nice city to go to. I always like an excuse to go to Miami but always like an excuse to go to Miami but still even still doesn't make sense. still even still doesn't make sense. Like I wouldn't want Ram to play that Like I wouldn't want Ram to play that game either. game either. game either. Um I it seems like it's going to go Um I it seems like it's going to go ahead, but there are forces that may ahead, but there are forces that may still block it. So I I don't really know still block it. So I I don't really know exactly what's going to happen, but exactly what's going to happen, but there's certainly like even any Barca there's certainly like even any Barca fan I've talked to was against the idea. fan I've talked to was against the idea. So it's kind of interesting to see how So it's kind of interesting to see how this will play out. But I do think if it this will play out. But I do think if it does happen and I think part of Real's does happen and I think part of Real's statement is to block the inevitable statement is to block the inevitable that they'll have to go to cuz if it that they'll have to go to cuz if it starts with Barca via Real, it's not starts with Barca via Real, it's not going to be long before Real Madrid are going to be long before Real Madrid are summoned to go to the US, right? And I summoned to go to the US, right? And I think this is their way of saying like, think this is their way of saying like, hey, we're not doing this if the day hey, we're not doing this if the day comes. Like we're against these guys comes. Like we're against these guys going to Miami and we're definitely going to Miami and we're definitely going to be against us going to Miami. going to be against us going to Miami. And I think the league as a whole, they And I think the league as a whole, they have to think about like why are we have to think about like why are we sending it's it's not just this like the sending it's it's not just this like the Saudi Arabia Super Cup thing is also Saudi Arabia Super Cup thing is also nonsense. We both know that. So like the nonsense. We both know that. So like the league as a whole has to look at it and league as a whole has to look at it and be like we're sending our teams, we want be like we're sending our teams, we want our teams to do well in European our teams to do well in European competitions. We want our teams to competitions. We want our teams to compete for Champions League titles, compete for Champions League titles, Europa Conference Europa League titles, Europa Conference League titles, etc. League titles, etc. Is that helping the cause that we're Is that helping the cause that we're sending them mid-season to Saudi Arabia sending them mid-season to Saudi Arabia and the USA whereas teams in the Premier and the USA whereas teams in the Premier League are not doing that and they're League are not doing that and they're going to be an advantage against us in going to be an advantage against us in Europe for example? Like all these Europe for example? Like all these things are important to me. But again, things are important to me. But again, like we're at a stage now where there's like we're at a stage now where there's so much money involved that these are so much money involved that these are that's essentially the barrier because that's essentially the barrier because we can all agree from a sporting we can all agree from a sporting perspective it doesn't make much sense. perspective it doesn't make much sense. from a marketing perspective like okay I from a marketing perspective like okay I mean I I don't know to me like you mean I I don't know to me like you always got to cater towards the local always got to cater towards the local fans everything from kickoff time to fans everything from kickoff time to like if if you're this was a huge thing like if if you're this was a huge thing in the US too these 3 p.m. off times in in the US too these 3 p.m. off times in the sun because they wanted to the sun because they wanted to accommodate people in Asia. Like no, you accommodate people in Asia. Like no, you got to accommodate the people got to you got to accommodate the people who are going to the games, the players who are going to the games, the players who have to play in the heat. These who have to play in the heat. These games should be at like 9:00, 10:00. If games should be at like 9:00, 10:00. If you're a fan, you're going to wake up in you're a fan, you're going to wake up in Europe. You're going to wake up in Asia Europe. You're going to wake up in Asia for these things. So, I I ultimately for these things. So, I I ultimately think it's it's a it might set a bad think it's it's a it might set a bad precedent of like a a portal opening up precedent of like a a portal opening up to more and more cuz if it I'm just to more and more cuz if it I'm just going to say right now, if it does going to say right now, if it does happen, it's going to be successful happen, it's going to be successful when I I hate to admit it, it's going to when I I hate to admit it, it's going to be successful because the stadium's be successful because the stadium's going to be packed and they're going to going to be packed and they're going to make a lot of money in it. They like, make a lot of money in it. They like, "Oh, see that wasn't so bad after all, "Oh, see that wasn't so bad after all, was it?" The same thing happened with was it?" The same thing happened with the Club World Cup. Um, now mind you, the Club World Cup. Um, now mind you, the stadiums weren't all packed for the stadiums weren't all packed for that, but they did make a ton of moola, that, but they did make a ton of moola, so you know, they're going to repeat it. so you know, they're going to repeat it. It's just going to be a gateway drug. It's just going to be a gateway drug. It's going to be a portal for more and It's going to be a portal for more and more stuff in the USA. And even me, who more stuff in the USA. And even me, who was going to be very biased towards was going to be very biased towards stuff in North America because it's easy stuff in North America because it's easy for me to go to, I still don't think for me to go to, I still don't think it's a good idea. it's a good idea. Yeah, I saw tweets calling this sort of Yeah, I saw tweets calling this sort of the demise now that even going so far to the demise now that even going so far to say it as the death of La Liga. I just say it as the death of La Liga. I just looked at the date when it'll be played. looked at the date when it'll be played. Looks like it would be the last game Looks like it would be the last game before the winter break. So, I guess before the winter break. So, I guess that is kind of I could imagine the that is kind of I could imagine the excuse that Debas, if he comes out and excuse that Debas, if he comes out and makes a public statement, will kind of makes a public statement, will kind of hold on to to say, "Look, it is the last hold on to to say, "Look, it is the last game they can fly back, be with their game they can fly back, be with their families for Christmas, and then rest families for Christmas, and then rest until La Liga resumes once again." Uh, until La Liga resumes once again." Uh, but I I would agree with you. I do think but I I would agree with you. I do think it does set a poor president and and and it does set a poor president and and and and opens the gateway and opens the gateway to potentially to potentially to potentially a classical to be played there. Not a a classical to be played there. Not a friendly, but one that actually has friendly, but one that actually has points at stake. And which team would points at stake. And which team would actually budge to give up the revenue actually budge to give up the revenue and of course the home uh stadium and of course the home uh stadium advantage. That is the big question. But advantage. That is the big question. But I think eventually I think eventually it might uh lead to that if this pattern it might uh lead to that if this pattern would continue, would continue, would continue, you know, in in in an upcoming seasons. you know, in in in an upcoming seasons. It it also just feels so random. I know It it also just feels so random. I know that the NBA has played official games that the NBA has played official games away. away. away. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know the success of those. I I don't know the success of those. I don't know how it has affected players. don't know how it has affected players. I would doubt that there has been much I would doubt that there has been much of an uproar from within the uh NBA of an uproar from within the uh NBA community with regards to those games. community with regards to those games. just given the fact that, you know, the just given the fact that, you know, the sheer amount of games that are played sheer amount of games that are played throughout a season anyway. I don't throughout a season anyway. I don't know. I'm just I'm speaking out of know. I'm just I'm speaking out of ignorance here, but I could imagine that ignorance here, but I could imagine that it wouldn't have such a massive, you it wouldn't have such a massive, you know, uh push back, let's say. Uh but know, uh push back, let's say. Uh but yeah, this is just, you know, I could yeah, this is just, you know, I could see a snowball effect here and uh I see a snowball effect here and uh I don't like it. I don't really I'm not in don't like it. I don't really I'm not in for in favor for this. No. and and and for in favor for this. No. and and and also finally it I do think it hinders also finally it I do think it hinders more the more humble teams let's say more the more humble teams let's say than the Madrids and Barcas like they than the Madrids and Barcas like they wouldn't take a home game away from us wouldn't take a home game away from us just because of everything you know the just because of everything you know the home games for any team is a m not just home games for any team is a m not just advantage but it it in terms of revenue advantage but it it in terms of revenue income you know seats sales etc it's income you know seats sales etc it's such a huge thing but when you're such a huge thing but when you're talking baras Madrid, it's it's it's talking baras Madrid, it's it's it's exponential the scale to which uh you exponential the scale to which uh you know the money that the teams make when know the money that the teams make when with these home games and and I think with these home games and and I think they have too much power to you know they have too much power to you know give the green light to to actually have give the green light to to actually have that take place. that take place. The the idea of a classical happening in The the idea of a classical happening in the US is just so crazy to me. It the US is just so crazy to me. It doesn't really make any sense at all. doesn't really make any sense at all. Like neither Barcel or Rams I think Like neither Barcel or Rams I think would budge on that. would budge on that. My son is pointing a Nerf gun at my My son is pointing a Nerf gun at my head. Um head. Um head. Um in case you're wondering what that is. in case you're wondering what that is. Um Um Um maybe a Copa del Rey final. maybe a Copa del Rey final. Well, have you heard Well, have you heard round round round the the the Champions League final being the the the Champions League final being played in in Saudi and stuff like that. played in in Saudi and stuff like that. It's inevitable, bro. It's inevitable, bro. It's inevitable. It's inevitable. It's inevitable. Yeah. So, we'll see. We'll see what Yeah. So, we'll see. We'll see what happens, I guess. I mean, I don't know. happens, I guess. I mean, I don't know. I'm I'm I'm curious to see how it'll I'm I'm I'm curious to see how it'll unfold. Um couple more questions before unfold. Um couple more questions before we dive into predictions. Enigo we dive into predictions. Enigo Martinez, Martinez, Martinez, your best defender. your best defender. One of the best. Yeah, definitely a One of the best. Yeah, definitely a leader in the backline. I think that's a leader in the backline. I think that's a huge miss. I'm eager to hear from Inigo huge miss. I'm eager to hear from Inigo himself. There's a lot that has has been himself. There's a lot that has has been said with regards to his departure, said with regards to his departure, whether it was fully or not, his will or whether it was fully or not, his will or whether, you know, he's one of those whether, you know, he's one of those players like players before that have players like players before that have left. uh I'm referring to like uh left. uh I'm referring to like uh Oubamei Young or or or Gundigan for Oubamei Young or or or Gundigan for example that kind of left to alleviate example that kind of left to alleviate salary cap and Laora came out and said salary cap and Laora came out and said look we had five defenders one uh had to look we had five defenders one uh had to sort of leave. Uh sort of leave. Uh should it have been in ego? I I would should it have been in ego? I I would like to hear from Hansifle and the like to hear from Hansifle and the defender himself really to hear their defender himself really to hear their true and honest opinions about this true and honest opinions about this departure cuz it's definitely a setback departure cuz it's definitely a setback and it doesn't look like we are going to and it doesn't look like we are going to be filling that position. it's hard to be filling that position. it's hard to uh fill in the boots with somebody that uh fill in the boots with somebody that jelled so well in the dressing room that jelled so well in the dressing room that became uh as I said one of the you know became uh as I said one of the you know symbolic captains and leaders for this symbolic captains and leaders for this very very young squad and um it's yeah I very very young squad and um it's yeah I don't know I again it was it was a don't know I again it was it was a setback for me it wasn't a good wasn't setback for me it wasn't a good wasn't good news it wasn't received with uh good news it wasn't received with uh fireworks because maybe it will fireworks because maybe it will alleviate the registration of inyaki alleviate the registration of inyaki pñena or and so forth which the club pñena or and so forth which the club still has problems with and that is still has problems with and that is something that is you know given me an something that is you know given me an ongoing headache as well. It's like, my ongoing headache as well. It's like, my goodness, how many seasons has it been goodness, how many seasons has it been now that every summer transfer and now that every summer transfer and winter for that matter, we're we're winter for that matter, we're we're still approaching the first match day still approaching the first match day without our players, the the entire without our players, the the entire squad being being fully registered and squad being being fully registered and then then then not good. Not good. He he spoke very candidly about this He he spoke very candidly about this that that that I'm 34. I'm 34. I'm 34. I you never know what's going to happen I you never know what's going to happen in football. Like god forbid I get an in football. Like god forbid I get an injury. This is my last chance probably injury. This is my last chance probably to get a big bag in which case like you to get a big bag in which case like you know you can't really blame the guy can know you can't really blame the guy can you? you? you? It just sucks for Barca. Um but It just sucks for Barca. Um but I don't know if that is the the God I don't know if that is the the God honest truth though. There's been a lot honest truth though. There's been a lot of rumors. of rumors. of rumors. Well so tell so tell me what you think Well so tell so tell me what you think is is is No, I don't know. I I you No, I don't know. I I you know the rumors are that he actually is know the rumors are that he actually is doing the club a favor that they were doing the club a favor that they were like hey it would you have an offer for like hey it would you have an offer for Saudi it would kind of you know we Saudi it would kind of you know we wouldn't see it completely with bad eyes wouldn't see it completely with bad eyes if you were to accept that offer it if you were to accept that offer it could alleviate some of the salary cap could alleviate some of the salary cap and and give us more mobility to and and give us more mobility to register other players but then also register other players but then also but in the end so not not to defend but in the end so not not to defend Barca here because I don't care about Barca here because I don't care about doing that but I kind of would defend doing that but I kind of would defend Barca here because like I actually saw a Barca here because like I actually saw a lot of people who were taking shots at lot of people who were taking shots at Barca for pushing him out to register Barca for pushing him out to register players. I'm like players. I'm like ultimately like it's going to be his ultimately like it's going to be his decision, not Barca's. He's going to be decision, not Barca's. He's going to be be being paid handsomely. And also why be being paid handsomely. And also why would Barca want to lose their best would Barca want to lose their best defender? defender? defender? Fine, like get into a Kubari debate if Fine, like get into a Kubari debate if you want, but that's not the point. Like you want, but that's not the point. Like you know, you're not your you know, you're not your your defensive line gets worse without your defensive line gets worse without him. There's no question. him. There's no question. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So So So yeah. yeah. yeah. Yeah. I would have I would hope that the Yeah. I would have I would hope that the ultimate decision is was taken between ultimate decision is was taken between Flick and and Inigo himself and that it Flick and and Inigo himself and that it wasn't anything having to do with the wasn't anything having to do with the club finances and the directors getting club finances and the directors getting involved in this decision. involved in this decision. Yeah. Uh all right. So Rashford we spoke Yeah. Uh all right. So Rashford we spoke about I think on the patron pod. I don't about I think on the patron pod. I don't have anything else to say about him. You have anything else to say about him. You guys should just sign up and listen to guys should just sign up and listen to the Patreon pod. We did one uh right the Patreon pod. We did one uh right when like Rashford was signed basically. when like Rashford was signed basically. Yeah. I don't know if you got to see him Yeah. I don't know if you got to see him in in action a little bit. in in action a little bit. You're you're asking me to tune in to You're you're asking me to tune in to Barcelona friendly games. Where are they Barcelona friendly games. Where are they playing right now? Australia. Malaysia. playing right now? Australia. Malaysia. I know. I know you do. I know this I know. I know you do. I know this mentality of you. You are tuned in every mentality of you. You are tuned in every game that we have played. game that we have played. Caught me, bro. I'm actually at the Caught me, bro. I'm actually at the games. games. games. You know you're going to be in Miami at You know you're going to be in Miami at that bar game. So, um I like what I see I like what I see and uh you know, from a player that was and uh you know, from a player that was deemed lazy and unproductive, not a team deemed lazy and unproductive, not a team player by Manchester United fans, and player by Manchester United fans, and I'm probably grossly generalizing here, I'm probably grossly generalizing here, and this not everyone's opinion, but and this not everyone's opinion, but sort of the gist that I got on social sort of the gist that I got on social media. I see somebody that is um engaged media. I see somebody that is um engaged and excited to play with this crop of and excited to play with this crop of players. I don't know if you caught wind players. I don't know if you caught wind of the interview that he had with uh of the interview that he had with uh Gary Lker on on his podcast where he sat Gary Lker on on his podcast where he sat down with him and uh spoke about, you down with him and uh spoke about, you know, his adaptation so far. And you know, his adaptation so far. And you know, he definitely seems that he's know, he definitely seems that he's somebody that is there to with a chip on somebody that is there to with a chip on his shoulder to prove a point and he his shoulder to prove a point and he sees this as a chance to make a big sees this as a chance to make a big impact uh you know, domestically but impact uh you know, domestically but internationally as well and kind of internationally as well and kind of reaffirm or restate his place on the map reaffirm or restate his place on the map of uh the game of football after a very of uh the game of football after a very decent individual season with Villa to decent individual season with Villa to now do that on a on a grander scale at now do that on a on a grander scale at Barca. So he gave an assist in the game. Barca. So he gave an assist in the game. He uh should have gotten a goal as well. He uh should have gotten a goal as well. He he he missed an absolute sitter that He he he missed an absolute sitter that that would have made the blooper reels that would have made the blooper reels if it had been a La Liga season. if it had been a La Liga season. Fortunately, it wasn't in the game Fortunately, it wasn't in the game against Ko uh against Ces Fabrigas's against Ko uh against Ces Fabrigas's humble Italian side. We walked away with humble Italian side. We walked away with a 5n and uh the team looks good, man. I a 5n and uh the team looks good, man. I I am excited for the start of the I am excited for the start of the season. Can't wait for the game against season. Can't wait for the game against Mayora. I think it'll be a good Mayora. I think it'll be a good challenge. Mayora, a team that already challenge. Mayora, a team that already last season proved to be a tough nut to last season proved to be a tough nut to crack. So, yeah, let the games begin. crack. So, yeah, let the games begin. Let the games begin and then I'm excited Let the games begin and then I'm excited to see and and follow the progress and to see and and follow the progress and the the development of a of a Rashford. the the development of a of a Rashford. So, you guys won the Gamper. So, you guys won the Gamper. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. That's good. You guys can add that to That's good. You guys can add that to your trophy cabinet because you always your trophy cabinet because you always count that when you talk about all the count that when you talk about all the trophies you've won. Um, trophies you've won. Um, you know it, baby. Every single one. you know it, baby. Every single one. Congratulations on that. Um, so I have Congratulations on that. Um, so I have some questions for you. some questions for you. And I thought before we get into like And I thought before we get into like team predictions, I thought we could team predictions, I thought we could like talk about like other predictions like talk about like other predictions first. first. first. Okay. Okay. Okay. And I'm surprising with you with these And I'm surprising with you with these and that's I think kind of part of the and that's I think kind of part of the fun of it that you didn't get to fun of it that you didn't get to prepare. And I didn't really get to prepare. And I didn't really get to prepare either. I I I really only prepare either. I I I really only thought about the questions I was going thought about the questions I was going to ask you and not my answers to those to ask you and not my answers to those questions. But questions. But questions. But I thought we could start with I thought we could start with the Pichi for this upcoming season. Who the Pichi for this upcoming season. Who do you think is uh grabbing that? do you think is uh grabbing that? Uh Pichi, it wouldn't surprise me if Uh Pichi, it wouldn't surprise me if Mbappe takes it. I Mbappe takes it. I think that he think that he I didn't catch many preseason games. I I didn't catch many preseason games. I did notice that from what I did see, the did notice that from what I did see, the highlights I should say, that he looks highlights I should say, that he looks fit and uh lost a couple of kilos. I fit and uh lost a couple of kilos. I don't know, he just looks uh don't know, he just looks uh Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, he looks some weight. He looks more he looks some weight. He looks more agile, a little bit more explosive. agile, a little bit more explosive. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I could see him becoming Yeah. So, I could see him becoming definitely well, as he was last season, definitely well, as he was last season, the focal point for Madi's offense. So I the focal point for Madi's offense. So I could see Mbappe catch the Pichici could see Mbappe catch the Pichici because uh it would hugely surprise me because uh it would hugely surprise me if Leandowski repeats the season that he if Leandowski repeats the season that he had last season. Not to say Rafina and had last season. Not to say Rafina and Laminal who I think definitely Lamina I Laminal who I think definitely Lamina I think will get more goals than he did think will get more goals than he did last season, but I think the goals for last season, but I think the goals for Bara who are of course the highest Bara who are of course the highest scoring team in in Europe last season. scoring team in in Europe last season. we will see those goals be divided up we will see those goals be divided up more between the front three whereas more between the front three whereas individually an Mbappe could rack up individually an Mbappe could rack up more goals for for Madrid. I was going to say Mbappe. Um I think I was going to say Mbappe. Um I think but I think it's a bit of an easy but I think it's a bit of an easy prediction to make based on the amount prediction to make based on the amount of goals he put up last season and how of goals he put up last season and how good he looks right now in terms of his good he looks right now in terms of his uh you know his physical preparation I uh you know his physical preparation I guess for lack of better words. But I guess for lack of better words. But I was going to go with Mbappe as well. was going to go with Mbappe as well. This one is a bit more interesting. Who This one is a bit more interesting. Who do you think is going to get the most do you think is going to get the most assists in La Liga? assists in La Liga? So, that one I think will go to So, that one I think will go to Laminyama. I think that he will get the Laminyama. I think that he will get the most assists. Uh again, last season, one most assists. Uh again, last season, one of the top assist providers. We see how of the top assist providers. We see how nifty Crafty is with uh providing passes nifty Crafty is with uh providing passes from one end of the uh pitch to the from one end of the uh pitch to the other using the outside of the boot and other using the outside of the boot and and the way he wiggles and works his way and the way he wiggles and works his way into the box. A generous player with a into the box. A generous player with a great vision. I think it would surprise great vision. I think it would surprise me if Lamin doesn't become the top me if Lamin doesn't become the top assist provider. So that one uh will assist provider. So that one uh will fall for Lamine. Yeah. Okay. Um we're fall for Lamine. Yeah. Okay. Um we're going to go with Art Guler. going to go with Art Guler. Oh my god. Oh my god. See, somebody bookmark that laugh and See, somebody bookmark that laugh and Diego's reaction at the end of the Diego's reaction at the end of the season when we come back to it season when we come back to it cuz I want I want that reaction. cuz I want I want that reaction. Please. Please. Please. Somebody please do. Somebody please do. Where's his medic? Where's where his Where's his medic? Where's where his medi at? By the way, I bookmarked my own medi at? By the way, I bookmarked my own take when I said I wouldn't trade Gouair take when I said I wouldn't trade Gouair for anybody last year, including Lamin, for anybody last year, including Lamin, and I got grilled and dragged on the and I got grilled and dragged on the internet. Bookmark that as well, cuz I'm internet. Bookmark that as well, cuz I'm I'm bringing that back up and saying I I'm bringing that back up and saying I told you so very soon told you so very soon within I have a two-year window. I'm within I have a two-year window. I'm going to resurface that. I'm going to going to resurface that. I'm going to dig it out from underneath the earth and dig it out from underneath the earth and I'm going to I'm going to throw it in I'm going to throw it in people's faces as well. people's faces as well. It'll come back to haunt you for It'll come back to haunt you for decades, my friend. Decades. decades, my friend. Decades. So, I don't think so. So, I don't think so. Um, so all right, you got we both got Um, so all right, you got we both got Mbappe for Pici, you have Lameyama for Mbappe for Pici, you have Lameyama for the top assist. I have Arguer. the top assist. I have Arguer. What about like breakout player of the What about like breakout player of the season? This the player that no one's season? This the player that no one's really talking about, maybe not really talking about, maybe not expected. expected. expected. I'm assuming you're going to throw I'm assuming you're going to throw in someone from you're going to throw in someone from Barcel or something that we don't know Barcel or something that we don't know about. But about. But about. But I could I could I could. It it's just I could I could I could. It it's just that, you know, the way that Atlético that, you know, the way that Atlético have been moving with all of their have been moving with all of their acquisitions, all of their new arrivals, acquisitions, all of their new arrivals, plenty of which, you know, are new to me plenty of which, you know, are new to me as well, as well, as well, uh, but sort of known uh, definitely on uh, but sort of known uh, definitely on the European stage. I'm quietly kind of the European stage. I'm quietly kind of hoping that we will see a breakout hoping that we will see a breakout player emerge from an opposing team. player emerge from an opposing team. Obviously, you know, I'm I'm back in my Obviously, you know, I'm I'm back in my players and I'm hoping that the likes of players and I'm hoping that the likes of uh you know, who is it? Dro or or Rooney uh you know, who is it? Dro or or Rooney Bargie or all of these new guys that are Bargie or all of these new guys that are coming up uh from from from the Bara coming up uh from from from the Bara youth ranks will crack that and and take youth ranks will crack that and and take those honors. But, um Rooney Bargie, who those honors. But, um Rooney Bargie, who by the way is is I don't know if you by the way is is I don't know if you knew of him before. He's u knew of him before. He's u Iraq. I think he was born in Kuwait if Iraq. I think he was born in Kuwait if I'm not mistaken. He is a Swedish by I'm not mistaken. He is a Swedish by nationality, but somebody that was nationality, but somebody that was completely new to me that I definitely completely new to me that I definitely had to do some research on and educate had to do some research on and educate myself that is a very interesting myself that is a very interesting player, hugely suited, I think, for a player, hugely suited, I think, for a team like Bara and La Liga as well that team like Bara and La Liga as well that could potentially uh crack that honors, could potentially uh crack that honors, you know, be the the sixth man or let's you know, be the the sixth man or let's say the the revelation player of the say the the revelation player of the season. But uh I don't know, season. But uh I don't know, Atlético like I said have got a a lot of Atlético like I said have got a a lot of new players. new players. new players. uh Gaspadori from Napoli, Almada from uh uh Gaspadori from Napoli, Almada from uh Botaafogo, uh Bayena who obviously is a Botaafogo, uh Bayena who obviously is a very much of a experienced La Liga very much of a experienced La Liga player, but Hano although he's a central player, but Hano although he's a central defender, Cardoso from Betty's now with defender, Cardoso from Betty's now with uh Atletico de Madrid, they if I'm not uh Atletico de Madrid, they if I'm not mistaken, again, of the nine players mistaken, again, of the nine players that they have brought in, five of those that they have brought in, five of those could quite easily be starters. So Diego could quite easily be starters. So Diego Simeon is dealing with a team that that Simeon is dealing with a team that that is is is I think on paper more offensive. I think on paper more offensive. We might be surprised to see a player We might be surprised to see a player emerge from from Atletico de Madrid be emerge from from Atletico de Madrid be the revelation player and and and I'm the revelation player and and and I'm I'm sure I'm not doing justice to the uh I'm sure I'm not doing justice to the uh acquisitions or the the youth players acquisitions or the the youth players that are being promoted from the other that are being promoted from the other teams to uh the other the rest of La teams to uh the other the rest of La Liga teams. But uh look, pen come to Liga teams. But uh look, pen come to paper, push come to shove. I guess you paper, push come to shove. I guess you know, I'll stick with my homegrown know, I'll stick with my homegrown players and and I'll say Rooney Bargie. players and and I'll say Rooney Bargie. Yeah, I think Atletico I feel like we Yeah, I think Atletico I feel like we have that conversation with them every have that conversation with them every summer. It's like summer. It's like has it ever been this drastic, you know? has it ever been this drastic, you know? I feel like it's pretty normal for I feel like it's pretty normal for Atléico. I mean, I have to go back I Atléico. I mean, I have to go back I mean, and and and look at it, but mean, and and and look at it, but they're they're generally very busy in they're they're generally very busy in the transfer market. They always have the transfer market. They always have like one like one like one relatively big name. This year it's relatively big name. This year it's Bayena, but like Bayena, but like they just also have like 10 to 12 like they just also have like 10 to 12 like under the radar signings. Last year, under the radar signings. Last year, like if you go look at their 2024 like if you go look at their 2024 summer, it was also crazy. Like there summer, it was also crazy. Like there was just so many movements, so many was just so many movements, so many things happening. And then we always things happening. And then we always I mean last year they also brought in I mean last year they also brought in Alvarez and Connor Gallagher, Len Alvarez and Connor Gallagher, Len Norman. Norman. Norman. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thoroth came in, Longlay came in. Like Thoroth came in, Longlay came in. Like it was just also a lot. Jiao Felix went it was just also a lot. Jiao Felix went out. There was a lot of changes there out. There was a lot of changes there too. And then we always see them like too. And then we always see them like for the first few games like oh this is for the first few games like oh this is a new offensive Diego Simeone who's a new offensive Diego Simeone who's finally going to play offensive football finally going to play offensive football and then they just ended up it's just and then they just ended up it's just the same every year to me. But I am the same every year to me. But I am going to go with a biased but correct going to go with a biased but correct pick. I think it's going to be Gonzalo pick. I think it's going to be Gonzalo Garcia who's going to be uh the break Garcia who's going to be uh the break star star star the name of of of you know the preseason the name of of of you know the preseason for the club world cup. Uh, I figured for the club world cup. Uh, I figured you were going to mention Gonzalo. you were going to mention Gonzalo. That's why I, uh, left that one for you. That's why I, uh, left that one for you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Uh, could be. Could be. I mean, what do Uh, could be. Could be. I mean, what do you know of him from last season from you know of him from last season from playing with Gast Castillia with with playing with Gast Castillia with with Arloa? Is is he a player that will he Arloa? Is is he a player that will he get the number nine? What's the deal get the number nine? What's the deal with him and Enrich? I guess that's my with him and Enrich? I guess that's my those are my main questions. those are my main questions. Enrich's getting the nine. Um, Enrich's getting the nine. Um, is he? is he? is he? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So, I don't I don't know if it's Yeah. So, I don't I don't know if it's official yet. I you know, I honestly official yet. I you know, I honestly can't remember what's official and can't remember what's official and what's not, but it may very well be what's not, but it may very well be official. I can't remember. Um, I'm trying to figure out where to bring I'm trying to figure out where to bring you up to speed from with regards to you up to speed from with regards to Gonzalo Garcia because Gonzalo Garcia because I don't remember how much ha have we I don't remember how much ha have we talked about him at all this summer. I talked about him at all this summer. I honestly don't know. honestly don't know. But uh last But uh last You mean on churros or or just You mean on churros or or just Yeah. Onuros? I mean Yeah. Onuros? I mean Okay. Yeah. No, no, not too much. No, Okay. Yeah. No, no, not too much. No, I think the So, what happened last I think the So, what happened last season was that Carlo called him up season was that Carlo called him up scoratically because he had the most scoratically because he had the most goals of any Castillia player in a goals of any Castillia player in a single season ever. Um, funny enough, single season ever. Um, funny enough, equaled Mar. It was It's a tie between equaled Mar. It was It's a tie between him and Mariano Diaz. Um, so hopefully him and Mariano Diaz. Um, so hopefully Mariano was not the example we want to Mariano was not the example we want to follow here, but he had a very, very follow here, but he had a very, very good season with Castillia. And then good season with Castillia. And then anytime Angelotti called him up, he anytime Angelotti called him up, he looked fantastic. I mean, these are very looked fantastic. I mean, these are very limited minutes, mind you, and they're limited minutes, mind you, and they're not huge games. Although he had he had a not huge games. Although he had he had a very big moment in a Copa del Rey game very big moment in a Copa del Rey game and he's really promising. And then I and he's really promising. And then I think the more surprising thing is even think the more surprising thing is even the people who really believed in him the people who really believed in him um including me were surprised that he um including me were surprised that he started the first game of the club World started the first game of the club World Cup cuz Chabby Alonzo loves him. He Cup cuz Chabby Alonzo loves him. He starts he becomes a top scorer of the starts he becomes a top scorer of the entire tournament. Um and beyond scoring entire tournament. Um and beyond scoring he's a very intelligent player. He can he's a very intelligent player. He can link up he can hold up. He's a target. link up he can hold up. He's a target. He's very skillful with his dribbling. He's very skillful with his dribbling. He can do a lot and he can play outside He can do a lot and he can play outside the box and inside the box. And so he's the box and inside the box. And so he's a profile that we really didn't have, a profile that we really didn't have, you know, um, ever since Hosulu left. So you know, um, ever since Hosulu left. So obviously he's young from Castillia, so obviously he's young from Castillia, so there's also incentive and hope that, there's also incentive and hope that, you know, and, you know, that we want you know, and, you know, that we want him to succeed and we're very high on him to succeed and we're very high on him. I think he's going to be awesome. him. I think he's going to be awesome. Um, I love what I saw and I I remember Um, I love what I saw and I I remember just mentioning in the Club World Cup just mentioning in the Club World Cup that he reminds me of Raul and I that he reminds me of Raul and I remember I tweeted it that he reminded remember I tweeted it that he reminded me of Raul, especially after one of the me of Raul, especially after one of the chip goals he scored in the tournament. chip goals he scored in the tournament. And I remember asking Chabby Alonzo a And I remember asking Chabby Alonzo a question about Gonzalo Garcia after that question about Gonzalo Garcia after that game and unprompted he he went out of game and unprompted he he went out of his way to say that yeah he reminds me his way to say that yeah he reminds me of Raul of Raul of Raul and um I think we're all really high on and um I think we're all really high on him and I think Chabby Alonzo is too. So him and I think Chabby Alonzo is too. So I think for that reason he's going to I think for that reason he's going to play quite a bit and has potential to be play quite a bit and has potential to be a breakout star. So that that was my a breakout star. So that that was my reasoning behind picking him. reasoning behind picking him. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. We'll see. Yeah, he's he's Okay. We'll see. Yeah, he's he's definitely going to be a guy that will definitely going to be a guy that will be on our radars. I failed to mention be on our radars. I failed to mention actually Mark Bernnal who of course was actually Mark Bernnal who of course was injured at the beginning of the season injured at the beginning of the season and uh was the starting midfielder ahead and uh was the starting midfielder ahead of Mar Casado who became a bit of the of Mar Casado who became a bit of the revelation player himself but he is back revelation player himself but he is back and healthy now just 18 years of age and and healthy now just 18 years of age and looks to uh you know have been looks to uh you know have been reinccorporated in the squad fully so he reinccorporated in the squad fully so he could be another kind of holding type could be another kind of holding type midfielder that um midfielder that um we want to keep on our radar here. Yeah. we want to keep on our radar here. Yeah. Yeah. Um, do you want to move into more Yeah. Um, do you want to move into more um team oriented? Yeah, um team oriented? Yeah, let's go. let's go. let's go. So, I actually took this uh exercise, So, I actually took this uh exercise, this bit of homework and uh went through this bit of homework and uh went through the whole the whole the whole standings, the whole classification. I standings, the whole classification. I kind of uh predicted those teams that kind of uh predicted those teams that will descend will be relegated, those will descend will be relegated, those that uh will hover around the relegation that uh will hover around the relegation zone, the mid table, the upper table, zone, the mid table, the upper table, Europe, and of course eventually the Europe, and of course eventually the champions. So without any any further champions. So without any any further ado, Keon, why don't we start with the ado, Keon, why don't we start with the lower end of the uh league standings. lower end of the uh league standings. The newly promoted teams this season are The newly promoted teams this season are Elchce, Levante, and Oedo. Elchce, Levante, and Oedo. I wouldn't be surprised to see at least I wouldn't be surprised to see at least two of those three teams be relegated, two of those three teams be relegated, unfortunately for the newly uh La Liga unfortunately for the newly uh La Liga teams of the first division. They have a teams of the first division. They have a tough time staying within the Spanish tough time staying within the Spanish top flight. So, I have got Elche and top flight. So, I have got Elche and Leante to go back down again. I've got Leante to go back down again. I've got Oedo surviving even if it is barely. And Oedo surviving even if it is barely. And I kind of compared this to the standings I kind of compared this to the standings of last season. So the way the 2425 of last season. So the way the 2425 season ended and I think uh I think a season ended and I think uh I think a team like Alavees team like Alavees who finished last season in a very poor who finished last season in a very poor state. They only scraped. They managed state. They only scraped. They managed to, you know, survive uh with with the to, you know, survive uh with with the uh the how do you say with the edge of uh the how do you say with the edge of the the the the the by the edge of their teeth or how what by the edge of their teeth or how what is that saying? is that saying? The scraping. The scraping. The scraping. I'm not entirely sure of the analogy I'm not entirely sure of the analogy you're trying. I don't know. you're trying. I don't know. They managed to survive. They managed to survive. I don't know the analogy. Yeah. But I don't know the analogy. Yeah. But with the tip of the toe, I don't know. with the tip of the toe, I don't know. But only just managed to survive. Elch But only just managed to survive. Elch Leante and Alves are going down Leante and Alves are going down despite the fact that I could see an despite the fact that I could see an espanol I could see in that relegation espanol I could see in that relegation zone as well. I don't expect big things zone as well. I don't expect big things from our city rivals especially given from our city rivals especially given the fact that we have probably snatched the fact that we have probably snatched away their best player who was Joan away their best player who was Joan Garcia the goalkeeper of course. I think Garcia the goalkeeper of course. I think they're going to have a tough time. I they're going to have a tough time. I could see uh Girona having a tough time could see uh Girona having a tough time as well. I think their fairy tale, you as well. I think their fairy tale, you know, for competing with the European know, for competing with the European spots is uh is is is has been hurting spots is uh is is is has been hurting them. I don't see them as strong. So, them. I don't see them as strong. So, well, let me start with the relegation well, let me start with the relegation for me. Elch Levante and and Alves are for me. Elch Levante and and Alves are going down. K, going down. K, I'll sign off on that. Like, I'll sign I'll sign off on that. Like, I'll sign off on Elchce and Leante plus one of off on Elchce and Leante plus one of Espanol or Alves. Like I actually I Espanol or Alves. Like I actually I actually had espanol going down actually had espanol going down personally, but you know these things personally, but you know these things are kind of like are kind of like they're hard to predict in that you like they're hard to predict in that you like I personally I I didn't watch any I personally I I didn't watch any sigunda last season so I have no idea sigunda last season so I have no idea like I really have no context other than like I really have no context other than that these guys are coming up and then that these guys are coming up and then we saw how bad Espanol were last season. we saw how bad Espanol were last season. We saw how bad you know even teams like We saw how bad you know even teams like Sevilla were. I don't think Sevilla is Sevilla were. I don't think Sevilla is going to get relegated. Um maybe Jirona going to get relegated. Um maybe Jirona will bounce back this season. I don't will bounce back this season. I don't know. I think they have enough know. I think they have enough competence competency there. Um, and competence competency there. Um, and some players coming in that I think some players coming in that I think they'll be competitive and they're well they'll be competitive and they're well coached as well. So, I you know, but coached as well. So, I you know, but I'll sign off on Elchce, I'll sign off on Elchce, Leante, and Espanol. Those are my three Leante, and Espanol. Those are my three I think. Yeah, I think so. I think the I think. Yeah, I think so. I think the lower table teams and again I'll put ODO lower table teams and again I'll put ODO Jirona I agree with you with Sevilla and Jirona I agree with you with Sevilla and I think even Arao Bayano who uh of I think even Arao Bayano who uh of course qualified for the conference course qualified for the conference league that could potentially hurt them league that could potentially hurt them in La Liga the fact that they'll have to in La Liga the fact that they'll have to play three competitions one of them play three competitions one of them being European a team like Rayo again being European a team like Rayo again more of a humble side more of a humble side getting used to playing more matches getting used to playing more matches more minutes will that take away focus more minutes will that take away focus for their survival in La Liga. Here I for their survival in La Liga. Here I always refer back to uh my uh famous always refer back to uh my uh famous interview back in the day with a Machin interview back in the day with a Machin who then was coaching Jirona who off the who then was coaching Jirona who off the record admitted he said look I'm not a record admitted he said look I'm not a Jonah that had qualified for Europe. He Jonah that had qualified for Europe. He was like I am not was like I am not uh concerned about how we do in the uh concerned about how we do in the European League. My main concern is to European League. My main concern is to make sure that we stay within the make sure that we stay within the Spanish uh first division. So I could Spanish uh first division. So I could see that playbook, you know, play out see that playbook, you know, play out for a team like Rayo uh or not, you for a team like Rayo uh or not, you know, will it take away from them? So I know, will it take away from them? So I think Arao could be hindered by the fact think Arao could be hindered by the fact that they play multiple competitions. Uh that they play multiple competitions. Uh I'm curious to see how Balenthia will I'm curious to see how Balenthia will come out of the gates. I've put them in come out of the gates. I've put them in the mid-table tier. Balenthia, Osuna, I the mid-table tier. Balenthia, Osuna, I think Felta are looking a little better. think Felta are looking a little better. They got they've got uh you know, They got they've got uh you know, Borlacias there. The I think they have Borlacias there. The I think they have got a good team. They are always tough got a good team. They are always tough to beat whether they play at home or to beat whether they play at home or away as well. I think Betty's will be away as well. I think Betty's will be the top contender for that mid-table the top contender for that mid-table tier and potentially a spot in the tier and potentially a spot in the conference league. But once you're conference league. But once you're looking at that mid table or the upper looking at that mid table or the upper midtable tier of uh the league midtable tier of uh the league standings, that's where you'll see the standings, that's where you'll see the Betty's compete with the usual suspects. Betty's compete with the usual suspects. Rea Soidat who I think will uh miss out Rea Soidat who I think will uh miss out on the Europa League. I think that will on the Europa League. I think that will go to Atletic Loop. I'm just going to go to Atletic Loop. I'm just going to finish it off here Kan and then pass it finish it off here Kan and then pass it over to you. Atletic Club who played the over to you. Atletic Club who played the Champions League this season. Nico so Champions League this season. Nico so far has been in the spotlight but has far has been in the spotlight but has been a no-show when it comes to Atletic been a no-show when it comes to Atletic uh their preseason uh has been uh their preseason uh has been underwhelming to say the least and I underwhelming to say the least and I wonder how that will translate in the wonder how that will translate in the beginning of the season for them beginning of the season for them domestically but also in Europe whether domestically but also in Europe whether the European stage the top European the European stage the top European stage the Champions League will be a bit stage the Champions League will be a bit too much for Atletic to kind of uh keep too much for Atletic to kind of uh keep up with uh La Liga bigs when it comes to up with uh La Liga bigs when it comes to re-qualifying for the top European re-qualifying for the top European spots. I think they will fall in the spots. I think they will fall in the Europa League once again. And then to Europa League once again. And then to finish off the top four, I think it'll finish off the top four, I think it'll be Val, no surprise, Atletico Mad, be Val, no surprise, Atletico Mad, Atletico de Madrid, Real Madrid, and Atletico de Madrid, Real Madrid, and Bara will be champion. Uh, we'll get Bara will be champion. Uh, we'll get into the reasons as to why, but I first into the reasons as to why, but I first want to hear from you, K. want to hear from you, K. Okay. Well, you kind of jumped the gun Okay. Well, you kind of jumped the gun and just did the whole damn La Liga and just did the whole damn La Liga table all in one go. Um, so you so you table all in one go. Um, so you so you had Barca first, Real Madrid second, had Barca first, Real Madrid second, Atéico third, right? Atéico third, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and what was your top five? Um, and what was your top five? Brial fourth, Atletic Loop fifth. Okay. Okay. Okay. I don't have I mean I don't have I mean I think far more interesting to me I think far more interesting to me really is like like I don't I don't really is like like I don't I don't really know if I want to get into the really know if I want to get into the exercise of like who is in the exercise of like who is in the conference league zone and like who's conference league zone and like who's sixth and who's seventh. I mean I feel sixth and who's seventh. I mean I feel like these are kind of the usual like these are kind of the usual suspects like Real Sociad will start off suspects like Real Sociad will start off well they'll tail off because they don't well they'll tail off because they don't have depth have depth have depth and they don't have uh and they don't have uh Alil. It's the first season without a Alil. It's the first season without a first season without Alasil. first season without Alasil. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um but they have they have the pedigree Um but they have they have the pedigree and the history and the tradition and and the history and the tradition and the fans and the stadium and and the fans and the stadium and and they'll probably be like seventh or they'll probably be like seventh or something. Seventh, eighth. Selta will something. Seventh, eighth. Selta will be a team like between the relegation be a team like between the relegation zone but not good enough for Europe. Um zone but not good enough for Europe. Um Rio probably in that category as well Rio probably in that category as well and you mentioned that they're in the and you mentioned that they're in the conference league and that typically conference league and that typically means that they're going to be stretched means that they're going to be stretched too thin trying to survive. Betis will too thin trying to survive. Betis will be good. Um, Athletic will always be be good. Um, Athletic will always be like top five probably. I think more like top five probably. I think more interesting to me is that like where interesting to me is that like where Real Arena and Barcelona are going to be Real Arena and Barcelona are going to be at the end of the year at the end of the year and you have Barcelona first which means and you have Barcelona first which means you don't well I don't know because you don't well I don't know because there's a lot of details that come with there's a lot of details that come with that like you know that like you know do you think Barcelona are going to be do you think Barcelona are going to be better worse or the same as last year? I think we're going to improve. Look, I I think we're going to improve. Look, I think last season was a surprise for think last season was a surprise for everyone, everyone, everyone, Barca fans, Barca fans, Barca fans, football fans, football fans, football fans, probably even the team themselves probably even the team themselves included. The fact that they came out of included. The fact that they came out of the gate swinging had a huge impact the gate swinging had a huge impact initially suffered that dip November, initially suffered that dip November, December where they lost the top spot, December where they lost the top spot, but then managed to regain it. And but then managed to regain it. And again, in my humble opinion, played the again, in my humble opinion, played the best football in Europe along with QSG best football in Europe along with QSG probably, but certainly the most probably, but certainly the most entertaining entertaining entertaining statistically the most offensive. Uh, statistically the most offensive. Uh, hugely dangerous up front. It seemed hugely dangerous up front. It seemed that they figured out how to also that they figured out how to also accommodate the defense and u that took accommodate the defense and u that took a little bit of a hit, as I said, sort a little bit of a hit, as I said, sort of halfway through the season, but then of halfway through the season, but then managed to figure that out. I don't see managed to figure that out. I don't see why this team, despite the loss of an why this team, despite the loss of an Inigo Martinez, would have to um Inigo Martinez, would have to um play worse football for it. I think the play worse football for it. I think the ambition of this team is to repeat ambition of this team is to repeat success and build on that. Uh we were success and build on that. Uh we were minutes away from qualifying for the minutes away from qualifying for the Champions League final and managed to Champions League final and managed to win everything domestically. win everything domestically. That's a great choice. That's a great choice. Sure. The the the fact that we Sure. The the the fact that we have a year now under Hunify Fleek will have a year now under Hunify Fleek will have allowed also our competitors to have allowed also our competitors to figure out the Hansifle ball system and figure out the Hansifle ball system and they will try to to the best of their they will try to to the best of their ability to to combat that. The scouting ability to to combat that. The scouting has been done. I don't think that has been done. I don't think that there'll be many surprises. I don't there'll be many surprises. I don't expect Barca under Hansifik to come out expect Barca under Hansifik to come out and play very different. I think it'll and play very different. I think it'll be football total you know in its be football total you know in its extreme sense and we will continue to extreme sense and we will continue to see Barca apply the high line and you see Barca apply the high line and you know concede goals but outscore their know concede goals but outscore their competitors. I don't see how Real Madrid competitors. I don't see how Real Madrid or an Atletico de Madrid with all or an Atletico de Madrid with all respects to uh Simeon's side with all of respects to uh Simeon's side with all of the new additions that he will have to the new additions that he will have to juggle and figure out how to you know juggle and figure out how to you know build around as well as a Chabia Alonso build around as well as a Chabia Alonso who is uh blessed for inheriting a great who is uh blessed for inheriting a great squad but I don't see how they will mix squad but I don't see how they will mix and gel as well to outshine a team that and gel as well to outshine a team that has beaten them on all of the what is has beaten them on all of the what is have been four or five occasions that we have been four or five occasions that we faced Real Madrid last season. faced Real Madrid last season. I think it's flicks for the you know I think it's flicks for the you know Barcas for the taking and I think we Barcas for the taking and I think we will I think we'll will I think we will I think we'll repeat La Liga success. I think that the case against Barca is I think that the case against Barca is less to do with them and more to do with less to do with them and more to do with the version of Realam they would get the version of Realam they would get this season potentially. this season potentially. Real dropped 30 points last season. I Real dropped 30 points last season. I mean, that's just they were just rolling mean, that's just they were just rolling up to every game horrible. up to every game horrible. They have they went from one wing back They have they went from one wing back to four wing backs. to four wing backs. They They They will be I think their floor is higher. I will be I think their floor is higher. I think they're going to be better game to think they're going to be better game to game. I don't have any evidence or proof game. I don't have any evidence or proof to know how they're going to do against to know how they're going to do against elite opposition like Barca or PSG or elite opposition like Barca or PSG or whoever, but I think they'll be better whoever, but I think they'll be better in the games in the games that they're supposed to win, which they that they're supposed to win, which they weren't last year. They were not good in weren't last year. They were not good in those games against small opponents those games against small opponents either, and I think that'll change. So, either, and I think that'll change. So, I think there is I think there is going to be more competition for going to be more competition for Barcelona in that sense. Um, now I don't Barcelona in that sense. Um, now I don't like if even the thing is like even if like if even the thing is like even if if even if that's all that happens, if if even if that's all that happens, if if Barca if Barca if Barca continued to be great, but Real improve, continued to be great, but Real improve, they somehow Real were only four points they somehow Real were only four points back of Barca last season as horrible as back of Barca last season as horrible as they were. And I think that's the case. they were. And I think that's the case. If Real Madrid I think that's the case. If Real Madrid are just just come back are just just come back like 5% better, what I think it's going like 5% better, what I think it's going to be about 25 to 30% better, but even to be about 25 to 30% better, but even if they come back slightly better, they if they come back slightly better, they can win the league. can win the league. So that's that's my main case like So that's that's my main case like let's, you know, Barcel themselves, you let's, you know, Barcel themselves, you know, there's a sophomore slump know, there's a sophomore slump potential. The you mentioned that potential. The you mentioned that opponents can now scout them. In Indigo opponents can now scout them. In Indigo Martinez is gone. Da da da da da da. Um, Martinez is gone. Da da da da da da. Um, Hans Flick Hans Flick Hans Flick tends to I mean his Bayern career tends to I mean his Bayern career started better than it ended. You know, started better than it ended. You know, you look at maybe history, but in the you look at maybe history, but in the end I think it comes down to they'll get a better version of Real they'll get a better version of Real Madrid. Is that going to be enough to Madrid. Is that going to be enough to tip the scales? Is is Real going to be tip the scales? Is is Real going to be come back coming back much better? I come back coming back much better? I don't know. I think they will be, but I don't know. I think they will be, but I do do do Mhm. How is how do you envision the Mhm. How is how do you envision the better version because Modric is out? better version because Modric is out? Fede Fede Fede I don't think he's I read that he's not I don't think he's I read that he's not going to make the beginning of the se going to make the beginning of the se like he he won't be ready. He's banged like he he won't be ready. He's banged up. up. up. He was actually asked about it like He was actually asked about it like today or yesterday and he said he's today or yesterday and he said he's fine. So I think he'll be ready. fine. So I think he'll be ready. But so your midfield is But so your midfield is Feros Feros Feros and who I saw like a Thiago something a and who I saw like a Thiago something a name I didn't recognize. Petark is a name I didn't recognize. Petark is a promising young midfielder that Chabby promising young midfielder that Chabby Gonzo is probably going to promote, but Gonzo is probably going to promote, but it's articul. But the point is like it's articul. But the point is like Bellingham is out. Bellingham is out. Bellingham's out the first couple Bellingham's out the first couple months. months. months. Rodrigo goes Rodrigo goes Rodrigo goes as in is he out? as in is he out? Yeah, very clever. Um, looks that way. Yeah, very clever. Um, looks that way. That's I mean, did you see the starting That's I mean, did you see the starting lineup yesterday? Probably not. lineup yesterday? Probably not. I I looked at it on paper. I I looked at it on paper. Yeah, I think that's going to be the Yeah, I think that's going to be the start. I mean, I don't know. I Brahim is start. I mean, I don't know. I Brahim is the one question mark I'd have. I I the one question mark I'd have. I I don't know if he's going to continue to don't know if he's going to continue to start. start. start. You know, we could put Gonzalo Garcia You know, we could put Gonzalo Garcia there instead or Franco Masano is going there instead or Franco Masano is going to be presented tomorrow. I don't think to be presented tomorrow. I don't think he's going to start the first game he's going to start the first game against Osuna obviously because that's against Osuna obviously because that's way too soon, but I think we'll see more way too soon, but I think we'll see more of him. of him. of him. The the main the main thing is Diego The the main the main thing is Diego like last season you have to really like last season you have to really remember that remember that remember that our we had Lucas Vasquez as our right our we had Lucas Vasquez as our right back. We had uh I mean Milit was out, back. We had uh I mean Milit was out, Alaba was out. Alaba was out. Uh we had no Fran Garcia was playing Uh we had no Fran Garcia was playing left back. left back. left back. Yeah. You got Carreras Milit is Yeah. You got Carreras Milit is incredible. Hen is incredible. incredible. Hen is incredible. Yeah. Carvajal of course. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Carvajal of course. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Alvarado Carreras who was our new left Alvarado Carreras who was our new left back. He started yesterday. He looks back. He started yesterday. He looks very good. Mhm. very good. Mhm. Um, and Um, and Um, and like you, again, you're going to hate me like you, again, you're going to hate me all season for this cuz I'm going to all season for this cuz I'm going to bring it up a lot, but Guer looks bring it up a lot, but Guer looks amazing right now with Chabri Alonzo. amazing right now with Chabri Alonzo. So, I think So, I think this is it. We just like based on the this is it. We just like based on the sheer fact that we now have fullbacks sheer fact that we now have fullbacks and now we have house and Militau is and now we have house and Militau is back. Like, we just have bodies now that back. Like, we just have bodies now that we didn't have last season. I that's we didn't have last season. I that's huge. huge. huge. And I again, I'll go back to this. I And I again, I'll go back to this. I think the way Chabi Alonzo plays, it's think the way Chabi Alonzo plays, it's going to be it's going to raise our going to be it's going to raise our floor against these small teams and like floor against these small teams and like ensure we win. There's going to be more ensure we win. There's going to be more consistency is my prediction. consistency is my prediction. And so I the real test is like I want to And so I the real test is like I want to see us perform against the big teams see us perform against the big teams because we we haven't seen that in a because we we haven't seen that in a long time. But I think like the floor of long time. But I think like the floor of the of the team is going to be raised a the of the team is going to be raised a lot this season. I guess my question as lot this season. I guess my question as well besides that and and I appreciate well besides that and and I appreciate you pointing those things out but how you pointing those things out but how will this team play under Chavia Alonso will this team play under Chavia Alonso what we saw last year under Hansif was I what we saw last year under Hansif was I don't want to say unprecedented because don't want to say unprecedented because Blucho for example won the treble in his Blucho for example won the treble in his first season and that Guardiola they did first season and that Guardiola they did did pretty damn good as well but will did pretty damn good as well but will Chavia Alonso have that kind of an Chavia Alonso have that kind of an impact with this team from the get-go to impact with this team from the get-go to he he he to come the end of the season and be a to come the end of the season and be a competitor to win the league title like competitor to win the league title like are his methods are his methods not not only that good which I'm I'm you not not only that good which I'm I'm you know he he proved that Leverkus and that know he he proved that Leverkus and that he's a very you know he's a fine coach he's a very you know he's a fine coach but will that message resonate with a but will that message resonate with a team that does have its internal issues team that does have its internal issues when you look at Vinnie who was when you look at Vinnie who was underperformed and is a big concern for underperformed and is a big concern for all Madridistas in terms of his all Madridistas in terms of his performance performance. Will he come performance performance. Will he come back to being that, you know, Balonoto back to being that, you know, Balonoto contender? Um, how will his relationship contender? Um, how will his relationship on or potentially also off the pitch gel on or potentially also off the pitch gel with an Mbappe and a Bellingham who are with an Mbappe and a Bellingham who are the star boys of the team as well? I the star boys of the team as well? I mentioned Bellingham earlier as well, mentioned Bellingham earlier as well, the fact that he'll be out for an the fact that he'll be out for an extended period of time. How will Chavy extended period of time. How will Chavy deal with that and how will the team deal with that and how will the team respond? I just don't see respond? I just don't see them getting that sorted and together on them getting that sorted and together on time to be uh again to come the end of time to be uh again to come the end of the season to walk away with a league the season to walk away with a league trophy. I think Bara are better equipped trophy. I think Bara are better equipped and prepared to repeat success as and prepared to repeat success as opposed to Madrid snatching the league opposed to Madrid snatching the league trophy away from them from us. trophy away from them from us. I I think there's no question that I I think there's no question that Barcelona are the more established and Barcelona are the more established and sure thing right now. There's no sure thing right now. There's no question about that. I mean, they just question about that. I mean, they just had an incredible season. We know what had an incredible season. We know what we're going to get from them. Again, my we're going to get from them. Again, my point goes back to like that version of point goes back to like that version of Real Madrid is terrible was terrible Real Madrid is terrible was terrible last season. And I don't like it's not last season. And I don't like it's not like I it's not an it sounds like I'm like I it's not an it sounds like I'm almost I'm making excuses like oh this almost I'm making excuses like oh this is why Barcela won the league. I'm I'm is why Barcela won the league. I'm I'm not even saying that. I'm just focusing not even saying that. I'm just focusing purely on Real Madrid. They were they purely on Real Madrid. They were they weren't ass last season. Somehow they weren't ass last season. Somehow they ended up four points back of the league. ended up four points back of the league. That's fair. That's fair. That's fair. Yeah, they were four points back of the Yeah, they were four points back of the league despite all that. I think if you league despite all that. I think if you look at all of our problems last year, look at all of our problems last year, because I I mentioned the fullbacks, the because I I mentioned the fullbacks, the fullbacks are a part of it. It's not all fullbacks are a part of it. It's not all of it. Like the fullbacks now we have of it. Like the fullbacks now we have fullbacks which we didn't have last fullbacks which we didn't have last season. I think last season also there season. I think last season also there were a lot of defensive question marks were a lot of defensive question marks with regards to how our midfield with regards to how our midfield function with and the balance of our function with and the balance of our attack. The insistence of Ancelotti and attack. The insistence of Ancelotti and playing Rodrigo, Vinnie, and Abbapp all playing Rodrigo, Vinnie, and Abbapp all together which made it very topheavy. together which made it very topheavy. the um the fact that he insisted on the um the fact that he insisted on Lucas Vasquez when we had promising Lucas Vasquez when we had promising right backs in the academy or we could right backs in the academy or we could have put Fed Valver there in in into have put Fed Valver there in in into certain games. We also had a lot of certain games. We also had a lot of injuries to midfielders like Savios injuries to midfielders like Savios Kamovingo which by the way unfortunately Kamovingo which by the way unfortunately I think we're going to continue to have I think we're going to continue to have that problem upcoming season. Kamovingo that problem upcoming season. Kamovingo is already injured again. Um, is already injured again. Um, we we had the situation where we lacked we we had the situation where we lacked clear ideas in ball progression and clear ideas in ball progression and escaping pressure and we had Argul right escaping pressure and we had Argul right there and didn't use him and he's there and didn't use him and he's playing lights out right now. playing lights out right now. I also think while it's fair to say that I also think while it's fair to say that Chabby Allonzo, Chabby Allonzo, Chabby Allonzo, you know what what do you expect from you know what what do you expect from him right off the bat? We did we have him right off the bat? We did we have seen six games of him in an official seen six games of him in an official game in an official match game in an official match to to see some of the ideas he's put to to see some of the ideas he's put together and I think overall it's been together and I think overall it's been more encouraging than it's been more encouraging than it's been discouraging. discouraging. discouraging. So I think we've seen signs of it. I So I think we've seen signs of it. I think it's fair to point out the Venius think it's fair to point out the Venius situation. We're all worried about it. situation. We're all worried about it. Yesterday he didn't look great again. He Yesterday he didn't look great again. He worked really hard defensively. I can worked really hard defensively. I can give him that. Um which was at least an give him that. Um which was at least an important thing for me to see. He he is important thing for me to see. He he is in a in some ways a wild card. Um but I in a in some ways a wild card. Um but I think Chabilonzo was going to fix some think Chabilonzo was going to fix some of our a lot of our tactical issues and of our a lot of our tactical issues and that we never knew how to press under that we never knew how to press under Anchelatti. We do now. The we've been Anchelatti. We do now. The we've been pretty suffocating the way we've been pretty suffocating the way we've been playing. Mind you, again, I'm going to playing. Mind you, again, I'm going to continue to emphasize this. We need to continue to emphasize this. We need to beat the elite teams. It's not enough to beat the elite teams. It's not enough to just do this against little teams, but I just do this against little teams, but I think our floor gets raised in these think our floor gets raised in these situations. Um our set pieces are going situations. Um our set pieces are going to be much better. Um, I hate to to pile to be much better. Um, I hate to to pile up on him, but Lucas Vasquez was taking up on him, but Lucas Vasquez was taking free kicks last season as on top of free kicks last season as on top of being a liability at right back. We have being a liability at right back. We have Trent and Arta stepping over the set Trent and Arta stepping over the set pieces. Now, Arta hit the crossbar twice pieces. Now, Arta hit the crossbar twice yesterday from distance. One of them was yesterday from distance. One of them was a set piece. We have a goal scorer who a set piece. We have a goal scorer who is in terrific form. We have players is in terrific form. We have players like Masanto coming in. We have a young like Masanto coming in. We have a young player like Gonzalo Garcia coming up the player like Gonzalo Garcia coming up the ranks. We have these promising, ranks. We have these promising, encouraging things. And I think to bring encouraging things. And I think to bring it back to your point is like is Shave it back to your point is like is Shave Lonzo going to have enough time to Lonzo going to have enough time to implement this and is everyone going to implement this and is everyone going to buy into it? Our first big game is like buy into it? Our first big game is like what in September against Atléico I what in September against Atléico I think. So we have like about a month of think. So we have like about a month of you know games against like the Osunas you know games against like the Osunas and whoever to just win those games and and whoever to just win those games and the wrong team to mention in my opinion. the wrong team to mention in my opinion. They are banana consistently little They are banana consistently little more. Okay. Okay. Yeah. more. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Um, but we got Osuna, Oedto, Mayorca at Um, but we got Osuna, Oedto, Mayorca at home, home, home, Anoetta, Espanol at home, Levante away, Anoetta, Espanol at home, Levante away, and then our first test is September and then our first test is September 28th against to go away. 28th against to go away. I got you. Yeah. I got you. Yeah. So, we have a solid month and change to So, we have a solid month and change to just win the games we're supposed to win just win the games we're supposed to win and get into rhythm and make sure we and get into rhythm and make sure we have it all figured out at that point. have it all figured out at that point. I want to I don't know if we talked I want to I don't know if we talked about this, but um uh a few weeks ago I about this, but um uh a few weeks ago I saw that you were on Instagram live and saw that you were on Instagram live and then I I clicked on it and just as I then I I clicked on it and just as I clicked on it, you were talking about clicked on it, you were talking about me. You were you were talking about oh me. You were you were talking about oh Keon is hyping up Jude Bellingham again Keon is hyping up Jude Bellingham again and all this stuff. and all this stuff. This is this is going to be a a big This is this is going to be a a big thing. Bellingham without the shoulder thing. Bellingham without the shoulder brace. telling you right now in a new brace. telling you right now in a new system. system. system. Last year, his whole role was just like, Last year, his whole role was just like, I have to do everything. I have to be I have to do everything. I have to be the one defending. I have to be the one the one defending. I have to be the one attacking and creating and crashing the attacking and creating and crashing the box and doing all this. I think he'll be box and doing all this. I think he'll be more refined. In the Club World Cup, he more refined. In the Club World Cup, he was talking about how difficult it is to was talking about how difficult it is to play with the shoulder brace. Opponents play with the shoulder brace. Opponents are like tugging on it. It's sweaty. He are like tugging on it. It's sweaty. He has to keep going like this. His has to keep going like this. His mobility is affected. mobility is affected. for him to come back with essentially a for him to come back with essentially a new shoulder and to not have to play new shoulder and to not have to play through pain. through pain. through pain. I think we're going to see a better I think we're going to see a better version of him as well. I think all of version of him as well. I think all of these things I'm bringing up here on these things I'm bringing up here on this long long rant. this long long rant. You piece it together, Real four points You piece it together, Real four points off of Barcel, off of Barcel, I think it's going to be a much I think it's going to be a much different situation this year. Much different situation this year. Much different. different. different. I'll be curious to see I'll be curious I'll be curious to see if uh how his absence will affect to see if uh how his absence will affect the team how he will come back as well the team how he will come back as well which is I think scheduled for which is I think scheduled for Octoberish Octoberish Octoberish uh if you look at October that usually uh if you look at October that usually the classical will take place and it the classical will take place and it does once again the 26th of October at does once again the 26th of October at at the Verno so whether it's uh against at the Verno so whether it's uh against Varal or Valenthia or Bara actually Varal or Valenthia or Bara actually Valenthia's in November so that's a big Valenthia's in November so that's a big month of November for Madrid and for month of November for Madrid and for Bellingham to come back without the Bellingham to come back without the brace. I think, you know, I uh welcome brace. I think, you know, I uh welcome him back him back with open arms to be him back him back with open arms to be the second best midfielder in the world. the second best midfielder in the world. Uh but I have faith in Pedri to continue Uh but I have faith in Pedri to continue to uh be the star out, you know, the the to uh be the star out, you know, the the far out star boy in that position. And I think there's a lot of questions I think there's a lot of questions surrounding Real Madrid at the moment. surrounding Real Madrid at the moment. Yeah, there's more questions than Yeah, there's more questions than answers. answers. answers. And of course, they can surprise us. And of course, they can surprise us. It's Real Madrid. They're a fantastic It's Real Madrid. They're a fantastic They have a fantastic squad, great They have a fantastic squad, great players, a lot of depth, and a great players, a lot of depth, and a great coach, new coach that is leading this coach, new coach that is leading this team. I just see Bara more prepared as team. I just see Bara more prepared as you said uh which is not a hot take or you said uh which is not a hot take or anything to repeat success on the anything to repeat success on the domestic scene and where probably a lot domestic scene and where probably a lot of players will as well be uh focused on of players will as well be uh focused on the international scene of course the the international scene of course the Champions League that they missed out on Champions League that they missed out on playing the final of uh so maybe that playing the final of uh so maybe that will be a distraction that will allow will be a distraction that will allow Real Madrid to uh kind of you know take Real Madrid to uh kind of you know take pole position for La Liga if they become pole position for La Liga if they become complacent or if their concentration complacent or if their concentration slips and uh the back you know the the slips and uh the back you know the the domestic games in La Liga and uh you domestic games in La Liga and uh you know take take the cake take the crown know take take the cake take the crown but I don't see it happening. I think but I don't see it happening. I think also for the Copa de I would love to see also for the Copa de I would love to see another Barcel Madrid final uh and the another Barcel Madrid final uh and the Super Copa as well. So you know let the Super Copa as well. So you know let the games begin. I would say it's uh we're I games begin. I would say it's uh we're I was going to say we're 24 hours away was going to say we're 24 hours away from kickoff. Not exactly. We are the from kickoff. Not exactly. We are the Wednesday now. So the first games will Wednesday now. So the first games will kick off over the weekend. Bara playing kick off over the weekend. Bara playing on Saturday away at San Mo against on Saturday away at San Mo against Mayorca. I don't think uh that's a Mayorca. I don't think uh that's a easy W. easy W. easy W. I don't think that's an easy W. Mayora I don't think that's an easy W. Mayora again a team that did very very good again a team that did very very good last season. last season. last season. So it'll be a good test, good opener. So it'll be a good test, good opener. What uh we are back for our Patreons on What uh we are back for our Patreons on Friday, right Kon? Friday, right Kon? We are. Um, we also have a couple super We are. Um, we also have a couple super chats. chats. chats. Oh, okay. Go ahead. Oh, okay. Go ahead. Um, oh, I I forgot to ask you this one. Um, oh, I I forgot to ask you this one. Oh, by the way, my prediction for the Oh, by the way, my prediction for the league is Real Madam will win the league league is Real Madam will win the league this year, but we this year, but we forgot to predict Balandor. forgot to predict Balandor. Dembele. Dembele. Dembele. Okay. What about the podium? Do you want Okay. What about the podium? Do you want to give us a podium? Top three. to give us a podium? Top three. Dembfin Dembfin Dembfin Lamin. Lamin. Lamin. Okay. Wow. You think Rafiniah has the PR Okay. Wow. You think Rafiniah has the PR to to be ahead of Lamin? I don't think to to be ahead of Lamin? I don't think he does. he does. he does. I don't know the order, but I think that I don't know the order, but I think that that will be the podium. Yeah. that will be the podium. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, I don't necessarily disagree with that I don't necessarily disagree with that to be honest. to be honest. Um, Um, Um, super chats. And yes, you're right. On super chats. And yes, you're right. On Friday, we are going to be here for our Friday, we are going to be here for our members. We're going to answer questions members. We're going to answer questions from members and and talk about some from members and and talk about some other stuff and tea up the opening other stuff and tea up the opening weekend of La Liga. weekend of La Liga. patreon.com/churrosacticas. Uh Pranav Jadav has a new child so we Uh Pranav Jadav has a new child so we want to congratulations to him. He says want to congratulations to him. He says want to update on the arrival of the want to update on the arrival of the newest Madista and future churros member newest Madista and future churros member Malhar Jhav. Three months now he came Malhar Jhav. Three months now he came home in a Modric onesie from Moji Mates. home in a Modric onesie from Moji Mates. Congrats buddy. That's awesome. Congrats buddy. That's awesome. Congrats. Beautiful. Congrats. Beautiful. Congrats. Beautiful. Let your boy choose. I'm sure he'll Let your boy choose. I'm sure he'll choose uh choose uh choose uh he'll he'll choose the the right side he'll he'll choose the the right side when uh once he's able to do so. when uh once he's able to do so. By the way, um my son's been asking a By the way, um my son's been asking a lot about who's better, Ronaldo versus lot about who's better, Ronaldo versus Messi, and he's like, "Any bit me a Messi, and he's like, "Any bit me a Ronaldo jersey and all this." And uh Ronaldo jersey and all this." And uh the other so this shirt that I'm wearing the other so this shirt that I'm wearing the Raul Shush and the Campno he was the Raul Shush and the Campno he was asking me about it so I showed him the asking me about it so I showed him the highlights of that game and I had highlights of that game and I had forgotten what a crazy game that was forgotten what a crazy game that was like I don't know if you remember it like I don't know if you remember it because Figo scored um because Figo scored um for for for Figo scored for Barca. It was insanely Figo scored for Barca. It was insanely tense. There was a lot of really wild tense. There was a lot of really wild challenges and screaming and fighting challenges and screaming and fighting and and and uh and obviously the Raul Raul scored a uh and obviously the Raul Raul scored a double. He scored a header in the first double. He scored a header in the first half and then he scored. half and then he scored. Is that the Yo against Lu Enrique clash Is that the Yo against Lu Enrique clash where they're like butting heads and where they're like butting heads and getting pretty physical. getting pretty physical. I don't think that was the same one. It I don't think that was the same one. It was that was the same era, but I think was that was the same era, but I think Redondo got into it with Redondo got into it with somebody. Maybe Rialdo. somebody. Maybe Rialdo. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. maybe I can't remember. maybe I can't remember. Okay, Okay, Okay, so in the highlights there's a bunch of so in the highlights there's a bunch of crazy things that happened like one of crazy things that happened like one of the bar stuff players he punches the the bar stuff players he punches the ball off the line with and there was no ball off the line with and there was no call and there was another wild call and there was another wild challenge on Salgado where I I I forget challenge on Salgado where I I I forget who it was that comes in with the cleats who it was that comes in with the cleats in the back of Salgado's in the back of Salgado's um calves and there was no call and all um calves and there was no call and all the RAM players are surrounding the the RAM players are surrounding the referee and my son goes referee and my son goes I don't like that blue and red team I don't like that blue and red team they're evil how come How come they're they're evil how come How come they're allowed to do that? I was like, son, allowed to do that? I was like, son, you saw you now you see exactly. you saw you now you see exactly. Just wait until you watch Madrid games Just wait until you watch Madrid games and you'll see the advantages that we've and you'll see the advantages that we've been building. been building. been building. That's a great observation. That's why That's a great observation. That's why that's why we don't support that team. that's why we don't support that team. Great. Great. I was like your IQ is Great. Great. I was like your IQ is unmatched. unmatched. unmatched. Don't worry, son. This was Don't worry, son. This was this was just just a blip. We we got we this was just just a blip. We we got we got control over this. Don't you worry. got control over this. Don't you worry. Okay, good. Uh yeah, Okay, good. Uh yeah, I'm going to shelter him from your I'm going to shelter him from your YouTube channel. I'm sure and put YouTube channel. I'm sure and put together a compilation of something. Um together a compilation of something. Um Pranov also says, "I'm going to go easy Pranov also says, "I'm going to go easy on Diego today." No one's talking about on Diego today." No one's talking about Rooney B. I think you will save Yamal's Rooney B. I think you will save Yamal's career career career from injuries. Similar player who will from injuries. Similar player who will allow Yamal rest. Who's Rooney B? Is allow Yamal rest. Who's Rooney B? Is that Marcus? that Marcus? that Marcus? No. So that's Rooney Bargie. The uh No. So that's Rooney Bargie. The uh Oh, that's the guy Swedish player. Yes. Oh, that's the guy Swedish player. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yeah. So he for some reason Yes. Yes. Yeah. So he for some reason transfer marked has have got him on uh transfer marked has have got him on uh Barcadi but he was signed with the Barcadi but he was signed with the intention of having him play with the intention of having him play with the first team. He's been training on a first team. He's been training on a Hansi fleet this entire preseason and Hansi fleet this entire preseason and played all the games as well. Uh I don't played all the games as well. Uh I don't doubt that you know Juliano Bleti will doubt that you know Juliano Bleti will might use him. Uh he's he's only 18 so might use him. Uh he's he's only 18 so he might use him for a game or two or he might use him for a game or two or several games. I I don't know how you several games. I I don't know how you know they they plan to make use of him know they they plan to make use of him but I do plan and expect rather to see but I do plan and expect rather to see him quite a lot with the first team him quite a lot with the first team health permitting and his talent health permitting and his talent permitting which has been very promising permitting which has been very promising so far and as Branov mentioned uh we'll so far and as Branov mentioned uh we'll definitely give a much needed rest to definitely give a much needed rest to Lamina and u has showed great signs you Lamina and u has showed great signs you know you look at the highlights of the know you look at the highlights of the games but also the practices so far he's games but also the practices so far he's very active not a shy player so talented very active not a shy player so talented that player that wanted by the big that player that wanted by the big European teams uh before his grave European teams uh before his grave injury that kept him out for the injury that kept him out for the entirety of last season and last summer entirety of last season and last summer transfer market that then you know put a transfer market that then you know put a hold of his move from the Swedish side. hold of his move from the Swedish side. Uh you know Bara were there this time Uh you know Bara were there this time around first ones uh in line and I'm I'm around first ones uh in line and I'm I'm excited to see this player man. I'm he's excited to see this player man. I'm he's he's he's got a he's a player with a he's he's got a he's a player with a character. He's got a lot of personality character. He's got a lot of personality so and talent. So, yeah, I'm uh I'm so and talent. So, yeah, I'm uh I'm excited to see him. excited to see him. Awesome, man. Happy for you to have Awesome, man. Happy for you to have another uh great young player on your another uh great young player on your hands. That's awesome. Um hands. That's awesome. Um well, we're going to wrap it up here, well, we're going to wrap it up here, guys. Um we're just over an hour here. guys. Um we're just over an hour here. And this was it was a lot of fun. Uh And this was it was a lot of fun. Uh we're really happy to be back. Diego and we're really happy to be back. Diego and I will be back, as we said, on Friday I will be back, as we said, on Friday over on patreon.com/turusacticas. over on patreon.com/turusacticas. One of the themes with our patronon pods One of the themes with our patronon pods is that you guys submit questions and is that you guys submit questions and there is not a single question that we there is not a single question that we don't answer. We go through every single don't answer. We go through every single one. No matter how much controversy one. No matter how much controversy controversy might arise from it, no controversy might arise from it, no matter how much it gets us to fight. Um, matter how much it gets us to fight. Um, and we answer all of it and it's highly and we answer all of it and it's highly entertaining for both us and you guys. entertaining for both us and you guys. So, head on over to So, head on over to patreon.com/churosacticas. patreon.com/churosacticas. patreon.com/churosacticas. Another season coming up with Diego and Another season coming up with Diego and I. We are happy to be back. Thanks, I. We are happy to be back. Thanks, Diego. Great chatting, my man. Diego. Great chatting, my man. Thank you guys. Cheers.