================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: Oylmm8PCOhg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oylmm8PCOhg
TITLE: Gandhi, Truth, and Nonviolence: Vinay Lal in conversation with Raj Balkaran
CHANNEL: Vinay Lal
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-14
DURATION: 1h 6m 29s
VIEWS: 452
LIKES: 28
COMMENTS: 5
TAGS: Mohandas Gandhi, truth, nonviolence, satya, ahimsa, James Carse, finite and infinite games, diversity, inclusivity, Fasial Devji

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
This conversation took place between Vinay Lal, editor of Gandhi, Truth, and Nonviolence: The Politics of Engagement in Post-Truth Times (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2025), and Dr Raj Balkaran, a scholar of Indian religions who also hosts a podcast, New Books in Indian Religion [https://newbooksnetwork.com/category/religion-faith/hindu-studies]. The conversation took place on 8 July 2025 and revolved around the introductory essay by Lal on Gandhi as a player of infinite games by way of getting deeper into questions of how to think about ahimsa (nonviolence) and satya (truth) at a time when neither is being taken seriously, certainly not by states and those who are cast as "leaders". But the conversation also touches upon such questions as "diversity" and how Gandhi's conception of it may have differed from liberal notions of diversity. We start with a discussion of how this book came about and the sanitization or domestication of Gandhi that is going on. Listeners are invited to r
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 19,696

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hello and welcome back to the new books Hello and welcome back to the new books in Indian religions podcast channel here in Indian religions podcast channel here on the new books network. I'm your host on the new books network. I'm your host Dr. Raj Balbrron. More importantly, I Dr. Raj Balbrron. More importantly, I have the pleasure of welcoming back to have the pleasure of welcoming back to the podcast today uh Dr. Vin Lao who is the podcast today uh Dr. Vin Lao who is um professor in the department of um professor in the department of history at UCLA. Today we're talking history at UCLA. Today we're talking about a brand new up publication called about a brand new up publication called Gandhi Truth and Nonviolence the Gandhi Truth and Nonviolence the Politics of Engagement in posttruth Politics of Engagement in posttruth times. Welcome back to the podcast. times. Welcome back to the podcast. &gt;&gt; My pleasure. &gt;&gt; My pleasure. &gt;&gt; Really fascinating um um themes in this &gt;&gt; Really fascinating um um themes in this book. Tell us the Genesis story, the book. Tell us the Genesis story, the backstory. How did this book come into backstory. How did this book come into being? being? being? &gt;&gt; Well, uh the backstory very simply is &gt;&gt; Well, uh the backstory very simply is this that uh just before CO struck, I this that uh just before CO struck, I hosted a conference uh at UCLA. Um the hosted a conference uh at UCLA. Um the conference was held actually over uh conference was held actually over uh three three and a half days. Um I've three three and a half days. Um I've long had a practice uh of holding long had a practice uh of holding conferences in a very particular way conferences in a very particular way which is that rather than you know doing which is that rather than you know doing 15 papers a day and allowing you know 20 15 papers a day and allowing you know 20 minutes to each person or panels and minutes to each person or panels and things of that kind. I I handpick the things of that kind. I I handpick the people I I want to come um and then I people I I want to come um and then I schedule about four maximum five papers schedule about four maximum five papers a day. So this volume largely grew out a day. So this volume largely grew out of that conference but not entirely. Uh of that conference but not entirely. Uh there are a couple of papers which were there are a couple of papers which were commissioned. Uh and there are some commissioned. Uh and there are some papers that were given at the conference papers that were given at the conference which are not included uh in it but but which are not included uh in it but but you know I'd say twothirds of the volume you know I'd say twothirds of the volume really came out of that particular really came out of that particular conference. Uh now that's uh describing conference. Uh now that's uh describing only uh so to speak the organizational only uh so to speak the organizational aspects of it. uh what what uh the real aspects of it. uh what what uh the real substantive question is what really uh substantive question is what really uh inspired or animated the conference inspired or animated the conference because let's face it right uh books on because let's face it right uh books on Gandhi are dime a dozen I there there Gandhi are dime a dozen I there there are hundreds of books are hundreds of books uh and you know the kind of volume in uh and you know the kind of volume in terms of the structure only that this terms of the structure only that this book is there are other books as well book is there are other books as well they're edited books this is an edited they're edited books this is an edited volume uh and uh I would say that every volume uh and uh I would say that every year in English there are at least I year in English there are at least I would say probably four or five edited would say probably four or five edited books on Gandhi every year in English books on Gandhi every year in English alone. Uh there may be hundreds more in alone. Uh there may be hundreds more in all the other languages of the world put all the other languages of the world put together. Uh so uh what is it that might together. Uh so uh what is it that might possibly distinguish this collection and possibly distinguish this collection and the idea that uh inspired the the idea that uh inspired the conference? I think that's the gist of conference? I think that's the gist of the question. So the first thing was the question. So the first thing was that I I you know I was looking for that I I you know I was looking for contributors who in my view had off have contributors who in my view had off have offered us some novel insights into offered us some novel insights into Gandhi. Um so the idea is not just to Gandhi. Um so the idea is not just to invite you know a Gandhi scholar and invite you know a Gandhi scholar and some of these people are not primarily some of these people are not primarily scholars of Gandhi. I'm not sure that scholars of Gandhi. I'm not sure that there are that many people that we could there are that many people that we could characterize anyhow as scholars only of characterize anyhow as scholars only of Gandhi that people who work on Gandhi Gandhi that people who work on Gandhi might more broadly work on non-violence might more broadly work on non-violence uh for example uh you know globally uh for example uh you know globally David Hardman um whom I had invited he's David Hardman um whom I had invited he's in England but he couldn't come he was in England but he couldn't come he was very keen on coming he's uh he's he's very keen on coming he's uh he's he's you know now written a history which you know now written a history which attempts to locate Gandhi sort of attempts to locate Gandhi sort of globally and there are people who have globally and there are people who have written on Gandhi who have also written written on Gandhi who have also written on King uh and the American civil rights on King uh and the American civil rights movement or perhaps on some aspects of movement or perhaps on some aspects of the non-violent struggle to the extent the non-violent struggle to the extent that there was one in South Africa and that there was one in South Africa and so on and so forth. uh uh but so you so on and so forth. uh uh but so you know who the contributors are uh and know who the contributors are uh and what the structure of the conference is what the structure of the conference is are important but then let's think about are important but then let's think about the title a bit so which is uh the the title a bit so which is uh the politics of engagement that's a subtitle politics of engagement that's a subtitle in post-truth times so what is it that in post-truth times so what is it that Gandhi is known for Gandhi is known for Gandhi is known for uh the twin ideas uh and when I say uh the twin ideas uh and when I say known for I mean known to a global known for I mean known to a global audience uh they may audience uh they may uh there may be aspects of his thinking uh there may be aspects of his thinking which are just as important which are which are just as important which are not reflected in these two ideas or two not reflected in these two ideas or two words and what are those two words uh words and what are those two words uh satya truth and ahimsa nonviolence satya truth and ahimsa nonviolence um and uh we have to consider the the uh um and uh we have to consider the the uh the the fact that there that over the the the fact that there that over the last decade or two in particular uh last decade or two in particular uh there have been people who have been there have been people who have been speaking about alternative ative facts speaking about alternative ative facts uh and saying that well we are really uh and saying that well we are really living in what is called post-truth living in what is called post-truth times uh that truth is a simply a times uh that truth is a simply a fiction so to speak it's a social fiction so to speak it's a social construction construction construction now that makes the task of interpreting now that makes the task of interpreting Gandhi Gandhi Gandhi more difficult and makes it all the more more difficult and makes it all the more imperative to understand him what what imperative to understand him what what would it mean to think about Gandhi in would it mean to think about Gandhi in uh post-truth times where as I've said uh post-truth times where as I've said uh there are political actors whether in uh there are political actors whether in India or the United States or anywhere India or the United States or anywhere else in the world who are adamant in else in the world who are adamant in holding to the view uh that you know holding to the view uh that you know there are alternative facts and there are alternative facts and alternative realities and and and alternative realities and and and frankly we know that there are things frankly we know that there are things that you see with your eyes so to speak. that you see with your eyes so to speak. So for example, what happened on January So for example, what happened on January 6th um uh uh in this country some years 6th um uh uh in this country some years ago uh when uh the present incumbent of ago uh when uh the present incumbent of the White House uh refused to concede the White House uh refused to concede the the loss his electoral loss uh and the the loss his electoral loss uh and um essentially precipitated an um essentially precipitated an insurrection uh and there people who are insurrection uh and there people who are going around calling that a freedom going around calling that a freedom struggle right so this is this is what I struggle right so this is this is what I mean when I said that you know we have mean when I said that you know we have to really start thinking about uh Gandhi to really start thinking about uh Gandhi perhaps somewhat not differently but we perhaps somewhat not differently but we have to start thinking constructively have to start thinking constructively and we have to start sort of imagining and we have to start sort of imagining how difficult the task is to establish how difficult the task is to establish the idea of truth in our times. So this the idea of truth in our times. So this was in part what animated this uh uh was in part what animated this uh uh gathering and then nonviolence. I'll be gathering and then nonviolence. I'll be very brief on that because I'm sure very brief on that because I'm sure we'll discuss it in the rest of the hour we'll discuss it in the rest of the hour that we have. But take for example that we have. But take for example what's happening in Gaza today, what's happening in Gaza today, right? And Palestine. right? And Palestine. We have all heard countless number of We have all heard countless number of calls for peace. calls for peace. But oddly enough, we haven't heard any But oddly enough, we haven't heard any calls for nonviolence. Frankly, I'm not calls for nonviolence. Frankly, I'm not I'm not reading any oped piece anywhere I'm not reading any oped piece anywhere which is saying let's think about which is saying let's think about nonviolence. That seems to have been nonviolence. That seems to have been jettisonent completely. jettisonent completely. jettisonent completely. Which is to say that there seem to be uh Which is to say that there seem to be uh advocates and believers of nonviolence advocates and believers of nonviolence who themselves are not persuaded that who themselves are not persuaded that nonviolence even has the remotest nonviolence even has the remotest possibility. Um, and of course I think possibility. Um, and of course I think to myself, well, what are the to myself, well, what are the possibilities that violence has shown possibilities that violence has shown for anything that might lead to a for anything that might lead to a constructive engagement in that part of constructive engagement in that part of the world and more importantly uh the the world and more importantly uh the possibilities of justice for the possibilities of justice for the Palestinians, Palestinians, Palestinians, right? So what's happening to the idea right? So what's happening to the idea of nonviolence in the modern world? has of nonviolence in the modern world? has the has our vocabulary simply the has our vocabulary simply internalizes word without really internalizes word without really thinking about all of its ramifications. thinking about all of its ramifications. And so what I was hopeful would happen And so what I was hopeful would happen uh and I think to some extent it uh and I think to some extent it certainly did happen during this certainly did happen during this conference was that we would start conference was that we would start thinking about the various ramifications thinking about the various ramifications of nonviolence. of nonviolence. of nonviolence. Right? So that's that's the story of Right? So that's that's the story of this volume. this volume. this volume. Well, thank you for sharing the Well, thank you for sharing the backstory and also for u preempting um backstory and also for u preempting um two of my next questions which is why two of my next questions which is why another book on Gandhi. So, we'll take a another book on Gandhi. So, we'll take a little deeper dive into these which I little deeper dive into these which I think you've well well addressed already think you've well well addressed already in terms of uh the substantive ideas or in terms of uh the substantive ideas or contributions will probably that'll be a contributions will probably that'll be a running theme of our chat and also this running theme of our chat and also this idea of postruuth times the posttruth idea of postruuth times the posttruth times in which we live. Uh my my third times in which we live. Uh my my third question was to was to have been what is question was to was to have been what is the these post-truth times? Um so I the these post-truth times? Um so I don't want to bombard you but then you don't want to bombard you but then you have this tantal tantalizing idea or have this tantal tantalizing idea or disambiguation or space between peace disambiguation or space between peace and nonviolence. and nonviolence. and nonviolence. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; I think for many this might be evident &gt;&gt; I think for many this might be evident and for many this might be opaque. So uh and for many this might be opaque. So uh please say more about this in any order please say more about this in any order you'd like. you'd like. you'd like. &gt;&gt; Yes. Right. Okay. So let let me let me &gt;&gt; Yes. Right. Okay. So let let me let me say something about the distinction say something about the distinction between between the two. You know, you between between the two. You know, you go back to one of the Roman historians, go back to one of the Roman historians, Tacitus. Tacitus. Tacitus. Uh they they make war and they call it Uh they they make war and they call it peace. That's an apherism from one of peace. That's an apherism from one of his works. Okay, it's a variation. I his works. Okay, it's a variation. I mean those are not the exact words. Uh mean those are not the exact words. Uh but that's practically speaking what he but that's practically speaking what he really said. Uh they make a they make a really said. Uh they make a desert. you know they leave a landscape desert. you know they leave a landscape that's barren and they call it peace that's barren and they call it peace right and let's jump to the 20th century right and let's jump to the 20th century to a very famous essay by George Orwell to a very famous essay by George Orwell which is on the politics of the English which is on the politics of the English language and there he discusses the word language and there he discusses the word pacification pacification pacification which so the root again goes back to pax which so the root again goes back to pax p a x the Latin p which is peace p a x the Latin p which is peace pacification the root of that word is pacification the root of that word is pax Right. And so what was pacification? pax Right. And so what was pacification? Then one of the things because what he Then one of the things because what he was talking about Jor Orwell in that was talking about Jor Orwell in that essay was how the English uh were essay was how the English uh were bombing uh villages, straing them from bombing uh villages, straing them from the air. And this was called the air. And this was called pacification. Pacification meant you're pacification. Pacification meant you're you're basically taming the the natives. you're basically taming the the natives. You're quietening them down. They're You're quietening them down. They're being rebellious. So in the way in which being rebellious. So in the way in which you pacify a baby right uh and you put you pacify a baby right uh and you put you put put a pacifier in its mouth you put put a pacifier in its mouth right same principle here you still the right same principle here you still the baby okay now but but let's the the baby okay now but but let's the the three examples I've given over here you three examples I've given over here you know from the the Roman is going to know from the the Roman is going to George Orwell to to the the use of the George Orwell to to the the use of the pacifier for baby you see in fact the pacifier for baby you see in fact the pacifier can be conservative form of pacifier can be conservative form of violence. Uh if if if you really wanted violence. Uh if if if you really wanted to do some interpretive work because to do some interpretive work because then we'd have to say what what exactly then we'd have to say what what exactly does violence itself mean? And certainly does violence itself mean? And certainly pacification of the sort that George pacification of the sort that George Orwell was talking about was actually Orwell was talking about was actually inflicting violence on the people and inflicting violence on the people and and calling it pacification. and calling it pacification. Now nonviolence is something that is Now nonviolence is something that is radically different and and and I I have radically different and and and I I have to say that that Gandhi in fact himself to say that that Gandhi in fact himself before I move to the question of before I move to the question of nonviolence uh Gandhi himself seldom nonviolence uh Gandhi himself seldom talked about peace talked about peace because his uh language of nonviolence because his uh language of nonviolence is very instructive here that if you is very instructive here that if you think of nonviolence and you deploy think of nonviolence and you deploy nonviolence and your nonviolence in your nonviolence and your nonviolence in your demeanor and your very being, the the demeanor and your very being, the the outcome will almost invariably be a outcome will almost invariably be a desirable outcome in ethical moral terms desirable outcome in ethical moral terms and usually in political terms. All and usually in political terms. All right? And then I'm putting it in very right? And then I'm putting it in very informal terms uh as to how Gandhi is informal terms uh as to how Gandhi is really thinking about nonviolence. So really thinking about nonviolence. So this is the whole question of means and this is the whole question of means and ends. Uh and Gandhi always argued that ends. Uh and Gandhi always argued that you have to be attentive to the means. you have to be attentive to the means. If the means are good, you will get If the means are good, you will get eventually an outcome, an end that is eventually an outcome, an end that is good, that can be morally, ethically good, that can be morally, ethically justified. Okay. Now, when we think justified. Okay. Now, when we think about nonviolence, and this is where the about nonviolence, and this is where the distinction becomes very critical distinction becomes very critical with between it and peace. See, for with between it and peace. See, for the vast majority of humanity the vast majority of humanity and even for practitioners and even for practitioners of nonviolent of nonviolent of nonviolent activism, activism, activism, the idea of nonviolence is strictly the idea of nonviolence is strictly tethered to the idea of activism. That tethered to the idea of activism. That is that when we say nonviolence, we talk is that when we say nonviolence, we talk what we really think about is nonviolent what we really think about is nonviolent activism, resistance. activism, resistance. activism, resistance. But 99% of your life is not spent But 99% of your life is not spent resisting. 99% of your life is spent resisting. 99% of your life is spent just doing the things that one usually just doing the things that one usually does in the course of one's life. Okay? does in the course of one's life. Okay? And nonviolence is not the simply the And nonviolence is not the simply the absence of violence. For Gandhi, absence of violence. For Gandhi, nonviolence is a way of being in the nonviolence is a way of being in the world. world. world. Right? And this is some element that Right? And this is some element that cannot be brought out simply by thinking cannot be brought out simply by thinking about peace. Because when people about peace. Because when people advocate for peace, they're thinking advocate for peace, they're thinking about conflict somewhere and saying, about conflict somewhere and saying, "Well, let's try to produce peace." Of "Well, let's try to produce peace." Of course, there are colloquial usages of course, there are colloquial usages of peace, but they still stem out of a peace, but they still stem out of a sense of conflict. For example, let's sense of conflict. For example, let's say there are five people in a home and say there are five people in a home and they're all shouting at each other and they're all shouting at each other and then the the matriarch or the patriarch then the the matriarch or the patriarch or the family or someone else says, you or the family or someone else says, you know, let's have some peace in the know, let's have some peace in the household. Let's stop the conflict. household. Let's stop the conflict. Let's stop shouting. Okay? Right there. Let's stop shouting. Okay? Right there. Again, you're seeing that peace is Again, you're seeing that peace is uh a word that is the desired outcome uh a word that is the desired outcome from a conflict. But Gandhi is not from a conflict. But Gandhi is not always thinking of conflict always thinking of conflict and its resolution when he's thinking and its resolution when he's thinking about nonviolence. Nonviolence was about nonviolence. Nonviolence was simply his way of living in the world. simply his way of living in the world. And that meant not simply abstaining And that meant not simply abstaining from violence but displaying certain from violence but displaying certain kinds of kinds of kinds of how should I put it certain kinds of how should I put it certain kinds of characteristics having certain kinds of characteristics having certain kinds of dispositions towards others. The way in dispositions towards others. The way in which one speaks to someone. The way in which one speaks to someone. The way in which one regards the other, the way in which one regards the other, the way in which one treats the other as an equal. which one treats the other as an equal. All of these are aspects of nonviolence. All of these are aspects of nonviolence. And this all cannot be conveyed. This And this all cannot be conveyed. This capacious meaning cannot be conveyed by capacious meaning cannot be conveyed by the word peace. Right? So these are some the word peace. Right? So these are some of the critical distinctions between of the critical distinctions between peace and nonviolence. And that's one peace and nonviolence. And that's one reason why I am very skeptical of uh the reason why I am very skeptical of uh the possibilities of peace whether it is possibilities of peace whether it is actually in the Middle East or whether actually in the Middle East or whether it's in other conflict zones and we have it's in other conflict zones and we have seen that the same zones erupt with seen that the same zones erupt with violence you mean just think about the violence you mean just think about the long histories of violence over the last long histories of violence over the last two three decades in uh in the Congo for two three decades in uh in the Congo for example okay uh or Sudan for that matter example okay uh or Sudan for that matter uh right uh so it's not only the Middle uh right uh so it's not only the Middle East that we're speaking about. We're East that we're speaking about. We're speaking about many parts of the world. speaking about many parts of the world. And I think nonviolence unfortunately is And I think nonviolence unfortunately is not part of the working vocabulary in not part of the working vocabulary in the remotest of almost anyone and the remotest of almost anyone and certainly not of anyone who's actively certainly not of anyone who's actively involved in politics in the world today. involved in politics in the world today. And indeed even even in circles where it And indeed even even in circles where it is part of the vocabulary it is so is part of the vocabulary it is so challenging to translate any sub into an challenging to translate any sub into an English word because it is much more English word because it is much more than um what the English would suggest than um what the English would suggest the absence of violence. It is it is um the absence of violence. It is it is um it's a passive commitment to a way of it's a passive commitment to a way of life that that takes into account other life that that takes into account other beings at every step. And so it is a beings at every step. And so it is a fascinating distinction. Now, now as as fascinating distinction. Now, now as as you mentioned, two of the most famous uh you mentioned, two of the most famous uh wheels on the chariot of Gandhi are aims wheels on the chariot of Gandhi are aims on violence on the one hand and satya on violence on the one hand and satya brilliance and truth. So, is there a brilliance and truth. So, is there a disambiguation between the the truth of disambiguation between the the truth of our post-truth times in terms of factual our post-truth times in terms of factual truth and perhaps more of a capital T truth and perhaps more of a capital T truth that Gandhi's speaking of would truth that Gandhi's speaking of would you say? you say? you say? &gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. I mean, there is to some &gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. I mean, there is to some degree. Yes. You see, so because degree. Yes. You see, so because um I think we can look at it in the in um I think we can look at it in the in this tenor that this tenor that in modern parliaments in modern parliaments uh and particularly in these post-truth uh and particularly in these post-truth times uh there the word truth has been times uh there the word truth has been if I may put it there's a kind of a if I may put it there's a kind of a reductionist usage and that reductionist reductionist usage and that reductionist uses is uh uh taking truth as being uses is uh uh taking truth as being synonymous with something that are synonymous with something that are called facts. Okay. Uh and now and and called facts. Okay. Uh and now and and you know in the scholarly world you know in the scholarly world particularly in some circles of it particularly in some circles of it because of course you know uh in the because of course you know uh in the pure sciences there there's often a pure sciences there there's often a different way uh of looking at these different way uh of looking at these things but I have to say that even things but I have to say that even within and you're well aware of it even within and you're well aware of it even within the social sciences there are within the social sciences there are debates on how one thinks about facts debates on how one thinks about facts and uh the social construction of facts. and uh the social construction of facts. There is a social construction of facts. There is a social construction of facts. So for example if you take something to So for example if you take something to some degree that is to say that is if some degree that is to say that is if you take something like statistics uh you take something like statistics uh and that's why you know there have been and that's why you know there have been lots of apherisms about statistics and lots of apherisms about statistics and their statistics and they're statistics their statistics and they're statistics as they say that is that you can take as they say that is that you can take statistics in a various uh way and come statistics in a various uh way and come up with a certain conclusion and you can up with a certain conclusion and you can then put them together in a very then put them together in a very different way and come up with a very different way and come up with a very radically different conclusion. Okay. So radically different conclusion. Okay. So this is where where what exactly facts this is where where what exactly facts are can become something of a serious are can become something of a serious issue. Uh it's also the question of issue. Uh it's also the question of perception. So when I wrote my do perception. So when I wrote my do doctoral dissertation doctoral dissertation doctoral dissertation uh one of the things I discussed at very uh one of the things I discussed at very great length I'm talking about over 30 great length I'm talking about over 30 years ago. Um and one of the things I years ago. Um and one of the things I discussed was the Jalian Walabag discussed was the Jalian Walabag massacre which took place in uh April of massacre which took place in uh April of 1919. 1919. 1919. Um we don't have to go into the Um we don't have to go into the incidents of this but but uh nearly incidents of this but but uh nearly everyone will be aware of the fact of everyone will be aware of the fact that uh the the British the fact that uh the the British perpetrated a an atrocity there uh which perpetrated a an atrocity there uh which resulted in the deaths of several resulted in the deaths of several hundred Indians. Now what's astonishing hundred Indians. Now what's astonishing is that if you read uh the the uh the is that if you read uh the the uh the witnesses witnesses witnesses okay the testimony of witnesses which okay the testimony of witnesses which were uh which were collected uh both by were uh which were collected uh both by an official inquiry commission it was an official inquiry commission it was called the hunter commission and by the called the hunter commission and by the congress uh India was of course very congress uh India was of course very much under colonial rule still about 30 much under colonial rule still about 30 years away from formal independence uh years away from formal independence uh the congress appointed a committee of the congress appointed a committee of inquiry Okay. And now this this the it's inquiry Okay. And now this this the it's the same set of events so to speak that the same set of events so to speak that 10 people are looking at and you get 10 10 people are looking at and you get 10 different accounts in some respects of different accounts in some respects of what they saw actually. Right? So this what they saw actually. Right? So this is what I mean that the that even uh is what I mean that the that even uh perception can become critically perception can become critically important when we think about what the important when we think about what the social construction of facts is like. social construction of facts is like. But nevertheless, allowing for all of But nevertheless, allowing for all of this, I think it is safe to say that in this, I think it is safe to say that in modern parliament, especially in popular modern parliament, especially in popular discourse, uh truths uh and facts are discourse, uh truths uh and facts are viewed as synonymous. Now, this is in viewed as synonymous. Now, this is in the Gandhian view an extraordinarily the Gandhian view an extraordinarily I'm going to use his word as a I'm going to use his word as a provocation. Gandhi himself never used provocation. Gandhi himself never used it but it's an extraordinarily primitive it but it's an extraordinarily primitive way of of trying to understand what way of of trying to understand what truth is right because truth is a form truth is right because truth is a form of striving to begin with that's the of striving to begin with that's the first part of it you strive for first part of it you strive for something you strive to achieve a something you strive to achieve a certain kind of clarity okay so truth is certain kind of clarity okay so truth is clarity to begin with right uh because clarity to begin with right uh because uh obviously when we say well what uh obviously when we say well what exactly is truth if we don't want to uh exactly is truth if we don't want to uh be content with saying that it is simply be content with saying that it is simply facts then we have to say well what is facts then we have to say well what is it then if it's not a set of facts right it then if it's not a set of facts right uh so first thing is we can think to uh so first thing is we can think to ourselves that for Gandhi it is a ourselves that for Gandhi it is a striving and then a striving for a striving and then a striving for a certain kind of clarity then the certain kind of clarity then the question is how do we think about this question is how do we think about this clarity is this a clarity simply about clarity is this a clarity simply about the material arrangement of things in the material arrangement of things in the world Or does this clarity have some the world Or does this clarity have some relationship relationship relationship to questions which are more enduring to questions which are more enduring which are not simply transient right so which are not simply transient right so for example for Gandhi let's take an for example for Gandhi let's take an illustration there the truth of our illustration there the truth of our being is that we are fundamentally good being is that we are fundamentally good but then we may steer away from that but then we may steer away from that right and it's very important to right and it's very important to understand that satya understand that satya so we know it's a it's a neologism a so we know it's a it's a neologism a word invented by Gandhi okay satya plus word invented by Gandhi okay satya plus agraha force satya is truth so that's agraha force satya is truth so that's why sometimes or I would say often more why sometimes or I would say often more often than not the word is translated as often than not the word is translated as truth force sometimes it's translated as truth force sometimes it's translated as soul force right now satya itself the soul force right now satya itself the root of that is sat But what is sat? Sat root of that is sat But what is sat? Sat is being being. And so Gandhi's what is being being. And so Gandhi's what Gandhi is really saying is that when you Gandhi is really saying is that when you confront someone with satyagra, you are confront someone with satyagra, you are actually confronting them with the truth actually confronting them with the truth of their own being which you can't which of their own being which you can't which a person can't deny. Now if we put it a person can't deny. Now if we put it into if put it into plainer English what into if put it into plainer English what we can say is that satiagra is a mode by we can say is that satiagra is a mode by which one attempts to find some common which one attempts to find some common ground ground ground between oneself and the other who seems between oneself and the other who seems to be radically opposed in in the in the to be radically opposed in in the in the most extreme situation radically opposed most extreme situation radically opposed to one's worldview has a very different to one's worldview has a very different worldview. Of course it's not always the worldview. Of course it's not always the case that people who have different case that people who have different views are radically opposed. They may views are radically opposed. They may have minor differences but here we're have minor differences but here we're taking the the most extreme case which taking the the most extreme case which is the case under colonialism where is the case under colonialism where where Indians are advocating for where Indians are advocating for self-determination and the British are self-determination and the British are saying well you're just not fit for it saying well you're just not fit for it yet you're you're still like children yet you're you're still like children are you you know you still have to are you you know you still have to evolve before you can shoulder the evolve before you can shoulder the responsibilities of heavy ideas such as responsibilities of heavy ideas such as liberty freedom etc etc right now so liberty freedom etc etc right now so therefore to go back to the question therefore to go back to the question what I'm suggesting is uh that there is what I'm suggesting is uh that there is in fact a kind of a disjunction between in fact a kind of a disjunction between what we can describe as a common what we can describe as a common discourse about truth. All right. uh and discourse about truth. All right. uh and what would that between that common what would that between that common disjunction between that notion of truth disjunction between that notion of truth and the kind of truth that Gandhi is and the kind of truth that Gandhi is thinking of which is not to say that thinking of which is not to say that sometimes he's not partaking of the sometimes he's not partaking of the common discourse as well and and what common discourse as well and and what would that common discourse be and I'll would that common discourse be and I'll conclude my set of remarks with that conclude my set of remarks with that illustration that let's say you have um illustration that let's say you have um an incident that takes place and you an incident that takes place and you have competing accounts in that case the have competing accounts in that case the truth can in part be a quest, a striving truth can in part be a quest, a striving to determine which account is the most to determine which account is the most responsible or the most accurate responsible or the most accurate account, right, of a set of events that account, right, of a set of events that transpired. But notice that transpired. But notice that philosophically speaking that what one philosophically speaking that what one is speaking about is something that is speaking about is something that happened and then there is an account or happened and then there is an account or a narrative of that. Right? And this is a narrative of that. Right? And this is the the the manner in which I think a the the the manner in which I think a popular discourse of truth actually popular discourse of truth actually works. works. works. Yeah, it's it really is fascinating um Yeah, it's it really is fascinating um the the the the octaves upon which we the the the the octaves upon which we can hear truth and the the can hear truth and the the disambiguation interplay between uh disambiguation interplay between uh factual truth sort of regular mundane factual truth sort of regular mundane truth and and truth this this greater truth and and truth this this greater principle one of these great precepts principle one of these great precepts from from Hindu philosophy or thought from from Hindu philosophy or thought you know sata you know sata etc. Um and Brahmachari of course he etc. Um and Brahmachari of course he experimented with on and off. You know experimented with on and off. You know he had a pension to to to to to he had a pension to to to to to brilliantly or perhaps problematically brilliantly or perhaps problematically to some to to to repurpose and repackage to some to to to repurpose and repackage um these uh spiritual quote unquote um these uh spiritual quote unquote timeless ideals into a very historical timeless ideals into a very historical socioultural moment through which he socioultural moment through which he lived. Um there are a couple of really lived. Um there are a couple of really fascinating ideas that that pop out to fascinating ideas that that pop out to me when I when I read your introduction me when I when I read your introduction and of course there are many others uh and of course there are many others uh throughout the work by various authors. throughout the work by various authors. But could you say could you could you um But could you say could you could you um explain to our listeners the the perils explain to our listeners the the perils of sanitizing Gandhi? What what is of sanitizing Gandhi? What what is sanitizing Gandhi mean? What does it sanitizing Gandhi mean? What does it look like and and why is this look like and and why is this problematic? problematic? problematic? &gt;&gt; Well the perils okay so first we have to &gt;&gt; Well the perils okay so first we have to say something about what it means to say something about what it means to sanitize Gandhi, right? So one of the sanitize Gandhi, right? So one of the one of there there are so many aspects one of there there are so many aspects uh to that. So I'll try to be very brief uh to that. So I'll try to be very brief really and then talk about the perils of really and then talk about the perils of um uh of that. So to sanitize um Gandhi um uh of that. So to sanitize um Gandhi means in part to domesticate him to tame means in part to domesticate him to tame him so that he just becomes for example him so that he just becomes for example another reformer. Uh but but of course another reformer. Uh but but of course fundamentally uh the most crucial way in fundamentally uh the most crucial way in which he he has been sanitized is to which he he has been sanitized is to simply view him as uh the the the simply view him as uh the the the greatest pacifist. Okay. Uh uh of modern greatest pacifist. Okay. Uh uh of modern times possibly of history. Uh there are times possibly of history. Uh there are some who would of course uh you know some who would of course uh you know take the view that he's the greatest take the view that he's the greatest advocate uh of nonviolent uh resistance advocate uh of nonviolent uh resistance uh someone who showed the path for uh someone who showed the path for nonviolent resistance someone who took nonviolent resistance someone who took the idea of nonviolence from the domain the idea of nonviolence from the domain of the individual because you know take of the individual because you know take someone like Henry David Thorough an someone like Henry David Thorough an American essayist as many people know uh American essayist as many people know uh of the mid-9th century who wrote an of the mid-9th century who wrote an essay uh known by many different names essay uh known by many different names by the way we don't need to get into the by the way we don't need to get into the into that discussion or but let's just into that discussion or but let's just say let's just call it uh uh the essay say let's just call it uh uh the essay on the duty of civil disobedience uh and on the duty of civil disobedience uh and there's been a discussion uh long for there's been a discussion uh long for many many years on the extent to which many many years on the extent to which it influenced Gandhi um and and again it influenced Gandhi um and and again we'll bypass that discussion entirely as we'll bypass that discussion entirely as not really germanine to the question but not really germanine to the question but why do I bring him up because uh Henry why do I bring him up because uh Henry David Thorough never really envisioned David Thorough never really envisioned the idea of a mass resistance. Uh it the idea of a mass resistance. Uh it never envisioned the idea of nonviolence never envisioned the idea of nonviolence as a resistance movement um of as a resistance movement um of nonviolent dissenters constituting an nonviolent dissenters constituting an army of nonviolent dissenters etc etc. army of nonviolent dissenters etc etc. Uh so Gandhi takes it from the plane of Uh so Gandhi takes it from the plane of the individual to the plane uh of a the individual to the plane uh of a community uh community uh community uh uh and uh some people would argue that uh and uh some people would argue that this is his fundamental contribution. this is his fundamental contribution. Now I would say that even that is Now I would say that even that is actually a form of sanitization because actually a form of sanitization because what Gandhi has been reduced to here what Gandhi has been reduced to here once again is uh someone who is either a once again is uh someone who is either a social reformer or more importantly uh social reformer or more importantly uh in that limited view someone who is an in that limited view someone who is an arch uh advocate of non-violent arch uh advocate of non-violent resistance. Now I think when we take resistance. Now I think when we take Gandhi's life as a whole the levels of Gandhi's life as a whole the levels of complexity are extraordinary. complexity are extraordinary. Okay. Um but before I give some Okay. Um but before I give some illustrations of that which will then in illustrations of that which will then in turn point to the perils uh of this kind turn point to the perils uh of this kind of uh sanitization or domestication. The of uh sanitization or domestication. The other way I want to just complete the other way I want to just complete the thought. The other way in which has been thought. The other way in which has been domesticated is the endless number of domesticated is the endless number of conferences usually state sponsored conferences usually state sponsored especially in India on the relevance of especially in India on the relevance of Gandhi. Right. uh you know what is this Gandhi. Right. uh you know what is this exercise I mean it's a very jun very exercise I mean it's a very jun very sort of juvenile kind of exercise if you sort of juvenile kind of exercise if you ask me because what does a relevance ask me because what does a relevance mean the relevance of Gandhi endless mean the relevance of Gandhi endless number of people will say well he's a number of people will say well he's a man who stood for peace in an man who stood for peace in an increasingly violent times we need men increasingly violent times we need men of peace etc etc well that's of peace etc etc well that's self-evident isn't it really right and self-evident isn't it really right and and oddly enough with every such and oddly enough with every such conference that is sponsored by the conference that is sponsored by the Indian government or by some other Indian government or by some other organization or the relevance of Gandhi, organization or the relevance of Gandhi, he goes deeper and deeper into into his he goes deeper and deeper into into his grave if you ask me, right? Because it's grave if you ask me, right? Because it's a way of ensuring it's like all these a way of ensuring it's like all these statues you put up of Gandhi. Gandhi statues you put up of Gandhi. Gandhi himself had no interest at all in his himself had no interest at all in his statues. Uh he understood very well that statues. Uh he understood very well that the larger the number of statues, the the larger the number of statues, the more irrelevant, so to speak, he's going more irrelevant, so to speak, he's going to become. uh which is exactly what to become. uh which is exactly what really happened frankly especially in really happened frankly especially in India where uh there are zillions of India where uh there are zillions of statues of Gandhi as we know. All right. statues of Gandhi as we know. All right. Now Now Now what do I mean that the layers of what do I mean that the layers of complexity are extraordinary. See Gandhi complexity are extraordinary. See Gandhi is foremost is foremost is foremost a critic of modern industrial a critic of modern industrial civilization. civilization. civilization. Right now, all the people who have Right now, all the people who have deployed Gandhi's ideas in nonviolent deployed Gandhi's ideas in nonviolent movements, in peace movements, they're movements, in peace movements, they're completely oblivious to that part of the completely oblivious to that part of the story. In fact, many of them don't even story. In fact, many of them don't even want to hear that part of the story. You want to hear that part of the story. You see, and and and what does it mean to see, and and and what does it mean to say that he was a a stringent critic of say that he was a a stringent critic of modern industrial civilization? We modern industrial civilization? We should be very clear that this doesn't should be very clear that this doesn't mean that he's necessarily opposed to mean that he's necessarily opposed to all aspects of science or technology. all aspects of science or technology. All right? Uh we have to we have to All right? Uh we have to parse these things very careful parse these things very careful carefully. When I say he's a critic, carefully. When I say he's a critic, what I mean is that he's a critic of what I mean is that he's a critic of this presuppositions that inform ideas this presuppositions that inform ideas of modernity. Okay? He is a critic of of modernity. Okay? He is a critic of industrial civilization. industrial civilization. industrial civilization. uh of the kind that we had uh because he uh of the kind that we had uh because he understood what its ramifications would understood what its ramifications would be not simply for working people and and be not simply for working people and and how jobs might disappear and so forth how jobs might disappear and so forth and so on but for much more substantive and so on but for much more substantive philosophical reasons some of which uh philosophical reasons some of which uh are reflected in Marxist thinking for are reflected in Marxist thinking for example the kind of alienation that example the kind of alienation that occurs in the modern working conditions occurs in the modern working conditions right where a worker is simply doing the right where a worker is simply doing the same job so if you have, you know, this same job so if you have, you know, this is the division of labor, right, that is the division of labor, right, that Markx wrote about that many other Markx wrote about that many other theorists have written about that when theorists have written about that when you're putting a car together, well, you you're putting a car together, well, you know, one person might just be putting know, one person might just be putting one little bolt and might be doing that one little bolt and might be doing that the entire day and might be doing that the entire day and might be doing that for 10 years of his life, right? Uh it's for 10 years of his life, right? Uh it's not like the potter who's creating uh a not like the potter who's creating uh a little clay pot, okay? And from the little clay pot, okay? And from the start to the finish, it's this potter's start to the finish, it's this potter's work, right? He's working with his work, right? He's working with his hands. So Gandhi also has a philosophy hands. So Gandhi also has a philosophy of the hands. By the way, almost no one of the hands. By the way, almost no one has written on that. The critical has written on that. The critical importance of labor, for example. Okay. importance of labor, for example. Okay. Now, all this is by way of saying that Now, all this is by way of saying that Gandhi has there isn't a domain of Gandhi has there isn't a domain of thought in which Gandhi wasn't involved. thought in which Gandhi wasn't involved. He wrote widely on nutrition, on He wrote widely on nutrition, on sanitation, on hygiene, on machinery, sanitation, on hygiene, on machinery, okay? On democracy, on politics, on okay? On democracy, on politics, on ethics, okay? On the idea of the divine, ethics, okay? On the idea of the divine, on religious practices, on religions, on religious practices, on religions, right? You you you uh uh on textiles, on right? You you you uh uh on textiles, on clothing, on kadi, right? He wrote and clothing, on kadi, right? He wrote and reflected on everything. There was an reflected on everything. There was an element of self-reflexivity as well. And element of self-reflexivity as well. And when we think about the sanitization, when we think about the sanitization, the sanitization occurs in reducing him the sanitization occurs in reducing him a simply to a person who is an advocate a simply to a person who is an advocate of nonviolent resistance. Thinking of of nonviolent resistance. Thinking of him simply as someone who is championing him simply as someone who is championing a certain form of opposing an opponent a certain form of opposing an opponent who is inflicting injustice on you. And who is inflicting injustice on you. And of course I'm the last person to say of course I'm the last person to say that's unimportant. That's critically that's unimportant. That's critically important. But it's still a form of important. But it's still a form of reducing him and then as I said reducing him and then as I said pronouncing his relevance and then just pronouncing his relevance and then just moving on you know right now I think moving on you know right now I think that Gandhi is such a rich person and that Gandhi is such a rich person and look at the writings look at the writings 98 98 98 volumes of the collected works that it's volumes of the collected works that it's 100 volumes but the but they're two 100 volumes but the but they're two volumes of uh indices uh he wrote volumes of uh indices uh he wrote voluminously you know If let's say he voluminously you know If let's say he had not been known for uh his work on had not been known for uh his work on behalf of Indian uh independence or the behalf of Indian uh independence or the struggle for self-determination, struggle for self-determination, Gandhi would have a extraordinary place Gandhi would have a extraordinary place in the history of Indian journalism. I in the history of Indian journalism. I mean the man edited and founded several mean the man edited and founded several newspapers and wrote hundreds of pieces newspapers and wrote hundreds of pieces for them. An Indian opinion which he for them. An Indian opinion which he founded in South Africa was published in founded in South Africa was published in four languages. this newspaper I mean four languages. this newspaper I mean how remarkable is that then he comes how remarkable is that then he comes back to India he starts young India back to India he starts young India there's Harijan right I mean it's just there's Harijan right I mean it's just extraordinary his place in the history extraordinary his place in the history of Indian journalism the people who talk of Indian journalism the people who talk about nonviolence and all of that about nonviolence and all of that they're not aware of his contributions they're not aware of his contributions there or or let me take one last example there or or let me take one last example and I I I and I take this example with and I I I and I take this example with uh uh deliberately because this book uh uh uh deliberately because this book uh this conference from which This book this conference from which This book partially emerges took place just before partially emerges took place just before COVID struck, right? It was held uh it COVID struck, right? It was held uh it started on on 30th January which is of started on on 30th January which is of course the day that he was uh course the day that he was uh assassinated. Uh so we started the assassinated. Uh so we started the conference on 30th January uh 2020th and conference on 30th January uh 2020th and it ended on February 2nd and we know it ended on February 2nd and we know that just weeks later the world was that just weeks later the world was essentially shut down. Right? Okay. So essentially shut down. Right? Okay. So what is that example I want to take? what is that example I want to take? Nursing. Nursing. Nursing. you know, Gandhi you know, Gandhi uh had lots of ideas about nursing. Uh uh had lots of ideas about nursing. Uh some of the ideas are similar to those some of the ideas are similar to those of Florence Nightingale, some are very of Florence Nightingale, some are very different. He's moved he's developed his different. He's moved he's developed his own thinking. We know that when he was own thinking. We know that when he was in South Africa uh when he uh raised a in South Africa uh when he uh raised a huh uh an ambulance core uh during the huh uh an ambulance core uh during the the war and uh you know this this is of the war and uh you know this this is of course you know controversial for those course you know controversial for those who have thought about uh Gandhi's part who have thought about uh Gandhi's part in South Africa and what they've deem in South Africa and what they've deem his assistance to the British Empire and his assistance to the British Empire and all of that. The point nevertheless is all of that. The point nevertheless is I'm take and I and and I'm always taking I'm take and I and and I'm always taking examples which can be open to other examples which can be open to other kinds of criticism because I think one kinds of criticism because I think one should be open to uh the should be one should be open to uh the these critiques. Um but importantly these critiques. Um but importantly Gandhi displays certain attitudes about Gandhi displays certain attitudes about nursing and himself is someone who nursing and himself is someone who nurses people to help. uh you know the nurses people to help. uh you know the world leprosy day world leprosy day is held on Gandhi's birthday because is held on Gandhi's birthday because Gandhi was one of the few Indians who Gandhi was one of the few Indians who was willing to go to a person who was a was willing to go to a person who was a leper leper leper touch them attend to their needs touch them attend to their needs it's it's really extraordinary it's it's really extraordinary people still will you know if you if you people still will you know if you if you see a leper and this goes back again in see a leper and this goes back again in the west as well go back to the Old the west as well go back to the Old Testament, go back to Deuteronomy, you Testament, go back to Deuteronomy, you know, and you you see how lepers have know, and you you see how lepers have been treated historically all over the been treated historically all over the world. Gandhi had no notion of stigma world. Gandhi had no notion of stigma at all. He was completely fearless in at all. He was completely fearless in this matter as he was in almost any this matter as he was in almost any matter in life. And I think all of this matter in life. And I think all of this when we take his life in totality we can when we take his life in totality we can see how he has been to use the word of see how he has been to use the word of your question how he has been sanitized. your question how he has been sanitized. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Clearly much of your work uh aims to Clearly much of your work uh aims to preserve um you know what you see as a preserve um you know what you see as a spirit of uh important relevant uh uh spirit of uh important relevant uh uh provocation to to continue to strive. Um provocation to to continue to strive. Um um a couple of the ideas that perhaps um a couple of the ideas that perhaps you can touch on there. There are so you can touch on there. There are so many, but one of the ones you you you many, but one of the ones you you you talk about maybe could share for our talk about maybe could share for our readers is this idea of of playing games readers is this idea of of playing games and the importance of playing games and and the importance of playing games and another and then perhaps we we'll wrap another and then perhaps we we'll wrap up after these remarks, but um uh this up after these remarks, but um uh this this really crucial distinction you make this really crucial distinction you make between the between the between the inclusion he adopts that that is if inclusion he adopts that that is if approach to lepers and the approach to lepers and the disambiguation between that and our disambiguation between that and our so-called um inclusive diversity of of so-called um inclusive diversity of of these days like Yes. So comment on this these days like Yes. So comment on this I mean there a lot of there are a lot of I mean there a lot of there are a lot of relevant ideas but I think these are relevant ideas but I think these are very relevant to our times. very relevant to our times. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. So u okay so let let me uh &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. So u okay so let let me uh speak to two things here uh which emerge speak to two things here uh which emerge from your uh observations of the from your uh observations of the question and one is this idea of playing question and one is this idea of playing games. What do I mean by uh particularly games. What do I mean by uh particularly in my intro in introduction of Gandhi as in my intro in introduction of Gandhi as a player of infinite games. Um and the a player of infinite games. Um and the second is this idea of inclusivity I second is this idea of inclusivity I think right and how it how Gandhi's idea think right and how it how Gandhi's idea might differ for example from uh the might differ for example from uh the inclusive diversity or the DEI inclusive diversity or the DEI initiatives of modern times. Exactly. initiatives of modern times. Exactly. &gt;&gt; Right. I think that that's the the gist &gt;&gt; Right. I think that that's the the gist of it. Yes. So let let me and the two by of it. Yes. So let let me and the two by the way are actually quite related and the way are actually quite related and in some ways as well here. So th this in some ways as well here. So th this this idea the metaphor of Gandhi as a a this idea the metaphor of Gandhi as a a player of infinite games uh uh as I player of infinite games uh uh as I stated openly in my introduction um uh stated openly in my introduction um uh was inspired by a reading of a book by was inspired by a reading of a book by James Cars. uh James Cars, the late James Cars. uh James Cars, the late James Carras was an American philosopher James Carras was an American philosopher of religion, an extraordinary of religion, an extraordinary uh thinker in my view, but uh I think a uh thinker in my view, but uh I think a leg legendary teacher certainly I think leg legendary teacher certainly I think at NYU where he taught he passed away a at NYU where he taught he passed away a few years ago uh but not really known uh few years ago uh but not really known uh you know in the same way as u let's say you know in the same way as u let's say philosophers uh like uh Charles Taylor philosophers uh like uh Charles Taylor or John RS certainly not John RS because or John RS certainly not John RS because he's a gigantic figure. I mean, James he's a gigantic figure. I mean, James Cars was barely known, I think, to most Cars was barely known, I think, to most people. Uh, but the one the people who people. Uh, but the one the people who did read him, uh, he developed a kind of did read him, uh, he developed a kind of a cult following, I think, you know. I a cult following, I think, you know. I mean, one of his other books. I just mean, one of his other books. I just want to give a little a little glimpse want to give a little a little glimpse into into into this is after all a podcast on religion, this is after all a podcast on religion, new books on religion, but on on a new books on religion, but on on a philosopher of religion, uh, whose work philosopher of religion, uh, whose work I think is very important and and and, I think is very important and and and, uh, should be much more widely read. But uh, should be much more widely read. But one of his other books is a book where one of his other books is a book where he u u all that he does is he really he u u all that he does is he really talks about uh um u I think it's called talks about uh um u I think it's called u u u pardon the um my lost lapse of u u u pardon the um my lost lapse of memory here I think it's called memory here I think it's called breakfast at tiffany's something like breakfast at tiffany's something like that I read it many years ago when it that I read it many years ago when it came out what it is he describes came out what it is he describes basically he he lived in he lived in the basically he he lived in the village in New York uh and I think he village in New York uh and I think he used to walk to work basically and he used to walk to work basically and he would go and have breakfast uh almost would go and have breakfast uh almost daily or several times a week at the daily or several times a week at the same diner. Okay? And what this book is same diner. Okay? And what this book is about is about his visits to the diner about is about his visits to the diner and the conversations that he had there. and the conversations that he had there. And it's about the extraordinariness And it's about the extraordinariness of the ordinary, the extraordinariness of the ordinary, the extraordinariness of everyday life. All right? In some of everyday life. All right? In some ways, it's a set of reflections on that. ways, it's a set of reflections on that. So that's James Cars. The book that I uh So that's James Cars. The book that I uh was animated by, inspired by um was animated by, inspired by um is called finite and infinite games. Uh is called finite and infinite games. Uh there are no references in this book. Uh there are no references in this book. Uh it's a little bit like reading Krishna it's a little bit like reading Krishna Morti but in a very different way Morti but in a very different way because if one reads Krishna Morti you because if one reads Krishna Morti you find that he never cites any text ever. find that he never cites any text ever. you know, no reference to the opanishads you know, no reference to the opanishads or the Vedas or the Gita or the or the or the Vedas or the Gita or the or the Bible or uh you know, any number of K or Bible or uh you know, any number of K or whoever uh or mystics you know uh he whoever uh or mystics you know uh he himself is the sole authority for himself is the sole authority for everything so to speak. Um well that's everything so to speak. Um well that's not quite cars because cars was a not quite cars because cars was a scholar uh and in many of his other scholar uh and in many of his other works there you'll see plenty of works there you'll see plenty of citations to other works and so on. But citations to other works and so on. But this is a book which basically is a book this is a book which basically is a book about the fact that look uh as he sees about the fact that look uh as he sees it that the vast majority of us nearly it that the vast majority of us nearly always are just finite players of games. always are just finite players of games. We play finite games. We play finite games. What he means by that is that uh What he means by that is that uh it's like a picture frame. it's like a picture frame. The player of finite games will at most The player of finite games will at most rearrange things within that frame. rearrange things within that frame. Okay? Okay? Okay? But they won't really step outside that But they won't really step outside that frame at all. uh a lot of people will frame at all. uh a lot of people will use the uh the cliched expression will use the uh the cliched expression will immediately come to mind thinking out of immediately come to mind thinking out of the outside the box. Uh I always tell my the outside the box. Uh I always tell my students never use phrases like that students never use phrases like that because anyone who uses that phrase will because anyone who uses that phrase will never actually do anything interesting never actually do anything interesting in their life frankly almost always you in their life frankly almost always you know uh so uh this finite games idea is know uh so uh this finite games idea is really that for example it's like uh you really that for example it's like uh you know uh the kind of experimentation you know uh the kind of experimentation you take uh is within take uh is within the range. So let's take an example from the range. So let's take an example from from Gandhi okay to understand from Gandhi okay to understand his defiance of the finite game because his defiance of the finite game because this is a book after all that we're this is a book after all that we're talking about at Gandhi and I think this talking about at Gandhi and I think this will give a very wonderful illustration will give a very wonderful illustration of how Cars's thinking becomes important of how Cars's thinking becomes important how Gandhi is a player of infinite how Gandhi is a player of infinite games. So games. So games. So what were the forms of resistance what were the forms of resistance that were available to people? that were available to people? The forms of resistance essentially you The forms of resistance essentially you could say fell into two or three could say fell into two or three categories in in colonial India when the categories in in colonial India when the Indian National Congress was founded. Indian National Congress was founded. What did the people who were behind the What did the people who were behind the founding of the Congress which is founding of the Congress which is founded in 1885? It's a set of elites. founded in 1885? It's a set of elites. uh it's about 70 odd people uh who who uh it's about 70 odd people uh who who create the the congress. I mean there's create the the congress. I mean there's a a founder AO Hume and a couple of a a founder AO Hume and a couple of other people and then in the initial other people and then in the initial year they're about 70 75 people. uh and year they're about 70 75 people. uh and the idea was you petitioned the the idea was you petitioned the authorities okay you petition the authorities okay you petition the authorities you say that look you know authorities you say that look you know we Indians want a greater role in we Indians want a greater role in self-government you know very modestly self-government you know very modestly framed petitions as the years go on the framed petitions as the years go on the petitions become a bit bolder but it's petitions become a bit bolder but it's still the petitioning mode and the still the petitioning mode and the British recognizes because after all British recognizes because after all they say that well we are the champions they say that well we are the champions of freedom of liberty freedom of of freedom of liberty freedom of expression of thought this is all expression of thought this is all perfectly fine you know people should perfectly fine you know people should allowed to say this. So this is there's allowed to say this. So this is there's nothing um uh you know out of the nothing um uh you know out of the ordinary here. This is part of normal ordinary here. This is part of normal politics. So I'm using the phrase normal politics. So I'm using the phrase normal politics. Now uh as things move along politics. Now uh as things move along obviously people come along and say well obviously people come along and say well we're not really satisfied with this at we're not really satisfied with this at all and what happened in Bengal turn of all and what happened in Bengal turn of the century and in Maharashtra where the century and in Maharashtra where political assassination start to be political assassination start to be carried out. Uh so the the play carried out. Uh so the the play commissioner in Pune uh by the by the commissioner in Pune uh by the by the name of Rand William Rand is name of Rand William Rand is assassinated in 1893. Political assassinated in 1893. Political assassination that's terrorism. assassination that's terrorism. Okay. But even that is within the normal. is within the normal. You see that's the point. It's a finite You see that's the point. It's a finite game. the person who's taking part in an game. the person who's taking part in an assassination, the person who's bombing assassination, the person who's bombing a train carriage where the viceroy is a train carriage where the viceroy is traveling because this had already traveling because this had already become part of established politics become part of established politics elsewhere in the world. Look at the elsewhere in the world. Look at the history of anarchism in Russia in the history of anarchism in Russia in the 1880s. 1880s. 1880s. All these strategies and tactics are All these strategies and tactics are already being tested out. By 1900, there already being tested out. By 1900, there are manuals for bomb production, not are manuals for bomb production, not bombs by the state. I'm talking about, bombs by the state. I'm talking about, you know, bombs that you make in your you know, bombs that you make in your garage. If you're a rebel, you throw garage. If you're a rebel, you throw that bomb. Then all these manuals are that bomb. Then all these manuals are now being circulated. The British knew now being circulated. The British knew how to respond to these people how to respond to these people because even the so-called terrorist because even the so-called terrorist of course the Indians would call them of course the Indians would call them freedom fighters. So again, we don't freedom fighters. So again, we don't need to get into that. We are we are need to get into that. We are we are well aware of the different nomenclature well aware of the different nomenclature and who uses what term. The point is and who uses what term. The point is that this is even even this is within that this is even even this is within the realm of normal politics or what we the realm of normal politics or what we might call a finite game. Now when might call a finite game. Now when Gandhi comes along Gandhi comes along something happens and one of the reasons something happens and one of the reasons why the British are incapacitated okay okay okay by Gandhi is because they don't by Gandhi is because they don't understand it because what he's done is understand it because what he's done is he's moved outside their frame of he's moved outside their frame of reference altogether he's just moved reference altogether he's just moved outside that all right he has become a outside that all right he has become a player of an infinite game that infinite player of an infinite game that infinite game means in the first instance that game means in the first instance that there are no winners or losers. Now there are no winners or losers. Now that's radical because a game has an that's radical because a game has an outcome. Somebody wins, somebody loses. outcome. Somebody wins, somebody loses. Okay? Right? In Gandhi's game, there are Okay? Right? In Gandhi's game, there are no winners and there are no losers. no winners and there are no losers. None whatsoever. And we have to remember None whatsoever. And we have to remember that he was very adamant in his conduct. that he was very adamant in his conduct. Not just in his pronouncements, Not just in his pronouncements, in his conduct. He adhereed strictly and in his conduct. He adhereed strictly and strongly and assiduously to the idea strongly and assiduously to the idea that whatever he was doing was going to that whatever he was doing was going to assist not simply in the liberation of assist not simply in the liberation of India from the British rule. It would India from the British rule. It would liberate the British from their own liberate the British from their own worst tendencies. Because you don't go worst tendencies. Because you don't go and colonize someone else until you and colonize someone else until you first colonize yourself. You see, which first colonize yourself. You see, which is one reason why is one reason why it really didn't matter ultimately in it really didn't matter ultimately in some ways to Gandhi whether you're some ways to Gandhi whether you're within the British Empire, you're within the British Empire, you're outside it, whether you're a dominion, outside it, whether you're a dominion, whether you're a republic because for whether you're a republic because for him all of these political framework, him all of these political framework, structures structures structures are not meaningfully different if you are not meaningfully different if you don't exercise control over yourself don't exercise control over yourself first. And that is why if you look at first. And that is why if you look at hens, hins swaraj is a massively radical hens, hins swaraj is a massively radical work. And why is it a ma massively work. And why is it a ma massively radical work? And why is the word saraj radical work? And why is the word saraj so much richer than freedom than the so much richer than freedom than the English word freedom? Because freedom in English word freedom? Because freedom in the English language is freedom the English language is freedom fundamentally as self-determination fundamentally as self-determination as political autonomy. as political autonomy. In In In the Indian word saraj there are three the Indian word saraj there are three meanings. three meanings. One is the meaning that I've just One is the meaning that I've just articulated which is articulated which is political self-determination political self-determination political self-determination independence from colonial rule. The independence from colonial rule. The second meaning swaj second meaning swaj self self self rule self meaning rule over yourself. rule self meaning rule over yourself. You rule over your baser instincts. Get You rule over your baser instincts. Get rid of your baser instincts. rid of your baser instincts. This is a struggle, right? and and and This is a struggle, right? and and and this is related to him and satya but this is related to him and satya but that's the second meaning and the third that's the second meaning and the third meaning is precisely the one that I meaning is precisely the one that I articulated a few minutes ago which is articulated a few minutes ago which is that any struggle for independence is that any struggle for independence is not simply the liberation of oneself not simply the liberation of oneself it's the liberation of the other it's the liberation of the other from their worst tendencies and for from their worst tendencies and for Gandhi these three meanings were all Gandhi these three meanings were all intertwined and intrinsic to the idea of intertwined and intrinsic to the idea of sur you right now. Someone who's sur you right now. Someone who's thinking that is thinking in ways which thinking that is thinking in ways which are absolutely are absolutely are absolutely so to speak in the first instance opaque so to speak in the first instance opaque to the other. And so what he is going to to the other. And so what he is going to try to do is to render all of that less try to do is to render all of that less opaque. You see? Okay. He's going to try opaque. You see? Okay. He's going to try to have to make these meanings to have to make these meanings absolutely clear because what Gandhi absolutely clear because what Gandhi really was in that sense was as I've really was in that sense was as I've said a player of infinite games and the said a player of infinite games and the fundamental principle there first is fundamental principle there first is there are no winners or losers. Look at there are no winners or losers. Look at the the person who's the most talked the the person who's the most talked about person in the world today. The about person in the world today. The only language he recognizes only language he recognizes is that of winners or and losers. I'm is that of winners or and losers. I'm talking about Donald Trump. And of talking about Donald Trump. And of course, the worst thing in the world for course, the worst thing in the world for Donald Trump is to be a loser. The worst Donald Trump is to be a loser. The worst possible thing is being a loser. This is possible thing is being a loser. This is his favorite word of abuse for everyone his favorite word of abuse for everyone whom he doesn't like. He's a loser. You whom he doesn't like. He's a loser. You see, right? see, right? see, right? What is Trump? He's the most pathetic What is Trump? He's the most pathetic player of a finite game that we have in player of a finite game that we have in the world by Gandhi's understanding of the world by Gandhi's understanding of what it means to be a player of games. what it means to be a player of games. You see? Right. So this is what I really You see? Right. So this is what I really have in mind. Now exclusivity, have in mind. Now exclusivity, right? So you see right? So you see Gandhi would also by the way have been Gandhi would also by the way have been uncomfortable with many of the DEI uncomfortable with many of the DEI initiatives. But we have to be very initiatives. But we have to be very clear that the reason he would take them clear that the reason he would take them down is not the same reason that down is not the same reason that the government of the United States is the government of the United States is taking them down. Okay? Very different taking them down. Okay? Very different reasons for that. The reason why the reasons for that. The reason why the government of the United States is government of the United States is taking them down is because they would taking them down is because they would like to pretend, of course, that well, like to pretend, of course, that well, you know, we don't really have racism. you know, we don't really have racism. Yes, I mean, they're incidents, but this Yes, I mean, they're incidents, but this is human nature. Uh sometimes people is human nature. Uh sometimes people don't like each other because of the don't like each other because of the color of their skin or that if there is color of their skin or that if there is an incident that happens or some form of an incident that happens or some form of discrimination, it's not systemic. You discrimination, it's not systemic. You know, there's no systemic problem in know, there's no systemic problem in American history. Now when you think American history. Now when you think about something like racism from their about something like racism from their point of view right Gandhi's point of view right Gandhi's DEI there there can be some overlap DEI there there can be some overlap there by the way between between what there by the way between between what some of the critics of DEI are thinking some of the critics of DEI are thinking of Gandhi is thinking about so let's of Gandhi is thinking about so let's let's let's as I said they're very let's let's as I said they're very different but there can be some different but there can be some similarity and one of those is similarity and one of those is a deep suspicion of the state a deep suspicion of the state Gandhi had a deep suspicion Gandhi had a deep suspicion of the state because this is partly what of the state because this is partly what I said that ultimately the form of I said that ultimately the form of government you have okay is less government you have okay is less important from his standpoint important from his standpoint than the control over oneself okay if than the control over oneself okay if you you have that control over oneself you you have that control over oneself you have a different way of engaging you have a different way of engaging with the world engaging with what is with the world engaging with what is critically important with being able to critically important with being able to parse out what is less important parse out what is less important etc all etc all etc all But he but for him the idea that the But he but for him the idea that the state is going to be the the repository state is going to be the the repository of the well-being of people was an idea of the well-being of people was an idea that he fundamentally had differences that he fundamentally had differences with and this actually puts Gandhi who with and this actually puts Gandhi who is often described as a social reformer is often described as a social reformer puts him at odds with the vast majority puts him at odds with the vast majority of social reformers and human rights of social reformers and human rights activists all around the world especially in all around the world especially in India. India. India. where the human rights activists want where the human rights activists want state intervention. state intervention. state intervention. Although of course there is a tacit Although of course there is a tacit awareness that it is a state which is awareness that it is a state which is the most egregious violator of rights. the most egregious violator of rights. Right? But it's precisely because a Right? But it's precisely because a state is the most egregious violator of state is the most egregious violator of rights and it could also be the best rights and it could also be the best guar of rights because it has the guar of rights because it has the greatest power. I mean that's that's greatest power. I mean that's that's what you have that's the irony that you what you have that's the irony that you have to work with. Now all of this is have to work with. Now all of this is related to the idea of inclusivity that related to the idea of inclusivity that we want to think about because for him we want to think about because for him for Gandhi you see you couldn't dictate for Gandhi you see you couldn't dictate inclusivity from the top. inclusivity from the top. It has to come from within. It has to It has to come from within. It has to come from the social practices that you come from the social practices that you embrace. So if you look at his ash sabraati ash sabraati ash sabraati ash you know he he he has a asham and the you know he he he has a asham and the asham is jeopardized almost from the asham is jeopardized almost from the beginning. Why? Because one of the beginning. Why? Because one of the things that he did was he took a Dalith things that he did was he took a Dalith Gur Gur Gur right he would take people into the ash right he would take people into the ash and what is the ashum it's a very and what is the ashum it's a very interesting question there was in one of interesting question there was in one of your earlier questions you had just your earlier questions you had just hinted at something which we can bring hinted at something which we can bring back now much more explicitly into the back now much more explicitly into the discussion which is he takes ideas and discussion which is he takes ideas and practices which have a long history and practices which have a long history and he completely transforms them right so he completely transforms them right so typically What was an ash? An ashram was typically What was an ash? An ashram was a place which was let's use a western a place which was let's use a western word here hermitage. Okay, a place of word here hermitage. Okay, a place of retreat, a place that you go for a retreat, a place that you go for a retreat. Uh and usually the ashams would retreat. Uh and usually the ashams would be in such places as the mountains. It be in such places as the mountains. It would be a bucolic setting or it would would be a bucolic setting or it would be up in the hills, a place of solitude be up in the hills, a place of solitude where you can rest. His asham is in the where you can rest. His asham is in the middle of the city. middle of the city. Saburbati asham. Okay, it's the middle Saburbati asham. Okay, it's the middle of the city. He sets out on the Gandhi of the city. He sets out on the Gandhi march from the asham. He lived there for march from the asham. He lived there for years because Gandhi's view of course years because Gandhi's view of course was I mean uh some scholars have was I mean uh some scholars have described this as a kind of what you described this as a kind of what you might call worldly atheeticism. Okay. Um might call worldly atheeticism. Okay. Um uh but I'm going to put it in different uh but I'm going to put it in different terms that the only way you can lead an terms that the only way you can lead an ethical life is to lead a life in the ethical life is to lead a life in the slum of politics. slum of politics. That's how I would put it. in the slum That's how I would put it. in the slum of politics. You there's no point in of politics. You there's no point in being a yogi, you know, standing on one being a yogi, you know, standing on one foot for 10 years, okay, and getting foot for 10 years, okay, and getting into the Guinness Book of Records, uh, into the Guinness Book of Records, uh, or being a yogi and staying in an ashram or being a yogi and staying in an ashram for 25 years of your life. The real way for 25 years of your life. The real way to be a yogi is to be in this world so to be a yogi is to be in this world so to be so to speak and to achieve to be so to speak and to achieve something to better the condition of something to better the condition of other human beings to better your own other human beings to better your own condition to think about the world to condition to think about the world to think about the fact that think about the fact that there's a planetary existence that there there's a planetary existence that there are species which are non-human species are species which are non-human species which form part of our planetary which form part of our planetary existence. Right? This is all part of existence. Right? This is all part of his way of thinking about inclusivity. his way of thinking about inclusivity. This is not what DEI is. This is not the This is not what DEI is. This is not the kind of inclusivity, diversity that that kind of inclusivity, diversity that that has been mandated down where there are has been mandated down where there are quotas that so many jobs should go to so quotas that so many jobs should go to so and so you know right- which is not to and so you know right- which is not to say that Gandhi is not an advocate of say that Gandhi is not an advocate of obviously having diversity in the or in obviously having diversity in the or in this ordinary sense but the kind of this ordinary sense but the kind of inclusive diversity that he was thinking inclusive diversity that he was thinking of of of is radically different and that's where is radically different and that's where but this is a wholly different subject but this is a wholly different subject in a way this is where the idea of in a way this is where the idea of trusteeship comes in you know one of trusteeship comes in you know one of Gandhi's key ideas very little talked Gandhi's key ideas very little talked about I I had hoped to have a paper on about I I had hoped to have a paper on trusteeship in this volume but I trusteeship in this volume but I couldn't really uh find someone and I couldn't really uh find someone and I didn't have the time to do it uh didn't have the time to do it uh a paper that would really be able to get a paper that would really be able to get to the nuts and bolts of Gandhi's idea to the nuts and bolts of Gandhi's idea of trusty Yeah. of trusty Yeah. &gt;&gt; Well, it leaves uh it leaves something &gt;&gt; Well, it leaves uh it leaves something for you to continue to work on and to for you to continue to work on and to discuss for the next podcast. Clearly, discuss for the next podcast. Clearly, you know, clearly Gandhi is a a you know, clearly Gandhi is a a fascinating um profound um in certain fascinating um profound um in certain ways a paradoxical figure but but not uh ways a paradoxical figure but but not uh but not in commensurate with the very but not in commensurate with the very paradox of so much of Indic thought in paradox of so much of Indic thought in that he was deeply insconed on the one that he was deeply insconed on the one hand with very aesthetic ideals or hand with very aesthetic ideals or ideals that come from staunch ideals that come from staunch aestheticism that we see sort of um most aestheticism that we see sort of um most clearly articulated and we find in in clearly articulated and we find in in uponatic thought And yet in the uponatic thought And yet in the tradition itself, you know, what is tradition itself, you know, what is Krishna saying to you know, you can't Krishna saying to you know, you can't abandon the world. You've got to you've abandon the world. You've got to you've got to, you know, you've got to pull the got to, you know, you've got to pull the world. I mean, world. I mean, you know, um, keep these ideals, but, you know, um, keep these ideals, but, you know, but turn the world type thing. you know, but turn the world type thing. And so but he takes this on a whole new And so but he takes this on a whole new level because he he shows that it is not level because he he shows that it is not just that that that a text such as the just that that that a text such as the Bhagavad Gita or the Indian epics in Bhagavad Gita or the Indian epics in general that's how I think of them as general that's how I think of them as sort of the meaning of these two of sort of the meaning of these two of world facing and and and um world world facing and and and um world adminating dharmas he shows that they're adminating dharmas he shows that they're not just um sophistry idealism he takes not just um sophistry idealism he takes them and he makes them extraordinarily them and he makes them extraordinarily practical and he on the one hand He practical and he on the one hand He really is a vowed to embodying and really is a vowed to embodying and disseminating the transformative power disseminating the transformative power of the yogi of the su of the person of the yogi of the su of the person who's doing introspection of the person who's doing introspection of the person who's working on themselves to realize who's working on themselves to realize what satraha is to realize what a graha what satraha is to realize what a graha is what a himsa is on the one hand he's is what a himsa is on the one hand he's he's he he's cleaving to these truths he's he he's cleaving to these truths that are very much coming from a world that are very much coming from a world issuing ethos and yet he's saying no issuing ethos and yet he's saying no this is precisely what fully illumin and this is precisely what fully illumin and uphold our path in the world. And this uphold our path in the world. And this is precisely what we need. Coming from is precisely what we need. Coming from within, not coming from someone else within, not coming from someone else trolling you on what you should or trolling you on what you should or shouldn't be saying or including or but shouldn't be saying or including or but coming from within. And that that the coming from within. And that that the luminosity of these teachings is luminosity of these teachings is precisely what society needs. He he precisely what society needs. He he demonstrated in a pragmatic manner how demonstrated in a pragmatic manner how to to to I want to use not to cheapen what he was I want to use not to cheapen what he was doing but to package or how to to doing but to package or how to to leverage the force of these teachings leverage the force of these teachings for a very specific moment in time and for a very specific moment in time and space and culture and history leveraging space and culture and history leveraging his training. I mean where the sage ends his training. I mean where the sage ends and the lori begins you don't know and the lori begins you don't know throughout his life. There's no there is throughout his life. There's no there is no people, you know, I think people no people, you know, I think people often see him as as as one or the other, often see him as as as one or the other, but but but I think that there was no but but but I think that there was no real difference. You know, this the real difference. You know, this the strategist, strategist, strategist, you know, he was a sagacious strategist, you know, he was a sagacious strategist, a walking contradiction was profound. a walking contradiction was profound. &gt;&gt; Um, but yeah, I mean, I I think we um &gt;&gt; Um, but yeah, I mean, I I think we um bit over time today, but I think it was bit over time today, but I think it was well worth it. I think the audience will well worth it. I think the audience will enjoy this conversation. Is there enjoy this conversation. Is there anything else you want to touch on anything else you want to touch on before we close for today? before we close for today? Um Um Um if I may just speak very briefly in if I may just speak very briefly in conclusion to what you've just said. Uh conclusion to what you've just said. Uh you've used some um uh you know you've used some um uh you know beautiful phrases the luminosity for beautiful phrases the luminosity for example uh of his teachings one of the example uh of his teachings one of the phrases uh that you used and I certainly phrases uh that you used and I certainly agree with that. I think you're also agree with that. I think you're also absolutely right in pointing to uh the absolutely right in pointing to uh the fundamental relationship uh between uh fundamental relationship uh between uh his uh thinking and his writings his his uh thinking and his writings his practices between that uh taken as a practices between that uh taken as a whole uh and the Indic tradition uh but whole uh and the Indic tradition uh but uh what I really want to add there and uh what I really want to add there and when you're invoking the Indic tradition when you're invoking the Indic tradition you're talking about the Upanishads uh you're talking about the Upanishads uh the Gita for example we know that there the Gita for example we know that there is a book called the Gita according to is a book called the Gita according to Gandhi um uh he wrote voluminously Gandhi um uh he wrote voluminously actually on the Gita. Um so did by the actually on the Gita. Um so did by the way every other major Indian figure of way every other major Indian figure of that time. Uh almost every one Telak that time. Uh almost every one Telak wrote a huge commentary extending to wrote a huge commentary extending to hundreds of pages. Shrior Obindo has uh hundreds of pages. Shrior Obindo has uh you know a huge set of uh essays called you know a huge set of uh essays called essays on the Gita. But uh what I want essays on the Gita. But uh what I want you to say really is this that the Indic you to say really is this that the Indic tradition uh that he has a relationship tradition uh that he has a relationship to that he worked with of course goes to that he worked with of course goes beyond uh the uphanishs and the Gita and beyond uh the uphanishs and the Gita and all of that. Uh I like to think of all of that. Uh I like to think of Gandhi as the last also among many other Gandhi as the last also among many other ways I like to think of him as the last ways I like to think of him as the last of her sons. of her sons. the great the great the great bacti teachers of India all the way from bacti teachers of India all the way from Basavna for example and the Vidash Shiva Basavna for example and the Vidash Shiva poets um uh to uh you know people like poets um uh to uh you know people like Tukaram and Aknath in western India Tukaram and Aknath in western India Naneshwar uh Nanak of course uh Kabir Naneshwar uh Nanak of course uh Kabir famously Tulsias famously Tulsias famously Tulsias um let's say that 800 900 history that um let's say that 800 900 history that we have. Okay. Uh which together we have. Okay. Uh which together produces a corpus of devotional produces a corpus of devotional literature. I'm using the categories literature. I'm using the categories familiar in the west. Um we know that familiar in the west. Um we know that that that corpus is massive and that that corpus is massive and extraordinarily interesting. In some extraordinarily interesting. In some ways, Gandhi is the last of the great ways, Gandhi is the last of the great SS, the last of the great uh itinerant SS, the last of the great uh itinerant teachers of Bhi as well among many other teachers of Bhi as well among many other ways in which we can think of him. I ways in which we can think of him. I think we should think of him uh in that think we should think of him uh in that way as well. He did have a particular way as well. He did have a particular fondness uh of course uh for uh several fondness uh of course uh for uh several of these uh uh sons uh including of of these uh uh sons uh including of course his fellow Gujarati uh Nari course his fellow Gujarati uh Nari or Narasata you know and we know the or Narasata you know and we know the importance of uh Vaynova Janoto for importance of uh Vaynova Janoto for example um but but he also had example um but but he also had a particular fondness for tulidas a particular fondness for tulidas uh for the rapture manas and these are uh for the rapture manas and these are these are devotional works unlike the these are devotional works unlike the upanishads right so these works are upanishads right so these works are crucially important for Gandhi u so crucially important for Gandhi u so that's all I wanted to add that you're that's all I wanted to add that you're absolutely right absolutely right absolutely right uh that we should be thinking about uh uh that we should be thinking about uh his relationship to the uh uh the the his relationship to the uh uh the the Indic tradition uh and all I'm trying to Indic tradition uh and all I'm trying to do here is to amplify uh the meaning of do here is to amplify uh the meaning of the Indic tradition because it's a very the Indic tradition because it's a very capacious tradition uh as we know with capacious tradition uh as we know with many different streams and it would be many different streams and it would be interesting to think of the various ways interesting to think of the various ways in which he interacted with these in which he interacted with these streams even tantra by the way I would streams even tantra by the way I would say you know right so uh that's that's say you know right so uh that's that's all I really wanted to add yeah all I really wanted to add yeah &gt;&gt; absolutely thank you and and of course &gt;&gt; absolutely thank you and and of course for those listening um neither of us um for those listening um neither of us um would they take away from the ways in would they take away from the ways in which he was absolutely original and which he was absolutely original and unique and doing something um avat unique and doing something um avat unprecedented So thank you very much for unprecedented So thank you very much for reappearing on the podcast today. reappearing on the podcast today. &gt;&gt; My pleasure. Thank you once again for &gt;&gt; My pleasure. Thank you once again for having me. Yeah. having me. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yes. Our pleasure. For those listening, &gt;&gt; Yes. Our pleasure. For those listening, we have been speaking with Dr. Vanel who we have been speaking with Dr. Vanel who is a professor of history at uh UCLA. Uh is a professor of history at uh UCLA. Uh we've been speaking in a brand new we've been speaking in a brand new publication, Gandu Truth and publication, Gandu Truth and Nonviolence, the politics of engagement Nonviolence, the politics of engagement in postruuth in postruuth in postruuth times. Um, until next time, keep well, times. Um, until next time, keep well, keep listening, keep reading, stay sane, keep listening, keep reading, stay sane, and keep contemplating this little thing and keep contemplating this little thing we call truth, Gandhiian or otherwise. we call truth, Gandhiian or otherwise. Take care.