================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: rJC17a5CCZY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rJC17a5CCZY
TITLE: Ange arrives at Forest + Manchester derby preview
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-11
DURATION: 49m 26s
VIEWS: 10,172
LIKES: 200
COMMENTS: 43
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo's joined by Adrian Clarke, Benji Lanyado and Duncan Alexander as we gear up for a tasty weekend of enticing fixtures as the Premier League returns after the international break.

We begin with the news that broke (very) late on Monday night/ early Tuesday morning with Nuno Espirito Santo relieved of his duties at Nottingham Forest - replaced by Ange Postecoglou before lunchtime. Matt Davies from the Forest Focus podcast drops by to give his take on the dramatic week at the City Ground. So how will they fare against Arsenal on Saturday?!

There's a recap of all the midweek international action - including England turning on the style in their 5-0 win out in Serbia. Plus, Norway took a huge stride towards the 2026 World Cup as they put just the ELEVEN goals past Moldova on Tuesday evening! Tor-Kristian Karlsen brings us a flavour of the excitement building back in Oslo and beyond.

And of course, we've got all the build-up to the Premier League weekend - and the small matter of a M
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 9,521

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally football show today. Premier League Forest fired. It's hello to an in Nottingham. But will it be good afternoon? Also a road to the World Cup parties in Belgrade as Tommy Te's side take off in a Serbia smashing and Norwegian good. How Harland and co rolled over mold over. All that plus Manchester derby and sunundry other things in this totally football show. Thursday the 11th of September the records say with Duncan Alexander. Hi Duncan. >> Hello James. >> Good morning to you. Good morning to you Benji Liardo >> Edinburgh. >> That's right listener. He is the CEO of Pixair. >> Thank you. >> And on our big screen Adrian Clark. >> Hello team. Hello everybody. >> Wow. Listener you join us and start the podcast but we've been chatting already. Among the revelations are the fact that behind Adrian on his wall, and if you're watching on video, you can maybe get a glimpse of this, is not only an Adrien Clark jersey from his Arsenal days. Oh, he's done it. Adrian, what is that we're looking at? >> It's a gigantic um team photo that Arsenal commissioned when they moved to um Emirates Stadium. Every player that ever played for Arsaw at hybrid is on this giant team photo which means a lot of players but it's beautifully done because it starts in black and white and it ends in color and I am very proud to be on it. Um even though I can barely see it's so small um the image of myself I can barely see it even with my glasses on but I'm there. >> Duncan revealed that he used to be a stand-up comedian. >> Well, I wouldn't go that far. I used to do some standup really in the day. Yeah. >> Why'd you give it up, Dan? >> Um because >> What was it like? >> It's fun. Yeah. If you Well, if you enjoy looking at, you know, quite stonyfaced people in the upstairs rooms at pubs, um then it's it's Yeah. the life for you. >> How how big did you get? How what was your biggest gig? >> Um I supported someone in Clapper once with I think the audience is about 120 something. >> So yeah. No, it was fun. It was just like to to kind of basically go to make it a thing you have to really commit and you know I would have had to not watch as much football and that would be very painful >> unless you made football your subject matter. Oh wait >> that's what you did. Well >> and then you really got paid for us to talk about today Benji cuz your West Ham only went and got Poro Nuno Spirit Santo fired. >> Yeah. >> Losing at home to West Ham is a sackable offense. >> Yeah quite right. But come on he got himself fired. >> He got himself fired. All right. We've got that to discuss. We got England. We got crazy Norway. >> Dingle. >> There you go. And and other things too as the Premier League returns this Saturday lunchtime. We're going to begin though with events Monday midnight in Nottingham. Callum Wilson capping off a 3-0 win for West Ham away at Nottingham Forest what seems like ages ago back in round three. Well done, Callum Wilson. There was no way that anyone else was going to score that goal. But that was the last game in charge for Nuno Espirto Santa because this Monday, just after midnight, the word came that he had been fired as Nottingham Forest manager. And then shortly after dawn on Tuesday, the equally gobsmacking revelation that funloving an Posa Cogloo would be the new manager. Uh it's a hiring that supposedly Nuno himself saw coming but has surprised many others. Postgogloo was Tottenham's Europa League hero of course but also the man who is Lord Cardiganesque commitment to allout attack is very much the antithesis of what Forest have been under Nuno and also came last season pretty close to getting Spurs relegated. We'll talk a little bit about the background to this very shortly. I know Benji, you're very pro- Marionist >> from one fat cat CEO to another. >> That's not fair, but okay. >> But what do the Forest fans think about all of this? Fortunately, we're joined by one now. It's Matt Davis of the Forest Focus podcast. Matt, what do the Forest fans think about all this? >> Oh, it's mad, isn't it? It's such a It's one of the strangest sackings that you can think of in a way cuz it's not really football related, is it? I mean, we had a great season. And I know we fell off at the end of the the last campaign, but we should be going into this season really optimistic in Europe. Good signings made. Obviously, that's a factor in it uh behind the scenes with Nuno and and Edu. And yeah, it's pretty crazy. Uh Nuno's beloved, but I think he sort of burnt a few bridges in a sense with all the the press conference stuff and hasn't gone down overly well, but I'm starting to get cautiously optimistic. Maybe it's just me spinning a narrative in my own head about it. But I think there's things to like about him. It's it is quite a departure, but not as much a departure as people are saying, I think, and maybe we'll get into that. But yeah, it's been even by Forest standards, a head spinning couple of days. The figures showed that they're pretty much at opposite opposite ends of the tactical spectrum. Certainly last season, Nottingham Forest and and and Spurs under an Sogly. Are you anticipating him changing his approach then? And if he doesn't, what do you think the Forest fans will feel >> last season? Yeah, certainly. You know, um I think I lifted a graphic from the Athletic for our podcast to show last season how wildly different they were. This season, interestingly, Forest possession stats were some of the best in the league. U you know, or highest in the league. Their pressing stats are the highest in the league. So whether Nuno wanted to do that or whether he was made to do that in the first three games we and through preseason we saw them sort of working towards what is something akin to uh an ball in a sense. So I think with the players as well that we've got that you know they're really good players that he can work with. I think the question mark is are we going to see the the Chelsea high line? It is what who we are mate kind of stuff. And I think he'd be foolish if he does that. But with so many games coming up, we've got seven games before the next international break. I don't think he can do that. I think we'll see sort of I hope we'll see gradual evolution and nothing, you know, jarringly mental at Arsenal. Um I guess it remains to be seen though. >> Cautiously optimistic seems to be the feeling from from you at least, Matt. On the subject of Nuno, so many good times under the Portuguese boss. There was that fall off towards the end of last season when what seemed like a very probable Champions League place kind of disappeared up on a very poor run of results. The start of this season not been great. There's been all the kind of passive aggressivity in the press conferences and that. Does he does he leave with his relationship with with Forest fans tarnished by all of that? Or will he forever be a legend? >> Well, I hope he's forever a legend. I hope it's not tarnished. It's a really unfortunate way it ended. Um, but you look at what he did for us. We're the only Premier League team to ever double our points tally season on season. He came in and it was a mess. You know, we were struggling in the table. We were very fortunate how bad the promoted teams were and when we got a point deduction and he really took things forward. If we flash back to when Steve Cooper was sacked, you know, people didn't really want Nuno. Um, particularly he come from Saudi Arabia. his reputation was at a pretty low EB and there was talk of well he's lucky to get a Premier League job and there's sort of a little bit of that with with an and I it' be interesting how that plays out but Nuno has done an unbelievable job. There was a lot of talk of him being our second best ever manager recently behind well Brian Kloff obviously so no I hope he's forever a legend his achievements are phenomenal and certainly the last three months or whatever shouldn't shouldn't cloud what he did for us. Matt, one question about an coming in. We talked about the tactical differences in his approach, but are there players do you think that will actually benefit from his arrival? That's a question from Ed Belly. >> Yeah, I think there's players who will benefit and there's players who will potentially certainly suffer or or might suffer. I mean, you look at Ellie Anderson who is an unbelievable footballer and it feels like um everyone else is catching up to what we kind of felt about him a few months ago of how good he is. He and Morgan Gibbs White should link up really well together. I think Callum Hudson Adoi um might really enjoy it. We don't know what Douglas Luiz is going to be like, but he feels like someone who could flourish under an Postikov. Zenchenko is an interesting signing if he plays inverted fullbacks and and things like that. Zenchenko could fit really well. And Marilo is looks like Yeah, if you watch Milo, he wants to go on 50 yard runs and ping 60 yard balls and shoot from 40 yards and all that kind of stuff. So if um and let's say you go out there and express yourself to these guys, then I think it it could be really fun for them. Definitely. >> Indeed. All right. Well, listen, Matt, it all begins Saturday lunchtime with a trip to Arsenal where you got a terrible record. Uh best of luck for that and the rest of the season and of course the Forest Focus podcast with your cohort Matt Davis Adams. New episode of which is currently out relating to the Nuno and switchover. Is there >> 4 hours worth of stuff? Yeah, we streamed live um until 1:00 a.m. uh because you know who sacks who sacks their manager at 12:15. So we streamed till 1:00 a.m. And then there's uh a Spurs fan and a Celtic fan on him. There's um a couple of uh guests in Adam Summerton and Seb Hutchinson from the commentary world, ex players um uh in Gary Bertles and stuff like that. There's there's a bit of everything. There's four hours worth for Forest fans to get their teeth into. Certainly >> Celtic supporter no doubt told Matt about the extraordinary success in fact pretty much any supporter that you go Matt Davis just mentioning supporters of an Postto's former clubs I think pretty much everywhere he's been with exception of arguably his last last stint the Spurs years but there's the Europa League but it was also 17th but before that though wildly success successful at Celtic prior to that took Yokohama of Flugal Marinos to their first Jay League title in 15 years. Took Australia prior to that to the 204 FIFA World Cup and qualified them for the next one too. So I don't know what what do as for a Forest perspective what do you think Benji? >> I think it could work. I think the >> with with you know you me you mentioned that I'm sort of supportive of Marionist. I guess what I sort of begrudgingly respect is that he keeps doing things that people think are mad and they work. You know, when he when he got rid of Cooper, everyone thought he was mad. When he hired Nuno, everyone thought he was mad. This sort of crazily hyperactive transfer strategy of, you know, bringing in 30 and sending out 20. Like, everyone thought that was crazy. We'll now have Chelsea doing it every summer. So, I I I just think maybe he Marianis needs the benefit of the doubt on this. Um, and the other thing as well that I think it's so impressive this summer, how they held on to Morgan Gibbs White as a supporter of a, you know, a smaller side. Now, I'm not saying Forest are smaller, they're much historically bigger than West Ham, but we've been, you know, you know, we we've not been amazingly successful in recent years. West Ham is a given that you're going to sell your best players. That's how it works. And this this summer, Marianaki said no. Um, so yeah, I'm I'm sort of supportive of his actions of late and therefore I really hope that Ange works and I mean it's a sort of shock therapy to some extent. If he wants to change it, throw in an an >> you last season said you'd like to see an at West Ham. >> Yeah, just to sort of feel something, you know, it's like it's very different at Forest cuz they've got a working formula. West Ham haven't had one of those for a while, so therefore you'd obviously take an an Forest was very much a it's not broken, don't fix it. No. Okay, fair point. But I think Marinakis wants to keep that onward momentum, right? Um they have been on an upward trajectory. He will probably see missing out on the Champions League last year as a failure even though all of us know that it was an amazing success, but he wants you know he he is sort of I think trying to change and adapt and evolve at a point at which they've got um you know they're on the up and not many owners do that. Ours certainly haven't. >> There's examples of other clubs doing this and doing it well. I mean, Southampton got rid of Nigel Atkins and their fans were in a protest and brought in Pochettino and then went to the next level. So, >> I think Benji's right. I think it, you know, you can argue that the last month or so of of last season, Forest had been found out the way that they were playing and and as Matt said, they have played a little bit differently this season. Now, and you can also point out the fact that Angie's big problem at Spurs last year was he ran out of players. Now, Forest, one of their main benefits is they buy 10 more. >> They don't run out of players. So, I think that will help him. Um, and it's good to have him back in the Premier League. You know, we probably just need a Mourinho back and we've got the the full set of characters. >> Yeah, I I agree with the boys. I think Marinas has probably done the right thing here. You have to evolve. Look at what happened to Leicester after they won the Premier League title. They, you know, they weren't the same team again trying to play similar brand of football. I think you do have to evolve and they're going to be playing in in Europe as well this season where you can't just play on the counterattack all the time. Premier League opponents have definitely started to sus them out and realized that they didn't want the ball so let them have it a little bit more. So yeah, I think he was right to look for a change of direction actually after that tail off and I think it would have come into his head towards the end of last season when they did tail off really badly. So yeah, I I think why not give it a go? Milinkovic, I think, is a player that might suffer and which is a shame because he's he's formed a great partnership with Merillo, but if he's asking Melenovic to squeeze up squeeze up to the halfway line, I think he could be in trouble. >> Do you think is going to come in with that game plan though? >> Not Emirates surely. I mean, I think it has to be a slowly slowly one, doesn't it? Where he finds some kind of middle ground at first? Because if you suddenly come in and start telling me Melinkovic, you need to squeeze up to the halfway line and leave all that space behind, it's it's going to confuse him. It's it's not something he's accustomed to or comfortable with. So, I think it's it's it will have to take place over a period of of weeks, I'd imagine, changing the style completely, but but as Matt said, they've they've played proactively in the campaign so far. They've pressed quite a lot. So, I think they'll do that at Arsenal to a degree this weekend. They'll they'll be comfortable in possession at times as well, but if they if they go highline full Angeball, they'll get beat heavily. So, I don't I don't even think an is that dafted. And let's remember an sacrificed his principles towards the end of last season >> very well in the Europa League to to go on and win it. He he went kind of polar oppos opposite himself, didn't he? So he he he is prepared more prepared than than he cared to admit at times last season to to alter his style. >> No sacker, no celiba and no points last time out for Arsenal. Adrian at Anfield, but feeling positive about this one. >> Yes and no. I mean, yeah, it was it was it that game could have gone either way. Well, it could have been a draw. Arsenal, you know, one if he sticks that in the cop, it's you know, it's it's a good result for Arsenal, that free kick. So they shouldn't be too downhearted. The issue Ars have had so far. This is in part down to the tricky fixtures, but Ars not creating good quality chances. >> Uh, one big chance created across the three matches. It's the lowest of all the teams. >> Second lowest xG from open play. Arsenal have to kind of release that handbreak and and you know really attack with a little bit of well a lot more verve and unpredictability. And if they did against Forest, they should have enough to to win the game. >> Wow. There was a a player I saw on on Tuesday doing just that, splitting the defense with incredible through balls, setting out the striker again and again for goals. Martin Odigard >> exactly who. So I don't know if you saw Norway's thumping of Muldo or Muldova 11-1, but Urgard looked at his best in that game, admittedly asterisk against Muldova. >> Yeah. Anyway, he's got a fresh trim, hasn't he? He's had he's had a haircut. The the floppy hair has gone. He's gone a little bit sort of cleaner. And yeah, hopefully it will just bring about you sort of an upturn in form. What he had for Norway was runners. He had players ahead of him that were looking to make dynamic runs in behind defenders. And we know he's good enough to to prize holes in in any defense. So, yeah, it's it's a big few weeks, I think, for Ergard because Eza's joined. We think he'll start on the left, but if Martin has a dip and and doesn't perform, then they've got Eza to slip into that 10 spot or or Waneri. So, yeah, he needs to raise his game, but I'm I'm confident he will. Yeah, broadly speaking, Nuno's exit largely self-inflicted because of the friction, as you say, Benji, not a performance related with the club, but personalities, the friction between him and Edu, Marianakis' new head of global football and uh the beef over the transfers that have been Edu inspired and also a slight fall off in Forest's results on field. It it has to be said. Matt was talking about what fans of Celtic would make of Avenge or what recollections they have. I think if you go right back through his career, there's going to be positive reports from his references are going to be good. Got Australia to the World Cup, qualified them for two World Cups, got Celtic. Well, then he went to Japan and got Yokohama, a Yokohama F Marinos, their first JLeague title in 15 years. And then he went to Celtic and got five trophies in two seasons. Spurs here mixed bag the 17th place finish. But Europa League, right, >> he always wins something in his second season. >> Very nice. Harry Kane there getting the ball rolling away in Belgrade as England beats Serbia 5n on Tuesday. a game than when we were building up to on Monday. People were saying, "Well, they'd be happy with the draw. Probably be a 1-1." Talked about pedestrian England. Far from it in this one. Kane picking up his 74th England goal. We also saw debut England goals for Madeki Cona and Mark Gay and Declan Rice with two set piece assists. Agent, one of those rare occasions when just everything went right. >> It was brilliant. It was a fun England performance, wasn't it? And I think there wasn't anything major uh tactically that Thomas Tukul did. I don't think you could say this was a tactical masterass. It was ba it was England did the basics much much better. They ran harder. They ran in beyond. They ran with a purpose to try and hurt the opposition so the player on the ball had be better options. They were able to move it quicker. And yeah, it was just an intent about England. Just the little things. everything they did was sharper and it because they're good players, they they had too much for Serbia. So now I was I was thrilled with the performance and >> yeah, hopefully it's the it's the blueprint for to follow and and the the best thing about it is that some of the guys that are quite new >> stood up, didn't they? like a Madke I Anderson um you know one or two of the others as well but but those two really stand out now Tukul knows he can trust them cuz that was a big game difficult environment he now knows he can trust those two and and that's a big old plus isn't it >> a massive win that came without some of England's biggest stars and one of the nicest things Benji was that when they went one up they kept on attacking for once >> totally and and like Adrian's saying the energy was maintained and I think the thing that I loved about this performance is that it answered so many questions. Like we've been trying to work out how do we speed this team up and I think Elliot Anderson as a six is a massive part of that. His kind of energy and his vim. You know who's England's best left flank? Again, I think we've answered that. It's the it's the Jordy duo. It's Liv Romento who I thought was really good up and down and Gordon who was aggressive and positive. Um who's our who's our second center back alongside Gui when Stones is injured because he's always injured. Well, I think it's Ezra Cono, you know, they took it in turns to completely dominate Vlavic. Um, who's the right back? Well, it's it's clearly Rhys James now who looked again really good and Tukul clearly likes him and the rest of the team slightly picks itself. You've now actually got the slightly awkward question of does Saka definitely get back in after that mowki performance. The answer is probably yes, but what a nice problem to have. So, for the first time in ages, England looked like the sum of their parts, which was so satisfying. I mean the one player that I don't think we've mentioned is Morgan Rogers as well who was who was brilliant who's got that kind of that strength centrally to sort of barge past past players and obviously set up uh Madeki's goal brilliantly >> with the subtlest of flicks. >> Brilliant player and you know to the point of uh Daka come back in does does Jude Bellingham come back? >> No. Yeah, it's almost it's a it's a it's an a murder to some extent but possibly >> I mean just to put it into context as well. >> What about Cole Palmer? Who's he going to think? >> Remember him? Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean England do have strength and depth as maybe they should as the you know richest uh domestic football league in the world etc. But um to put it into context, that was England's biggest margin of victory in an away game against a team in the top 50 of FIFA rankings ever. Obviously with the caveat that the FIFA rankings began in 1993, right? >> But um you know, as you said, people weren't expecting a 5-nil away win and but there it was. >> Adrian, it was a a record-breakingly good performance then. What's next then on Thomas Tukul's to-do list? >> Yeah. Yeah, that is a good question. Um it's difficult because the the qualifiers are kind of almost dead rubbers, aren't they? Now I think we've probably just touched on it there. You mentioned Jude Bingham, Cole Palmer, Phil Foden's sort of out of the picture at the moment as well. Sacka, you know what? Is he going to be brave enough to leave one, two, or three big dogs out of his starting 11 to to um maintain harmony in the team to get the balance right? Cuz the balance was right in that game for all the reasons that we we've just outlined. Is he is he going to do that or or is he going to try to crowbar uh some of these superstars back into the team at the risk of of upsetting that that that harmony and balance? I'm not saying that those guys can't fit into um the structure of what he wants, but but one or two might have to be left out. And I think that that's the challenge that he has to sort of approach head on. And personally, I would like to see him be brave and and to do that because it's always handy to have, you know, highly motivated, talented players on the bench ready to to be unleashed, isn't it? So, yeah, that's what I'm looking forward to seeing in the next phase. >> All right, another positive for the evening, the strength of England's set piece coaching, Declan Rice, I mentioned, picking up two assists from the the free kick and the and the corner. Bringing a little bit of that Arsenal style. Yeah, look, it's the set piece coach at Arsenal deserves great credit for actually sticking Declan on them because, you know, he wasn't this wasn't something he's done all his career. They just sort of worked out actually he's he's the most reliable guy that we've got to take corners and free kicks. Remember, he's pretty big. He could be quite a useful asset getting on the intercept pieces, but he's so good at taking them um that that that he has to be on them now. And yeah, he's he's remarkably consistent. So yeah, I think the defending was was really ropey actually from from Serbia. I mean to leave Harry Kane of all people just to meander into the box was was was crazy really. But but yeah, look set pieces are going to be massive for England. We good at them. Let's not be ashamed of it. And uh because in those tight games next summer at the World Cup, I'm pretty sure that we'll scramble our way through a round thanks to a scruffy set piece. So, let's let's keep keep making them work. >> I was also thrilled to see another question answered in Anthony Gordon's hair. >> Oh, yeah. >> Because he I haven't seen him wear a headband like that before that and I thought it really worked and I've always felt with Anthony Gordon actually that he's got difficult hair kind of goes in all sorts of different directions mostly just upwards and it's hard and it's always hard to sort of manage something like that but I think he's sort of really found it and is it a coincidence that suddenly he looks >> natural and at home in the England side >> right >> with a headband? You might think this is irrelevant listener, but international managers have in the past instructed their players to get haircuts specifically for this reason. Argentina boss in Batista's day forced him to get a haircut by not calling him up until he did because he he claimed that the amount of time that Gabriel spent flicking the hair out of his eyes, marginal gains, there >> was detracting from his awareness, his ability to scan perhaps. >> Uh I was going to say impaired by his bank, but they weren't banks. my point and it it is and it ties in with a question that we were sent by John Hayes who says would it not be glorious if illing Harlem played with his hair down all the time the marauding Vikings distinctive long locks this is John again freed and flowing whilst in full flight lovely stuff would be the perfect compliment to air quotes our football Harlem very much had his hair up as is his won't this Tuesday >> his second or third goal where he beat a defender beat a keeper and then kind of scooped it into the top corner. >> That was absolutely delightful. And actually this international window, >> I think we've seen some of the best goals I can recall from an international break. To answer your question about what what is on the to-do list, the FA have got to get some competitive fixtures >> in before the World Cup because there's no one else that's going to challenge us. You know, >> England seven points clear yet conc. >> Exactly. Yeah. The friendlies they arranged at the end of last season, you know, on paper weren't hugely challenging. That said, Senagle beat us quite convincingly, but it was when everyone was knacking at the end of the season. We >> When's the World Cup played? >> Well, good point. And actually, that is one of the one caveats that I thought on Tuesday night, which was >> this is what England look like three games into a season when they are on it, right? When everyone is kind of at their physical peak to some extent, they're yet to be exhausted. So, a huge challenge is going to be how do they transplant this to to then in the summer? Well, that's the problem because they've moved the World Cup to the summer now and it just doesn't work, does it? >> Yeah. And and of course, we know how hot it's going to be in America next summer. So, can can we find a way to replicate that intensity, that dynamism that we showed in Serbia next summer? That's a question mark, isn't it, at the end of a grueling season. So, yeah. Um well, well, we'll have to wait and see how how the team develops. Listen, Matt HS wanted us to point out or me specifically that uh last time out when I mentioned Cristiano Ronaldo becoming top scorer in international football history, I was referring to I I said top scoring player, top scoring man of course because Canada's Christian Sinclair has scored 190 goals for that nation which is a full 49 more than Ronaldo currently has although he is catching up. He got another one the other day a penalty in Portugal's 3-2 victory over Hungary. I imagine that didn't figure on your list of best goals. Maybe Xiao Canelo's late winner did. I don't know. >> Well, actually Ronaldo's uh Ronaldo scored a goal in the game against Kazakhstan that was stunning and that is on my list. >> That's on your list. What else, Benji? >> So, the the Belgian game against Likenstein Deco's amazing header sort of fish angled long distance header I thought was beautiful. >> Fish angled. >> Well, he sort of was he was he made himself into a sort of fish croisson shape whilst heading. We've all eaten them, haven't we, listener? >> Yeah, there you go. Anyway, um a beautiful Tieleman's first time volley from a corner clearance in the same game. Matty Cash, I can't believe he didn't mention this on Monday. Matty Cash scored an absolute screamer um to equalize for Poland away in Holland, although it was amazing. Stretch's second goal for Slovakia against Germany. He sits down Rudiger and puts in the top corner. Kucharella scored a sort of thunderbolt against Bulgaria. Yeah, in that in in the Portugal game where Ronaldo scored a sort of long distance outside of the foot, Xiao Felix scored this kind of extraordinary rainbow flick one-on-one finish like look it up. Um KDB against Kazakhstan postage stamp top corner. Dams against Greece, he does a Zidane turn then a sort of 25 yard into the bottom corner. Like just some beautiful, beautiful goals. It was a good international break for so many people. Morocco qualified for the World Cup. We mentioned that on our last show. Tunisia now have have joined them thanks to a late late win against Equatorial Guinea. Bolivia now got their foot in the door pipping Venezuela. Venezuela to the seventh spot in Comi Bowl and thus getting into the Intercontinental playoff. Bolivia beat Brazil 1 nil at like 4,000 meters up in the air. But Jack Lang pointing out that uh that's six that's six defeats now for Brazil in this qualifying campaign. If the World Cup hadn't been expanding, they would have been in real trouble of missing out, not even making a playoff. Anyway, it has been expanded. Bolivia in the playoff, Venezuela got beaten 6-3 by Colombia. And a quick mention for the fact that as part of our totally extra series which comes out on a Saturday generally we did a little reminisce about the good times and the the dark times of that Colombia team from the '9s. Maybe you'd like to check that out listener if you are looking for something to listen to. Benji >> mentioned um Bolivia they might be getting to their first final since 94. Oh yeah and Norway looks like they'll be into their first final since 98. We're coming on to them next. >> Well, I was just going to say, >> yeah, >> maybe you can put this in afterwards. Can we just do a quick session of men sitting sitting around naming footballers? Cuz that Bolivia team, Marco, Owen Sanchez, oh, Carlos Tru, remember him? Amazing play. And but the the 98 Norway, I mean that that 98 Norway team, >> right, >> there was majority UK players. Espen Bardson. Yeah. >> 98. Henningburg, Ronny Yonson, Stig Stigger, Bj Bjornaby, Dan Egan that ended up I think he was at Rangers, >> right? >> Roger Nielson from Sheffield United, >> right? >> Oven Leonard uh Tory Andre Froverson, Harold Bratback. >> That's incred. And all from memory, Benji, amazing to Christian Carlson, another man who can play this game, joins us on the line. Hey to how are you doing? >> I'm good. Hello studio. Hello everyone. I'm glad that Benji is talking of Norway there and uh keep keeping their memories fresh. >> Well, fresh memories perhaps on the way because having not made a World Cup since 1998, Norwegians now look nailed on to be at the tournament next summer, six points clear of Italy and Israel in their group with three games to play. Uh to uh are you packing for the World Cup? >> I'm not counting any chickens yet. Um but people are indeed booking. I mean even without knowing where the games might be played but people are booking the transatlant transatlantic legs and uh you should think that is academic now. We got home games against Estonia and Israel and then doesn't really matter what happens in um in Italy on the last day. >> Yeah, thanks the incredible goal difference that Norway have. A goal difference that was boosted still further by Tuesday's performance against Muldova. 11 goals scored, turning it up to 11. What's the reaction been in Norway to that performance? >> I think it's surreal uh more than anything. It was coming um actually. I mean 11-1 might be pushing it, but we had beaten Moldova 5-nil away. We we scored four against Israel away in which we should have had more. I think the xG was nearly five in that game. Um uh so it's been coming and the team has kind of jelled um is looking more balanced than it has done. There are some issues in defense still goalkeeping but um you know with the attacking options now available to Sulbakin I think uh we have a very reason to be um to be optimistic and to bury this national trauma that's been going on since 98. >> Wow. A trauma indeed. mentioned goalkeeping. Uh the Norwegian keeper uh role in the Muldova's lone goal in that 11-1 thrashing was a it was an interesting bit of goalkeeping decision making. But at the other end you had Erling Holland scoring five goals and getting two assists as well. Erdigard also scoring and providing assists for Erling Holland playing out of his skin. Shout out to Asgard as well of Rangers who was almost as good as Harland. He got four goals despite only coming on in the 64th minute. So Harland always gets all the headlines and there's one or it's the goal scoring that grabs the attention here. But how how rounded now is this Norway team? How how much of an impact do you think they can make internationally next summer? >> I've got to say that Muldova was no measure very I mean the early goals didn't um didn't really help and um I think the key here though is that well you you've got the Hollands and you got the Erdigor. Erdiggo was absolutely unplayable. He was orchestrating, he was coming deep, he was taking people on, setting up on twos. He he was the architect of everything. Um but I think another thing that should be mentioned is the intensity. Um playing um pressing was really good. Uh and basically Moldova just struggled to get the ball. Um you know, they had no outlet up front. They had no they were not able to keep the ball defensively. So it was just constant constant pressure for for 90 minutes. Of course, Moldova is one, you know, that's one thing, but obviously we had beaten Italy as well 3-0 in June. So So that was a test against obviously um a world class side, but um the issues will remained in defense. The fullbacks are fine, but the center backs remained an issue and the goalkeeper. And I think the trouble here is that Sbakin is struggling to to find the right combination. I think he's been switching between, you know, partnerships for the for the last couple of years. So that that that is the real test. And obviously the the game management, I mean, against Moldova, you can just go all guns blazing. And um however, against, you know, when you do if we do get to the World Cup, there will be obviously other challenges and we wouldn't be expected to dominate possession or put the other teams uh under pressure to the extent that we did. uh did this week. So I think that's obviously something that SBA has to work out. >> Okay. So one or two questions ahead of next summer's tournament, assuming you get there, but in the meantime, Norwegian fans of of the men's game cuz women's team has been an internationally dominant force through these lean years for the men. But for for the men's team, finally fans in dreamland. >> Yeah. So there should be I mean there's been periods over the past kind of 20 years where we've thought well something is finally starting to happen. I think the difference now is that you obviously got the two world stars but you also got the you you got the nice pool of players to pick from. Now that wasn't the case. If you go back 10 12 years there would be there there would be half a dozen second bundesliga players. There would be a team scat player scatter around in Hungary or or Poland or whatever. But like Benji um touched upon before I got on here that the core of the team now are, you know, playing in respectable European uh clubs and obviously getting the the weekly top level football that they can bring on to the national team. But yeah, people are excited and and so so they should be. I mean, and it's fun. You know, the ironic thing is that, you know, you talked about 9094,98 uh and that was obviously they were full of those sides were full of great players too, but the idea was mainly based on a solid defense sitting back and breaking forward either through through the long diagonals or counterattacks. But I think people see a lot more kind of potential for more in this um in this quarantine. to thank you so much for joining us and look forward to seeing Norway in action again soon. >> I do as well and uh thanks for having me on. >> 111 Duncan. When did you last see something like that? >> Um can't remember. It happens. I think it happens more in international football, isn't it? You get the I wouldn't go to the Cook Island and ask them about heavy defeats. So >> it's Premier League round four this weekend. What's the situation? Well, three teams are still unbeaten. That's Liverpool, Chelsea, and hello Crystal Palace. None of the promoted sides are in the bottom three. Teams that are are Fulham, Villa, and Wolves. Yikes. Premier League round four gets us underway with Arsenal Forest Saturday lunchtime. Then you got actually that's one of five Forest against Saturday lunchtime. Premier League round four gets underway Saturday lunchtime with Arsenal against Forest, which is one of five Premier League games that are happening in the capital on Saturday. And that day, there's also four EFL games as well. So that's madness. Fulham leads Palace hosting Sunderland at 3 at tea time. West Ham Spurs and Brenford Chelsea at 8:00 p.m. Criy. Also on Saturday you got bitter bad boy south coast rivals Bournemouth and Brighton facing off this Newcastle against bottom of the table Wolves and Everton Villa Jack Greish against his former side. Sunday league leaders Liverpool are at Burnley and at 4:30 it's the Manchester derby. You >> the last few Manchester derbies haven't been haven't been great watches. I think it was a goalless draw the last one. Um neither team >> a lot of people feeling that I mean there's a suggestion that this game could see two new goalkeepers, one for each side, Donnaruma and and Lance for United and some feel that Donna Rumor's arrival will spark a tactical revolution for City with Pep telling his keeper to send it tactically putting ketchup back on the canteen table as it were. Do you do you see that happening? Yeah, I mean they do do it at times with with Edison, don't they? They've scored a number of goals where where they've gone long to to Harland and they've they've shown good movement with Marmush and Harland to sort of get in behind, >> right? >> But but you've got to to to make that to pull that off, you've got to lure the other team forward and into thinking that you're going to play out from the back. And I don't know how many teams will buy that that Donnaruma will will do that because it's it's not something he's hugely comfortable with. I' I'd stick both keepers straight in, by the way. I think yet Donnaruma hasn't been signed to to be back up to James Trafford has he he he's going to go straight into the team surely and Lammonds has to play. I mean don't worry that it's a Manchester derby. I mean by dear has been a total liability on crosses hasn't he? He just looks so ill at ease. I just think why not just just just drop him in and and see how it h see how he handles it. Being Manchester United goalkeeper comes with massive pressure whether you're playing City, whether you're playing Burnley, it it really does. So stick stick both straight in, I reckon, and and and let's see what what falls. Can't predict this game really, can you? Because neither team is particularly convincing. >> All right, City lost to Brighton last time out. Man United beat Burnley, but only Justin Wright at the death. They'll be approaching this game without Matzkuna, who came off injured in the game against Burnley and missed out on Brazil during the international break. Duncan, >> I mean, there is a precedent for for Pep chucking a new keeper into the Manchester derby. Did it in 2016 with Cladio Bravo, which obviously was when he was trying to >> get rid of goalkeepers that could kick the ball long and Joe Hart. So, and Bravo did make a bit of an error in that one. Um so and obviously it wasn't his debut but um Ty obviously had a pretty bad perform I mean I think Manchester's relationship with goalkeepers for both clubs they're either like incredibly good or riddled with quite a lot of errors so much pressure Benji are you going to pick a fixture that you'll be going along to Saturday tea times West Ham Tottenham two teams that reversed their fortunes on match day three Spurs got beaten at home by Bournemouth while West Ham, as we mentioned before, went to Forest and beat them 3-0. Was that a blip, do you think, Benji? >> Well, let's see. There there were a lot of, you know, reasons to be cheerful. He actually pragmatically, you know, unamorially changed his formation to he went for at the back. Carl Walker, Walker Peters came in. Matteas Fernandez came in for Sal. These are both vulturist players from last year. Do you remember we talked about players that smart Premier League sides should pluck from the relegated sides? That was two of them. and they actually have made a difference. >> Um, so yeah, let's see. Although we, you know, we we were doing pretty poorly and then randomly won a g away at Arsenal last year and then went back to being poor. So, let's see. >> Okay, your previous home game for West Ham was a 5-1 defeat against Chelsea. Just on the subject of that Forest game, one of the other players coming in midway through the match was Cresentio Somerville and how exciting. >> Remember him? >> Yeah. Yeah. It made a real difference. I think that that kind of dynamism and that willingness to move quickly and run a play as we're talking about it with um Elliot Anderson, right? It can really set the tone for a team and I think when he came off the bench having him and Fernandez willing to really pick up the ball and go made a big difference. It's exactly what we've been missing. So, so let's see, let's see, >> let's see how Mokudus gets on in his return to the London stadium and also how Javi Simmons and Rand Kolamuani to the big names in the big big transfer window for Spurs, how they fare if they make their Tottenham debuts. Very good. That game, as mentioned, is Saturday at 5:30. Duncan, have you got a game that you're that isn't one of those that you're excited about? >> Yeah. Uh, Everton Aston Villa for me. Um, Everton, you know, often when teams move to new stadiums, it can be a bit of a uh a slow start or they're just angry that it's a former municipal athletic stadium turned into a football ground. Sorry, Benji. Sorry. But um the vibes are good at Everton. Um they're looking to win four in a row this season and the contrast with Villa is is huge, you know. Um Villa the only team in the top seven divisions in England yet to score a goal. >> Wow. Um, >> two new players though that I'm excited about seeing is is um maybe Dibbling getting his first minutes for Everton. They've now got this kind of potential triple threat of di Greish and Dibbling which is lovely to think of and um I think Harvey Elliot's a great signing for Villa. I think he goes straight into their team and I think he improves it. >> All right, Jack Greish against Villa looking to register two assists in a match for the third game in a row and he'll be keen to make an impact on this. He's not the only one who's been benefiting from his uh arrival at Everton. Kenan Dubbury Hall has already played more Premier League minutes for the Toffees this season than he did for Chelsea in the whole of last season and he's also the top English chance creator in the Premier League so far this campaign. So Everton in cracking form there at the Hill Dickinson Stadium hosting Aston Villa. Also coming up this weekend, Burnley hosting Liverpool. This is Scott Parker's first game against Liverpool since you know when he was in charge of Bournemouth. They went to Anfield in August 2022. They lost 9. He was subsequently not manager of Bournemouth. >> Yeah. He gave one of the most kind of uh morose postmatch interviews there and sort of didn't just throw the players under the bus, threw the bus under the bus. And >> is that when he got transposed over um the streets music? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, a Liverpool team which could of course be unleashing the most expensive player in British football history, Alexander Isac. They were top of the league without him. Three wins out of three. Adrian, any chance that he's going to aspill Newcastle it up for them? >> I don't know. I mean, look, he's I don't think he's going to start is he in this game? I mean, would you would you chuck him straight in? >> I don't think so. And I'm fascinated to see what's going to happen because Ekkit although he was quiet against Arsenal has looked really sharp. Cody Gakpo looks looks in great nick. Surely you're not going to leave out Mo Salah. So yeah, he's he's going to upset somebody sooner or later by by sticking Isach in. But yeah, this is going to be I mean if you're Scott Parker, I mean his team aren't exactly full of goals anyway or goal threats. You've got to go defensive. I mean, how defensive do you think he'll go? But in light of the fact that last time we faced Liverpool, they shipped nine. I mean, this could be genuine sort of attack defense training game territory, couldn't it? So, um, yeah, maybe not. This might not be the best watch. >> If you're outside the UK, you can watch Fulham leads uh Fulham possibly bringing out their brand new Brazilian winger Kevin, who they picked up from Shakar. >> We need to talk about him. >> Nice. It's so nice to see a single Englishnamed Brazilian come from Shaktar. That just feels right, doesn't it? >> Bournemouth and Brighton both won impressively last time out. They're going to be facing each other at the Vitality that Saturday 3:00 as well, as is Crystal Palace against Sunderland. Lately, news has been recorded that Chelsea in the run-up to this game have been hit by 74 charges of wrongdoing relating to transfers by the FA. No doubt in our next show we'll be looking into the implications of all of that. For now they lie second in the Premier League, two points behind Liverpool. Curiously, they've only won one of their last seven meetings with Brenford. But then again, that's a club that has changed so very much over the summer. We should point out that um Bernardo Quaver, the former Brenford set piece man is now operating at Chelsea and didn't make a brilliant start last season, but Chelsea have already scored four goals from corners. There's a really good piece by Tom Harris on the Athletic about the menace that Cookerella is causing at the near post ding around like a crazy spaniel and then uh behind him goals emerge. >> Could be seeing that at the GTech Saturday evening. Of course, Chelsea have a trip to Bayern on Wednesday in the Champions League in what looks like a really, really, really saucy debut set of games for the English sides in the league phase. They're going to be at Bayern. Man City welcome Napoli. KDB, >> we need to talk about Kevin part two. >> Part two. Liverpool host Atletico Madrid have yet to win a game over in La Liga. Spurs take on Villa Royale and Arsenal are away to Athletic Club in Bil Bao. Then of course there's Newcastle who on Saturday face Wolves. We might see Vissa and Volto against Wolves and quite possibly a W as well for the home side. And then they follow that with Barcelona. Barcelona at St. James's Park. >> I mean Thursday you were casting aspersions on Tino Aspria a few minutes ago. >> I wasn't. I mean, >> I was referencing the popular belief. >> Yeah. >> If you like the sound of all of those Champions League fixtures, we'll have a slightly earlier than usual Totally Football Show European edition out Tuesday morning previewing all the Champions League games. Not all of them, some of them, >> quite a lot. >> And then actually next week's Totally Extra will move from its Saturday slot and park itself on Wednesday morning to cover what happens on Tuesday. Meanwhile, before any of that, there is another Totally Extra that we've already recorded, Duncan. >> Yes. >> With Michael Cox and Pedro Pinto, and we're talking about a Portuguese team from the early naughties who were really, really successful briefly, >> but nobody remembers them or their manager. >> Yeah. Lowkey sort of coach guy, did a lot of his work on the training pitch and just left. >> Retired, opened a bookshop. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> That's it though for today's show. Many, many thanks for your patience. It was a long one. Adrian, thank you so much. Hope you enjoy yourself this weekend. Doug, many thanks to you and to Benji as well and to Jake and producer Charlie in the booth. Listener, have a great weekend. We'll be back Sunday night and live on YouTube as well uh with our reaction to round four. Do hope you'll be joining us soon. For now, from all of goodbye. The Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a week, bringing you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around. And the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the link below.