================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 5fG1RHiWrKE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5fG1RHiWrKE
TITLE: Ep 426: The Life and Music of Shubha Mudgal
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-08
DURATION: 4h 45m 56s
VIEWS: 2,210
LIKES: 45
COMMENTS: 7

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
She's straddled the worlds of Hindustani classical and popular music, and is a legend in both spaces. Shubha Mudgal joins Amit Varma in episode 426 of The Seen and the Unseen to discuss her life, her music and this changing world.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Shubha Mudgal on Spotify, Instagram, Twitter, Wikipedia and her own website. 2. Looking for Miss Sargam: Stories of Music and Misadventure -- Shubha Mudgal. 3. Kavitha Rao and Our Lady Doctors — Episode 235 of The Seen and the Unseen. 4. Lady Doctors : The Untold Stories Of India’s First Women In Medicine — Kavitha Rao. 5. The Heckman Equation — a website based on James Heckman’s work. 6. The Disciple — Chaitanya Tamhane. 7. A Chess Story (previously published as The Royal Game) — Stefan Zweig. 8. The Light in Winter -- Episode 97 of Everything is Everything. 9. The Köln Concert (YouTube, Spotify) -- Keith Jarrett. 10. Danish Husain and the Multiverse of Culture — Episode 359 of The Seen 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 43,536

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Let me tell you two basic truths about the world. One, everything that is beautiful appears simple. Two, all simplicity takes a lot of hard work to become that way. You may look at an elegant line of code or read the perfect sentence or listen to a passage of music that tears you up and it will seem just right and so deceptively simple. But behind that will often be years of practice, of ri of immersion in history and theory. Behind all that is simple lies a tapestry of complexity and often a lifetime of effort. And this is true not just of art but of human beings as well. You can look at some people and from the outside they'll seem sorted and you'll feel like you can describe them with a quality like say jolly or melancholy or mature and so on. But we all contain multitudes. Everyone's messed up. Everyone struggles. That's the nature of the beast called life. And sometimes I feel that the only way to get at this human condition is through art. And that brings us back to apparent simplicity and actual complexity. And so round and round we go. Welcome to the seen and the unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics, and behavioral science. Please welcome your host, Amit Ba. Welcome to the scene in the unseen. My guest today is a remarkable Shoubam Mudgal who has straddled forms and some would say even eras. I first started listening to her music in the 1990s through songs like Ali Muranga, Upke and later my favorite the delightful Sikona. She was already a rising star in the world of Hindustani classical music but I wasn't into that then which is entirely my loss and didn't bother to check out that part of her work. Through the decades, Shoubaji straddled these worlds successfully. She's hugely popular among the masses and as hugely respected among the connoisseurs of Hindustani classical. She's also much more than a performer. She's a deep thinker about music history and music theory as well as being a crusader for the rights of musicians in India. In this conversation, we spoke about the fascinating life she has lived, how she found her way in music, her solitude shaped her and the business and ecosystem of music. This conversation contains multitudes and I'm sure you'll enjoy it as much as I did. But before we get going, let's take a quick commercial break. Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it Everything is Everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma amit v a r. The show is called everything is everything. Please do check it out. Shoubaji, welcome to the scene and thank you. It's a great honor for me to uh have you on the show. I've been listening to your music for many many many years since the '90s. But I must confess that uh uh I am not a connoisseur of music. Now I have had economists on the show, historians on the show, different kinds of thinkers on the show. I've already I've always known the subject at a fair level. This time I was worried I'm going to make a fool of myself. Shoubhaji will sing a little bit of kay and I will say so I've got to be care. So I will clarify at the start music my knowledge is a little bit kacha and I also I I look forward to uh learning more from you but also what I'm really interested in is learning more about your life and where I want to start is by asking you to talk about your nani and your mom like one of the things that really fascinated me about u uh the ark of your life is that in a sense the ark of your life doesn't begin just with you you speak about how your nani gi born in 1900 wanted to learn Hindustani classical music didn't get a chance but then she made sure that your mother uh you know learned Hindustani classical but your mother learned it as a hobbyist and she was a noted academic and all that but she couldn't be a professional and then when your turn comes and you are entering adulthood your mother tells you take a year off and you know think about whether you want to do music and then you finally take up music as a career So I'm fascinated by that arc that it takes three generations of women to come from an interest in learning music to finally be able to devote yourself to it. And at one level it's like a very poant and sad story because it is also to me a journey of the Indian woman that it's taken so terribly long and so much time. So I have a couple of questions about this but first I'd like you to talk about that journey and give me a sense of you know what you understood about their lives. What were the texture of their lives? What what what were the interior lives? Because in a sense, you could live a life where you could do what you're passionate about. And of course, there are still many frustrations along the way and the world is messed up, but you could do it much much more closely than either of them would. And I can only imagine that women of those times, what were their interior lives like? What did they dream about? What were the compromises they make? So, what can you tell me about their journeys and their personalities? Um my maternal grandmother was quite an extraordinary lady and I don't know I mean sometimes I think I it's just an a doting granddaughter talking about her uh nani who had such a presence in my life but uh truly um what I remember of her is a lady who was absolutely sure that a robust education particularly for women and a life which they could lead independ dependently is something that is of utmost importance. Now as you know she was born in 1900. She was uh in a sense disowned by her family because of the uh choice that she made in marriage. Um but she had also studied um and till MSC and did mathematics. She worked all her life and uh before she came to live with my parents and us in Alahabad now Priyagra um she was you know working as chief inspectors of schools in various areas and I remember her as this very maybe for granddaughter's eyes really imposing quite beautiful lady always in white because she was widowed very early but with long hair. I mean Rapenzel like hair coming down almost to her knees and the most quiet calm presence which actually at some points could make you feel wonder whether she's very aloof or what but very dignified presence extremely involved with her work as well as with the family. So for example, this whole idea of buying me my first harmonium was her gift to me. Uh my parents were very keen to study overseas. So for uh for several years they were not in India and my grandmother looked after us and I'm sure I drove her around the bend. But making sure that we did uh music, making sure that we read enough and it wasn't about just providing you know the books but like a regular discussion on what you read and what perhaps it should suggest to you. And of course um quite in contrast to her temperament I was the noisy fidgety one always quite disobedient with her. But uh she really in a sense u established for me that the presence of the arts in your life are really going to be enriching and that there's no way one should break that involvement. The extent of involvement, yes, perhaps could have been controlled by her in the initial stages by my parents later on, but the necessity to engage with the arts and whatever arts you want. I think that was really quite uh wonderful. She of course had her idea of what film we should see and what we shouldn't. And we always wanted to see what she didn't want us to see. Uh when I'm saying we I I'm talking of I'm including my younger sibling, my only other sibling, a sister called Raini, 3 years my younger than me. I don't know how she managed it, but we actually missed our music lessons if they didn't happen. And she was quite um um stern about saying, "What silly song are you singing if we sang something, you know, which was on top of the charts, film charts at that time." But we continued to listen to a lot of music and to sing and participate in all kinds of activities which she encouraged. Later on my parents and particularly my mother, she um gave us a sense of the immense diversity in every aspect of Indian life. And I think that was a very important lesson also that other than your own preferred form of music, there are other forms of music which are worth listening to. and which are worth discussing and learning about before you reject them or just pass a judgment that so I think this idea of respecting diversity uh not just in music but in life I think all of this came from my parents and these are truly valuable things which I've lived with all my life now and uh at that point of time I wasn't I'm not too sure that I was accepting every all the suggestions very easily But um I'm truly grateful. Now all of these values you say that she imparted in you like the belief in a robust education number one and number two uh a woman needing to be independent. All of these are things that we can take for granted today but for somebody born in 1900 it is extraordinary to have these views. Yes. Like I remember I'd done an episode with Kavita Rao on a book lady doctors. And when I was reading a book about the lady doctors of the 19th century, it struck me that look, if you were a male doctor in that age, you happened to be born into an elite family education doctor. But if you were a woman and you became a doctor, you were perforce extraordinary. You could not be average because just to get to what men might take for granted, just to get there required being really special and really extraordinary and all of that. And when you were a kid you know interacting with your nani gi like typically as children when we interact with our nani nana dada for us they are playing a role nani and you it takes a while perhaps in retrospect you see them as you know when you're an adult perhaps in retrospect if at all you can see them as a fully rounded human being and what they must have gone through. So tell me about how that shift happened in you how you saw her as a human being. What sense you have of her now about the journey she must have taken as a young woman in this world uh you know learning math to the high degree that she did having a responsible uh job at a time where many men would have been reporting to her is such a complicated world she navigated. Absolutely. And also that uh she didn't have family support. My grandfather was a watercolor painter and died very early. So my mother who was the eldest of the three sisters was 10 when she lost her father. Um thereafter their lives were really I mean they were looked after by my grandmother and she did seem to me to be a person who did not want to talk much about her personal life. I think that sense of aloofness came from the many betrayals perhaps that she must have seen. also the im you know the tragic loss of her husband's life but one thing that uh again I realized later that a lot of people who go through such hardship can turn rather bitter and hard and uh so their aloofness is of a different kind. Nani was a very empathetic person you know when she came to Alahabad she um decided to set up a small preparatory school she called it. So these were very young children. Um I guess you know the kind of sort of play school and nursery pre- n nursery kind of things that we now have. But she would encourage everybody there and and and she would welcome people from different stratas of society. She wanted to teach them music and the arts. And not just that, today we have so much talk of being inclusive of in you know including children with different uh strengths and abilities to meet with uh regular schoolgoing children. I remember one of this is a kind of a video memory in my you know one of those things that you can where you you remember everything down to what color shirt somebody was wearing. One day uh in her school which was actually she had taken uh on rent a small the ground floor of a building very close to our home. And in that classroom, we saw a young man um much older than any of the children. He was brought in. He had some difficulty, some motor difficulty, but he sat down on one of the chairs and tables that she had for her students. And then she walked over to him and gave him several exercise books and papers and color pencils. Now here was this young man who was already in a sense a young adult and there were these kids in a preparatory school. He could draw beautifully and by the end of the day he was a hero for all the children cuz they were all coming to him and saying and he was doing that and while I found it strange to see him in that setup I couldn't believe that a couple of years later this man was working as a commercial artist. A couple of years later, I realized what she had been able to do by including him in that setup where his gift was actually making him a hero for everybody. I mean, this would be what um easily more than 50 years ago. And I and I'm always struck by the fact that she chose to take this decision and to welcome this young man into this class all without really being an expert in the area. And what a great experiment it was. I think she was constantly trying to uh see how education can enrich a person's life including her own. And it wasn't as if, you know, she wasn't the homely nanny as well. She cooked like a dream and she taught me knitting and crochet and everything. And I remember would I would tell her that I need to go to a party, you know, and please make this pink sweater for me. And she would do it, you know, with just this amazing skill and um uh you know, never any never any great noise about how she was able to do all of this. So I think she was quite uh as you can see now I'm a doting granddaughter no doubt but I really really value what she gave to me and what she taught to me and this sense of doing things independently. I'm not so sure that she was always very happy about my decision to be a musician and I remember in the early days when I started singing on radio etc or on stage until the time she was healthy enough to come and listen she would always tell me professional wow and I always wanted her to be in the audience I always wondered what was going on in her head later of course she was she didn't say much. But at that point when I was still on the cusp of deciding whether I'm going to be a full-time musician or not, I think her approval meant a lot to me and it felt like not just my my parents but a generation earlier was approving and that really I think for an artist is a comfortable space to be in. I'll think aloud here and ask you another question which is something I wondered about. You mentioned her empathy which comes through in many different ways but most of all perhaps getting this young man and understanding that this can be such a big thing for the young man and I wonder if empathy can be learned or is it natural to an extent or is it a combination of this because what happens sometimes when we are young especially especially when you're a young man is that you are you you suck up all the energy in the room you are the main character in your head empathy is not really there you're not really thinking of what other people will think or what they're going through and etc etc and some people are at that point naturally a little more empathetic than others. Now you can arrive at empathy through an intellectual process perhaps as you go through life where you realize key it is good for me to care about others. it enriches me or they will also care about me or whatever whatever logic you apply to that and sometimes perhaps you can do it through emulation because so much of what we learn is we emulate the actions of people that we admire which is why parents are often told it's not enough to have the book books in the house they need to see you reading and similarly so I wonder if uh and you mentioned how your nani's approval meant so much to you when you were taking up a career and I guess at some psychological level we are always looking at certain people for approval And therefore, you know, do you think you empathy that it can be learned? Is this how it works? Like had you had a completely different family? Would you be a completely different person or uh you know how much of it is innate and how much of it is just osmosis from what you see around? I think I would have been a very different person had I not grown up in the millu that I did in the family that I did. Um, and I think that a lot of the lessons that she was imparting and we weren't even realizing, I think they do make a difference. But I think it's also um it's a very complicated question you actually asked me because it's very easy to uh shut out um any thought about others particularly when you're in a um when you your area of specialization is something like a performing art you get a lot of attention because of that and also because I am a vocalist very often often I'm the in a sense the main person driving the performance even though everybody with me are very skilled artists perhaps even I mean they on many occasions they have been far more skilled than I can ever hope to be uh with a lot more experience and yet I am at the center in such a situation I feel it is possible to lose that focus so you can very empathetic when it's when it's nice for you to appear to be empathetic but not really bother otherwise. So I think it's a I think it's something I think the seed idea is planted perhaps by family but it's a seed that needs caring and constant referring to because as I said it can become quite easy to just be in this space where you feel without you nothing is going to work and that isn't true also if you're a musician and if you're listening because how can you perform without listening then I feel that act of listening teaches you a lot about uh empathy about wanting things to be on par or perhaps better for your colleagues because if you're not listening then all you're hearing is your own voice and it doesn't matter who's on who's playing sarangi with you who's playing tabla with you who's playing harmony with you who are even the tanpura players with you finally they are all part of a team and if any one member of that team wants to they can take you down very easily. But I feel that as a as a student of music the even before I learn how to sing maybe my lessons started with my listening to my teacher and emulating and that act of listening is very important because I think it's not it doesn't doesn't just give you the lessons in ragdari or tal or kayal or tumri but it actually teaches you to listen to the world and and perhaps understand that you can be very mean and nasty too and and that you're not caring enough about what's happening all around you and I I think that journey goes on and you need to work at it as well. Tell me more about this because I just think there's a beautiful wise words and I often think about the act of listening as well like Steven Kovi once said that we we should listen to understand and not listen to respond. You know most people don't know how to listen. And you'll hear conversations around us and whenever the conversation is happening each person in the conversation is waiting to interrupt with their point of view and waiting to interrupt and bring themselves into it and they are at the center of the whole thing. So the act of listening is also like a moral act in the sense that you are saying to the other person that you are also important and of course you mentioned this in the context of music that if you're performing as a vocalist of course you have to listen to the others but in general in life I feel that this is something that almost no one has from a young age that you have to learn to listen and you you then have to show some intentionality towards it like there are often times where I am in a conversation or I am sitting with someone and I literally have to remind myself that okay shut up now just listen don't interrupt now just listen you know so what has that journey been for you because today you could be in a place where you are sort of sorted and fully formed and you know uh you are what you are but what was the process of formation like that you learn to listen you learn to be patient you learn to take other people seriously no matter who they are etc etc take take me through that it's a it's a ongoing um kind of journey and Um initially from the point of view of music uh the way we are taught um in an oral tradition is that we go to the guru's home at an appointed time. In my case, I was very fortunate that not only was I permitted to go to my guru's home, but at times he would even come to our home to teach, although he didn't do that regularly. But the primary uh process was that he would sing something and I would try and repeat that. So that imitative listening and embibing was very important. And my focus would be on how much I can sound like him. How accurately can I repeat what he is doing or how and I would feel very thrilled you know when if I sang something and a phrase was or an utterance was very much like my guru g's people would say oh you know you reminded me of your guru g and that really was for me a super compliment but at the same time this whole one of the beautiful things about this much hyped Guru shisha tradition is the fact that it's a very customized training. It's it is a sila. It is a system but it is customized for each student. And the idea is to give you a direction but then you know stop holding your hand and making you walk. So your guru also has to listen to you. Yes. And to uh tell you where things need to be worked on. And because you're in a vulnerable position, very often that uh explanation is not a kind one. It can be pretty brutal and it can be humiliating in public as well. And I've gone through all of that uh as would any student of music. So no, I have no big whine about that. But I can tell you that it was not easy because my taleim used to take place in my guru's home. Um my parents would wake me up at the crack of dawn and we would leave the house at about let's say 4:30 in the morning or 5 in the morning on my father's scooter I would ride billion and uh we would reach his home and since he was teaching many many eminent and senior musicians if there were two or three of them already present there was no question of my getting talim that day. It meant that I had the privilege of sitting in that room from approximately 5:30 in the morning till whatever time he permitted but I would not be taught because two others three other students had already been there and they were being taught and this was not very easy for me to accept because I don't come from a kandani musicians family. So you know this kind of um patience, obedience did not come naturally to me and I would fret uh I would complain to my parents you know sometimes and uh my parents would say well you know you have got the privilege of being allowed to sit and listen to somebody else else's taleim I also at that time used to possess quite a a strong oral memory and I would pick up things really fast I don't have the same uh ability now but I still have a quick oral memory and it used I I realized how many things I have learned only by sitting in on those taleims and it is not just about the number of um compositions I picked up the kind of treasures that I was able to listen to and uh memor memorize for myself but also voiced training, posture training, how to deal with uh how to interact with um accompanying artists because we would have tabla accompaniment during the taleim session. I also learned to take a lot of very very brutal criticism because Guruji was not going to be kind and say you know just because I was the junior most or whatever or a colleagueu's daughter there was no question of being kind to me. So when I got slammed and bashed, you know, it was right in front of everybody and in very uncertain and in very brutal terms. So often I would go back and I would tell my father that I can't take this any longer. You know, he would say what I mean look, it's your decision. If you don't want to go back, no problem. But I don't think you were prepared for what he had asked you to do. And if you were not prepared then you have no right to say that he he was unkind to you because you deserved it. If you want we can go back next week. If you want it's your choice you know and I would end up you know sort of sulking for a bit and uh I mean just imagine my arrogance that I actually sulk when other people would you know travel for days to come and learn from him. I hear I was getting this so easily. Perhaps that sense of privilege also uh which uh is so easy to lapse into. I think that also took the right kind of beating and so at that point I was just a student and I had some strengths which he never uh sort of applauded but the limitations he certainly mentioned and I think those have stood me in very goodstead. I'll take a digressive question and ask about whether in modern times that art of listening or even the necessity to listen is kind of declining in the sense that if I am to imagine someone going to her guru's house today at 5:00 in the morning and the class is going on. I imagine that after a couple of minutes she will take out her phone and she will be going through Insta reels or Twitter or whatever and you know we live in an age where we want sensation sensation all the time. when I was you know growing up in the 80s and you know I remember that we had a lot of me time per force because there was no internet there was no telephone you might be surrounded by books I was also fortunate to have that but you're not reading all the time obviously so you have a lot of time to spend with yourself to observe the world to think about it today we are constantly surrounded by a barrage of sensation and we are always going from sensation to sensation that me time is not there and therefore perhaps we listen less quiet to the things that are happening around us whether it is a music class or whether it is the nature unfolding around us or whatever it is we listen less at the same time I also think that for that young girl who is going at 5:00 and three students are already there the incentives are different because now there are many many more things you can do with your time you know it's not just music class it's just so much you can do with your time and therefore to find that sort of commitment uh you know gets a little harder it's much more tempting to just uh indulge in the other options. So what is your sense of this? Like I will ask you many questions as we go along about how the music evolved and whether it is in threat and all the changes that we see across various domains like the economics of it, the culture of it etc etc. But we'll come to those later. But this particular aspect that just modern lifestyles have changed so much that do you feel it's a threat? Like do you think a 15-year-old Shabbaji today if you were 15 that that same path would have happened so easily to you or or do you think that even with the same parents and the same nani you would still have been a different person I don't know whether I can generalize um there are all the distractions there are all the uh wonderful attractions I should say instead of distractions But I think you know um that there is a sense of focus and it's not that um you know it's not that I don't watch um OTT series or that I and of course I'm I'm at the age that I am but I went for all the you know film shows and everything when I was growing up. I think there uh there comes a time and in my case I think I'll go back to my family and my mother in particular who when I graduate suddenly gives me this great offer here I am running around filling forms for my MA um classes and my MA admission and she says to me that what is the need for you to do exactly what everybody else is doing because for me as far as I can see Music is what really is um something that you enjoy in a and with a passion. So why don't you take a year off and decide whether you want to make a full-time commitment to music or not. That's a very unusual offer coming from a parent that many decades ago and from parents who have always stressed academics and and education. So, but I think this this is something that I've always thanked her for and that it didn't take me a a year. It barely took me a month to decide that this is what I want to do. And I had no idea Amit of what my life is going to be like. In a sense, there was no aim or there was no ambition in a sense. I know it sounds silly at this point, but truly I had no idea where the music would take me. Just I was just happy with the possibility of my being able to spend the rest of my life learning music and performing if the opportunity came. But I had no idea of how I would get those opportunities, whether I would get them at all and whether I you know I mean you may get a few concerts in year 1 or two uh thereafter you might just sink into oblivion and that has happened to brilliant musicians. So where I mean there is no predictable chart predictable progression that you can follow. The uncertaintity the insecurity the financial insecurity all of that was there and to some extent my parents pointed that out and said look you know please don't complain later on that you know it's a tough life. It is a tough life but it's a tough life for everyone not just for you. So you decide whe what you want to do. We can help in whichever way possible but the decisions have to be yours. I think this was like um I mean even now I meet people who are unable to take this decision because they know that families will disapprove uh and that sits heavy on their chests. And here I was, you know, this is like um I can't thank them enough for the kind of unconditional support and that unconditional sort of find out on your own and make your own choices. That option that they gave me was truly amazing. And as um as a parent, I feel that's something I must refer to u in my interaction with my son. Who am I to make choices for him or who am I to uh make him uncomfortable with the choices that he makes? So I think these have really impacted my life in a big way. Tell me more about your mother. We spoke about in Anji but it strikes me that what you just mentioned it seems bloody remarkable to me that in in the early '8s like I remember my mom your mom would probably be 10 15 years older than mine was and just to think that someone can just tell her daughter that just take a year off and think about it and do this if you want and we know it won't make you that it'll be a struggle etc etc do it anyway and it it it just sounds insane. So tell me a little bit more about her and how was she growing up? What was a sort of uh mahal at home and and I'd also like you to talk about your dad also after this. But tell me about your mom and what what she was like and what you remember of her. She was um um she was a tiny woman unlike me. Um but um she was I think she was uh she had a great sense of um wanting to involve all the students that she met and who was I mean even today I meet people who say that she really changed their lives but finding out their areas of interest involving them in activities which perhaps you know people would say why are you bothering I mean you're a you are a teacher of English literature, teach them English literature. But I can't tell you the countless students whom she involved with in in sports, in um uh um music, theater, etc. going with groups of students to various intercol uh competitions and festivals, leading the group, you know, and taking the initiative. She had enough to do at home and also with her work and she was uh I mean both my parents were not just about going to class and teaching. It was this sense of pride in a very noble profession and uh you know wanting to really be involved in the lives of their students. And I think for her this was very important because it meant that a lot of girls uh whom she taught perhaps may not have had those opportunities otherwise and her um her ability to at least open a door for them. I think that mattered a lot to her. Um we used to laugh at her and say that you know um company because she was constantly doing these, you know, productions for the college and for the university and, you know, making teams and so it was quite a um it was a sense of celebration really of literature, theater, arts, poetry and the one thing also that she was she had quite a I mean she had her own very strong preferences, but once again she was happy to include other forms of music, theater, call in other experts. So it wasn't really about u being the original gangster. It was about really uh involving other people whose expertise could really make that experience far better for us as students. So I think she was quite a u she was quite a leader in that in in that role and um I think she wanted she must have wanted to be a either a musician or a she learned sitar she she had a lovely voice she could compose quite well but she would never really sort of come and I don't know for what reason never really be on stage she didn't want really to perform but I think perhaps she might wanted to be a full-time artist herself and and for me and my sister of course she remained you know I mean the the kind of support I have got from both my my um family and my the family I'm married into I think I've been very fortunate with that. Tell me also about your dad and your relationship with your dad and and the relationship between your dad and your mom. All of it sounds unusual because you know when you mentioned earlier that uh your dad would wake up at 5 in the morning and take you on the pillion of his scooter for a class and I'm just thinking that a dad of that age might perhaps take his son to cricket practice at that time but to actually indulge the daughters in that way and go out of his way because they're getting up so early in the morning taking you dropping you at the class and then he's got a full day of teaching to do or whatever. It's not easy at all. So tell me about what kind of man was he? How was he towards your uh mother who appears to be free-spirited and expressive and independent and all of that? What what did you see of their relationship and what kind of model would it provide for you later on down the life that how do you want to live and how do you want to love and all of those things. So tell me more about your dad. So my parents were classmates and um um my mother actually got appointed into the department of English literature maybe 6 months before he did. So in a sense she was his senior and I think she was also older than him by 6 months I think but they were classmates and um they decided to marry. They loved traveling. While my mother was more drawn towards the arts, my father was crazy about sports. And so he became a very well-known cricket commentator in Hindi though he was a teacher of English literature. And of course in those days um you know cricket commentary was meant speaking a lot more than you than it does today because today you have the entire visual aspect also but at that point of time on radio it was a ballbyball commentary and I think he took great delight in getting the opportunity to uh provide commentary for these matches just to be quite funny Because those were, you know, pre-mobile phone days and to make a call outside of Alabad, we would have to book those trunk calls and my mother would always worry about has he reached? Is he all right? And then she would say, "Put on the radio now." When his commentary would start, she would say, "Okay, he's reached fine, switch it off." So but I think for him his passion for sports was really um fulfilled by this uh aspect of his work as a commentator and also that although there there have always been statisticians and people providing data for commentators but after he passed away uh I found these registers you know those A4 size registers in which he had noted down all manner of statistics about cricket and you know there were stapled uh um newspaper items there were lists that he had drawn himself and entered figures and numbers into very meticulous uh beautiful handwriting in both Hindi and English crazy avid reader with a weird sense of humor. I mean, he didn't say much. He didn't laugh out too loud, but he had this kind of very uh strange sense of humor where he would in a very oblique way say something which, you know, which was really funny, but the person realized that it was funny much later. And with me, you know, he would do terrible things to provoke me. And for example, you know, when I started getting invitations to sing for a long time, I would I was not in a position to decide what I should sing. So it used to be my guru who would say, "Okay, for this concert, you sing this rag, this composition followed by this rag, this composition." And then I started ftting and thinking, I want to decide, but I didn't know how to I wanted to be careful about it. So I asked my father um who had probably heard me already consult my guru and then I said what do you think I should sing at this concert you decide it's your concert you decide said or you ask your guru I said I've asked him but I'd still like to know what do you think I should sing arana he's telling me arana is a rug that I had been taught as well but why is he asking me to sing arana temperament because temperament. So he would do these funny sort of sidy jokes but he was great fun. He loved pulling people's legs and um he sort of really his tragic uh sudden passing away really was of course very traumatic for my mother but also for us. He was 61 when he passed away and he passed away in a very weird incident which I think maybe I'd like to share with you despite the pain it causes. But he was on a flight from Singapore to Delhi uh in December of 1996. I was to meet him at the airport and then I got a message saying he just hurriedly told me that the flight had been taken back to Singapore because it hit an air pocket and plummeted many many feet and then it was decided that it would be it would go back to Singapore. He was rushing around trying to get another flight. He reached uh Delhi on the 9th night of 17th December. I met him at the airport and he stayed over. The next morning by let's say noon he was gone. So I think it was, you know, that entire uh that entire incident caused his death because we were just I mean we we couldn't figure out what had happened and there was no question of trying to you know find out the medical facts to get compensation. I what compensation can you get for a life lost? But what it brought to the notice of the family and I chose to talk about it is that we are going through these incidents a lot these days. So we are always told on every flight that these oxygen masks will come down, you have to put them on your face etc etc. Nobody tells us what you should do and what symptoms you should watch out for should you be involved in such an incident. And I've spent years trying to speak to people whether it is u you know airline staff what do you do when such an incident happens and from the little that I could read on the internet in 1996 it seems pilots etc are asked not to fly for a certain amount of time they are put on rest because of the medical problems that can happen and my father had all those problems. He was he had a headache but he was you know when he when we we met him he seemed to be on a he seemed to be really cheerful and on a high. He he it was a cardiac arrest that took him but nobody ever bothers. I mean we hear this announcement each time. What happens if you go through it? Somebody should tell you that if you have headaches, if you have a certain if you get hearing problems or if you feel breathless, this is what you should do. Nobody bothers about that. And I'm wondering how many other lives perhaps have been lost like this. So sorry to hear this. Let's go back to your childhood again. One of the things you mentioned is since both your parents were professors at Alabad University, of course you were surrounded by books and all that. And another uh thing you mentioned elsewhere is that you were also surrounded by music that there would constantly be musicians coming in and uh you know that mahal was all all there. So tell me about what you feel today is the importance of that because you've also been outspoken in modern times about the importance of education about including you know the arts not as an optional subject but just as part of the mainstream of education and all of that and uh you know I remember reading this study which influenced me a lot by the economist Jim Hecman where he found that between the ages of 0 to 5 the children who are surrounded who listen to 10letter words around them which I'm taking as a proxy for you know good conversations uh they have an extra layer of intelligence and awareness which other kids without that privilege don't have and you can't make up for it later because the brain cells at that age are just growing at the fastest possible pace you can't compensate for it later and I find that deeply deeply tragic that those who are not fortunate enough to be in that kind of a mahal uh don't get that and you of course were not just in that kind of mahal as far as books and conversations are concerned but also in that added sense of the music and the appreciation for music and the love for music and all of that. So give me a sense of what you can make out looking back in hindsight uh you know how much you picked up through osmosis how it changed you and also is that something that the musicians that you have worked with and interacted with all have in common that you know it it's absolutely critical that without it it's very very difficult to you know come up later you did start learning formal Hindustani classical a little late at 16 but nevertheless you had that early exposure which I'm imagining would have had a huge impact and made it easier for you. Yes. Um I think it's very important and it uh the availability the easy access to different forms of music really is invaluable. Um I think we are quite fortunate today that we have access to not just music from our neighborhood but really music from anywhere in the world. And that for me has been an exciting part of technology changing our lives the way it has. Um so as a listener really we are in a very fortunate position but at the same time the abundance uh of what we can listen to and the lack of any kind of guided material is does create a a problem. So I can hear sounds from across the world and learn from them but to find out more about them has is is not always so easy. Um but you know uh since since you talk about the mahul that I grew up in so we were you know not just um taught let's say formal lessons let's say in uh Hindustani classical music but for example as we were growing up uh weddings and celebrations were always kind of community things. So uh everybody learned a song and uh my mother shared with me dozens of songs that she had learned from my grandmother and from other people whom she interacted with. So you know dozens and dozens of banabanes dozens of kajiris sometimes she would call let's say the pe working in the university if she found out that he's a good singer. So we would get a special treat and be able to listen to somebody who was actually working as a pian in the university. But it was amazing to see when they started singing the kind of literature, the kind of uh melodies. I grew up with all of that. So, you know, it it I I can still remember snatches of songs, fragments of poetry, some of which we laughed about also, but you know, they they they're sort of stacked up in this hard disk. And I think they it's an important data bank that I have and in many ways it has helped me as a musician my lea for let's say purabya dialect or for even brajhasha which my father spoke um fluently or my listening to conversations that my parents conducted with their Bengali friends in Mangala. All of that really has helped my I think for me the audio development part has been really good and it it has helped me a lot and has given me a keen sense of observation that of about listening to sounds and how to in a sense you know store them. I may never ever use them in my own uh work but I think it has helped me be a good listener. Tell me about how you started uh learning the arts as it were because for 10 years you were basically learning katak and you know music came a little later. Take take me through that uh journey like why katakh how was it for you to learn it? Did you feel it was natural to you and uh and I'm guessing music was still central to your life through all this time. So take take me through the young you as you go through all these years. So I have these embarrassing photographs in my collection of when I was about four or four years old and um um uh dressed in a katak dress made from my mother's sari which had been uh tailored into this little uh costume and with two absolutely clownish red cheeks and some jewelry whirling around like a there's a video in fact u shot on film by my aunt where I'm whirling around madly doing chakras looking quite crazy but I think like a lot of little girls I loved dressing up and dancing and I enjoyed my dance classes immensely and occasionally we would also be taught by by my guru Rajasthani folk songs on which he would teach us me and my sister how to dance and um it was later once again that my mother said that I think it would be a good idea if you studied vocal music it'll give you a better sense of music even if you use it for katak and of course katak was the art form the dance form that we could have easy access to because I was growing up in Alahabad where there were not so many bhaj natyam or udici teachers but um so my mother felt that lessons in music would be a good interdisciplinary activity for me to develop my musicality and she also referred to tumri which has an association with dance and she said well how can you uh dance tumri if you don't know what the form is about and it was with this in mind that she said I should start taking formal lessons in uh vocal music although off and on we had had a music teacher come to teach both my sister and me. And um once I started those lessons with Pandit Raashra Jaji, it was really I I think it was I suddenly found what I was perhaps I never thought existed. And I was so um drawn to this entire system of this improvisatory, elaborate, complex, very profound kind of system of music. I don't know it seemed just what I wanted to learn and I had the fortune of having family that wanted me helped me learn and also a guru who accepted me. So I think it all fell into place at for me it was just you know the puzzle sort of fell into place and I was able to start my taleim in vocal music and soon I found myself getting distanced from distanced from dance because I really had to learn a lot of material which perhaps children would learn when they were 6 years old but because my taleim hadn't started then I was learning everything uh much later but with a high sense of motivation. Yet there was a lot to learn and a lot to practice and a lot of things which people which come naturally to people because those exercises are given to them when they are five or 6 years old. I was learning when I was 16, 17, 18. So that process even though there was a lot of motivation was not a simple one and not I mean it was very challenging as well. Tell me about that period of learning under Mr. Ja like the Gurushisha Parumpara. Tell me a bit more about that because at one level it strikes me that when it works well it can be beautifully immersive and can take you to really great heights but for a lot of people I imagine like we because of the selection effect we'll hear of the stories of the people for whom it's worked well all the us who emerge at the end of it. But for a lot of people it may may work very badly because if you are stuck with the wrong guru you know you or not the wrong guru but a guru who is not necessarily matched to you then uh you know you could just flounder and there are no options and there is no way out and you could in fact dedicate years of your life and not get anywhere which would also be terribly frustrating not just anywhere in terms of achievement but perhaps learning also just because the match wasn't right or whatever. So give me a sense of the many aspects of the guru shisha parumpara like you mentioned how it worked for you you know despite the uh occasional harshness of the guru and uh correcting you reprimanding you having to sit for many hours while he teaches others but all of it worked for you but are there only the happy stories where it works for the artists or so so tell me more about both aspects of it it's a very complex relationship and as you've already said so beautifully that uh there are many nuances which are um not talked about um and I think many people don't want to talk about them because they feel it's disrespectful to the tradition and also because uh those stories really are stories of completely skewed power balance and um I think it's important to have a discussion on this because I feel this is beautiful tradition undoubtedly and yet because it's so skewed it can be very exploitative. It it can be exploitative where the guru exploits but it can also be a situation where the student is very entitled and so it's not an easy equation. Um I would even say that as in a let's say in a familial situation are there not times when children are in conflict with their parents there. So I mean it's whether it's the choice of what you want to do or who you want to marry or how you want to live your life. I think all of we are in conflict and yet people stay together some happily some unhappily or whatever. But in this tradition there can never be any questions. Uh in this tradition we have been told or we are expected to believe that it is an unquestioning obedience and sense of serving that we must come with. I feel the moment questions are blocked now there is a problem and it is up to the student. I know it can be very difficult. It was not easy for me to ask questions and a as a teacher now I don't like want to use the word guru as a teacher now I feel that I'm not happy with many of the questions that come my way perhaps because they also show me that I don't have an answer to them so I think it's uh the the position of a teacher is for me equally important because I'm learning each all the while that I'm teaching ing and my own ignorance in many areas, my own limitations in many areas is startling when I mean it can be so as simple as somebody telling me that Shouba you know we have uh we have a nephew who sings beautifully we'd like you to help find a teacher for him and along comes this five six year old kid who's not at all interested in listening coming and singing for me. Opens his mouth and sings so beautifully that if I was if I could let go, I would weep. It's that beautiful. And you're wondering, you know, with this gift, which teacher should I send this child to? There's an immense gift. There's already an awareness of that gift because everybody in the family is saying that you're very good. Now how to make sure that that gift continues to grow and be enjoyable for everybody. The spirit is not broken because you were forced to sing in a particular way. After all, it is about finding your own voice about freedom to find your own voice. And if not that, then where is the then how is art or an engagement with arts any different from anything else? I think it's so necessary to keep all of these aspects in mind both as a student and as a teacher. But at the moment I'm not sure that we are in a situation where we are you know trying to even accept these very very delicate situations and uh because there's this almost you know I'm a little um worried about how to put this across clearly but I think the moment the teacher wants to be put on a pedestal and the music becomes secondary that that position that we get from students is because we are transmitting a certain sila of music to them. So our importance is because of the music but we want to be on the pedestal as teachers and go through go through all manner of rituals without ever thinking what was the logic behind those uh rituals. I mean would you believe it if I told you that even in today's um guru purima celebrations gurus get their feet washed in a patra by their students why is it necessary to do that uh but if they want if the student wants it and the guru wants it well let's be democratic but I I'm saying this uh kind of unquestioning sense of surrender demanding tan mandan is very very dangerous and I think for me what has emerged possibly again it's because of what I learned from parents family and from my gurus um I think it's very necessary to rethink this entire tradition and to see in today's world it's not just about uh how much time you spend 45 minutes class that is I think of secondary importance. It is important for us to accept that we are in a position where the student becomes vulnerable and if we are not careful about handling that very gullible vulnerable student who is with us we are perhaps going to destroy their lives in a way that we didn't even know we could. I mean uh humiliations yes if you're singing incorrectly what more can a guru do but say you are singing incorrectly. Now whether they say that you're praying like a donkey or whether they say the manner of saying can be different and I think all of these things constantly remind me that it's a human being there two human beings that you're dealing with not god you know this not this divine creature that suddenly needs to be put on a pedestal so I think um I'm going to be criticized very strongly for saying this but we need an audit. We need a review of this entire system which has some absolutely amazing ways of teaching. And you're not teaching lessons only about music. You're teaching them about the ethos in which this music is made, changing times, adaptability, about so many other things. But if you're only bothered about, you know, becoming this um very powerful, you're going into godman and godwoman mode and I certainly am not interested in that. No, very wise words and I agree entirely because you know those two things that you said, one going into godwoman godwoman godman mode and then uh about the teacher wanting to be put on a pedestal. I think those come naturally to human beings as you said we are not gods we are human beings. Uh you know I there's that famous saying about how power corrupts. I think power corrods character also. Absolutely. So you know sometimes I sometimes I wish that I'm never put in a position of power over people because even I can't say what it will do to me and uh it's like I want to ask you about another dilemma that comes up in a musician's life and I'm sure came up uh in your life when you were learning. There's a beautiful scene in Chhattanya Tamman's film the disciple you must have seen it and and this scene is also towards the end and it's also you know reflects a tragic uh aspect of the human condition where our protagonist is teaching and while he's teaching the mother of one of the students comes to him and she says college fusion band while the fusion band is doing a sing and but he said he has to ask you first so can he go and our protagonist pauses for a while and then he says yes he can go and then after another long pause he says but tell him not to come back here you know presenting a very harsh binary choice now that choice isn't binary in real life but at the same time it is something that is a balancing act like earlier you mentioned that how you were so happy when you had that option of learning music all your time and then you added the word also performing music all your And I think that learning and performing are almost like two separate imp imperatives where at one point you could just say that the joy is in immersing yourself in the music and you're learning it and you're sitting all day and you're practicing and you and the art are in this solitary communion and it's a beautiful thing. At the same time there is also the urge to gain applause from people for whatever you have learned and there is the urge to actually go out there and perform and uh you know and when you perform per force you are forcing your music into a particular form that is suitable for that audience you know like your guru said etc etc and how was it for you because I imagine when you get into it as a young person in love with the music the first imperative is I chai I want to be with this music. But the second imperative also is I want to impress people. I want their thalies. I want their wavas. Of course. So how does what is the balance between these two? Especially as your uh career kind of goes along. How how what is the balance? so complex and um thank you for asking me these questions because uh rarely do I do I get a chance to be to be thinking about these things because very often people don't ask also and it seems quite vain to start talking about one's own journey but um I don't think I can explain you know in a kind of a with the progression but it's also about you constantly listening to yourself in rias. Uh riyaz I think is a very important aspect of um of the tradition and the whole system of learning. It requires solitude. Although now we have a lot of people for example um putting on their riyaz sessions on Instagram. The very nature of the activity demands solitude. It's like a bearing of yourself in front of a mirror and that's that can be frightening you know because if you honestly accept what you're seeing then there there's a lot of you know you need to tune up your tanpuras and get back in there and work. So it's a process and it's an activity that remains integral to my life and as I grow older as uh having survived co you know I I it's like uh it's like one one channel tells you about what is happening to your voice. Now people don't really ever uh talk about their voices undergoing changes. In fact, the only time that I hear people talking about changes in an singer's voice are for boys uh when they attain puberty. Then there is a change in in the voice and everybody talks about that. Nobody talks about changes in the voices of women. what their bodies go through, what their bodies go through in motherhood etc. uh with age and at best you know you will hear somebody say that okay you know because I was aging my voice is not as let's say as uh strong or as supple as it was so I will make certain adjustments about bringing down the key at on which I sing but I feel these are u you know these are changes in the voice are constant. It's it's organic. It's dynamic. And you have to keep listening. Your guru can give you sound advice and the proper exercises to get your voice in shape. The guru can mold your voice to an extent. Keeping it intact and ready to share music with. That's your tool. You have to be sensitive to every breath that you take and that helps you a lot has helped me a lot uh in finding ways in which I can use my voice. I don't say that I've done something uh amazing. I've done what I wanted to do because I want need to understand my voice. But um I think it's a constant process and I con have to keep looking constantly hearing it in different situations in a live concert on the microphone. This microphone is an amazing teacher for voice. When you put those head headphones on and you start listening to yourself as you dub a song, the many grains, the many textures, the many hiccups that you would never have accepted earlier, they are amplified and brought to your notice. So for me the experience of recording Amit has also been a great teacher and one I mean I can't say microphone guru but actually because it teaches you certain things about your voice which you never ever had listened to and this process on the one hand is working on the voice working on the form working on phonetics working on communicating. Finally, art has to be expressive in some way. How you want to express is something that I find very difficult to teach. So, there'll be these beautiful voices coming to me to learn. Each of them really I mean I feel good when I listen to them but not saying anything to me. They're not they're not making me wse. They're not making me smile. They're lovely but uh still need a certain element of being able to communicate. Now that those are things which you know life experiences teach you when you're talking let us say when you're singing a particular rag uh a it's a non-representational form. So I might be thinking I'm singing something which is deeply meditative. Somebody else may think it's a dead ball. So I think the interpretation on my part as the person creating the music and on the receiver can be quite disparit. And I think this is a very uh this is an element of music that I really keep grappling with all the time. Um how to use my voice. Let's say am I going to use it today in a particular composition in big bold broad strokes like a brush thick brush stroke or am I going to use it you know like really ornate tiny really lacy work what am I going to how am I going to use it how will I use uh silence in between phrases how am I going to stop long enough for people to know that I have deliberately inserted uh silence there and how will I uh use it to communicate how will I get my I mean when you're on stage things are not always right you know things are not always comfortable you may be in an auditorium where you're sitting on a um platform made with tables. So you're in the center where one table is a little high and the other is a little lower. Now you've got the tanura in your hand. You've got heavy lights in front. So you're sweating. Behind you is the air air conditioning duct. So your back is frozen by the time you get up. It's not a very comfortable situation always. Plus there may be people chattering on the phone doing all kinds of things and here you are getting into this big complex profound rug. What are you going to do? How are you going to deal with all of those things and those situations and yet be able to slowly cut out everything and get into the music? It doesn't happen always. One of the reasons that I feel I'm I'm able to enjoy this entire thing is because of the people with me. Over the years, I've been working with the same musicians as often as possible and it has become a team that really helps me get into this space and I'm really sort of really grateful for that. beyond a point I stop thinking about what is not correct. I start thinking with tanpura lago and listen only to that and this entire thing of concentrating helps you find that zone where you start hearing your voice you know then you start measuring how many silences to put in what to do it's a very complicated process and I have no hesitation in saying that it try as you might very often it doesn't happen but when it does it's lovely. So how much of the joy that one gets from the music and I know the answer is obviously both but nevertheless it's we can think about it in different ways. How much of the joy that you get from the music is in when it's a communion between you and the music where something just goes right you know when you look at yourself in the mirror and I agree with you it should always be a private act so I don't get people putting real on Instagram. This is so stupid. But uh when it's you and the music and you hit that perfect melding and and that's one kind of joy. But another kind of joy is when you are performing and it's you and the audience, you know, and the music being the wire medium and you hit that perfect moment where you make them feel a particular way which you intended them to feel because you're performing in a particular way. So how does one think of the balance between the two? and u you know uh uh is there sometimes a conflict between the two? There can be um but I think it's important to be convinced about what you're doing. If I am not convinced about the music that I'm making, how can I expect anybody else to listen? Uh but even when you get a positive response, you know, it's not easy to be sitting on stage and noticing that as you sing something, there is a person in row three who's looking at you and has tears or can be I I mean sometimes people even sob you know and it's disconcerting if you see it. If you have decided not to look then it's a different matter. Now on the one hand it's it uh I I'm not going to lie. It gives you a certain sense of deep satisfaction to think that oh I I'm I'm able to put this across in a manner where not only is somebody responding to it but is able to let themselves go. Nobody wants to cry in public. So I think it's it gives you a deep sense of satisfaction but it also can be the point from which you you know you you can't be complacent about it. It's fortunate that it happened on that day you get to complacent might not happen ever again. So I'm I tend to be a bit nervous about those situations and I feel I have to go with uh accepting with the acceptance that I've been taught very well. I've been helped by a lot of people. I am being helped on stage by a lot of wonderful artists and there's an audience that has come to listen to me. Now I better give them my best on that day and uh it would be a shame if I didn't but accepting that try as I might it may not be what I want to to do and I think uh that sense of resignation about not being in control always the craft you might still be able to be in control of I don't think you can be in control of the art and you mentioned that sometimes someone in the third row could be, you know, sobbing when they listen to a piece of music and it might even be me because uh I cry easily when I'm when I any kind of art that I really like. But you're the performer. You are actually the one who is producing that response in the other person. But aren't you also in danger of then crying yourself? How do you deal with that? Yeah, you're right. There are lumps in one's throat and that's not the best place to be in if you're you're a singer and I yes it is that's what I said it can be disconcerting and also throw you off balance because um it it is very difficult you know um also in certain situations you know I I don't know how to explain it uh that you know this one has to realize that it is the power of the music. It is not your power that is coming across when you make somebody somebody on the street comes up to you and suddenly says I heard you sing this mantra this that's my companion every morning and that's very sweet of course and very generous of them but I don't think I tell myself that h you know now I control this person's morning with my with my voice activated mantra but I think it's a a sense of realiz realization that the power of music has the quality to do this not just uh one's own voice. It's not one one of one one's own voice is part of that entire music but it's certainly not the the the catalyst in this matter. It's a strength of the music. We often think of how music is almost mystical and sublime in the way that it can act upon someone and produce emotions. But one one can also then break it down in a mechanistic way and say that look certain combinations of notes or certain chord changes or whatever produce certain reactions in the human brain because they're affecting the neurons in that way. And today perhaps the science is not advanced enough to figure it out but at some point it may well be in which case you can produce those responses at will simply by uh doing those note changes or by doing whatever in that way. I mean in a sense you could say that the great usads of the past had figured it out in in some primitive way where they figured out key raot this raa is for the evening this raa is for rain whatever that certain uh you know um certain combinations within music can produce certain emotions so as a performer is this something that you're aware of that I can make the audience feel this way just by doing this by you know with a slight shift here I can make them upbeat with a slight shift here I can make make it poant. Uh are you also kind of aware of that and if you are aware of that I guess there can be two competing instincts at this point and one instinct can be that I should not be manipulative I should just let the you know music go where it will but another instinct could be key crowd response will be good and I'll get the emotion I want so let me do play this little trick which is a trick for you but they don't know it. So um how do you think about these aspects? I I think it's important to learn about those associations. So let's say the famous Malhar association with reigns. I think that is something that is deeply ingrained in all of us both as performers and listeners. So there's a sense of pleasure in it being in raining. it's if it's raining outside and you're in an audi auditorium listening to a brilliant god malahar or a mamala or whatever but I also think that uh music need not be formulaic in this way so because we are born into this kind of system and in a sense we have this um almost it's like intuitive now but don't I practice malha are in winter and if I feel like it I do and um I think any cascade of notes might give me the feeling of rain. It need not be in Malar or even let's say the sense of heavy rain clouds creating the kind of thunder that they do almost ominous that kind of um effect can be created not necessarily by the prescribed rags but in by other completely different combinations of sounds swirl whatever even pace um so I think it's really uh it's important for me to know those associations I have grown up with them but at the same time I keep trying to see if I can break that also and uh let's say if I'm singing um I mean let's say if I'm singing something like devotional music you know which is a very big canopy be in any part of the world but in India certainly then in a sense you know like trance and ecstasy are very often represented musically by this kind of ecstatic rhythm that keeps repeating itself uh till it goes into a kind of translike situation also playing with the pace making it faster um growing climactically in terms of decibel levels also all of that happens. But there can be I mean I feel equally that this just a single chant can also create a deep sense of meditation and a kind of quality that perhaps um we otherwise found only in the regular kan kavali kind of repetitive zikra kind of thing. So I think as a student of music it's uh it's a it's always fascinated me and it's always worth I've always found it worth trying. Sometimes these little experiments which are only experiments for me they may not be for anybody else but I like to work on those and sometimes the experiments work for me and sometimes I just have to you know stand in front of the that same mirror and say well this time it didn't work. So you know there's something I've noticed in many fields certainly happened in academia is that you start off with a broad sense of inquiry but over the 20th century what happened within academia is that all the disciplines went into these different silos that don't speak to each other. So economics will be largely quantitative and sociology will use different methodology, anthropology will be different method methodology and once upon a time they used to speak to each other and they were all studies of the human condition but now that's no longer the case. And I wonder if uh you know there's a similar danger uh in classical music also where traditions can get oified and you have separate khanas and people can have attitudes about you know where they are too purists and they're like these khanas can't talk to each other like when I look at sort of your history you've trained under a set of diverse gurus whether it's pandit cha or pandit basand dhakur or you used to take advice from panditendrai kumar gandha Nana Dvi and all of from all of them you learn different things in different ways and therefore on you there was no dogmatic thing is I mean there the charming story about how in childhood you were asked which are you from and you said and I and I love that story because it almost indicates your whole life right so give me a sense of how important this diverse training was for you in finding yourself as a musician And when you look at others around you, do you feel that Hindustani classical in some cases might also have gotten itself into a trap if people are too purist about you know their traditions and their way of doing things? I think um orthodoxy um can come in the way um and also in our understanding it impacts our understanding of what this tradition is about. The tradition is actually I feel really open to experimentation and has always been. If you look at the histories of past musicians, it's not as if they didn't have diverse uh training and and interaction with diverse karanas. Uh in fact, most of them for one reason or the other may have learned from more than one karana. It could be something as you know um practical as having to move from one part of the country to the other for reasons of profession or for because the whole family was moving. But for one reason or the other many many artists have listened and have learned um from different karanas. They may have become torchbears of a particular gana but they cannot deny that they learned. In fact um sometimes when artists write about themselves or about other contemporaries if you look at the lists of gurus they mention it is huge and diverse. I think the tradition has always permitted that um and also the I mean how can you tame a river and put make it follow only one particular path. So there will be tributaries, there will be waterfalls, there will be all sorts of you know strange things that water will take its own direction and tradition takes its own many directional um speeds and many many ways it finds ways um of dealing with whatever is happening in the world. So I think I cannot agree with this orthodox understanding of uh Ghana loyalties and um you know Ghana purity. I in fact can't deal with this notion of purity of what is pure music. I mean how why would any music be impure? So I don't really subscribe to that uh idea. Um I think one of the reasons why I got the benefit of this very varied um taleim was a because my parents were very keen to give me as much exposure to different forms of music. So I never heard um my father for example saying that we'll go but we'll only listen to this artist because that's my favorite artist. We fought over, you know, which CDs and which discs to bring home and what to listen to. We argued about that. Sometimes he would pass snide remarks about something we were hearing and uh we passed snide remarks about what they were hearing. But by and large I think this openness about listening to music was always there. Even though my parents were very fond of Hindustani classical music, my father loved Gazal Kavali and encouraged us to learn and listen. But also each of my gurus was were they were all individuals who had this kind of eclectic approach and not when I say eclectic not only in in the musical sense they were all deeply engaged with literature of some kind. They were writing their own lyrics for their compositions. they were referring to a large number of classic uh literature from different whether it was Marathi or whether it was Bangla or Udu or Brajhasha. So I think that inheritance from my gurus of wanting to learn from different sources was also n I mean it's natural for all their students including me to inherit it. In fact, you know, I I must share a very interesting anecdote. I think you'll enjoy it. Somebody once asked my guru um how many gurus he had learned from. So he said, so I don't think the number was exactly 75. What he was alluding to was the fact that he took from many sources. then analyzed what was happening and created his own statement, musical statement and I think that Talim was also very important. So I'm also going to ask you to talk about each of your gurus and what you learned from them in turn. You know because I imagine that like when I look back at the people I've learned from in my life though I never had any gurus per se and not even any mentors but you learn different things from different people. There is something that stands out and it shapes you and sometimes you don't recognize it then maybe much later sometimes you don't know it at all. like take me through this journey of the different uh uh gurus that you've learned from and what you learned from each of them and how you were growing through this process with each of them. Um you know uh my initial training began with um one of Panditra Mashah Jaji's students. She was a very fine vocalist from Alahabad called Shrimati Kamlab and I was studying in what used to be called intermediate college at that time. So it was this bridge here between school and college and I remember that I was a student of St. Mary's convent in Alahabad and Kamladi was a newly appointed teacher there and sister Eugenia who was sort of my class teacher um asked my father that they would like me to enroll for her music class and my father said you know she can't do this because she is now grownup girl and she has not studied Hindustan music the Hindustani music can't be learned like this. So sister Eugenia is I mean I've grown up in a home where music is revered and my father's saying no I can't join the class because it's too late for me. So sister Eugenia said um why don't you give her 1 month and I'll let her change the subject if she's not happy there or if the teacher is not happy with her. So I started learning in class from Kamladi. Within a short while Kamladi asked my parents to meet her and said I think you should take her to my guru. That will be very good for her. Now Pandit Ramashi who was the head of the department of music and my parents were teaching in in the English department. They were colleagues in a sense. So um my parents put in the request and he said has she learned before and my parents said not really in a sustained proper disciplined way but she's musical and she loves music. So he said you know I'm teaching too many people. I'm not going to be able to teach her right now. Let her learn with somebody. When she learns a little then you can bring her back to me. I'll accept her. This is right after I do my intermediate college and I'm doing my admission work for my BA. Now there's a talent contest for all freshers and I walk on stage with a distinct swagger thinking that you know no big deal and I'm quite smug also and I freeze when I reach the stage because in the judges row is raashi now I'm like a blithering you I'm quavering and trying. I mean I one moment I almost ran out back from the stage but I sang some terrible uh I mean I sang it terribly. I know because I was quivering and really frightened to have him in the audience. All the swagger was swept away in a second. But for some reason he chose to teach me and he said Sunday. So that's how my taleim started with him and he was the person who shaped a lot of my musical foundation in a sense. He was also very I think um you know he knew that there there was a lot that I should have learned in my childhood but because I didn't learn formally that had to be supplemented. How he managed that I really don't know. But it began with these very intense sessions where I would constantly be in trouble not working hard enough. Also a very quick oral memory makes you feel super confident. Um you know but it's not like that. So the first few years were quite rocky. And after that I knew that I was so interested in the music that life wouldn't be the same without it. So I said I better you know put myself through the paces as much as I can. And um I also didn't have a very feminine voice if you know what I'm saying. Um I mean it's a more powerful maybe a little androgynous voice. Husky. Husky is a nice way of putting it. Thank you. But uh you know suddenly I would find Guru G saying to somebody that and then I would say h what does that mean? You know, I think I also spent a lot of time uh because you're talking to me about the taleim and how people gave me the confidence, my gurus gave me the confidence to sing with the voice that I was born with. Very often I used to feel very self-conscious about not having a clear bell-like high-pitched voice. you know, sort of the super iconic ultimately quintessentially uh Indian woman's voice and I would spend a lot of time trying to sound sweet and honeyed and it never worked you know I would always sound like me sounds like I'm trying to imitate somebody but rahaji spent years in giving me the confidence and the basic idea of how to approach Hindustani classical music with the kind of voice that I was born with. Um he really equipped me with that very strong firm foundation teaching of certain things like how to tune a tanpura. Now you know it's becoming more and more popular for artists not to use acoustic tanuras and to use brilliantly made apps which are very convenient but the act of learning how to tune a tanpura even though they're just four strings or some people use five and six string tanuras also but just getting those perfectly tuned is equally an ear training and a very very very fine ear tuning. So he all of that was taught to me by Raashraaji. Once I moved to Delhi and that was again at very important and at the behest of my mother. She said you know you've grown up in this town. Everybody treats you like the little kid they knew 20 21 years ago and everybody's indulgent towards you. You don't really know where you stand in the world of music. Here, everybody's saying a wava wava. They're saying wava because you're our daughter. They we've known their families forever more. They've known us forever more. Who's going to tell you that? You know, you sound like a forone. Nobody will. So, you better move out of this place. You're never going to find your feet otherwise. Now the options were to move to Maharashtra to Bombay to Kolkata or then to come to Delhi. And because I was a Hindi- speakaking, English-speaking young woman, my parents felt that perhaps Delhi would be a better would not be such a traumatic change for me. So I came to Delhi to learn from Pandit Vinachandra Modgal who had founded the Gandhar Gandhyal and was one of the teachers that I was fortunate to learn from. Amit that gentleman could inspire such confidence in his students like no other teacher I've seen. Normally teachers can be intimidating. Gurus can be intimidating. Bhai as everybody called him was just the opposite. Very often he would convince me I would say no you know I won't be able to sing this composition another in another week. I have to record for all India radio. I will not be able to do it. And this deep sense of belief that no you will be able to do it made you feel I actually did it you know and I I don't think I did it because I was clever or because that I was quick to learn. It was because he was a very um hardworking committed teacher who worked from morning till night to run the vidyale as he did deeply dedicated I mean at the end of a gruelling 12 to 14 hour day if I were to ask him that you know I want to learn sudsarang are you too tired No, let's go down. Let's go to one of the classes and sit down and I'll teach it to you. Really generous man. And it was to him that I mentioned that I'm deeply interested in tumor. Jaji had also taught me a little bit of tumor but just the introduction you could say. I had always loved tumor and I wanted to sing tumri. Perhaps also my association and learning of dance had something to do with that. So I asked Bhai that I want to learn toumri. He didn't sing touri. He didn't like tri too much also as far as I can remember. But he said and he said let's go to nana dvi g and I'm going to ask her to teach you tumbri. She lived in Kakaagar in one of the government uh allotted bungalows for artists. Off we went to Kakaagar and for my first taleim um Bhai was sitting at the back. So Naji had this lovely uh you know living room with a tut on which she sat elegantly. She was a very elegant woman with harmony in hand. me at her feet on the carpet below just sitting there looking up in awe and Bhai in an armchair behind. She started teaching me a berviadra and u she started teaching me in that very first session this um tradition of weaving in couplets from udu poetry etc to complement and to supplement what you're saying through the dadra or the tumi it's an old tradition many of the cortisans would sing that with great u applom and with great impact so she started Ed teaching me that and I said, "Oh, you know, this is perhaps not to Bai's taste." And I started looking over my shoulder surreptitiously to see what his reaction is. I couldn't even have bothered. He was fast asleep in the armchair. But I wanted to tell you this that my interest in tumri was something that he despite not being a tumri artist himself or too fond of tumri see how he supported my interest in tumri that's a very generous guru who will do that to send you to another artist a specialist in the area to learn that and really learning from him was truly uh really I I was very fortunate uh Nana Gi was the only lady uh in that sense lady who was one of my gurus. My mother was my first guru. She taught me my first bhajan tulidas bhajan chalatam chandra. But uh Nana G was indulgent and very loving. So she would say when's your birthday? I would tell her this is my birthday. Come we'll have a party at home. she would get the food made. Can you imagine going to your guru's home to celebrate your birthday when it's other it's the other way around or saying that I want you to learn what is used in which season. this deep interest in life, in culture, wanting to share it with her students. I think it was such a valuable experience for me to be, you know, close to an an artist like that. Also, somebody who cared deeply for the welfare of artists. She did a lot to get, let's say, uh, subsidized housing for many artists in Delhi. this idea of you know I mean she was a very u from a very wealthy privileged background uh kind of a regal family and despite that I constantly there was a constant train of artists at her home who needed something whom she was helping identify doctors who could treat them some I've even seen going through surgery and coming and staying at Kakaagar with her so I I think this uh idea of the community and the welfare of the community is also something that I treasure and which she really um sort of established that this you can't be living as an artist without bothering about anyone else. Um she was very generous and very indulgent and uh very often she would towards the end you know she would call me on the landline and said in one day I could come back armed with five beautiful charming compositions which she shared with me. I think uh truly it was a privilege to have learned from her. Um with Takar Gi Vasant Takari he was not somebody that I whom I went to for a long time but um you know he was a very his way of teaching and his way of communicating with students also was quite funny. So the first day when I went to learn from him, he said so I saiduru I say I don't see the difference but to even have this conversation and to insist that I would like to call him a guru and he's saying no don't call me a guru when usually this is not accepted. um I didn't spend too much time but he would uh give me very valuable insights and we had long discussions and disagreements in those discussions which he permitted. Um I'm not too sure that I would still brazen out if I if he got angry but uh he always gave me the independence and the freedom to disagree with him and I I really cherish that. Sadly, he became ill and passed away. But u it was fun going to him and arguing with him and debating various things. Let's take a quick commercial break and on the other side of the break, we'll continue with your journey. Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant Ajay Sha. We've called it everything is everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma amit v a r. The show is called everything is everything. Please do check it out. Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still with uh Shoubam girl. We're talking about her life and her career and we've just reached the 1980s. You're in your 20s. You've been learning music and you've become serious about it. And at this point in time, what was sort of your self-image? Like what was your story to yourself about what you are going to be, what you want to do? Um how did you see um you know your life ahead? Frankly, it was quite a haze and um I was I had moved from Alaba to Delhi. Um I had um wanted to learn and as I mentioned to you, my mother was keen that I should see whether I am actually I have any merit or not. And she said there might be thousands of young people like you across India wanting to learn music and wanting to uh perform at some point of time but you need to assess where you stand. And so I actually came to learn from Pandit Vine Chandrag Gala. Um as it happened he felt it would be a good idea for me to marry his eldest son. And so I married uh a marriage was arranged between Muel and me and the marriage lasted for about 8 years. We have a son but the marriage didn't go beyond that. Um nevertheless the wonderful thing was that despite our marriage having broken I always considered Bhai my guru and uh I still do and he was also very kind to me. We met very rarely but when whenever we met it was um it was good to see him again but it was a big upheaval in my life and uh uh I was once again you know in a very I was displaced in a in a big way. So whatever I had been able to uh settle into once I left Alahabad and came to Delhi now there was this big upheaval and there was uh I mean uh break up of a marriage is never easy for anyone and uh it was a very dark difficult time for me when I was in Delhi. I wanted to live independently of course but uh for example I mean practical things like finding a place to stay. Um everybody would ask me for a company lease. I had no company that could refer um you know I would stand guarantee for me. So I would move from one place to the other trying to find um a decent place. I had very little money everywhere. people would say and then I could see you know uh suspicion break out in all forms on their faces and in their tones once I said I was a singer and but and but those years and grappling with practical issues where to stay um how to earn a living um no own um even a landline took many many days to be installed. All of that happened but I settled finally in a small apartment in Parah Ganch which I got through friends and when I uh moved in there there was no water connection. The electricity connection had been disconnected. There was I think when I went went to see it there was this kind of you know from something from a Hitchcock movie. huge cobweb from the ceiling to the floor with a dead pigeon in it. And anyway, I started living in Baharan and I was fortunate that that everybody thought of me as a sort of a friendly Martian and who sang at odd hours of the day and night but otherwise was okay. And it used to be sweet because there's a temple nearby. A lot of ladies would go to the temple and then I heard somebody ring the doorbell one day and say that so they had heard some bhajan that I must have been practicing and they liked it and so there was a fashi program also going on but uh I've been in that place um ever since I finally bought that apartment much later in Delhi but it was a very difficult uh phase where in a sense I had to grapple with many things and I it took years to really slowly um emerge from that and um but it was a very important time musically for me because it left me alone. It left me isolated in a way that I had never been isolated earlier even from my family which has been which did not did not approve of my walking out of the marriage and so I had nowhere to go. I was left alone with myself and the music that I had learned from all these amazing artists. There was a huge amount of music that I had learned and needed to practice and I had nothing else to do. No program to sing, no assignment to do. atma they had not become part of my uh I hadn't internalized them. I spent a lot of time with my voice how I want to sound and how I want to present a composition a rag. Do I need to follow the same format or template for each rag in each composition or is it possible to look at it? Finally rags also have personalities. So how can I templatize them? So I was working on all these uh aspects of the music while my head was and heart was in a complete storm. But I think it was a very important point in my life. I I I think that I really found many answers at that point of time. Um again I I must confess you know that I am no sort of brazen you know brazen it out warrior kind of creature. It is difficult to be in in such situations and it's uh it's always you know one day is good and the other is bad. But um left alone I had no other option but to just move towards the music and find a kind of uh deep companionship with music which uh which perhaps I wouldn't even have sought otherwise. You know what you just said about solitude and immersion and learning reminded me of a beautiful short story I read in my childhood which I'll share with you as I come to the next question. It's a story called The Royal Game by Stefanig, later re-released as the chess story and it's about a guy who's in uh who's imprisoned during the war for political reasons and he's in solitary for I think a long long time maybe years and in solitary he can do absolutely nothing but he makes himself a makeshift chessboard or a chess set or I maybe he gets it in his head or whatever and he starts playing chess with himself and eventually he learns it so well because that's all that he is doing he is with himself and he becomes really really good and then when he's released he's on a cruise where he happens to play the world chess champion and he defeats him and then there's a rematch supposed to happen and he refuses to play because uh as far as I remember because he knows he'll go mad because there's been nothing but chess in his head all the time and he has to get away from it and I want to now then ask you about learning and what that the impact that the solitude has on it because when I think about learning I think it can happen in two ways and I know chess pretty well so I'll talk about it a bit that one way to learn is you learn how the pieces move and then you play games and uh in that bottom up way you learn and then gradually things become clear another way is that you learn top down that a guru will tell you the broad principles they initiative is important so develop your pieces quickly space is important so occupy the center so you understand the why behind everything in an instructional kind of way and I think everything that we learn we can learn partly by doing in a bottomup kind of way and partly by being taught the basic principles like even uh you know if I learn an instrument the easiest way is I just learn some chords and then I try to learn a popular song and that's a bottomup thing and then as I go deeper into it I begin to understand or I can have a teacher tell me or I can learn from a book the broad principles and try to work down from So I want to ask you about what your process of learning was like because obviously both ways are important. You need both otherwise it doesn't really happen. the sense of play comes in a bottomup way where you're just trying out things but also the the understanding the why and the broader picture becomes much easier if you know uh so what was the process of learning music uh like for you and I'm guessing that in these years where you had enough time to spend with yourself and think about it you'd already internalized all the wise the theory the first principle and now you could really think at that deep level which you may not have been able to do earlier So take me through a so you know in and talking specifically about this period where I did not have access to my gurus as well. So um you know I said to myself that they have equipped me with a lot which I really haven't been working on for too long. Also I realized one thing that if an a rag has to be presented as an interpretation of your understanding of it then certainly you will refer to all the rules all the utterances the ucharan uh etc. um you will refer to the compositions which are like keys to understanding a rag. But finally it has to be your interpretation. And the usual uh the usual process in a taleim session is that you are sitting in front of the guru. The moment you make a mistake or the moment there is anything ambiguous or not too clear, the guru steps in and shows you the way. So you're never really on your own. I'm not saying that I didn't you don't need a guru. But I think that enforced isolation was very necessary for me because that was the time when I could say okay I've learned 25 compositions in let's say one rug. Now, how am I going to present this rag as I see it? And there's nobody who's going to step in when I make a mistake. I have to rely on what I've learned and my own hearing of myself that um doesn't sound too convincing or doesn't it's a nice design, a nice phrase, but doesn't work right here. So I had to go through all of this and I also felt that it gave me the chance to rely on blocks of information, musical phrases that are supposed to characterize the rugg and then you may ask how spontaneous is your interpretation but how to use those blocks in a manner where you are able to make well-considered but spontaneous choices and save yourself as in a chess game in case you feel that you're in danger. Uh so all of these things really were quite fascinating. Um I'm sure I was indulgent with myself at times also but at the same time really it was um there was nobody to tell me that your voice is sounding too broad at this point. If I didn't listen to it, it would be like that. Or if I wanted to try modulation as is so important in let's say a form like touri where this u abandoned par is what is so coveted and so we work so hard. How much of barkar pukar be if I have to shout for somebody to hear me outside of the studio it's going to be a lot more intense and I may actually do a pukar right here but it will be of a different intonation so I think really those were uh the years when I started looking at all of this on my own and not in the kind of chaperoned guided way that I had been privileged to earlier. And that's where I think I made a lot of musical choices. I made a I mean people may not agree with my choices or what I uh decided to do and how I decided to sing but for me they were very this was a very important uh weighing of taleim and learning how to use that taleim in an independent manner. The writer and editor William Maxwell once said about writing and about you know working with young writers and that quote after 40 years what I came to care about most was not style but the breath of life stop quote and I love this quote because the breath of life and is it correct if I interpret uh what you just said as saying that all your different gurus may have taught you about style and technique and craft and all of that but this is where you got that breath of life in you in the sense that this is where you began to arrive at an authenticity that this is me that this is not just hey Raa being performed this composition but this is me and began began to kind of figure that out is that what was happening yes and also it was a very firm anchor for me through a very emotional time um because if I am not you know that is that companionship of music and that belief that this is This this is what I want to do. I would be a good girl earlier. I would be a polite good girl earlier. Now I said this okay I have chosen this this way of life and I want to live it like this. I want to sing my life like this. So I thought this is yes you're right that those those were the prompts I was getting um from the music and from life and um I was listening to them and I was reacting and I was trying to see you know how I can I mean I had no idea whether I'd ever get a concert uh after that or not. Um it's not you know I mean as I said to you uh Bhai who was earlier my father-in-law as well was a very wellrespected and revered and is a revered figure in Indian music even today and people would feel worried about offending him. I know many artists who told me who invited me to collaborate with them and said sorry later after we started reing to say that no we don't want to uh offend bhai gi he himself I always answered them in one way he was my father-in-law as well as my guru he remains my guru and my guru will never want to harm me in this way you have interpreted him in a very petty way that's your problem I'm not going to uh you don't want to work no problem but there were all the these you know there is a lot of politics in in the world of the arts as well and um sometimes it is you know used by people to stoke mischief and to stoke more controversy but all of this was happening and um uh it's not it's not a pleasant situation to be in but the music was really uh keeping me really strong and uh has kept me strong all along. Give me a sense of what that ecosystem of music was like in those days and we can also talk later about how it changed. Like if you were a classical musician, you were learning Hindustani. What were the roots? Like my vague impression of you know the different arts is that when I look at something like the fine arts like painting, it was always and perhaps still is a world really controlled by a few gatekeeping elites. And if those gatekeeping elites choose to show you in their galleries and if they choose to uh if you happen to get critical acclaim and all that you are fine otherwise you're not and there's no way of breaking out of that. It's not a mass medium in that sense and the and it's pretty horrible. There are other arts which are much more like a mass medium where you can break away. You don't you know it's not so hard and the elite don't control everything. So what was the world of Hindustani classical like? Like if you were a Hindustani classical, did it matter which khana you were from, which guru um you were under, the circles that you knew, the elites who supported you, uh you know, how important was all of that? And then within that ecosystem, what are you now thinking of? Because if you feel like some doors are closing not because Bhai was petty which as you pointed out he didn't care but some people interpreted that way and would be extra careful then you know within that ecosystem what did you see happening because that period in the mid '90s onwards when a whole new world opened up and you were so successful there that you couldn't have imagined before that. So how were you thinking of what was the world like and how were you thinking of navigating it? I mean I was singing. I had already started being featured in uh a lot of festivals that featured at that time um what they called upcoming artists. And so I'd been singing for those. I'd been singing a couple of you know the opening acts for very major festivals. I had uh received fairly good reviews in in fact some very good ones by some people who were considered uh great um music critics and then suddenly there was it was all switched off. Um so the only place you know it's very interesting you're bringing back a whole lot of memories. Uh the only place that I would get invited to was from All India Radio because they have this they at that time they used to have this uh system of calling each artist the sort of it was a circulation depending on how you were graded. So if you were top grade you got more concerts. If you were let's say bee high then fewer and there were these slots in the day or the at night where you got 15 minutes to sing half an hour in the later in the day. So they would keep sending me these contracts and um at at that time it was a big prestige thing to be singing on radio even then although the money is I mean peanuts but it used to be a matter of prestige and I felt you know that it gives me a chance to present repertoire I mean you don't have concerts at 8:15 in the morning so go and sing a rag which is for that time it was like a exercise and an experience that could help you. And I remember that I went for a recording. I had not received a single concert invitation for over a year. And then I have this concert. I have this live broadcast from the Delhi station where I'm an artist and I come out of the studio after my broadcast and the program executive tells me the station director has asked to see you because there is a phone call for you. So somebody heard me sing live on radio called the station and asked to speak to me. So the station director gave me the number and I went to a STD booth and dialed that number and somebody from Mumbai had invited me for a concert. So it was uh I mean the wait for the next invitation could be years and uh that is the case with all artists whether it was in the um '90s or today. You never know where your next concert invitation or concert opportunity is going to come from. But uh for me it was even more uncertain because of the entire sort of perceived politics of it all. But I started emerging from that slowly. Um then there were all the um the adventures that every artist must go through I'm sure. Um what kind of adventures? Oh all kinds. I mean they're just amazing. So I mean okay I'm going to try and mask the facts and tell you these stories because they really are quite crazy stories. So from one city in North India I would always get a call when I got a landline which uh with a gentleman saying Gal in a very horse voice I'm calling from so and so city you must come and sing here. And I would always it was almost like somebody scolding me and saying what the hell have you been doing with your life? You have to come and sit and sing in this city. So I had no idea who this person was. No letter was sent. So you don't know whether it's an institution or whether it's a individual. I only knew that it used to take place in a temple. So finally after many years of this horse voice calling me one year I said okay I'll come but you know it's just a day before holy holi gets very rowdy in Delhi so I'll need to come back right after the show and I was actually protecting myself that I don't want to stay the night I don't know what situation I'm going to be in and of course nobody prepares you for the business of music so we all grew up thinking that Money is a very bad word. If you ask somebody that means you are in inverted commerce, commercial and money-minded and it doesn't matter whether uh whether you spend money and out of your own pocket but there were all these things baggage we had grown up with. So naturally I had no idea of how to ask this gentleman but I said you know I don't have I'm not in a situation where I can afford this. So I asked him what payment I would get. Oh don't worry he said you cover all your costs. Don't where will I stay? At my place he said so I said at your place. Ah family man. And I'm also wondering family man. And then but I don't know this man. Yeah. Then he reeled off a whole lot of names of um my contemporaries who had performed there. But I still didn't feel confident about calling them and asking. And all the while I was hearing my mother's voice, you know, and she would whenever I would tell her about such situations, she would say, "Don't complain. You've chosen this. Now you deal with it. Or if you find it too difficult, think of something else. We'll learn to deal with it." I said, "No, Shamudgal, you must deal with this." So, off I go on a train and Mr. Horse voice has arrived at the station to meet me and I think I'll probably get into some kind of vehicle. There's a scooter, a Limreta scooter on which he has come to receive me. Now I perch behind holding my suitcase like this in my arms and we go rocketing off through a bazaar and everything till we literally lurch in into a gate into a kind of a onestory house and he says you get you freshen up over here fresh up and program. So I thought I'll change into a different sari and I start hauling my suitcase up a flight of stairs which is on the outside of the house. So it's on the side of the house and there's obviously a barati on a room on top. You have to prepare yourself for what I'm going to say next. Wow. Mr. The horse voice follows me and we enter a room which is lit by a single bulb, naked bulb on a wire. So there's this eerie uh feel to the whole thing and the walls are not plastered but just there's just cement. So there's even more gloom. And all along the walls are black and white pictures, framed pictures of someone's funeral. Yes. Including the body in closeup. Wow. Now you can imagine I'm about still not 30. I think here I am in this strange city in a strange home. I have to sing in a few hours and I've been brought into this room with these goullish pictures all around. So there I am saying okay I get ready and I decide I will not stay here. So I pack my suitcase and I lug it down again. Now it's time to leave. So why are you bringing your suitcase? I said no, I have to go right from the concert venue. I'm going no nothing. I said no way. We go to this temple and I had told him that I need tanpuras. I'll play one myself. I need somebody to play. So I said where are the tanpuras? So he said the program was already on. It was like one of those you know like marathons through the e day and through the night and everything. So he says and takes me to the rasoi in the temple where there's prashad being made and on the side on a rug that was probably from the indust valley civilization are two dusty tanpuras. Obviously not for women like I mean from the size and the whole thing you can make out. So I said, "But these are not for my scale. I told you which key I will sing from." So he says, "No, no, no. Um, back again on the scooter and we reach a beat up old door which has a blind school board on it. We knock on the door and suddenly the door opens and an inebriated gentleman who's now I'm introduced to as the principal of this vidyle stands there and he points drunkenly to a whole lot of tanpuras lying there in equal disarray. But now can you see a young artist in such a situation? Fortunately for me the program went well. It was I received a lot of you know good wishes and everything but I mean these I'm sure you only have to ask any musician they'll come out with a million such stories but just look at the And did you get paid well? No no no there's no question of must have been paid some 5,000 rupees or something like that barely covered my expenses but uh but it was fun. Uh I had this thought a while back that I was looking at some of my favorite painters and I'd gone to Spain on holiday. So I uh kind of went deep into Picasso and Miu and all of those and uh I realized that a their best work had come in their later years in fact when they were in the 70s and 80s and b that both of them had been incredibly prolific. In fact Picasso apparently has a record for the largest number of paintings at a certain age. And my theory was that look the reason they were so prolific is because they were already so successful right so that made it easy for them and that there is a selection effect at play there's a survivor bias at play that had they not succeeded as young as they did and they might have produced absolutely nothing in the ' 60s '7s 80s. So now when you were at this crossroads in time where it seemed that okay this is an eldriven gatekeeper guarded uh sort of ecosystem. So how were you thinking of your own life at this point? Because at one level you said that you had realized at this point because music was such a companion to you and a soleace to you in your solitude that you had realized but at the same time the ecosystem might not have been uh as friendly to you as it was. So how were you sort of thinking of that like what was the worst case scenario you were thinking of? What are the alternative paths it could have gone down on? Is there a possibility that despite your love for music, you would just have been forced to give it up or had you decided I'll be on the street but I'll only devote my life to music? I didn't think of ever giving it up. But yes, I did a lot of things which uh I would not want to do today. I have sung very silly jingles for the princely sum of 500 rupees and those 500 rupees were also given to me after much you know going back and wanting because that's all I was earning. I've sung for uh you know like recordings for um ballets being done by different people. I sang for as accompaniment to dance all of which I enjoyed. uh it was not there were some things which I had to do to make some money but I uh think that in the long run um if the if I enjoyed singing for a dancer I continued singing I mean I did not feel any sense of wanting to find myself in central focus so I kept doing all of these things and I as I said some were really silly jingles there were some you know um albums being made where I would be paid a very poulry sum to sing the odd bhajan or something like that and I did all of that. Um that is how I made ends meet and uh it was it was rough but um I felt I was earning the money through the music and that also made me feel less how should I say disappointed with the quality of the work that I was getting. Um and and I continued to look at these opportunities as a way of understanding more about the music and even the business of music. I mean even the fact that I had started deciding that okay I'm not going to go unless this these are the terms that I met I would not have arrived at had I not gone through all of this. I think I would still have remained you know sort of looking here and there um if somebody asked me about payment and I decided that no some things one can do because one wants to do them and you don't get paid but some things I these are the terms call me if you want to otherwise no problem but it's never so easy the moment you say this is what I want then many people feel their feathers are ruffled. How can a mere that to some unknown singer? How can she say that she wants this much? And while I'm not a a great one for um suggesting that women are treated unfairly, I do think they are. At one point of time, I don't think I would have said so. But um I think if a woman says that they want a woman artist says I want this microphone, I would like an audio engineer. Do you find these unreasonable demands for a vocalist that I want good sound therefore the equipment? I want somebody professional handling sound hence the audio engineer. This is considered difficult. Or if you say that you want to be paid X amount of money and no later than the date of your assignment. Oh, but you know so and so Pandit G and so and so GI they have sung for us. They have never talked money with us. But that was them. this is me and I would like to and with due respect to them maybe they wanted to say not talk about money at that point of time all kinds of issues and lack of professional professionalism is a large part of an artist's um nightmares. So not getting paid either too little, too little of course you that can only happen if you agree but not on time. Being forced to make multiple requests to retrieve your own money and being humiliated for it. That is the life story of every artist. people telling you that oh do you remember like 10 years later somebody will meet me and say oh do you remember you had s for so and so event and uh of course that time you were not so well known so I mean what a thing to remind me of you know I said yeah well uh I mean it takes time but all of these things happen plus there is another big story that we haven't even touched at this point in the conversation That is the issue of artists rights and copyrights and intellectual property. That is a nightmare which for which the general student of Hindustani music is totally unprepared for. Now I was in a situation where I was of course singing a few Hindustani classical performances but I was also let's say composing for dance. I was singing for dance. No letters no agreements would be exchanged. If they were they were given to us I would say anywhere between 10 days to 1 month after the recording was complete. very often after the performance had taken place and would contain I know that they they all of the contracts say that we have to observe confidentiality but what confidentiality when they ask you to surrender your rights in perpetuity in any format to be delivered or to be created in the universe in the future or in any galaxy I've even at that why do you need these these rights? What are you going to do with it? You asked me to create a song for a particular situation in which you will use it. Why do you need two minute? But this you know this entire absolute fooling around with contracts either there will be no contract which is very convenient for everyone or there will be contracts which are drawn up. I don't know by which creature drew these contracts up particularly for something like Hindustani classical music. I cannot sing Rag Yammon in forever in my future. But I and I am assigning the rights of Ragy Yaman to X label or Y label. I never owned it in the first place. So how can I assign those rights? Nobody's using that. I I don't even think it's like it's common sense. But it continues to this date. And the worst part is that I mean I just happen to be literate so I would read those contracts and say what is this? I mean how can I assign rights for this? It is not mine. But no, I was I slowly turned into this copyright fiend, you know, where my own community very often calls me ne never to ask how I'm doing or, you know, what's new in music, but to ask me for advice on on contracts and copyright. I'm not a lawyer, but I mean, how can you sign something like this? And so it became very I've had quite a um fractured kind of an association with many organizations and individuals who consider perhaps if you were ever if they were ever to mention me they would say I would be I am difficult on my part I think I'm asking for something which nobody objects to. In fact, if it is a well-known male musician, they may say that he is difficult, but he say in my case, they won't even say that because I'm a woman. How did I ask for these things? and you know asking for the right equipment or you know asking about um basic facilities. It's considered you become the difficult person if you ask them to use a picture which I'm allowed to use. I mean how can I possibly give you a photograph or permission to use a photograph which you have taken off the internet when I don't have permission for it do it at your own peril but indemnify me then never you know never will they agree to do that it's a record amit that every organization asks me to send pictures I try and send them pictures which I have permission to use and which are recent so that I should look like the person who will appear on stage. Suddenly I'll see myself at 21 in a poster for a program day after I don't know what it is. It's a compliment. You still look so young. So yeah, I want to double click and talk a lot more about the business of music because it's fascinating and um I want to but I I I first want to digress and ask another question sparked by something you were saying just before that where you spoke about that unusual experience in that town. Um, in your beautiful book, Looking for Miss Sergum, you you have this minor character at one point who is in uh St. Petersburg and she's doing Alapabs at a fashion show accompanied by lingerie and leather boots. So, Alapabs with lingerie and leather boots kind of amused me and it also reminded me of Keith Jarrett. Are you a fan of Keith Jared? So, you know the story behind the Cologne concert, right? So, for my listeners, I'll repeat the story because it is so inspiring. It blows me every time. Uh on January 27th, 1975, Keith Jared landed up at the Cologne Opera House where this young concert organizer had invited him for a concert. Her name was Vira Brandes and she was 17 years old which he didn't know but anyway so she was 17 and uh he was taken inside uh the concert hall to uh uh see uh how the situation was and he had asked for what I think is a Bendorfer piano to be ready for him because that's what he played on. Instead, they had accidentally got a baby Bzendorfer and it wasn't fit for him and even that it a couple of keys weren't functioning well or whatever and he went out and he threw a fit and he said this won't do and he got in his car saying I'm going to go and what had happened earlier that day is Vira Brandis had realized the piano is wrong. She tried to get another one but it was raining heavily and it wasn't possible. So the crowds are coming in and Vera Brandes is outside at Kate Jared's car begging him that please stay on and she's 17 years old and she's crying and it's raining and she's crying and and he's not well also Jared and then he finally looks at her and he says okay I'll do it just for you but you know like come on I never do this and then he goes inside and he starts playing and it's a masterpiece. I listen to that album so often. Uh it's it's the largest selling solo piano album ever, 3 and a2 million copies. And initially you can actually make out that he's trying to figure out the instrument, right? So his sense of sort of engagement with the instrument is completely alive. He's not going through uh he's not going through the motions. He's not on autopilot. He's just building a relationship with it. And the whole concert is genius. And this is actually similar to that lady who's singing alabs to lingerie and leather. In a sense, it is it is similar to your having to deal with a tanpura at in that village town which is not quite your tanpura or you're sitting on that stage which is split in the middle with an AC at your back and the lights at your front. All of it is like that. And actually I feel like it's a metaphor for the music business itself where you have two completely separate things taking part and the one thing that is take taking place and the one thing that is taking place is a musician and their music which we think of as something sacred and on the other side you have a certain kind of crash commerce or a you know it's a lingerie and it's a leather boots and it's a wrong piano and it's a man's tanpura. and everything that can go wrong is going wrong at a metaphorical level that's just how it is. And how do you deal with this as a musician? Because probably a very very large percentage of the time you are playing one game and the other party whether it is a record label bringing out an album whether it is a concert series whether it is a TV show is playing another game. So how do you reconcile this like what do you do? Do you just tell yourself in every situation that I will sit and do my dharma which is play music the best I know or and let me not have any expectations let me give up on that and is there something at all that you would define as a musician's dharma that you think of something as your dharma that this is not in a religious sense at all but your your duty to the music and you know so give me a sense of your sense of ethics and how you deal with conflicts of this sort so I try my best to have as much conversation with the organizer to ensure uh that we are in sync. In my case, Amit, it's a little complicated also because I also sang popular music. Now when I sang popular music I took an artistic decision that if I'm asked to come and sing those songs like say aban or sikuna nokiasha or man manger I'm not going to try and sing malos and dari to that audience I will come with a set of musicians appropriate for that kind of music I will rehearse before I will reach uh and perform form that I'm not going to do this kity kind of presentation uh primarily because it doesn't satisfy me. I don't want to have this kind of schizophrenic thing happening on stage where one moment I'm belting out savan the next minute I'm doing something entirely different similarly when you call me for classical music I will not sing any fm of uh popular music I have tried to do this from the day now this would not have been a problem had those couple of albums not or those tracks not become popular. They did and through no through no uh fault of mine and that has made life very lovely in many ways and very difficult in in the aspect of uh you know uh reaching proper terms and conditions for um a concert. Everyone thinks and very often they are justified in thinking cuz a lot of artists agree other artists who are classical artists who have done popular music will play a film song or something you know I have nothing against film songs I have nothing against any form of I enjoy all kinds of things but it's just that as a performer I don't want to do this mix and it becomes very difficult to convey say that to the organizer finally I'm not in charge of publicity and marketing so you'll find all s sorts of strange things happening they will speak to me about a classical performance take the picture from the album cover of sawan and put that on they will not include the names of accompanying musicians if you see that I'm sing I'm playing with a set with let's say guitar bass guitar drums keyboards s etc. You are not going to imagine that I'm going to present kayal. You will probably imagine that I'm presenting popular music. And similarly, if the if the publicity material were to say tanpur so and so, tabla so and so, sarangi harmonia, you are getting a clear picture. People love to retain the ambiguity and love to make a mess of it. So this is something I've had to grapple with. But I always try to communicate with the organizer and try and say that look this has to be worked out. I can't do this. Let I don't mind if you get offended but I'm not going to take those requests. I have stood by that from day one. Having done that, there comes a point when you know you feel you are responsible to the audience that has come to listen to you. So while I will not change my artistic stand, I will do my best even if I've been badly treated and even if I'm not being fairly treated once I'm on stage, I really try to switch off. they feel it's not fair to uh either throw a tantrum in front of the audience and it leads to many situations which are can be irritating mildly or deeply irritating but you learn how to deal with them and I try to do that with some sense of calm I mean I've had situations where deep in an alab and this is after many many days and weeks of persuasion that I agreed to sing for some people in Delhi at a lovely farmhouse. It's a beautiful evening and I was really in deep into the music when I suddenly hear a telephone ring. This is common enough now. But then I hear through the alab I'm hearing this clearly. So I open my eyes and I'm staring in disbelief from the direction in which that sound is coming and I'm watching this man who is actually a office bearer of the organization sitting in the first row talking loudly. Everybody's looking at him. Anish and Sudhira are on tablan harmonium with me diligently playing on. Tanpura is playing on. Then I stopped playing the Tanpura. Slowly Anish and Sudhir fade out. Now his his music is up front and then there's no hurry. He's still continuing the conversation stage. Now I mean I could either have called him a so and so which I sorely wanted to but I just felt it would upset me to the point where I would not be able to return into the concert as it is I was going to find it difficult but I thought if I lose my cool I'm never going to be enter the that space any longer. So then when he finished I said and he stopped. But now these are situations where you've been actually uh coaxed into coming with repeated requests. Then you treat you are treated like this. But what do you do? I the rest of the audience is not to blame. And frankly, I know that if if I yelled then I would not have been able to get back into the zone. This is how one tries to deal with it. But these are constant irritants and constant issues and some artists may say this is part of being an art, you know, an artist's life. But um yeah it's quite pretty common for all these things to happen. Before we talk about the business of music again let's talk about something that is pertinent to that which is the audience for music. Right. I'm very curious to know what was the audience of Hindustani classical back in those days and how did that evolve over a period of time like uh one of my good friends is the Sro Sureshwas don't know if you know him of course so he was once telling me exactly yeah so he was once telling me about how he was in Kolkata with Usad Khan Sab and they were sort of walking down the street and Khansab got mobbed as if He was a superstar like the way a film star today would have you know and at one point I think Khansab was in a tram and the tram took an unscheduled stop because the driver said how sweet you know and I was just thinking that in the current day and time no Hindustani classical performer is really going to get that level of recognition and respect and it's so charming so even though there isn't much mass media present there you get a certain amount of respect if you're a star like that and I was just wondering key audience like in my imagination like there's a lovely phrase that which comes from Paul Graham which I I've adopted as you know my phrase to live by which is that it is better to be loved by a few than liked by many and I would imagine the classical performers were loved by a few not liked by many most people may not know who they were but the ones who loved them really loved them all night concerts that deep love and affection was So now the questions that come up is from a business point of view, how do you monetize something like that? Loved by a few but not liked by many because pop music is just the opposite. It's loved by no one but liked by many in a sense, right? And also how has that audience then evolved? Because that becomes very pertinent for you in the sense that you've straddled both worlds and we'll of course talk about your journey in popular music after this. You've straddled both worlds and I would think the audiences are very different. Like I don't mean to imply that people don't love you for your popular music. Of course they do. But a large part of the following is going to be kind of shallow. They'll be nice songs. They'll feel good. They won't really get into the music in that way. Uh they may not care so much about you. Uh but um the classical followers who are sitting with you who are weeping from the third row as you pointed out, they really care. So give me a sense of the evolution of the audience for Hindustani classical and the kind of music you do especially because the times have now changed and there is all the music in the world is now available to us all the time. Yes. I mean I've watched audiences in a city like Delhi for example from the early from the late 80s or so um from I've been singing here for from about 83 84 and um it's a very different kind of audience in different events and situations. So um unlike Bombay where uh unlike Mumbai where um uh you have music circles very small music circles that have really served the cause of Hindustani music and classical music for I mean for decades by getting people to subscribe and become members. Delhi doesn't have that many u clubs but a lot of people have been hosting concerts festivals for a long long time and depending on which organization it it is and which part of the city it's happening in you will find that uh an audience in Delhi will typically consist of some music lovers who have had who have a great um commitment to classical music um who are connoisseurs But a large part will be also young students learning in various places. There will be a segment which is of the elite and powerful. You'll have a lot of requests for free passes um particularly in sort of they must be in the first row. You can't even put them in the second row. So a lot of requests for that kind of thing from you know bureaucracy all those and you there'll be concerts where uh you're halfway into your uh rag and suddenly a politician will come and we will be asked to stop because the politician has to leave. So he will come on stage or she will come on stage and say their 2 minutes worth and then leave and you're supposed to quickly comply. So uh in the city in the same city depending on the culture of that particular organization you there are also I mean for example at the at the vidyale their festival annual festival starts on time whether or not people are the auditorium is full there is a sense of discipline because that is the way it was created by bhai and his team. So there's no question of people waiting or you know hanging on while some important person chooses to be fashionably late. But there are other places where it's mayhem you know and also I must mention that you know at various points different political parties who were in uh the government in Delhi started looking for spaces uh public spaces where music could be presented. Now I was all I was wondering you know I was asked to sing at Central Park in Kot place. I mean it's not really the ideal place for a uh classical music performance. A there's traffic sound. Um plus there's just anybody can walk in. It's not like a controlled by invitation. People walk in and people walk out. You have to be prepared for that. But even there despite the audience being so diverse there are such pleasant surprises. Sometimes people will hang on to every word you're singing sometimes. And in with the world of social media, I'll get messages from people I don't know at all saying. Now that's keen listening and taking the trouble to contact me, you know. So I think audiences across India in each city are a packet of surprises. You shouldn't take them for granted. You should be very convinced about what you want to present and be ready for the feedback. And I really feel that it's very difficult for me to say that this concert will go like this because it's being uh or that there'll be young people. This whole thing about how it doesn't appeal to the young absolutely nonac not acceptable to me. I find in the people that I am singing to very senior people and very young people also. I mean I've had children sitting there maybe they were brought by parents maybe they were brought under duress but there they are in a you know on in Neu park for a morning concert sketching away while we are saying I love that you know and I think that's how uh audiences find you and you find audiences. So I I think that it's very difficult for me to generalize about audiences but I take them very seriously. I would not want to not be prepared to give you know I I want to try and um share with them at at every concert and yes at times it becomes a little difficult but uh even in the most difficult situations you find people who are listening very keenly. I I think that's wonderful. So I'll talk about something that's puzzled me about writing and language and then bring that around to music. I teach a writing course where I'm teaching people to write in English of course and what I will also I I what I'll talk about is the importance of clarity that the most important thing is that you have the effect you want to have on the reader and you cannot do that unless your writing is clear and I'll often offer them the nani test that if your nani doesn't understand what you have written if she is not uh engrossed by it then it's your fault. It's not her fault. You have to get that right. Equally, I find that I am absolutely enchanted when I listen to some great uru poetry even though I don't understand every word. And sometimes a great udu poet in the middle like my friend Danish Hussein who was here to talk about what he does. And so I was asking Dheski, you know, I can't take my eyes off you when you're performing because it's so amazing. It's magical. I don't understand half the words and very often you will stop after a word and you will explain what it means, right? And I can't reconcile in my head the clear contradiction that there is between uh these two things. And when I think about music, I think about all the music that I've gotten into u as uh you know stuff that I've just been viscerally drawn to. I don't understand it but I got drawn to rock to alternative rock to jazz and one by one to various things. But at a level of theory of course I don't understand it and I don't need to. But with Hindustani classical music, it's always been very intimidating. Even though my mom was actually a musician of sorts, trained in Hindustani classical while being a housewife. And when I was a kid, she said, "Let me teach you." And she would do inducements. And to my eternal regret, I had a big attitude about it. I said, I was I just I was so therefore I don't know the first thing about it. I can't recognize the Raa. I can't understand the nuances and all of that but I want to right and this is the puzzle I am trying to figure out that if you are someone like me and I'm sure many of the young people who might encounter you at a concert in the park or the kids who are drawing and suddenly they look up and they transported somewhere else but they don't know why they can't articulate why they don't understand the music but it speaks to them so how do we think about this inaccessibility as it were and how to make it more accessible. One way of course is your suggestion which I think is a fantastic suggestion that schools may make it part of the compulsory curriculum but not necessarily only classical not necessarily all all kinds of arts in fact not just music not just classical all kinds of arts but what do you think about that accessibility issue because then you you run into a thing that a lot of your devoted listeners will immediately know what new thing are you doing you haven't done before etc etc and you love that kind of listener but you also want that other kind of listener who is crying without knowing why. So how do we bring these together? How uh you know what is your sort of sense of this? There's not a single solution but one of the things that Anish um and I talk about very often is uh the idea of doing of creating listening guides. I mean Anish does so in his column on scroll uh for scroll but um I've I mean I've always felt um that perhaps part of our pedagogy should in also include uh listening sessions where all of us listen to the same piece of music and then we say no adjectives please we know this is a great piece p piece of music you don't have to repeat that but Now give me facts about this. Let's start with facts. Which rag? Which tal? Why do you say it's this rag? Do you know why it can be identified? Finding those identifying features in a rag or for example saying it's a relative term vumbit. It's not controlled by beats per minute. So when what might be vimit for me might not be might be actually mad for somebody else. So talking about this fact that there is no I mean these are just basic concepts which we need to perhaps articulate without either obfiscating all the facts and you know the agaratika dha has to be taken out of all of this and a kind of demystification and a kind of talking of facts moving towards then one can I mean if somebody wants to be poetic in their analysis of a particular piece of music and they can be eloquent that's wonderful. If they can't let's talk why you are saying that Pandit Bhims's Miamalhar is different from let's say Pandit Ravish Shankar's instrumental rendering of the same rag what are the differences let's talk and I uh you know sometimes we do this exercise with our students as well in fact during the lockdown we would often meet online and a week in advance a piece of music would be a link to a piece of music would be shared and then we would ask a certain number of students to give their comments and then the others could ask questions. So I think one of the ways could be to actually develop listening guides like you have a guided um um book a guide book for jazz uh you have many of them in fact why not one for uh Hindustani uh classical music the other way perhaps is also to look at um in you know a kind of collaboration with other art forms um let's a theater to exchange information and to create pieces out of very wellressearched uh material. Now whether it's in the form of an anecdote or whether it's actual historical fact going through all that material um Anisha and I are fond of reading we haven't been able to inculcate the same love for reading among our students but they all love going to the theater for example and which is why we had worked earlier with Sunil Shanbag to create a um piece of music theater called stories in a song which talked about musical forms let's say kajiri or about the lives of musicians um during a particular historical period I think all of these I think all of this would make a very big difference but at the heart of it all I would have to say that an engagement with the arts made possible for every child in the country that is absolutely uh I think it's urgent not essential and I think it's a pity that it was in 2005 that I was part of a discussion at NCRT uh about including arts education and u our recommendation was accepted. It went up to the central advisory board of education. I was a member there as well but it never really got implemented properly. Uh today you would be rather disappointed to know that if I wanted resource material, if I wanted a book, if I wanted jigsaw puzzles, if I wanted games to teach children about music without increasing the load on their school bags, there is no material or very little material. Why should a child have to carry 10 more books to learn about music or about theater? Uh there is really it's not we said this in 2005 as well that look this has to be a huge exercise which cannot be undertaken by any individual. the creating of material uh for teaching of music to be able not to perform but to enjoy and to have an informed opinion that is important and needs to be worked in many many ways. I really find it very tragic that today I cannot find a good poster of our leading artists. Okay, there are some stamps that have been but do you think finding those stamps is easy at various centinaries centinary they issued a coin um in her memory? I have never been able to get it. Where am I supposed to go tripsing off to RBI every few days to find out if that coin is there? Why is it not easily accessible? So I think creating material that would help people access the music at their own time when they have the the time to do so. That is one thing. I also feel that music and arts cannot remain a hobby item in the school curriculum because they will never be taken seriously. I don't I don't like um a a competitive kind of a scene but at the same time it is impossible to make everyone concerned deal with the arts education program seriously if you are not going to actually evaluate it and find ways of evaluating it which are not dependent merely on performance. For too long we've had this situation that it's only the child with the good voice who is a good singer. It's only the child who can dance well who is considered talented. We need to also have people who will you dance to who will you sing to? Create those audiences and show that the audience is important. Show that the other ancillary professions are also very important. Have we ever have you ever seen anybody say I'm using a tanpura made by the miragekars of mira we don't say that okay we'd give them sometimes occasionally there are um awards for master craftsmen but by and large there's nothing like this until we give respect to each of these people are not going to continue these professions there's already a problem I think if there are entrepor is listening to this, I would just urge them that this is one of those audiences for in the sunny classical music which may seem relatively small but but in absolute numbers it is still uh fairly large because it's dispersed and it's committed. It loves you and not likes you. you know these people will be willing to pay these people will be you know I think certainly I hope a publisher listening to this immediately gets in touch with you and says guide book guide book but even apart from that I think if there are entrepreneurs who can think in other directions like YouTube channels or whatever you know just to kind of popularize this because I certainly feel there's a market isn't this also and we were talking about this in the break of course isn't this also a deep failure of criticism Like to me if there are any editors listening to this, you should really think hard about this as a failure of your own profession that um you know you were speaking about how there are so few people who write well about music everything is adjectivated even you know I tell my writing students always never use adjectives it's just a copout it's a lazy copout always you know and uh uh there's no one with insight and part of this is of course a general malaise in journalism that everyone is a generalist but at the same time you know if you think that journalism has any noble role to play in society this is surely part of it. So what has been your experience with people who write about music and uh you know you had one interesting story you can feel free to relate but uh what have been your experiences and what's your sense of this? Well you know we used to have music critics in the past now there is no space for uh reviews in any case so even that has dwindled. um uh apart from that you know usually the pieces that are commissioned if any are dedicated to either very well-known people so you want to hear about them and so they are written about but equally there are so many people whom we know nothing about and uh many of them are left out but apart from that I also feel that if music is indeed a part of Indian society, why is nobody talking about that the world of Indian music? I mean, not in necessarily in a hostile way, but it has to be talked about now. I mean you'd be surprised that uh people are going to all the big festivals uh and and you know like uh non-Indian artists of great eminence are coming and I and I welcome them. I feel good when I hear that somebody paid 75,000 rupees to go hear a band who is not from India. I'm happy that they said spent it on music but I also think that we need to talk about the music making conditions and the very reality of even the Indian music so-called Indian music industry. We are of course not a part of it. It is now very clear that traditional music is not even for tokenism a part of it. There is no thought being given to what is happening in the world of music. Issues are not being raised. Obviously, I am not a journalist and I am certainly not an investigative journalist. I don't have the training for it. I don't have the resources for it. Why are issues that are about the basic lives and the lifestyles of artists and what is happening to all those super talented young people whom we hear everywhere. You just have to walk out of this door and you'll hear beautiful music being made by young artists. where are they going to get the chance of let's say finding a decent livelihood by making a commitment to music. In fact, I think one of the things issues which are not really uh related to um the understanding of music but are equally important. You'll agree that in a lot of universities a music department or a performing arts section is opened. After a few years you hear that oh it's either closing or now it's been integrated into something else. My question is what is a person graduating from such a course? What is the option? Are they going to be taken uh seriously as musicians? Finally a college you say this is the college ranking is very high because so many placements so you know they got job offers which were running into large figures if you don't have that if that is your measure I'm not saying this is my measure of success but if indeed this is your measure of success please tell me how many of your students got even halfway a halfway decent job after graduating from your school and if that didn't happen how are you going to ensure because you did ensure in all your business schools and in all your uh other schools that you are getting you you have these tie-ups with people who come in just yet the moment you get out of your exam you're ready to you know share your CV why is this not happening in music then why are we not creating the space there has to be something at the end of this and if it isn't now this is a subject which perhaps I might not be able to write about at at all because I'm close to the I mean I'm this is something I love. I might not even be able to be rational rational about it. Why not get a journalist to write about this basic understanding system there seems to be no interest and I blame readers. Why why are they not asking? Finally it is if if you are saying we are catering to the the demand then are you telling me that all these kitian Indians are couldn't care two hoots yes does look like they couldn't care two hoots um and and so where can I tell I mean in fact it I think if there was more proper informed disciplined uh wellressearched writing on music perhaps a lot more people trained in music would get uh um uh you know some form of employment because they would provide the basic research perhaps. It is not happening and and we are only looking at um the arts as a song and dance routine. the bigger the spectacle. I love spectacles. I love and good to see one. But it can't be. This is not what the arts are about, you know. I'm this creating of a vibrant robust atmosphere where you are able to find a person to match audiences for every artist. I think that is so important. And the music industry couldn't care less. I have no hesitation in seeing saying that. In fact, if you permit me, may I make a point which I've just discovered please. So you know that we are all now in a sense independent artists, publishers, distributors thanks to the streaming facilities and everything. Virtually every big online digital platform is available in India. They have fancy offices. They have very well-trained staff. All the conferences about this about music, that about music, this you know all sevenst star luxury conferences. Not you will find not even 1% of traditional musicians are involved in those. It's like they don't exist. And do you know that today when I want to upload my music let's say on digital platforms like Spotify etc we go through aggregators who we register with as members and then we upload our music and the metadata with it and it is then sent out to as many platforms as you wish for it to be available on. Do you know in India when I add my music and say who are my co-artists I do not have the options in the drop- down menus to say tabla sarangi sitar sud tanpura I can only choose drums percussion keyboards you are in India you have an office in India you say the Indian music market is robust it's going to be this many more I mean dizzying figures which I can't even remember but you don't have anything for the Indian artist you don't have something as popular I mean tabla is popular across the world and across forms you don't have tabla you don't you have specific detailed drop- down options for African music you have it for Latino music you don't have it for Indian music what are you doing in India then neither the the policy maker nor the music industry bigwigs. They are not bothered about this. If I want to register a new composition in Arag, I cannot register it as a kayal. There is no such option. What are they doing? I mean, can you imagine the what are these fancy offices about? What are these fancy conferences about? as a gesture of some you know just tokenism they may call one artist from Rajasthan because everybody fortunately is familiar with some Rajasthani music or they may you know call me like a dinosaur from the past but that's it we are in a situation today in the Indian music industry where we are providing opportunities for everything but anything from India And I don't mean to get rapidly nationalistic about it. I'm just saying please register you know obo and everything but instruments rocket science. I don't think this how can we consider this as a friendly part of the Indian music industry. We are not catering to. So now I want to double click on the music industry both in India and outside and you know everything that you're saying is very familiar to me in the sense that I haven't thought about much of this in the context of the music industry but I see it happening across other industries in the sense that the mainstream is basically crumpled and I see two interesting sort of trends happening here which happen in other industries also and from what you say are obviously happening to music also. The first one is that there is a tremendous lag between the world changing and the big companies figuring it out. Because of which the the game that they play is actually a very simplistic game. They cater to the lowest common denominator and whatever is most popular in the mainstream they cater only to that and try to homogenize everything so that it fits that. And to me this is actually a huge mistake. Like yesterday I came across this amusing quote I think it's by Ron Paul where he says people think democracy is a big deal democracy is nothing but dictatorship of the majority. Yes. And there's a similar thing happening in music where if you cater to the majority fine you're catering to uh the most crass uh tastes but which are also most shallowly held. So you're not even going to get uh too many revenues out of them. And then you submerge all the niches and all the genres and all the other good stuff that is happening out there. While actually market should work in the opposite direction. Market should cater to every individual consumer and should put every individual artist or creator out there. That's the beauty. But we are not doing that. And the second trend is that the these big companies tend to get incredibly oified and think in very cliched ways. Like I remember in the 1990s I worked in both channel V and MTV and a lot of the multinationals coming in then they came in with the impression that India is two things it is Bollywood and it is cricket. So her Bollywood or cricket marketing angle and MTV also went down that direction if you uh remember much to my horror I was actually working there there it was horrible and nothing against Bollywood you know it's beautiful there's a lot happening there but you know and I think big companies get oified in that sense and once they get beyond a certain size they are just filled with mediocrity like all of these companies whether it's Amazon music or Spotify or whatever they or Netflix and you know you can just name them. The the people in India are completely clueless. There's no imagination. There's no sense of what the market really is. You are just playing to the cliche at oh this gets you the most numbers. Everything will be this and we won't give a about anything else. So this is kind of what I see now. I have nothing to add to this. It's just a lament. But I want you to sort of elaborate on how you've seen the music business change from back when you started up till the current day. What is the journey you have seen? What has been good about it? What has been bad about it? Or has it always kind of sucked? I mean, I haven't been really too much of an insider in the uh popular music industry, but I remember that some things haven't changed at all. when I recorded my first classical album in um Delhi, I think it would have been in the um early maybe around 85 86 and it was a small company that was recording classical music and as I told you that I finished recording months later I got a call from whoever was representing them asking me to sign a contract cont which I said I wanted to read. They found that very surprising and uh but the contract was totally skewed against the artist and was I mean it was not necessary to have those clauses but I got bullied into signing that. Nothing much has changed right now by and large. Now of course there is no recording of classical music at all. No commissioned recordings. You want to record yourself. You want to pay for the launch. You want to get veniles made. Yes. And we might put a stamp. If you are if you happen to know the right person, then you we might put a stamp on it. Or if you're hugely wellknown, then maybe along with a few other things, we may give you some kind of at best, you know, a few add-on goodies. That's all. But otherwise there are no commissioned recordings. There used to be labels you know in maybe about 20 25 years ago which specialized in classical music. All of that has gone. They are only selling their repertoire their catalog on various digital platforms. So there is no chance of a new commissioned recording for anybody any youngster however talented they may you think one of the reasons was that because I also worked as a consultant for a short while for two or three fairly big labels for their classical music catalog. Neither were there people there were very few people who thought creatively about how to present the u repertoire. I mean, one simple way of presenting is to have the best well-known people, give them enough money, make them record and put that out. But the other also with classical music, there's so much material, so much repertoire is being lost because we don't ever record it, document it, hear it in concert. So the other thing is to have a trained person who says you know this artist has these treasures because they learned from so and so and so let's get them to record. One other way is to catch them young. I think making for me as a consultant I had suggested to one of the labels let's set make these set up these associations with people whom we see will become very big in the future. let's do their debut albums and let's do it really well. Out of the 8 to 10 artists that I had recommended, at least four are very big names today. Now had they followed that suggestion whether with me or with anybody else to start a relationship with an artist and say listen every year just come and tell me what you want to record I'll try and make it happen and if not us then you go to anybody else. I think that's for me as an artist it would have meant a lot but they don't bother. So the ANR part of that entire industry is either stone cold walls or people who are not really bothered about the music and uh I also think that artists have to think of different ways of presenting music. uh they have to look at how I mean radio for example played such a big role outside of India in the shaping of so many bands and their careers when have we ever had such a situation where if I at let's say today if I were to say that I have this material which has not been recorded I have not even presented it outside can you please do like a premier thing for I don't think it's about the money. I think it's about the lack of will to do anything to really make things exciting for the artist, for the label, and for the listener. So, why not go the regular way? marketing in one of the labels where I worked. I wanted to know what is this marketing business you know because every time I would come up with an idea they would say marketing. So I said please I want to meet I want to understand what is it that I'm not doing right. So then we met in the boardroom and we I said so how did you decide that this was not going to work? So they said I went to Lajatra market and I asked the cassette dealers. So I asked them whether this artist they've heard of this artist they said no no no question it's not going to sell. How are you expecting that the th dealer who is selling Punjabi pop right now or and not to say that that's a lesser form but if that is their specialization how will they know some wise scholar musician who with great treasures of XY Z Ghana marketing in a I mean niche labels and brands have proliferate operated across the world. Huge success stories. Why are we not looking at them? The niche in India is going to be a mega size compared to any other company. But we have not bothered. Horrifying. Let's take a quick break again and on the other side of the break, we'll continue your personal journey. We've just about reached the '90s. Very exciting things are going to happen to you, I assure you. So, let's talk about them after the break. Long before I was a podcaster, I was a writer. In fact, chances are that many of you first heard of me because of my blog India Uncut, which was active between 2003 and 2009 and became somewhat popular at the time. I love the freedom the form gave me and I feel I was shaped by it in many ways. I exercised my writing muscle every day and was forced to think about many different things because I wrote about many different things. Well, that phase in my life ended for various reasons and now it is time to revive it only now I'm doing it through a newsletter. I have started the India uncut newsletter at indiaun uncut.substack.com where I will write regularly about whatever catches my fancy. I'll write about some of the themes I cover in this podcast and about much else. So, please do head on over to india uncut.substack.com and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign up, each new installment that I write will land up in your email inbox. You don't need to go anywhere. So, subscribe now for free. The India Uncut newsletter at indiaun uncut.substack.com. Thank you. Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I am pleased to report that Shamudg is still with me showing enormous uh patience. I'm so grateful you're still here. Let's now talk about uh you know the that part of your life from which I first got exposed to you uh when uh you know you entered the world of popular music and I was actually in '95 I was in channel V at the time and I shifted to um MTV in 97 so that era of yours I'm familiar and just loved your music. But tell me about that like how Ali Moryanga happened. That was the first one right Javahar called you. So take me through that period. What were your feelings when you were asked to do a kind of music which you may not have thought about before? When Javar asked me to record popular music, I was uh I was hesitant and I don't think I was uh ready to say no either because it was just a fear of the unfamiliar and I was I I didn't really know whether I can do this or not. Um I'm also sort of very hesitant to uh commit to something and then find that if artistically it doesn't you know excite me then it becomes a kind of a hypocritical association and I'm a little worried about that. So um I after several months of talking to him um I said you know why don't we do one song and see whether you want to record after that or not. and um I'll also get a feeling of whether I can actually handle this. He was um very very generous and he said look um I know that you're not used to um multitrack dubbing and everything but we'll set it up for you in a manner that is really comfortable. You can take as much time as you want to and uh let's try one song and that was the title track Ali Moryangna. So he used to work um with Ravi Pavar at that time and Rajahar had his own studio in Oscas. So I recorded it there and uh honestly it was quite challenging because my world of music had always been a live concert and recording in a live situation. Even when we went into a studio the tanpura tabla everything was in the same place and at best a few screens would be placed you know against the tabla etc just for separation but there was no question of being the sole person in a isolated booth singing and hearing everything through your headphones. That experience was really um disorienting for me initially because it's like suddenly I mean imagine if a the cameras were embedded inside your eyes and you were you know zooming in or zooming out in your own way. This was really like uh disorienting and challenging and it took me a little while to get used to this but uh they were very patient with me. Um there was a very experienced audio engineer Mr. Chavla who used to work with Javahar. Everybody was very patient and I recorded the title track and uh I don't know who Javahar played it to but he came back grinning from year to year and said let's do the album and he said um if you have any songs that you want to include in this you can give them to me and we'll arrange them. So actually four or five of the songs were my compositions and two I think were even written by me. So that's how we did that. But I never realized what it would mean. I mean I just thought after all all my life I've studied classical music. When I go to a birthday I sing happy birthday with everybody. I I mean that that we are doing something which is not from the genre that we are studying. I really didn't think that but several things happened. One I had no idea of the what was happening in production and postp production. One day Javahar invited me to his office and right behind him on the shelf behind him there were these cassettes saying Ali Moryanga Shubha Mudgal. I didn't even know it was launched. And um there was this sketch of some lady in a kind of a korta uh yellow korta with a flowing chunney hands sort of supposedly raised in bliss, but they could have been to hang out the clothes to dry or whatever. It was like that very rather an unfortunate kind of a cover. But ta and suddenly I was flooded with these inter you know requests for interviews because evidently the company had told the press they were handling the publicity here is our answer to Nusravika. Oh my god. Yes. And I was constantly saying are you crazy? Are you crazy? I'm not that that that's a whole different style stature of artists. I am just somebody who got invited by Javahar to sing. But that set off a set of questions which have never left me. One was how could I abandon classical music and betray the cause of Hindustani classical for money for fame and it's like being asked by people who who to whom fame and money both matter and so I would keep trying to defend myself till one day I said and then there was shocked silence for a little while and it seemed like I had suddenly grown horns on my head. But that's one question I have never stopped. I mean yours is the first time that you haven't asked me but it went on and on and on. Now just imagine they everybody's accusing me of having betrayed the cause of Hindustani classical music. I have only sung this one album with musicians that are not part of my band. They were hired sessions musicians very eminent many from Mumbai all had played on that I didn't even know many of them I never met them so I don't have a band but my song one of my songs is top of the charts now I'm getting invitations to sing but I have only those six or seven songs and I don't have a band so how am I going to sing them I did u Ali Moryanga in 96 it was launched and in 99 Akis Savan was launched in between are these three years in which I live my regular life of Hindustani classical music but I have betrayed the cause of Hindustani music then there were all these features you know on how uh polluting all of the environment is and how I've you know also succumb med to the pleasures of money and quick fame and all the rest of it and I'm wondering quick fame I mean I don't even have a band to play with but then along comes Shantano Maitra and he asks me to do upkavan I said Shantanu please at least inform me when it's being launched cuz the last time I didn't even know okay we start working on up Savan and then Praep Sarcar is asked to do the video comes home with what he calls a story board. I I mean I'd heard the term but I didn't really know what purpose it served because I had not done any work with story boards etc. And he kept showing me I said I don't know video and all please leave me out of this. But he wouldn't take no for an answer. I remember very clearly I was singing somewhere and flying back to Delhi for the shoot. Prahep da sent somebody from his team to the airport lest I slip away and not come for the shoot. So I landed up at the shoot which was great fun I have to admit but I was drenched because he had promised me And he I told him that I'm singing a series of classical concerts. If I catch a chill, I'm done for. and he said so it went on for 2 days at Surajkund and I was pretty sure it's going to be a huge disaster but then when he they launched that video it became very very popular and that was another storm of you know attention from the press by then TV and everything was playing a big role when I did Ali Moryangna um you know the music video was not as popular but by this time it was like fullon so again I got a lot of uh attention and this whole idea of what I'm going to sing in concerts was a constant um problem but it also um sav in particular meant that anywhere that I went somebody or the other would recognize So it was great fun but also you know sort of no no I didn't mean this I no I didn't mean that kind of thing but uh then after that I did an album called Maner which was again a very u I loved the project the idea was to use um popular culture to give a social message and was done by breakthrough um set up by Malika Dat So I um was part of that with many women's voices but working each time with Shantanu. So I've done two or three albums with him and it's great fun to uh work with and each for each album I almost had to reorient myself to again sing on a track or dub on a track. But by and large it's been fun. I've done one or two songs. I wish I didn't hadn't done but I mean you live and learn. Earlier you had mentioned that just singing on a mic teaches you a lot when you're singing on a mic with a headphone. And I imagine that you know the actors I've had on my show will speak about how it's very different doing theater where you're throwing your voice in front of a large live audience as opposed to cinema where there's a a camera there. And even that, you know, a midshot requires a very different thing from a close-up in terms of the intimacy it provides. And um, you know, even for the music that you're doing, recording into a mic at a studio must be very very different from singing into a mic in a large audience or actually singing in the open at a at a bat hook or whatever. So g give me a sense of uh, you know, what you learned through this experience and how you were evolving as a singer and changing yourself. I mean, you know, I'd grown up all my life learning how to uh elaborate on a seed musical idea. That's what happens in Hindustani music. So here I was all my training was that okay if you have this set of notes, you will elaborate and make it you will give it a variation. You will give it a different twist. Now I was singing somebody's composition the way they wanted me to sing it unless it was somebody like Shantanu who gives a lot of freedom to the singer and says here's my song structure you can sing it the way you want to and then if he wants to give some uh instructions he does that. But you know to move away from that idea uh of taking a line and never singing it the same way again that was quite difficult for me because now everybody wanted me to sing this this line as it was and if there were any variations there would be I would say there's hardly a variation you know but it was teaching me what the composer wanted also You know it was very in terms of expressing it was quite a challenge for me to understand what you know what does peppy mean or what does I mean there's no one piness and there's no one melen so what kind of meleny do you want and I would imagine that somehow my own perspective of all these emotions would find its way into the songs and I would Fortunately, I was given the freedom otherwise you know it becomes like a um you memorize even the expressive part of it and then deliver that. But um learning all those things how to u how to inunciate. In one of the recordings, I remember my son Dhal had come to the studio and um uh he told me I think the song said a saja mir aa he said he was looking like a bored kid sitting over there which he probably was and I said what was it like and he said your ja sounds like cha on the mic. He was right. But I had was not used to listening on the headphones and I thought my annunciation my pronunciation is quite accurate. He caught that. Or for example certain things which are not considered uh improper. Let's say in classical music when you listen to um lyrics in classical music extending a syllable or extending even a a consonant is not taboo here. If you're saying jab and you turn up and say jabber that's not done. I was learning all of these things and helping it was helping my vocal technique in many ways. So I you mentioned Nusraat earlier and I remember like my whole music self-education was very western and rock and all of that and at one point in the '90s I discovered Nusat's work for the for the record label Real World with Michael Brooks Michaels and the first album was Masmas the second was called Night Song and the second song of that was this lovely track which just entranced me called Bina somehow spelled bina with a Y on the album cover but Uh uh uh incorrect and um uh so I so I remember I I loved it so much I played it for my mother. I said that this is the most beautiful love song I've heard and especially the middle section I really absolutely found that divine and she heard it and then like she was a Hindustani classical this thing and then she said with great disdain but what he's performing is very basic and then she gave some name to it and then she showed me herself and I was like t what can I say but I would imagine that every trained Hindustani classical musician must at times be cringing when they listen to popular music of course this wasn't that this was Nusra himself but Nusra kind gentrified by Michael Brookke and they would be listening to more popular forms of music and thinking basic what's the big deal about this and uh you know what we do is not appreciated etc etc I wonder how you felt about the popular music that you yourself are doing right though Shanton was of course an amazing composer and so many of those songs I love I remember hearing it in those days as a young person but of course I didn't understand the music but a how did you yourself like the music that you were doing like was there any self-doubt key this is so simple or this is playing to the gallery or whatever was there any self-doubt of that sort and did you later feel imprisoned concerts whereas the very soul of a classical musician is to improvise all the time every performance is different no one steps into the same river twice but you were expected to basically perform covers of yourself that every time you have to reproduce that audience. So, how how was that for you coming to terms with the music or like was it easy for you to love what you were doing? Did you see it as a compromise? What was your approach to it? You know, I'll start by saying that artists like Nusra G for me there is something about their singing which uh illustrates that term called assur tacir in any art. that ability to touch and to move people. Now his voice was not the also full of a lot of gravel and texture and sometimes it even breaks you know when he's hitting very high notes but when he sings it's that quality that speaks to you is what whether you call it simple or whether you say I can this is you know something I can do that quality is not available for everyone. And I think that truly was something that made him stand out. I mean he became somebody the world listened to and that's because of the tacir and the assur in his voice which everybody craves. But uh you know I never felt that I never felt imprisoned in any way when I was singing these songs. I just felt it's a different orientation. It's a different discipline. It has its own challenges. There are some songs that I felt were not for my temperament. And yet I told myself here in these albums, I'm playing the role of a performer. I have to understand what the composer wants. He's handing over his baby to me. I have to now put the baby on its give it its voice. So I try my best to do that. Um in an album I did called PK Git, there is a song done by Sesh Chandelia which is uh a kind of um Punjabi kind of love song. Somehow that never worked for me. I tried to do to sing it exactly as he told me but when I look back on it those are one or two songs that I felt I should have worked more on. Otherwise I feel by and large I've never felt apologetic about singing those songs. I feel they came to me as a big challenge and the fact that they were accepted by listeners was a big thing for me. Um and you know what I do when I sing them live I add my own variations and make it a uh unplugged version of it. Yes, there are some songs like I've had concerts where people have asked me to sing the same song half a dozen times. Sometimes I do it, sometimes each time I bring in some difference. So, um I'm lucky again that I work with a very accomplished set of musicians all of whom helped me put this together. I've never felt imprisoned. And something that happened to you is something that would have happened to very few and maybe none uh no maybe no Hindustani classical musicians before you which is that you were not just famous you were a celebrity right where I'm I'm sure you get stopped in the streets or the malls or the airports absolutely all the time and sometimes from people who may not know exactly why also you know so uh how was that for you like initially of course I'm sure it's incredibly uh grat gratifying that someone recognizes the work you do and thanks you for what you do. But um you know does it sometimes get intrusive like how did you how was that for you? I mean I've never been a celebrity. I've yes people do recognize me on the streets sometimes. Uh not so much any longer but it's 25 years since I sang those songs and yet there are people who walk up to me. But um um I've I've I mean it's reassuring to get um to get recognition, to get appreciation. There's no denying that. But I've also got my fair share of criticism for having sung these songs. And also I think there must be many people who don't like anything that I sing. And my response is not a problem. I mean uh problem because I can't change the person I am or the singer I am and neither is it my um my calling to please everyone I try and I'm happy that some people like it and those who don't like it that's not a problem cuz really it's like a there's little I can do about it. So I I just accept that and um uh I it's it's only when there's a certain hypocrisy that I feel a little irritated when people say that they want to call me for classical music. uh no that that I don't want to do and I've steadfastly stood by that decision. Tell me now about another facet of your life that I'm fascinated by which is teaching. You've actually taught both traditional music, Hindustani music at Goa University at Ashoka. You've quoted a course. Tell me a bit more about how teaching changed you because I would imagine that whenever you teach something uh you have to know it really well. You have to delve into areas that otherwise you may not have gone into because you have to be prepared to answer every silly question. You have to understand every aspect of it. So what was that process like? Because I'm guessing that the process of becoming a teacher is also a process of becoming a deep learner in this case about something that you love so deeply. So tell me more about that. You know, it's a bit like becoming a parent. You're never prepared for it. And not that one has the same responsibilities for with a student that one has with a u with a child, but really you hope that you will be able to um teach them at least something that will help them in life. And like parenthood I feel that a certain amount of you know I cannot force students uh to follow me. I don't want to create uh people who are trying to sound like me or to use I mean my mannerisms or gestures. If I can help them a forge a deep love for music which they already come to me with but they can have moments of doubt and if I can help them stay anchored then it's wonderful but as you said I always when I start teaching I always tell students that please ask me the questions but I am asking you for the questions with the writer that I may not have the answers to many and I don't know if I'll ever have the answers. So, be prepared for me to confess my ignorance in some in many matters. But it's been uh it's been as you said the learning has been humongous and is continuing. I mean sitting across a student who trusts you with their voice and you tell them that no you know try this try and sing project like this you will feel better and watching that change is amazing but also when the student says but I don't want you know I'm not sure this works I always feel why has that because they are hearing something else that I'm not hearing. And I think it's a it's a good exercise. It's a very fine exercise in once again checking what really will work for somebody else. Giving them those options and giving them the freedom to say to discard them also because I don't think every suggestion will be accepted by a student. Um I also feel that many of the students who come to me have learned from other gurus. So either their gurus have sent them to me to let learn let's say toumri or they have changed wherever they were living and their guru said talk to shoubha and u so they have come with a lot that they have learned. Do I really need to erase everything to begin teaching them? And finally, I think I've said this earlier in the conversation too, the technique I can teach. I can tell them That's a constant um you know uh research that keeps going on in my head. How do I tell them now this is how I would sing it but you see how you want to and how to help them reach that point. I don't have the answers to that but I keep trying from by explaining using metaphors from other uh disciplines or making them listen to other artists singing. It's constantly being processed and uh sometimes you feel I think I've done the right thing and sometimes there's a lot of self-doubt also. I think their breath of life can only come from them and their journey. There's so only so much you can do. Yes. Yeah. I mean I always tell them I can tell you that I think you will sound better like this. Actually to do that you will have to do it. I can't help you with that at all. So I I I want to ask you a slightly longish question about a subject that's a source of intense fascination for me which is um which is the role of form in the evolution of everything including in this case the evolution of music. Uh there's this beautiful book I'm I I read last year called how music works by David Burn. Have you ever read it? No, I have. I'll I'll I'll make sure I send it to you. Um in that he speaks about how different kinds of music evolved as they did because of particular reasons. For example, back in the day when people were in tribes, percussive music was popular because percussion travels well through the open air and all of that. Then you have the large Gothic churches of Europe where your typical reverberation time was something wild more than 4 seconds I think. So you could not possibly have percussion, you couldn't even have complex harmonies and all of that. So you had a particular kind of music evolving there. Then as you moved to smaller rooms but much bigger than they would be today 18th 19th centuries you had a chamber music kind of evolve which was again different in its imperatives. Then you come to much smaller rooms or clubs where jazz is being played and there it's full of furniture and there's no reverberation time at all. You don't have to worry about reverb and all of that. So percussion comes back, complex harmonics comes back, all of that happens. And yet in the era of jazz before amplification, a guitar really doesn't fit in. So you have your trombones and all of those instruments that are naturally long. But once amplification comes in, you have the guitars coming in in the ' 70s. You know if you look at photographs of the iconic um uh New York club CBGB is small cramped crowded place and you have exactly that kind of music being played which I think would be more to your son Dhul's taste than yours perhaps and so it's evolved for a reason and I read this and I was very impressed but I thought you know there's nothing to explain Indian music like this for me until last year I came across a researcher I've forgotten his name I'll link his paper from the show notes who did a study of those particular temples temples where the founder of karnatic music used to live and he found that the architecture of those temples meant that uh the reverberation time there was also very long and they were suited to certain instruments and not to other instruments and therefore those instruments have become standard in karnatic music today even though today technically they're not played in those spaces and when you play them in a recording studio and all that they don't have that same sound at all. So I met him at a conference and he actually played it for me as it originally sounds and as it does today and it's a massive difference and you realize the music sounds the way it does for a reason but the reason is gone but we have stuck to the old ways you know similarly when it comes to recorded media we think of the 3minut pop song even though the 3minut pop song emerged out of the constraint that at the turn of the 19th 20th century that's how much the record could hold and then uh Colombia produced a long playing record in the middle of the century which could whole 40 minutes of music. So you have the convention of the album. So there's actually nothing sacred about the 3minut time span. There's nothing sacred about the 40-minute album or even the concept of an album. But those evolved because of particular reasons which no longer exists. M so my question here is that uh there's practically no one better than you to sort of talk about the wise of Hindustani classical music that if you look back on it history through its evolution why did it take the shapes that it took why does it look the way that it look and going forward is there a chance that it will change in modern times because those imperatives many of them may have changed may not have changed new imperatives have come up you've spoken elsewhere about how channel and MTV changed the way people view music and look at music. So just to take that v sweep through history, what is your sense of the ways of of all these wise that why is Hindustani classical the way it is? Um you know there would be social situations that led to ganas coming out because families wanted to keep the music within themselves. So there's a lot of stuff that has happened for reasons that are no longer relevant. So give me some give me a sense of you know uh I I know it's a very broad question and I'm sorry to just thrust it upon you but um I mean change of course is constant and it is imperative also because if it didn't happen then it would be stagnant you know so um I think whether in terms of preferred forms um I mean what was considered not such a um let's say um authentic uh representation of Hindustani classical music. Dupad was considered the utmost form and then the makers the creators of Dupad the composers of Dupad themselves felt compelled to and for artistic reasons I would imagine more than any other to create Hayal. But while they composed hayal they would not sing it because it was still not considered so highbrow. Today kayal is considered uh let's say very popular in classical music and touri is usually called semiclassical or light. Within touri there have been many forms many types of toumri. So there is the very villamit bulb banana tumri. There are tummarries that were sung with dance which were called bandishki tumar. There were shorter quicker paced forms like dadra. Today you hear only the quicker forms. Very few people are specialists in the bulb. So even within this let's say this a span of let's say 150 or 200 years those changes have been happening. Similarly amplification has really changed the way that we use our voices and our instruments. Um if you hear 78 RPM records of the great singers and particularly the women, everybody says what powerful voices if they had not got that strength and volume. No impression would have been made on the wax uh this thing. So it was necessary to use and also they were singing without amplification through the night very often. So there was this I mean you had to throw your voice as you would let's say for theater. Amplification has changed that a lot and so we don't hear those kind of voices any longer. In fact a large number of voices are perfectly suited for the microphone. Our own understanding of the dynamics of um the placing of each instrument has changed. If you listen to older recordings, you will see that the tanpura is omnipresent and it's it's like really a nice warm tone. It's like a you know it's like an oral canvas on which the artist is then creating these rag pictures. Today you will see the tanpura. So in the YouTube video the tanpura is there you will not hear it or at best you will hear it as a distant kind of you know um mosquito wine kind of song sound because a lot of engineers very often also engineers who are not used to Indian music find the tone of the tanpura intrusive. Though they will not even when they are mixing sound for a live concert or for a recording they start cutting out the sound of the tanpura which in a sense defeats the purpose of having it because that is the canvas on which everything is done. These are changes that are happening really rapidly and within the um let's say within the let's say the accompanying artists you don't hear so much of sarangi you hear more of harmonium which at one point was banned and was considered inappropriate for India because it's it's a equally tempered keyboard instrument and it was felt um that the kind of tonal nuances. The shris that are to be used could not were not possible. To that to some extent that is correct but maharmonium players and craftsmen have worked very hard both in terms of changing the instrument as well as in their playing techniques to overcome that. But still it is it still faces a kind of a stigma. So you know earlier you could audition for everything on let's say all India radio not for harmonium it was banned now they have started using harmonium but they still don't give it the position of a mainstream uh solo instrument similarly I think also many many changes in technology actually impacted the manner in which we present um different forms. So you remember when n 60-minute cassettes came so 30 minutes then you had to flip a lot of even though uh we recorded for those cassettes even in live concerts the duration of each rag started fitting that 30 minute um format later it became 45 minutes when we got 90inut CDs I mean cassettes but even when without that that kind of problem any longer because we're not using cassettes. We still retain that because u people feel that it has to be short, pity, lots of tarn happening. But I think all of this is it has to happen and people will find their ways around. I mean different artists will find their ways of dealing with it. There are many artists who say this is the way I'd like to I'm I'm happy with this. Others say no and they can begin with I mean some artists today classical great will not start with a classical piece. They'll start with a cholure or jingle bells even and then move into classical music. It's really a choice I think that each artist has to make for themselves. And I think uh there is more or less a artistic decision which basically everybody is free to make their choices and and to decide how they would present. But it's in small and big ways. It's constant. The change is happening um constantly. We're losing morning and afternoon rugs because concerts don't happen in the morning or in the afternoon never almost. So evening rags that two rags between let's say 6:00 and 9:30 that's the bulk of rags that are performed. Now it's possible for us to say that look I feel like singing a rag that was sung at 4:00 it's 6:30 but I'm going to break the rule. You have to be convinced about it and do it if you want to. Yeah. I mean it's 4:00 somewhere in the world. Yes. So and your performance could easily be getting live streamed there. I'm going to take the liberty of asking you about a period in your life or a phase in your life which I'm sure is would have been deeply satisfying and transformative to you which is your partnership with Anish. Yes. You know meeting him because uh he is also not just a performer but a very important thinker about music. In fact I absolutely intend to invite him on the show also. I hope he comes. I'm sure he'll be delighted. And uh so tell me about that partnership because uh it seems not just a meeting of hearts but a meeting of minds as well and you know you've done many things together like the music mapping project and so on and so forth. So tell me about how you met him and the role dad played in your life. Anish was u accompanying a lot of very eminent artists. Um when I was going to record an album for uh it was a series that was on um forms related to touri seasonal song forms kajiri jula chetty etc. And uh I had heard him accompany the absolutely legendary and ineitable Shobha Guruji and I thought to myself this is my you know like a very important recording that I'm doing for Touri. I it would be great to actually have um Anish and uh Pushotam Valerie on the harmonium because they used to be um accompanying Shobhai constantly. And so I found his number from somewhere and I called his home and I checked whether he would be available to accompany me and we met. We had met a couple of times before that but not really had a chance to perform together. So we recorded in Mumbai for this album. That's how we first worked together. And then I had this I've always been very fascinated by gadgets and technology and everything. So the internet was really you know Dal said mom let's get internet. And I said yeah. And he was telling me this is what happens that is what happens. I just found it fascinating and with that I thought we should start something for Indian music. I had no idea, no entrepreneurial skills, no idea of what it means to start a website but I had all the enthusiasm. So I thought why we should have a magazine for an online magazine for music Indian music where we ask artists to write if they don't want to write they can answer questions and we can transcribe and get you know put it online and including I had crazy ideas so because multimedia so I thought let me ask artists for their recordings and ask them to speak about what they've presented. So big plans and I thought let me ask Anish if he will write for this and if he'll be part of the editorial. Which year was this? This was uh 96 and I was very excited and we set up um a website called ragsangeit.com and we ran it for several years but we had no support. We had thought we would get support you know and be able to have a small team. It was a very grand plan, totally impractical, but we thought, you know, this was one way in which we could engage students to work on music related projects and of course earn some money through it. But we never had the money and also at that time it was quite difficult. It was not as I mean inexpensive to set up a website as it is uh now. But of course a good website is still not easy to run. We struggled with it and it finally we had to close that down. But during that period I would meet Anish and also work with him, exchange a lot of ideas with him. And soon we thought okay let's let's see if this can be made more permanent. And so finally in 2000 we got married. I was in the middle of recording an an album and I asked for a day off from the studio and in fact Malikat was the person who was producing man. So I said do you mind if I uh take a day off on the 9th of March? And she said yeah no problem you can record in the 8th and then come back on the 10th. Okay. So when I came back the next day she said how was your concert? I said I didn't have a concert. She said but you said you can't record. I said, "Yeah, I had some other work." Oh, aa. She said, "What were you doing?" I said, "I was getting married and I was back in the studio the next day." Wow, that's a shocker. So, I I have two followup questions from that. And one is I want to know about your work ethic because that sounds like exactly the kind of way I would approach my work that it is totally sacred and if I'm in the middle of a project, I would, you know, nothing gets in the way. Like in the 8 years that uh the scene in the unseen was a weekly show I never missed a week. Many things traumatic things happened but I you know deaths happened this happened that happened I never missed a week. Is it like that for you? Like a saying I like a lot is how you do the small things is how you do the big things. You know that it it's not enough just to take the big project seriously. every little thing that you do whether you're cooking an omelette or tying your shoelaces you just want to do it well because that ethic then flows through to the rest of your life I'm imagining you are also like that like you mentioned earlier that your dad was so meticulous when he would make those cricket notes and all of that and so on and so forth so give me a sense of you know that kind of personal work ethic which you bring to whatever you do the seriousness with which you bring to your music I mean I've also been through situations where it has been difficult for me to sing but I don't like to uh sort of ask for any grace period because of I feel it is unprofessional and I should I mean unless there's only one concert that I could not do after committing to it that was because my mother passed away on the same day that was not possible for me um strangely the person I was singing for and I was singing a pro bono concert for them. They asked me to give this in writing that I could not do the Wow. Yes. And that was I remember it vividly that my mother passed away on the 11th of May uh 2010 and I returned from the hospital and sent them a message. I had already told them that she was very seriously critically ill and that I'm worried about this and that they should call off the concert cuz I don't know what would happen. And they chose to go ahead but she passed away on that very day. And I was forced to write a letter, sign it and send it that I have lost my mother. This is horrible. I hope you never worked with them again. Never. Never. Ever. you know, I mean, other than that one time, I have never missed a concert. I have had situations where um I can see that my voice may not be in good form. And there I call the organizer and I say that look this is happening. I'm taking medication. I'm not sure it could go either way. You can decide now whether you want to call it off or not. Because also singing with a difficult voice can be you know I mean that can the audience may not like it you know so I think that option has to be given to the organizer to decide but other than those things I don't like to however important something may be if I've taken on a small concert for a very tiny u let's say some an organizer was doing things for the first time I will not change that. And I think I'm very fortunate that um Anish is also very meticulous in that way. We've had a couple of run-ins where he has said yes to somebody else and then I get this concert which is like really very it's a very prestigious thing and he said sorry I've already committed. So we in between ourselves also I think uh we value that um it has to be done as professionally as possible. I also feel that um I'm very fortunate I've said it many times to have worked with very good artists and of course I get a lot more attention uh than many than they deserve. Even today it is a running battle to get their names on the uh publicity material leave alone um pictures. So in a lot of government programs you will have everybody's all the artists thumbnails right on top you will have a politician sometimes even the politician's wife but you won't have a single mention of the accompanying artists all of whom have huge fan followings but no so it's a running battle which I keep fighting to try and make sure that I mean this is this should come so naturally but leave alone being given due attention in all publicity material. You know, so many times um people come to us to help raise funds and we all every artist goes through that and you want to help. You know how much how difficult it can it be to go for an evening and sing for somebody wanting to raise funds for a very ill child or whatever. But in my experience has been that whenever I've asked my colleagues look I've been approached like this would you consider performing and they've always said yes. In the past I would say that okay none of us will charge anything at all barring let's say travel expense or whatever and my experience has with the nicest people Shubhaji thank you Shubhaji gets the flowers they don't get even a thank you and so I have made it a point now to say I'm sorry I can perform I can come and sing like you know stand there on stage and saying you want the artists you please call them check if they would like to be paid how much they would like to be paid whether they can offer a discounted fee but I'm not getting involved in it and I've requested all of them to please go ahead and decide what they want to do but it's it's very difficult to there's a constant battle I mean my next concert I'm not sure the names will be mentioned and what am I supposed to do in this battle. I can only send an email requesting people again. I'm teen reasons they will give me for not including the names. I don't know why what it is. I mean in a western situation the name of either the entire group or each artist in the ensemble will be there. Why is it possible? politician politician politician accompanying artist. It's very sad. You know, it harks back to what I was saying earlier that the musicians love what they do and they are coming from a place of love and purity and the audience is there that appreciates them and that appreciates their work but the people in the middle are so crass and don't get it at all. And I don't get this disconnect, you I I think it's got to change and uh you know something doesn't uh it's just so weird. But I also feel the artists are to blame. We don't have a collective. We don't have a collective voice. So these become personal battles and not something I mean I'm look I'm not saying that unionization is the only answer to this. Not necessarily. But surely some things have to be adhered to. I mean what are we asking for? There are three people on stage or four people on stage. Their names have to be given. We not I'm not singing in isolation. I'm not singing all alone. You know what accomplished artists they are. You are applauding them when they are playing. But never ever it's like such an uphill task. And I think one of the things why one of the reasons why I at one point of time had this fairy tale idea of forming a collective of artists uh I have abandoned it since. Why have you abandoned it? Because it has to be run professionally and there can be no uh there can no be there can't be any two ways about that. It cannot be my bapoti. It cannot be my you know feudal little castle from where I you know issue orders. It has to be a space which believes in equality. which believes in fair uh professional standards and I don't think it matters to enough people um to have a professionally run uh collective like this otherwise there are so many issues related to the arts uh that are never going to change because we are in fact um you know the the it's there's almost an attitude of being like grateful to uh organizers in a very subservient way. I've seen artists these days uh being invited for a government festival and it's evident that all of them have been sent a message saying I'm very grateful for this opportunity. It's exactly the same message and everybody's happy doing that. I don't have an issue saying that I'm happy singing in a festival. I don't want you to send me the message and tell me that I have to do it and if you don't do it, you're not going to get another program. So all of the, you know, there's a there's a complete lack of awareness about what a collective could possibly do and there is no will to create that. There are too many rifts. The same rifts, the same issues that you see with Indian society are rife in the world of music. Whether it is uh gender related issues, exploitative practices, uh cutthroat policies, a sense of subservience. I mean, why would you not discuss something as important as taxation for the arts? Why would you not discuss public health schemes for the artists in during the lockdown and during those two years? Not a single government official ever tried to find out how artists were doing in their area. What was a phone? I mean, they got their salaries, didn't didn't they? Did they bother to even make a call to their award winners to find out whether they were dead or alive or whether they were all right? Leave alone giving grants in aid or providing any money during those difficulties. I'm just saying the reassurance of a call that you matter. We know that you are there. I hope you're in okay health. Expecting anything more than that would be foolish. We lost some of the biggest artists and we heard about it. It was painful that we heard they're not getting a hospital bed. But what about those artists who are in a remote area? What were they supposed to do? And it it is so disturbing to think that nobody thought and when there were schemes, they were about videos made for spreading positivity. I mean, come on. You don't want positivity in a COVID infection. You want practical help and that was not there. Nobody has bothered to even assess what was done and or not done and how one could help the artists if unfortunately a similar situation were to arise again. It's like total atma. Has there been a case of and I'm sure I mean I feel like I already know the answer but has there been a case of artists being co-opted by the politics of the day? Like I would imagine that uh the ruling party would want to sort of legitimize itself by using the names of famous artists or even having them endorse uh uh the regime etc etc. And the ways of doing this would include both a both the carrot and the stick. And the carrot would be that you know we'll give you padmashri or we which of course you got 25 years ago but we'll give you padmashri or we'll uh call you for this um festival and that festival and the stick could you know we'll stop inviting you to things or whatever. So um you know how has uh how how has that been and is there then selfcensorship on the part of artists? Yes, there is. And it has I mean, of course, I was identified as a um um antinational uh long ago and um trolled for various things. Um I've also had situations where um you know, some of some 49 artists actually wrote a open letter to the prime minister and a very polite one. Since it's an open letter, it's available for everyone to read just saying that you know lynching is really bad. We immediately there was a barrage of I think we were 49 artists uh there were 60 or more who said we are um antinationals and uh urban nuxals and whatnot and uh I was receiving threats from various sources. Um I was being trolled. So I of course have been put on the blacklist from for a long time. But uh yes uh I don't think that anybody has to go out co-opting artists. The artists are flocking. It's the other way around. The herds are reaching the the doors of the providers. It reminds me of what ironically Elk Adwani said about the journalists at the time of the emergency that they were asked to bend. They chose to crawl. Yes. Yes. So I think here and especially in the world of Hindustani classical music um there's deep you know um polarization and it's quite it's a very u conflicted kind of an atmosphere. I mean on the one hand have you noticed how popular something like um Sufi music has become? Huh? Everybody is singing Allahoo, Allah, Ali Ali, Dali Ali. But you know I mean on the other hand the same person will write a diet tribe against a certain community. Uh everybody is singing abhang poets of the bhi movement all of whom sort of characteristically wrote about universal peace and brotherhood the number of concerts is amazing and I'm very happy but philosophy so it's it's a strange situation where you know I'm saying didn't I read this terrible very distasteful post by this artist and now the same person is singing oh we are all brothers let us you know Ram Rahim everybody is the same what is happening so this this idea of choosing what you want I mean ideology so I think at least in the in in in I can't even call it a community. I can't even call it a fraternity. But let's say amongst the classical musicians, this is absolutely rampant. No, it sort of blows my mind because the dominant feature of this regime which sets him apart from everyone else is the anti-Muslimness. That is simply what it is. That is the dominant theme of what's going on in India over the last 10 years. And I would have imagined that Hindustani classical though should be simp just the opposite. It is, you know, it is so syncric. It is assimilative and all the so many of the legendary figures are Muslims and it is a melding of cultures. It is the best form of kit. baggage. There are some people who say that the history of Indian music was incorrectly written and that yes, it is a very popular theory these days and that you know the singers of the Hind from the Hindu community were not given due importance or that they were forced to convert and or now some days ago I saw a post saying that why on earth do we have to call this Miatorii? Wow. Why should it be called Miyaki Toi? It can be called Tori but why should it be called Myaki Toi? So all kinds of things are happening. I mean we've heard in Pakistan also that a rag which which has a name let's say like Dura Okdar has been changed to a more Islamic name. So we have like-minded people. Yeah. I mean on both sides. Yes. Yes. Wow. So let's not uh let's not bring our spirits down. Let's move from the political to the personal. And I'm again going to bring up your nanny and your mom here. And you know uh right at the start in that opening question I asked you to kind of describe their lives for me and you so kindly did. But I'm going to point to another aspect of that observation I made that that one journey of falling in love with music and actually becoming a musician took three generations. that your uh Nani G started in 1900 and she wanted to learn music couldn't she learned maths more power to her uh your mom learned music but couldn't actually become a musician and you became a musician and now you are in your 60s and uh you know and when I think about the passage of time I realize that when we are young when we are 20 it seems like all of eternity stretches out before us we will live forever but as we grow older we realize and I have grappled with this also So in recent times the time actually passes really fast. It's speeding by. The days are long, the years are short. And then you realize that 50 years is a long long time. It's an epoch. So how have how have you sort of reconciled with the passing years and how you look at your own life and how you look at the notion of happiness? Like what is happiness for you? like the the way that I have started like there's one quote I keep quoting on the show so listeners will be tired of it but I love it it's by Annie Dillard where she said how you spend your days is how you spend your lives so you just construct a good day and then you construct another good day and you go day after day and that is your life there's nothing bigger at the end of it you know so I want to ask you about what have your learnings been about yourself how have you reconfigured your notions of happiness especially I mean you just mentioned uh when we were taking a break a little while back that you had your brush with severe illness during co that you and Anish you went into Midanta hand in hand and thankfully came out hand in hand so so glad that uh uh you know you guys came out hand in hand but you know you must have given a thought to mortality at that time as well so tell me about how you've changed how you look at life differently how you look at happiness I mean um I I don't have regrets as such. I'm very uh I'm thrilled with the idea that I was able to study music and continue to do so and that you know people say um do you identify as a classical singer or as a pop singer or as well. I said, you know, look, I'm a first generation musician from a family that doesn't come from hereditary musicians that I was able to live my life with music is enough for me. You decide what you want to call me, singer, just singer, classical singer, whatever you want. I'm happy with the fact that I'm identified as a musician. Uh I'm also very happy with the fact that whether it was taking risks um with let's say setting up madly with Anish a record label and failing miserably at the business but I still think we did what we wanted and I have no regrets. We started a festival of music in 2008 in Pune and we called it Baja Gajaja and we said uh it must represent the enormous diversity of Indian music. So we'd start in these three days from 10:00 in the morning till 10:00 at night we would have multiple locations with all kinds of music and it was very tough. um we never found sponsors in 4 years. We almost went bankrupt but again it was something we wanted to do and I don't have any regrets about that. So I think in a sense you know I'm it's been a lot of fun and my life in particular on days when I'm grumpy and sulky I tell myself you know people are not fair to women artists etc. But yes, they aren't uh they if you had a let's say a a woman artist and a male artist, I can assure you that the and doing more or less the same thing. The critic will be very careful about saying one word about the male but is happy to say anything about the the lady and many other you know ways in which there are indications of misogyny and patriarchal in biases etc. But I think, you know, despite all of that, um, I why should I be complaining? I've really been helped a lot in finding my feet, in finding my voice, and I'm enjoying I mean, at 66, I'm I still have a hectic concert schedule. I'm I'm curating for festivals. I get the chance to work with the most accomplished artists and present them in, you know, in in projects that Anish and I think of. I'm working with children, with gifted children for a festival that I curate in Bangalore. Um and I think that's very special for me because I feel here's a crop of kids who may you know I mean in 20 years when I'm gone and whenever I go I mean these kids could be leading the Indian music scene at that time and it would be such a thing for me to think that you know when they were little tikes I I I was curating and I I invited them to uh perform and working with children is really there's a It can be painful. It can be uh difficult. But it is deeply satisfying because there's when you get everybody together. Anish and I have experienced this time and again there are tensions you know about who's getting prominence. There's all those little rivalries. But you put them together and you make them listen to each other and the things they come up with. The sheer joy of uh engaging with music. It's so infectious that you really feel good. And I think I really can't complain because it's been quite wonderful. And yes, other than my uh grouchy days uh when I might complain about a thing or two, it's been wonderful. Everybody has grouchy days. I have many more grouchy days than you. No, I I I find it very inspiring the way you've thrown yourself into life. The way you've thrown yourself into music, you know, both of those is so inspiring to me. My final question or other request um for this episode is for me and my listeners recommend to us music, books, films, any kind of art at all that gives you so much joy that you just want to share it with everyone. I would I mean I'm sure I don't need to recommend a person of the stature of Beam Akar but there's one you know she's my one of those iconic artists whom I listen to constantly and for a particular reason. I'm very drawn to literature and I sing a lot of different kinds of uh literature and her when she's singing Gazelle that identification and intimacy with both the poetic form and the musical form is such it's so inspiring. I would really I mean this is a very big name. So many of your listeners would already be her fans. Not necessarily young people these days. Not really. What a what complete identification any specific entry points into her work? Yes. I mean there was a and I I suggest this because um sonically it's very well recorded also. I mean today's audience is very used to is very high quality crystal clear kind of recording. So they may not like archival recordings but uh she did an album with Cayam Sab uh where she sang things like um let's say um or for example all of these are also recorded in a very unique way. uh they have been arranged and produced to fit a song format and yet there is a relaxation about the manner in which she sings it which doesn't make it seem like a tight highly produced kind of a track. I would really also request your um audience to listen to Siddheshwari Dvi. Her recordings will not be of the you know audio quality that you can get for more recent artists. But there is that quality which we just discussed about Nusra GI Seshwari G's voice very often she would let go in you know in in such a abandoned way with no self-conscious. I wish to God I could reach that point, you know, where I'm not bothered about the voice sounding pretty or sounding, you know, just right. But the communication is important. So when she I recently heard a a recording of hers in a vatarin rages armor sham pre gagarabhari it's a very heavy burden to carry on your head because I thought I fell in love uh but I didn't realize that I won't be name I think it's such a lovely metaphor for this entire entire wholehearted obsession that one has with say music or writing or with whatever one loves with such deep passion. You don't even realize where it's all going to take you and yet through the ups and downs that's what you want to do. So I think that's another artist I would really request people to listen to. What else? Maybe films uh books or more music. There was a documentary made called Lacho Drrome. I don't know if you've seen it. It's about the gypsies across it. It follows the journey of the gypsies from various parts of uh the world including India and it's there is no spoken word in it. It's all through the music and it is such a powerful uh documentary. I I I I don't have a good copy of it but it is parts of it are available also on YouTube. It would be lovely if people saw that. um books there are so many that um I mean I there's one which I've really enjoyed and I refer to quite often Amitrit Lal Nagar wrote a book called Yay Kotwalia very important book because today I think the Cortisan culture is really you know romanticized in many ways uh you know singers are trying to wear costume like the core designs but not singing with the same kind of um sense of fun and even kuetry and it's it's that book gives you a real picture because he went out Nagaraj went out and interviewed many women artists talking to them and actually uh recording all the information that they were providing. It's a vital written in Hindi of course but I think somebody is doing an English translation as well. Marvelous Shivaji. Thank you so much. You've been so kind with your time today and I've really enjoyed talking to you. So have I. Thank you so much. If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. Certainly go to YouTube or Spotify or however you listen to music and just enter rabbit holes of Shoubaji's music. You can spend hours and hours just doing that. You can follow Shoubaji on Twitter at Smudgal. You can follow me on Twitter at Amitwarmma AMI TV AMA. You can browse past episodes of The Scene and the Unseen at seen unseen. And every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of The Seen and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You can go over to sceneunseen.in/ in/support and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you.