================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: aPREAm6TU40
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aPREAm6TU40
TITLE: Martinelli rescues Arsenal against Man City but Liverpool go 5 points clear
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-21
DURATION: 58m 56s
VIEWS: 10,484
LIKES: 202
COMMENTS: 17

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo has Daniel Storey, Jay Harris and Adrian Clarke for company, reacting to an enthralling Matchday 5 in the Premier League.

Man City were seconds away from a victory at the Emirates in a distinctly un-Pep performance before Gabriel Martinelli struck to make it 1-1. But champions Liverpool go 5 points clear after their Merseyside derby win on Saturday.

Elsewhere Wolves are rock bottom with no points, Villa scored but couldn't beat 10-man Sunderland and Chelsea's bad run at Old Trafford continued.

Thanks to  @Takerfanatic for timestamps!

1:40 - And it's LIVE! Jimbo with the intro
4:15 - If you missed the results, here's a recap
5:48 - Not on your [Marti]nelli with late Gunners goal | Arsenal 1-1 Man City
16:16 - Bournemouth 0-0 Newcastle lacking in Vitality
17:30 - Villa fail to Cash in on ten Black Cats | Sunderland 1-1 Aston Villa
22:33 - Flowers for Gravenberch as Liverpool beat Everton 2-1
26:48 - Sanchez red in the rain as Manchester United beat Chelsea 2-1
32:21 - What the 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,743

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally Football Show today. Arsenal Man City Harlem with the early goal. Arsenal like A&E on a Friday night with lots of patient buildup before finally someone shows up to sort things out. We look back on that on Liverpool doing the derby and going five points clear and events elsewhere. Man United beating Chelsea Palace putting more pressure on West Ham's Potter and the scenes at the Stadium of Light where the visitors opened their account with cash thanks to Robin Roofs and 10 men got on top of the villa. It's Premier League match day five on the Totally Football Show. Good evening to you if you're watching us on YouTube Sunday the 21st September or hello if you're enjoying some polished premium podcast product sometime after Monday morning at your usual platform of choice today in glorious living color if you do join us for one of these live Sunday night YouTubes we've got Adrian Clark who's fresh back from the Emirates. Yes. Yeah. Hello James. Hello everybody. I hot footed it here from Arsenal one, Man City one. We'll get into that. Jay Harris is here. Good evening. I've hot footed it from Twickenham. Well, you've also Oh, really? Okay. Twickenham. Oh, just you know a doicile. Yeah. Yeah. Right. You've also been to a hoown in Lewis. I did go to a hoown in Lewis. Yeah. After the Brighton game. Okay. We'll talk about the Brighton game and perhaps the square dance. Yes. I think we should. Sussex. Is that Sussex, Louis? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Excellent. And joining us on the big screen, it's the returning Daniel Story. All right, Daniel. Hello, James. How are you? I'm very well. Love your t-shirt, by the way. Can you just lift that up for the camera touch? Narito. Yeah. One of the very, very nice. Yeah. Don't you look a bit different. Something different about you. Little bit older perhaps. Significantly older. Days older than when we last spoke. Right. Happy birthday to you because I think it was Friday, was it? You turned 40. Yeah. 40 years young. Finally hitting my golf age. Yeah. Oh, that's so nice. So nice. Only 40. Only 40. As Adrian, as you and I know, he's very much crossing the threshold into the the golden years. Golden Years. Yeah. Yeah. Excellent. Did you have a good weekend anyway, Daniel? Yes. I had a lovely weekend. Uh Burnley won Nottingham Forest one aside. Yes. I had a great time. Thank you. And I'm off to Seville this week with Forest for Betis away, which will be nice. Oh, that's grand. That's grand. We'll talk about what Forest got up to a bit probably, but lots of other big stories, too. Let's check on the results from match day five of this Premier League season. Arsenal one, Man City one was the late game on Sunday. Martin Nelli in the 93rd minute answering Harland's brilliant breakaway opener rescuing a point for the Gunners and but leaving Liverpool now five points clear on top of the Premier League after their 2-1 win Saturday lunchtime in the Mercyside derby. Elsewhere Saturday also saw Man United beating Chelsea two red cards and a 2-1 win for United. A red card a piece in that game I should say and a 2-1 win for United. Crystal Palace, who with Liverpool are the only team yet to lose, beat West Ham 2-1 on Saturday, piling yet more pressure on Graeme Potter. West Ham stay in the bottom three along with Wolves and Villa. Wolves, who were the only team yet to pick up a point, lost 3-1 this time at home to leads. Villa early on Sunday, finally scored their first goal of the season in the league, but could only draw 1-1 with 10-man Sunderland. Also this weekend, An got his first point with Forest in that 1-1 draw away to Burnley. Spurs came back from two goals down to draw up Brighton. Fulham beat Brenford 3-1 and Sunday at the Vitality in a game very short on it. It was nil nil between Bournemouth and Newcastle. We won't start with that. We'll begin with Arsenal Man City. All right. Bit of coms, Charlie. Yep. The Martelli equalizer. Martineelli magic. Right. A classy goal to finish it and it was a very classy goal to open the scoring as well from Erling Holland. Agent, you were there. You were there. That that must have been quite the moment when when after all that kind of tantric buildup for 85 minutes or so. Finally Arsenal found the net. Yeah, there was a bit of a release inside the stadium, that's for sure. I got a massive hug from Amy Lawrence of this parish. She dived on me um mid commentary. Yeah, slightly unprofessional, but it's all right. We deal we deal with it. Um, no, it was good. It was It was a lovely goal. I mean, it's a sublime finish, wasn't it? I thought I thought there were two great goals actually in what was by and large quite a hard watch for for various reasons. Uh, and we'll get into that, but but yeah, I think City will be kicking themselves that they got undone by one long pass straight down the middle, especially after they'd low blocked for most of the game. They get caught with a high line and Arsenal punish them. That's something Ars are doing really well at at the moment actually. They flipped the ball over the top what for two definitely two goals this season if not more. Uh and this was a perfect ball from Eza and just a great first touch on the run from Marcel and then that little flick finish was gorgeous wasn't it? Um and then yeah early in the game Harland Harland's goal was was equally good for different reasons wasn't it? just incredible desire on his part to create that 3v2 and and once he got put in he's never he was never going to miss. It's remarkable how many Arsenal players he goes by on his way to to scoring that goal. His 13th of the season for club and country and a brilliant assist as well from Dejani Rinders. Yeah, look Rinders is he's not a high touch player is he? But he's a machine in terms of his athleticism. He's a a proper boxto-box guy. And in in when I was looking ahead to this game, all I could think about was Ryers runs off the ball, on the ball, he travels with it down the center of the pitch fantastically. He gets on the end of things. I think he he'd made 15 runs that had ended in a shot for City ahead of this game. Only two players had had made more. And of course, this one is a brilliant run down the down the side of the pitch and or down the middle of the pitch. and and and he timed the pass well. So, look, two good goals. City I thought defended very very well during the game. Until they didn't. Yeah, up until the moment they didn't. And Arsenal didn't have enough G. Didn't have enough bravery in possession to unlock the door until they did. Yeah, you seem pretty happy with the point. Take it, Adrian. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, take it because it the heat would have been on had Arsenal lost that game. Now I think the narrative flips a little bit away. Arteta gets away with it. Arteta is even though I think he got the starting 11 maybe wrong. He he gets let off the hook. Now the story is well he's the first manager in history to go five games unbeaten in the league against Pep Guardiola. No one's ever done that. Wow. And Pep maybe cops a bit of flack for for being mega defensive. And I think his changes obviously indicated that what he had he wanted to hold and he didn't quite hold Harland off with quite a bit of time left on the on the clock. City with their lowest possession ever under Pep Guardiola in this game. Yeah, there was a point in the um first half um I think it was from the 25th minute to the 35th minute um where Arsenal had 87% possession. It was wild. And I know that he took off Harlem, but he also brought on AK and I think he sort of went to a five 4-1 um system. And you know, Adrian just touched upon it, the the lineup that Arteta used. I'm not saying we want Guardiola to to play that way, but you can sort of understand it because he's saying, I don't believe that you've got the the tools at your disposal to break us down. The early goal helped them massively. I think um Dou had a really good game as well. Um he was exactly the the pressure release that that City needed and there were lots of other opportunities where he was really dangerous on the counter. But I think at the same time you have to give utter appraise for making those two substitutions at halftime bringing on Ez and Saka just to go into another game like this and just be so um precautious is that even a word to be precaut to be precautionary. It's just such a shame they obviously spent so much money in the in the summer getting EZ and Madwe etc. and against Liverpool and against and today at times it felt like the only route to goal was to try and ping it long to Madu and hope that Maduke would get past someone in a in a one v one. It was a bit sterile at times. There's two styles, right? So if bring Daniel in in a sec when Mourinho plays Yeah. Also strong down the spine but everything goes wide and it's like front wingers go and do something and Mourinho needs to get in the box and fill it and I don't think he really did that in the first half. uh when it's Eza in the 10 or Erdigard, Arsenal are then able to play those balls through the thirds to get higher up the pitch, quality possession. Um but it obviously makes them a little bit more vulnerable when they lose the ball. And Arsenal fans really do want that plan B. That's what they really want now that they've signed. And I thought he came on and and impacted the game fabulously actually. Well, quickly again before we let Daniel, we will let you speak eventually, Daniel. Um it is quite interesting that all the talk when EZ signed was he'll potentially replace Martinelli but they're the two who combined for the goal sort of showing actually there will be moments where EZ is required in that central position not necessarily out wide on the left. It's about finishers as well as starters of course at Arsenal. Daniel finish this one off for us. Yeah I mean the guys have have nailed it I think on Arsenal. I I think on City the defensive like I completely understood uh the move to bring on more defenders. I think it was that was a kind of sort of buckaroo element to it in that it was fine but I think it was that he was bringing on Jon Stones. It was that last central defender that I just Yeah. I I think if you have a threeman back line, I don't think Martinelli gets through because I think the offside trap is is played perfectly. But when you've got five or even six of them there, there's just so many more lines of communication that need to be right for everybody to stepping up at the right time. And it just didn't happen. I also think it left Jan Luigi Don Roma in a position he'd not been in for the whole game, which was not having a defender within five or 10 yards of him when when City were defending. And I think he was in no man's land for the goal. I think he was in the wrong position. It was a brilliant brilliant finish. And that should be the focus. But he made Martineelli's decision for him. I think if you've got a one-on-one in the final few minutes of a game in which a team's losing, so he's desperate to score, don't make the decision for the striker. Don't come out so far that you give him a huge target to aim at. And I think, you know, if the defenders have been deeper, then the long ball wouldn't have come. I think if the defense been deep and then Donnaruma wouldn't have felt like he needed to be up near them because that's not like he's he was brilliant at what he's brilliant at today which is like the flinging his fists at crosses managing from corners organizing the defense but the moment that he was out of his comfort zone he was not sure where to be and so Martin brilliant finish but they just got it wrong and that will really annoy Guardiola because he will know that as he was adding on more and more defenders he knows that if city conceded at that point he gets it in the neck for going so defensive uh and it wasn't it wasn't a failure of the system as such. It was a it was a silly decision-making but I think just having that many defenders on the pitch meant it was really hard to organize an offside trap. Buckaroo though, is that something you need explained to you Jay or not? No, I know the game buckaroo. Yeah. Yeah, I know. Yeah. I I don't know if it's still a thing now. It was when I was a kid. All right, I I just want to praise City a little bit here. I thought it was a really quite a streetwise performance until that end bit. And last season they were flimsy without the ball, weren't they? I just don't think they were anywhere near good enough. And today they were really good without the ball. And and you can criticize Arsenal for that patient build up that you talked about in your intro, but but I did think that they were very resilient and they should take positives from that. Is this the other Pep? Is this Pep Blindness who's who's having this impact? It might be. Yeah, it could be. They said, is that right? I mean, have you seen a different approach? Certainly the opening goal people were likening it to the kind of thing we'd seen. Yeah. It was a bit Liverpool, wasn't it? Yeah. You reckon, Daniel? Yeah. And it's been coming. You know, you look at the early games, they had 58% possession at Wolves, which I know is more of the ball, but normally you'd expect to be more dominant than that. And they were brilliant on the counterattack against Wolves. They had 46% possession in the Manchester derby, which is again unusual. You would expect them to want more of the ball in those games and to kind of control it. for for Guardiola's teams it's always been having the ball is the control uh where he is you know he is kind of learning that particularly with Dou on that counterattack and with Harland's speed there is and with Rinders as Adrian said Rinders driving forward through this through the middle there is a way to soak up pressure and then hit teams uh and look it almost worked against either the first second or third best team in the country and one of the top five teams in Europe and it almost worked for nearly you know 80 minutes basically 80 90 minutes even with the injury time. So, it was just that one moment and that will be an evolution. It doesn't you don't get it right overnight. I agree with Adrian. They they managed the game far better than I thought they would. I thought Arsenal would win today. I thought Arsenal would score in the first half and then City would find it hard to get back into the game and maybe get a little bit stretched and a bit ratty, but it was almost the opposite of that. Five points now the gap between Liverpool and Arsenal and a full eight points between Manchester City and the league leaders. That's a lot, isn't it? this time of the the season. I I don't worry too much at this stage of the season, but maybe I don't think you should need to worry too much. I mean, Arsel had quite hard fixtures. Okay. Yeah, Ars have only dropped points to Liverpool and City. They've played Liverpool and City. Um, so yeah, it's not It does remind me a bit of last season where Arsenal were playing catchup right from the get-go and they didn't ever get close enough. So that's a that's a slight concern, but yeah, I'm not not panicking just yet. Okay. All right. Carab Cup is up next for both of these sides. Wednesday night, Arsenal will be at Port Veil while City head to Huddersfield. Quickly to touch on the two other games played on Sunday before we get on to Saturday's action. Bournemouth had a nil nil with Newcastle which you could probably say is a Eddie Howard changed six I think of his starting 11 from the Barcelona game. So this was maybe a decent result against a very inform Cher's team. Decent. Yeah it is third goalless draw on the on the road. Yeah. Yeah. I thought they'd be jaded. I think everyone thought they'd be jaded. I think Eddie how obviously thought they'd be jaded so made so many changes. They're just two really good out of possession teams aren't they? Bournemouth and Newcastle and even though yeah they obviously just canceled each other out it's uh yeah not much of a spectacle but it's a it's a good point for Newcastle. It's probably sorry probably important to just point out that um obviously Viss has still not played for um Newcastle since he joined them because he's picked up that injury and and you know when you're dropping Barnes and Alanga to the bench and and Gordon is this the final game of his suspension. Volto still getting up to speed. Maybe having Vissa who is still getting to know those teammates but has proven in the Premier League. Maybe this would have been the type of game where he could have given them an extra edge and could have started. All right, but a decent point says Adrian Villa also getting a point away at Sunland, but that was perhaps less impressive given that the promoted side were down to 10 men from about 33 minutes in. Now, Villa did actually get their first goal of the season in the Premier League and it was a a beauty as well, Daniel. Yeah, I think the goalkeeper could have done better, but it was a great strike. It was also Villa's only shot on target between Sunderland having a man sent off and the end of the game, and it was a fullback shooting from 30 yards. Now, he scored, so fine. But there is a this is now becoming a a kind of mini crisis for Emory. really interesting to hear him after the game saying his players were lazy, saying this has been coming, saying players aren't in the right kind of they're not confident, they're not in the right frame of mind. He says there's no kind of identity to the team, which is slight pretty worrying really. I I wonder if if Europe might, you know, we talk about the energy being sapped out of playing in Europe. I wonder if it might slightly counterintuitively help Villa. They've got Bologna at home. It will be kind of Villa Park will be up for that. you get a win there, maybe that starts to kickstart the season. But he keeps picking these really narrow teams with no pace in them and then kind of looking surprised when Villa kind of they're doing what Arsenal did today, but doing it 15 20 yards further away from goal and the supporters don't really like it. They're not creating chances. Ollie Watkins has only had eight shots in five games, which is nowhere near enough um for a team for which he is the elite attacking player. Mhm. So yeah, they're in a I mean they're in a huge pickle because they've scored one goal this season and they're still down there and they this was a you know an on obvious test. You kind of you couldn't write a better like show us that you are together than promoted team away from home going down to 10 men like go out and win the game and they even got ahead and then still it wasn't even a surprise when suddenly equalized they were the better team from from Villa's goal onwards. Nobody challenging Granite Jacka for a header on the edge of the box. The ball then goes to Isidor who scores and it it all just felt a little bit predictable that Villa were going to collapse. So yeah, work to do. Tremendous performance from Sunland who are now seventh in the Premier League. I'm not sure if we're allowed to look at the table yet, but seventh in the Premier League leads more promoted sizes leads and Burnley are 12th and 16th. Villa as you mentioned all the way down in 18th. What's that Daniel? Yeah, I was just going to say on that point uh 32% of all the points that the promoted clubs got last season they've already got this season. So like I mean it's not it isn't just Sunderland. It's it's I think this is the first time since March 2024 that all the promoted clubs have played on a weekend and not lost you know against other teams. So there is a definite shift. We we look like we might finally have a relegation battle and all my preseason doom about no competition at the bottom looks to be as ever complete hogwash. They've got to be better Villa at having the ball and I think barring the first day of the season against Newcastle, they've had majority of the ball in all of the games since and look devoid of ideas. They got to be much better. I think that narrowness that Daniel talks about is a massive issue. And and I also feel that there's a dis a clear disconnect between Emory and the players. And I think I think this is quite serious. Oh, I do. I I just don't see a team that is You use the word together, Dan. They don't look together to me. Do do you think this is partially because they just had quite a an erratic summer. Um they signed Evan Gasson from Nice, but then, you know, they only managed to get Harvey Elliot and Jadden Sancho over the line the final few days of the window. Um Lindelof on a free transfer. I know Rashford and Asencio were only on loan, but they were players who provided the spark in the latter stages of the the Champions League last season. Um, and just that sort of all these issues around PSR just sort of crippled what they could do in the the transfer window and it just meant that they didn't really refresh and kick on the squad in the in the way that maybe it needed to be. Sunland though, Reggie Lee, that's just a kind of Yeah. Anyway, uh what do quite possibly or maybe they just came up with against a a black hat side that was battling in front of the home support. Good noise. Gave it their all. Good noise. It was tremend I I jumped across from the Bournemouth Newcastle game cuz you can now. What did I think of the red card that I was watching Bournemouth Newcastle at that point? Well, as in what did you think? I didn't. Yeah, I I watched it. It was quite a small screen in the in the media room and I looked at it, I was like a red I can't remember what the example is. Maybe Daniel will know, but it happened a few years ago where someone sort of kicked back into someone's nether regions, but I can't think of what the previous example was, right? Nothing to do with say 1998, wasn't that? It's not that one. There's another one that's more recent. Okay. All right then. Well, we'll have a ponder on that. But with a salute to the Black Cats who continue to thrill, let's get on to some of Saturday's games next. Yeah. Game which kicked the round off was at Anfield. It was Mside Derby. Liverpool once again beating Everton there. 2-1 the score. A lot of love for the opening goal from Ryan Grabber. Daniel, did you enjoy that? I just love Ryan Raven Bush this season in general. He's the been the best player in the country so far this season. He's everywhere. I mean, it was it was an amazing players in the in in the Premier League. He's the best. He's been the best so far this season because Liverpool have been really erratic and chaotic. And I think he's the reason that they've won five games in a row. It's only the fifth time in their history they've done that in the top flight. Uh and they haven't looked brilliant. But he's not only coming up with the moments like here, but he's he's just everywhere. He's made the most tackles or any Liverpool player in this defensive third. He's getting up the pitch. I actually think he gets up the pitch more when Floren Vertz isn't there because he's able to kind of he's everybody's allowed to have a go. Each of the three can do it when Vertz isn't there. Uh, and yeah, I mean it was a brilliant finish just because I think the commentator said like it looks better on every viewing and it was exactly that because in full pace it just looked like he connected with the pass. But Adrian will know this far more than me, but to me they're the hardest finishes. Like it's not a half volley. The ball's not on the floor. It's not a volley. It's like he's bounced up in an awkward angle. You wouldn't want to shoot from that position unless you had to. And yet he's running onto the ball and also knows like you know noviceses like me would try and hit that too hard whereas he knows exactly how he has to guide it rather than try and strike it. It's a phenomenal finish. Yeah. Yeah. It is classy. Yeah. It's use the word there guide. He just use the pace of the ball. He just sort of clipped it, hasn't he? Is it on the run because at full speed that is a really hard uh improvised finish to produce. I actually thought his pass for the fork was almost as good to be honest. Um just inch perfect, wasn't it? Perfect weight. That was a nice smooth goal, wasn't it? Um from Liverpool. Basically taking the piss, aren't they? Is converts the two the two. So sorry, apologies. Um the two most expensive players in in in British football history on just start him on the bench, you know, still win. Also taking the mickey. Yes, Adrian Felt. Oh, sorry, Everton Felt. also taking the mickey Everton felt was the referee. Did he have a train to catch? Do you think one minute of time added on at the end of the first half and then perhaps more egregiously at the end of the second when Everton were very much in the ascendancy because of Liverpool's habit of going two goals up and then letting the other team back in only 3 minutes there. I don't know. People have talked about the late goals and the fact Liverpool leading late goals. Is that a big thing? But this issue of this is the fourth time this season when they've gone two goals up and then let the other team in back in. How much of a concern is that? Or when you've won five out of five and a five points clear, are you not actually all that bothered? Mhm. Yeah. I think their answer will be and I think it's probably the right one is that um we can get better not just in terms of game management or I think that as you say that has been an issue but some of the defensive positioning you know the integration of Verts um and EAC and Jeremy Friong to be honest because we've not really seen him as much as we thought certainly not as a kind of overlapping attacking threat on that right because of Muhammad Salah like if if they do get better then they'll win the league because um they're five points clear at the moment and they're getting it done. Uh yeah, it's kind of frightening for everybody else. I think um I think I I think we all knew that there would be a transition period where Liverpool had to get to grips with Isak in the front line and with Verts in those kind of half space in front of the defense because it was so set that formation last season. But I don't think we all thought that that transition would involve them winning every league game. Right. only slot pointing as well to the pretty strenuous week that Liverpool had had. Three games in seven days and this one being the early kickoff on the Saturday performing his traditional role as Liverpool manager in regards to that. Uh that was Liverpool then winning again and this straight after their victory against Atletico Madrid in the Champions League midweek. What though to make of Man United with their second win of the season, the 2-1 victory over Chelsea? Man United taking advantage of an early red card for the Chelsea keeper Robert Sanchez. But then it was their own aggressive front-footed play that had caused that that red card. Is this is this liftoff? Is it? I I think it's too early to say it's liftoff, but it it is a big win, isn't it? Is a big win. the the that red card incident. You're right. It that is kind of what they do quite well and the personnel that wouldn't have happened if Seso isn't playing and it wouldn't have happened if they hadn't assigned Bumo. That's it's a lovely little flick and Burmo's made run after run after run, hasn't he? This season he's made more runs beyond the defensive line than any other player in the in the Premier League. He's he could have scored a lot more goals I think in Burmo this season and and it's a definite red isn't it? I mean it's denying a goal scoring opportunity and it's also quite dangerous. So I think they can have no arguments Chelsea. What I would say is that did did Moresca overreact with with a double sub. So he took off Neto and Esta and then shortly afterwards had to also take off Cole Palmer although I don't think that was planned. That was groin issue. Is that right? I think that's what he said after the game, but whether that's completely true, I guess, remains to be seen. Yeah. But if if he had to make a double sub and he wasn't sure about Palmer's fitness, surely he should have been part of that double sub. Exactly. Exactly. I I I think he messed up Maresa here and ultimately it kind of did cost them. Okay. Just on Sanchez, um he's just not that great of a goalkeeper, is he? I'm just I'm just being honest. Um, you know, and and I know you're talking about is this a liftoff moment for for Man United. I think it has to be a little bit of an asterisk because Sanchez got sent off so early and it's such a massive advantage. But there just been so many times during his time with Chelsea and and even I think when he was at Brighton before where Sanchez just makes really silly errors. I just had a quick look before we went on air and there's that one where Harland lobs him when he runs out to the edge of the area. There was a goal against Wolves where I think he drops the ball on on Docketti's head. There's a game against Brighton where he basically passes it straight to Ble. Like if Chelsea want to be a top four team that's pushing to challenge for the title. I really don't think that he's the the goalkeeper to take them there. And so it's quite strange they spend all this money on new wingers when I actually think what they probably should have done was upgraded the goalkeeper. Well, I act like saying why didn't Chelsea go all out for Donna Rumor when goalkeeper has been a problem position with them. What did you make of of Robert Sanchez's backup Jorgensson then? Um, I guess he did okay, but really? Yeah, he looked terrified Porta. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, Chelsea then did get a route back into the game uh when Casemiro, who'd scored the second goal for Man United, then himself got sent off for a second yellow. But despite uh pressing trying to remember the end of that game, how close did Chelsea come in the end? So, it seems a long time ago. I I remember watching it in the press box at Brighton as well. So I can only saw bits and pieces. Daniel coming to you. Yeah, I mean they they so they scored with the first shot on target which was Chalobar's goal and then they there was that inevitable pressure towards the end because there was I think seven minutes of injury time. Um yeah, so there was Manchester United sat deep but they never I mean Chelsea didn't deserve anything out of the game before the good players. All the good attackers were off. So yeah, true. I didn't create anything. I I think one thing on United, I think having Nasim Mazoari as the right wing back is is a massive deal. I think in the last few weeks, we've seen how how probably Patrick Dorg has had to do too much. We know how important those wing backs are. And Amarim has tried Diego Dalo there, who I think is a better defender than Mazoari. And he's tried Ahmed Dio there, who's certainly a better attacking threat than Mazari. It might well be that Mazo is a kind of the blend of both he needs. I went back and looked and the last seven games he started as wing right wing back for Manchester United. They've um so they've beaten Villa, Chelsea and Leicester and they're drawn with Arsenal and Bournemouth. Now Man United fans don't need to tell me don't need me to tell them that the average Manchester United return is a lot less than those seven games. So it suggests that without him they struggle. I think he is the best at doing that. I think he can play right back and he can play right center back. He's got the defensive element, but he can also push forward and overlap. And if they get that balance right between the wing backs, I think that helps. But no, I mean to answer your initial question, it absolutely isn't liftoff because by the end of the game, it was a sort of clown show between both teams. You know, both had managed to Manchester United season advantage by Chelsea shooting themselves in the foot and then Manchester United had desperately tried to give it back with a two-nil lead by Kazmiro getting self sent off and then they then invited pressure at the end of the game because Chelsea came back into it. So no TVC firmly. Okay. Although Amarim had talked previously about a lack of I can't remember the word he used but it was something like energy or aggression and you did see that from and I think you've seen it maybe in some other games from Man United uh this season without getting a win necessarily from them. So, it's positive that that's there, he said. But, okay. Uh, if it's juryy's still out on that, we'll move on to other things that happened this weekend. Jay, you headed down to Brighton for amongst other things, Brighton Tottenham. I did. Yeah. Yeah. Well, what an exciting game this was. Yeah, it was a good game. It featured a cracking goal from Aari. And and it's quite strange if if I've got my dates right. So Arsenal came back from 1 nil down against Man City nearly a year to the day Man City came back from a goal down against Arsenal and Spurs have come back from 2-0 down against Brighton nearly a year to the day where Brighton came back from two goals down against Spurs. Um on that occasion they they lost 3-2 and it was a a defeat that really punched the momentum under Posta Kogloo. Um they don't win but the fact they came back and got a point I think was really big for for Spurs and Thomas Frank. They've been excellent defensively this season and this was a different challenge. Called it their most complete performance of the season which I don't completely agree with. What What do you think he meant given that they've had victories over Man City and this was a two to draw with Brian? I think what he was trying to say um was that in the second half when Javi Simmons comes off the bench in the 61st minute they were fantastic. Now there's been all a lot of chat in the Spurs world about is Simon's going to play on the left wing? is he going to play as a number 10? I actually think that chat's followed him throughout his whole career that he's never really settled in one particular position. His first two games he plays on the left wing and he looks good. But yesterday he was fantastic. The way he drove forward with the ball um created multiple chances for his teammates. I think in his first seven minutes on the pitch he had three shots and um the third one he he should probably score. He just gets a bad connection with it. He just looked so lively and as I mentioned so far um Spurs have been excellent defensively under Thomas Frank. um they score a lot of goals from set pieces, but I think open play they haven't looked good and I think yesterday was that final half an hour was like, "Oh, okay. They're looking good defensively. They're looking very good going forward and this was sort of a a sign of what may be to come under Thomas Frank." Excellent. And how did Brighton look? Um well, sort of the one of the main talking points after the game was Carlos Belaba. I can't tell you how many questions Herzler had to ask about Ble um because he was a little bit erratic in possession at times and he got taken off at Halime and and Herzler was talking about how it was more to do with tiredness but then also said you know it's only natural he's he's 20 years old um there's been a massive offer from him from Manchester United and you know a young player's development is not linear it goes in peaks and troughs so that was sort of the main talking point I think MNA was excellent I think him Even Destiny a doggy had a fantastic battle um on that side of the pitch and this was a doggy's first start of the season after um recovering from a knee injury. Um and Ma just took his goal exceptionally well. He's great talent. Um and so I think Mata and R were a little bit more quieter. Um but there were still some good things on show from Brighton. Okay. Rashard scoring his 14th goal in his last 19 league starts. But you on charison he's he's such a strange player because um in the buildup to Brighton's second goal he goes down under a challenge from Yan Paul Vanhka and Richerson probably exaggerates contact quite a lot. It probably is a foul but he then just stays down for an extended period of time and I think that then gets into his teammates heads. Um you know the phase of play continues to go on. Spurs sort of half clear. Ayari scores. And I think it all stems just from Rachalison getting knocked down. Just get back up and and get on with it. But then he'll score. He he's he's got that great goal scoring record. It's quite strange because you watch him sometimes and he's very clunky. He's a bit awkward. You look at someone like Dominick Silanki when he's on a ball and he's far more graceful. But then Richson is the one who just somehow manages to put the ball in the back of the net sometimes. He's a funny He is He's a funny player to watch. very quickly on on Minte who I think's had a blinding start to the season. It looks to me like he could really kick on in a sort of I don't know John Philippe Mateta kind of way where you don't think he's initially that great and then he he becomes someone that delivers consistently. What I loved was in a one v one didn't go for a dinky finish. He went around the goalie. I mean it was old school, wasn't it? It was nice. Daniel would appreciate this as someone who's over 40 Ronaldo. Yeah, exactly. It was it was lovely to see a player go around a keeper in such sort of smooth fashion. Magnificent. Well done, Daniel. Uh I think you you've already said on this, haven't you? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, we'll jump off of this. Uh uh excellent. Very shortly, we'll hear what Mateta himself got up to this weekend and the rest of the weekend's action on this totally football show. It's been a big weekend across the continent, aren't they always? This time around, we had the Rome derby. Also, Llasique Sunday night and Chos Mourinho taking the reigns of Benfica. 25 years to the day after his first game in charge of the uh the Eagles back in 2000. and he debuted this time around with a 3-0 win against bottom of the table a you say this not even familiar with he he started off with a 3-0 win so well done him lies second in the Portuguese table five points behind Porto his old side but another old side of his but they have a game in hand in Germany Harry Kane had another hat-tick as Bayern clocked up another big win continuing their perfect start to the season of course they beat Chelsea midweek in the Champions League. But totally forward show European edition will do uh as fine a job as possible of fleshing out all those stories when we're with you first thing on Tuesday. So do look out for that. Quick parenthetis. Daniel, did you at any point in your many travels around the world of football ever encounter Matt Beard at Liverpool? Uh not that I Yes, but not that I'd probably talk a personal up a personal language. Okay. No, excuse me everyone. Right. Uh on Tuesday, WSL action uh this weekend meantime was overshadowed as you may well have seen by the sudden passing of the former Liverpool women's manager Matt Beard at the age of just 47. Matt, who'd won the WSL title twice with Liverpool, also been in charge of West Ham and Chelsea in a 17-year managerial career, is actually the most successful manager in Liverpool's history. Their game with Aston Villa was postponed and uh our deepest condolences to his friends and and family and the the team. Of course, uh lots of other things did happen in the games that went ahead. There'll be full-time Europe rounding that up uh in podcast form or you can find all the details on the Athletic. Back to the Premier League and should we have a word about West Ham Crystal Palace a game which saw Palace winning 2-1 and West Ham consequentially losing their third straight London derby at home. what look at the situation or see if there's any any word on whether these rumors of a return from Slavin Bilich or one or two other exotic names might have any grounds in reality. But first of all, Crystal Palace, that's now 17 games unbeaten in all competitions, which is their best run since 1969. Lots of Palace supporters writing on on the Palace message boards. Tony E saying, "What a time to be a Palace supporter. For nearly 60 years, I've been following the club. There's never been a time like this." Ray Kay says, "We need to put up a sign that says, "These are the good old days." Because that's exactly what we're currently getting. It It's magnificent, Daniel. Yeah, it's extraordinary. Uh so last October they lost one nil at the City ground and at that point they'd won two of the last 17 away games and they're in the bottom three and they haven't won any of their eight Premier League games to that point. Since then they've only lost two away games since the beginning of December last year. They've got four more away points than any other team in the country. More than Liverpool and Arsenal who are second and third in that table. It's just absolutely ridiculous. I still think it's a case of them having excellent players and other teams still underestimating how good they are away from home because they can't quite believe it and they they have this way of identifying weaknesses in each opposition and then just exploiting them in the same game and that's that's pretty much the definition of a brilliant football manager and that's what the Glasner is. Um they are now their new thing is now just sort of swatting aside established Premier League teams in their own backyard. like what since then it's what Brighton, Fulham, Manchester United, Spurs, Villa, West Ham. They just they win them all and yeah, it's not a fluke. I know that people see them winning a trophy and see them getting into Europe as a kind of oh little little guys done well and you know, rub them on the head and they'll go back. But under Glason, there's no reason to think they won't get better. He's absolutely brilliant at what they do. the the worry is that this is the last season, but every Palace fan I speak to says, "Well, yeah, we're not worried about that because, as you say, these are the times of our lives, so why would we care about next season now?" And and you've you've already seen Oly move on and then cope with that. We've seen Ezie move on and they had and have had gay see a collapse at the last minute. the fact I'm curious to hear Adrian your thoughts on what why they they're able to to absorb those departures so so well perhaps sorry perhaps the fact that it is with the the people leaving aside is a very settled side because they don't go out and buy too many players completely settled and I think it's just the construction of the side absolutely suits the the the system that they play they play the same system as Manchester United but each player player in Palace's side is absolutely perfect for the position they're asked to perform. It's what they were born to do. You look around Manchester United side and and there you could pick out four or five players that that that would prefer to play in a different position or a different a different system. So, he he he's meticulously built this system around the players that he inherited. It's not a fluke. I mean, they've created I think only one team's created more big chances than Palace. It's not like they're soaking up games and nicking nicking results. They're actually, you know, outplaying teams now. I mean, this was a 2-1 trouncing, wasn't it? They had 18 shots. Their xG was up almost two and a half. It Yeah, they're they're just really really strong side as that long unbeaten run would suggest. West Ham Misery latest. Does anyone have any info on this? What's what's the kind of buzz around journalistic circles? Well, um, yeah, just the suggestion that I guess they'd consider bringing Slav and Bilich back, which sort of just tells you everything you need to know about the the direction that the the board are going in. I think there were more protests during the game anyway, weren't there? Um, do you think they were just feeling out the fans for public opinion? Do you know what I mean? Sometimes a little story like that drops and it's like it's almost just a test test the gauge. Would would Hammers fans be up for this or not? And I would imagine that that that gauge was a a negative one, right? They're looking at what what what desperate levers can we pull to get the fans uh back on side. I do think, you know, obviously Graeme Potter is the the sort of the figurehead at the moment, but West Ham's recruitment has been pretty poor for a long period of time. Just look at all the the strikers that they burn through. We're just, you know, talking a second ago about Crystal Palace, but when we were talking about Zaha, Ezu succession plan for all of them. You know, though Alise didn't replace Zaha right away. Ez didn't replace Zaha straight away. They were given time to sort of grow and develop and there's never been any consistent plan at West Ham. Obviously, they've bounced around between different managers over the last couple of years. I think Potter changed his goalkeeper this weekend as well. It just smacks of not just a team but a club that don't know what they want to be long term. So, they just keep reacting to to what happens in the short term. very quickly on on the West Ham and the corners issue like was it seven they've let him seven conceded from a corner this season and Laquire hit the bar as well. It's only the fifth week honestly it's nuts. I think that dropping him was unnecessary in my opinion like you've just signed it. Well presumably he conceded six of those. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he maybe was partly culpable that the Chelsea game he didn't cover himself in in glory but I've I've watched these West Ham matches. I've looked at all these corners and the setup is dialical. So what is their setup? Is it um zonal man marking or high? Mainly mainly zonal but but like it was one of the g was it the Spurs game? I was I was I was working on it. was co- commentating and they just leave so many people unmarked and on on this game I think there was a 3v2 on the penalty spot and they just rolled with it hoping that that 3v2 wouldn't wouldn't hurt them you know there's no thinking yeah I they sort of crowd that that that sixyard box with zonal markers and but no one seems to be looking around to see what's going on around them and I think I think they're just it's just really poor a lot of People look at West Ham and say that the problems go much deeper than just changing a manager, but from the sound of it, he also bears quite a lot of responsibility. What what I would say is after that Chelsea game, I would have almost ripped it up and started again or worked overtime on on something different, but they from to my eyes there's nothing different from that Chelsea game to the way they set up in the G in the Palace game. So the same mistakes are being made over and over and over again. And that is on the manager. What what what you doing? You know, you're the you're the manager. You you surely you're analyzing the goals you're conceding. It doesn't look to me as if they're doing anything different to change it. That that that's how I look at it. All right. Problems then for West Ham Palace. Mentioned Europe. Of course, they're in the Conference League regrettably, which means they won't get to play this week. Next week they they're away in Damo Kiev. That's where the hell of their opening game in Europe. Leads. Oh, well, talking about teams down the bottom having a miserable time. Wolves. Wolves who hosted leads this Saturday afternoon took the lead actually, but then saw their visitors storm back and win 3-1. Leads scoring with three of their four shots on target, which is commendable. as is the fact that we had summer signings Dominick Cavaluan, Anton Stack and Noah Okafur all getting their first goals for leads. That's nice. E Daniel. Yeah, it is. And leads were really good. Calvin Lew was really good. Not just his header was brilliant, you know, power getting some power on a quite a loopy cross. Brilliant precision header. Uh and also really good in open play, kind of interchanging play. It's it's something he really struggled on when the injuries hit Everton. he would miss chances and that was always the headline but it was that he was not doing as much in open play and he was really good here. I mean it helps when you're playing Wolves who are absolutely terrible. Um I mean they gave a contract to Vita Pereira this week and I I I think that was a kind of we know there's a crisis but trust us like the plan is the plan and Pereira is the right guy and I think he is a very good coach. He's been left down by some more shoddy recruitment. Um there were protests or there were certainly booze and chance against the owners at the weekend because they've effectively sold their good players and replaced them with potential and then asked that potential around other potential just hit the ground running and it's no surprise it hasn't worked. The the the most alarming stat for Wolves is that Everton and Leeds this season have scored 10 league goals between them in their 10 games. Six of those 10 goals have come at Molyneu in a 3-1 and a 3-2 win. So, they're not even playing facing good attacking teams at home. The City game aside, they're yeah, they're they're routinely terrible and they've got the best manager I think they could have in the situation because I don't think they'll be able to persuade Nuno to come back. But they've got it wrong and they know they've got it wrong now. It's it's kind of classic football manager. Okay, I'm just going to turn this off and do the summer again because we pretty much got every decision wrong. It seems to me they've left Pereira with a squad in which the defense is not good enough and the striker is good enough in Len and I know he signed a new deal but he's not fully fit. There's like raw potential around him. Like three of the players at the weekend barely heard of a year ago. Uh so it's yeah it's really worrying there. We I know Wolves fans from being at that ground when it turns and it gets nasty and it gets tety and angstridden really quickly and they are at that stage big time and it's September. Five defeats out of five this one coming against a team you would imagine to be a relegation rival in a newly promoted side. Wolves by the way and Sheffield United the only two pointless teams in the entire league football structure. Sheffield United losing this weekend in Chris Wilder's first game back. That was at home to Charlton. Daniel, what did Forest do away at Burnley and why was it so upsetting for you? Well, no, I mean they got their first point. Uh I think it's sort of hammered home to point out indeed. Yeah. Uh I mean they pointed him with four straightaway games, the fourth of which is in at Betis this midweek. um which is a pretty much a hospital pass. I It's all a hospital pass, right? They're completely trying to change a system. There's a stat I found this weekend and it basically sums up the whole thing perfectly, which is that last season Forest ranked 20th for tackles in the final third. So like high pressing, trying to make tackles, 67 all season. They now ranked first in the Premier League by that metric. Um it so it is it's it's complete night and day. It's completely turning a club upside down. um some of that started to happen under Nuno or attempted to but then they've obviously gone in on the guy who is that to the absolute max and asked him to do it without a preseason. So it's really hard to see how it works quickly. Uh I think if it does work then Forest will be fine and if it doesn't then Andrew probably be out of a job by Christmas because that's how Forest are going to work in a desperation to stay up. But it's yeah they were better than Burnley for the most part. They have been good in under in attacking sense and to the surprise of absolutely nobody they have looked like panic stations every time the ball gets within 25 yards of their own goal and that's how it will be for a while. They have Sunderland at home next weekend which in the minds of most Forest fans I know already feels like a massive game because if they don't beat Bettis and I think a draw would be a good result there they will have played four games sorry they would have played five games under not won one and suddenly everyone would be saying well we got rid of the guy who took us to seventh for this I know it wasn't quite as simple as that but you didn't have to appoint anogu we didn't have to kind of go all in on the chaos tactical chaos and that is what they look like at the moment well you weren't you weren't with us uh last week after the news of Angie's appointment had come. What your take is less positive I'm I'm getting than the ones that we had here in the studio that day. I think I would be we all knew as sort of I'll say that again supporters all knew that the intention was to change the tactical strategy this summer partly because the owner wants to play more attract attacking attractive football. uh partly because he thinks that that will attract better players and partly because there was a sense towards the end of last season that the players were quite knackered and that they'd probably been found out a little bit in terms of that soak up pressure encounter. Um but to do it so if if in on the end of May they'd have said Nuno's not going to sign new deal he's going to go there would have been widespread oh my god but also we get I kind of get what's happening and that you want to change the style but to have the situation where Nuno then gets annoyed about relationships in the club. He then comes out and then all ends three weeks into a season after he's been thoroughly grumpy for the whole preseason to then go for a guy who I think you could give an Posoglu two preseasons with forest squad and it would be quite hard to make them defensively organized with pretty passing football because it's a complete gear change. So to do it effectively in one international break ahead of four away games is just is absolutely bizarre to me. And the problem is you have to take fans with you with your decisions. And Nuno left in such circumstances that you know we're told reports from in the athletics said that you know people didn't even get chance to play didn't get a chance to say goodbye to Nuno. He just left and then you turn up at training after the international break and suddenly there's this evunular Aussie guy who's telling you he wants you to sprint in the final third and the fullbacks are going to be playing near the opposition corner flags. It's really hard to make it work and I really hope it does because it will mean Forest are incredibly entertaining and I can see why fans of other 19 clubs are thinking this is going to be incredibly fun to watch. But right, it's a it's a heck of a leap of faith that Forest are an established Premier League club that can't go down. I think currently lying 15 of the table does sound like it's going to be entertaining one way or another. Uh there you go. One-1 draw anyway. their first first point under an they picked up points before the under. Yeah, Brenford, right? And that brings us on to the other game from this weekend. Jay, over to you for Fulham's 3-1 win against the Bees, your former beat. Yes. Um, firstly, I think all Brenford fans probably despise Harry Wilson because I think he's now scored in three games in a row against them. And it was a really well taken goal and it was a fantastic pass from um from Alex Aobi. I think I think I sort of alluded to it last week. We are just sort of seeing with Brenford when you let your head coach captain first choice goalkeeper um your two top goal scorers leave and appoint someone who'd never had or held a senior coaching role before. It's going to take a little bit of time to to sort everything out. And I think my worry is that it will be an ugly season for Brenford and they'll they'll get dragged into the re relegation battle which they pretty much avoided during Thomas Frank's time in charge. Um I just think there's I think there are some good young players in that squad. I don't look at that team anymore and think they've got an Ivan Tony or a Christian Eriken or a Brian Bumo or a Yan Vissa who's playing at the top top level. Damsgard had a great season last year, right? which no one saw coming because his first couple of years at Brenford have been underwhelming to say the least. I need to see a little bit more before I put him in the same category as the others. So I just fear a little bit that it's an inexperienced head coach taking charge of a team in transition and too many things have changed all at once. And I think when Keith Andrew is coming out after the game after a derby saying, you know, we're a little bit sloppy and we didn't do didn't do the basics right. You never want to hear that after a game. You don't want to hear it after any game to be honest, but particularly against a a derby where you've not had the greatest record in the last couple of years. All right, Fulham very much with the upper hand over their neighbors of late. That is now three straight victories over Brenford. And when we look at Fulham, what are we a great goal? I mean the one the one I liked the most was the free goal. No, I like the the Wilson finish. All right. Finish from the we talked about Gravenber's great pass right for Ekit. There was a It was a slide rule pass. Alex Aobi. Alex Aobi. Absolute perfection. But the fact that that Wilson took it one touch. He took it so nonsently one touch in the corner. I just thought that I mean you talk about sort of like a PlayStation goal or whatever. Like it is a bit like that. Do you know the the one the instant onetouch finish? He made it look like it was almost AI. It was so easy. Daniel said it earlier with Gravenber's um effort where many people in that scenario would have just hit it as hard as they could, but you know, he sort of softly guides it into the corner. Yeah. Well, that's what you can do with I think he'd already scored six goals in his career against Brenford. This was number seven. So, spot on. Yeah, absolutely spot on. Danny, anything you want to add to that? Yeah, I just wanted to say about Alex Way. He's he he's been brilliant since he joined Fulham. What I really liked at the weekend is shows how he's become a bit of a leader there because it was I think it was Josh King, wasn't it, that made the mistake for the for goal, plays a pass across his a blind pass from a midfielder like the one the one pass you don't play and you could immediately AOY kind of just grabbed hold of him and gave him this massive pep talk and built him back up and was like look don't worry about it we'll sort it out and then within 20 minutes a scored and set up a goal. I think that's a side of a web's game I didn't know about, but he's stepped up in so many ways since he joined Fulham and it's a he's I think he's one of the most underrated midfielders in the country now because he can he can do it all. He can start out wide, he can start in the middle, he can drift from side to side, he's he's great on the counterattacks, he's got speed, but he can also protect the ball really well. He's kind of the perfect Marco Silva player, I guess, in that he's just he doesn't need that much instruction. He just runs the game. Uh and that's when he was at Arsenal and then at Everton, I just never saw that coming in any way. He he must be the most surprising Premier League player of the last few years because he has kicked on so much at Fulham. He has kicked on, but I remember seeing him out as a center mid sometimes. And as a kid, he started off as as um a striker like a like a either mainly a striker. He can he really can do it or he can play any midfield or attack position. So yeah. No, good luck to him. And of course he's got now Kevin breathing down his neck, hasn't he? Obviously he might get moved to the other flank. We'll have to see what happens. But I mean Kevin was less effective in this game, but that debut that he had in the previous match was was something else, wasn't it? So and he is the record signing in the position that is playing. So it's going to be interesting to see what Marco Silva does with it. Also, I want to mention the disallowed goal for Rodrigo Mun. A genuine net buster. Like absolute rocket, wasn't it? And I just didn't think it was a foul. It It round me up. Colin's mouth afterwards. It's a coming together. That's a coming together. Get on with it. I I thought it was really quite cruel to to miss out on that. There you go. It's a competitive. You know, football's a contact sport. Jay, just elbowed him in the mouth. Be such a wussy. Okay. No, I'll just do that next Sunday league game. I know I get it. It's got a bloody mouth. It doesn't mean it was a foul. I get it. It happens a lot. You know, you could disallow a lot of goals for clashes like that. I I get it. Maybe it's my Brenford bias that's saying, you know. Excellent. Well, there you go. That was match day five of the Premier League. That pretty much wraps it up for this Totally Football Show. We got the Euro show with you Tuesday with James and Jules and Paul and Seb Stafford BL and hopefully you listener. And then of course Thursday we'll be back to talk about probably Premier League match day six. For now though, many many thanks to Daniel, to Jay, to Adrian, to Jake and producer Charlie in the booth and you. Thanks so much for joining us. We'll be back with you soon. For now, from all of us here, it's goodbye.