================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: wiKBs7mKKrs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wiKBs7mKKrs
TITLE: The 25 Best Movies of the Century: No. 22 - ‘Children of Men’ | The Big Picture
CHANNEL: Ringer Movies
PUBLISHED: 2025-04-21
DURATION: 42m 4s
VIEWS: 21,605
LIKES: 527
COMMENTS: 142
TAGS: Movies, Film, Cinema, The Ringer, Ringer, Rewatchables, The Rewatchables, Big Pic, Big Picture, Bill Simmons

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sean and Amanda return to continue their yearlong project of listing the 25 best movies of the 21st century so far. Today, they discuss Alfonso Cuarón’s ‘Children of Men,’ a deeply upsetting 2006 apocalyptic thriller starring Clive Owen and Julianne Moore, which features some of the most emotionally moving image-making of all time. They explore how this film altered the trajectory of Cuarón’s “shapeshifter” filmmaking career, celebrate Owen’s amazing physical performance, and revisit the Academy’s baffling decision not to honor the film with a single Academy Award.

Hosts: Sean Fennessey and Amanda Dobbins
Producer: Jack Sanders

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RINGER CHANNELS
The Ringer-Verse YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@ringerverse
The Bill Simmons YouTube channel: youtube.com/billsimmons

CONNECT
Shop: https://theringer.com/shop
Website: http://theringer.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ringer
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ringer
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ringer

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 15,781

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Davis. And I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Davis. And this is 25 for 25, a big picture special this is 25 for 25, a big picture special conversation show about our conversation show about our postapocalyptic existence. Our pick postapocalyptic existence. Our pick today is a remarkable film, Alonso today is a remarkable film, Alonso Quaron's Children of Men. Real roller Quaron's Children of Men. Real roller coaster on this one. So, a week and a coaster on this one. So, a week and a half ago, I reached out to you and I half ago, I reached out to you and I said, "Children of men, I don't know. said, "Children of men, I don't know. Should we should we make a swap? I'm not Should we should we make a swap? I'm not sure if I want to do this." And I'm I sure if I want to do this." And I'm I thought it was maybe because my thought it was maybe because my enthusiasm for the film had dimmed, but enthusiasm for the film had dimmed, but I'm wondering now if it's because I knew I'm wondering now if it's because I knew what lay before me if I were to revisit what lay before me if I were to revisit the movie, which is a very um the movie, which is a very um emotionally wrenching, virtuosically emotionally wrenching, virtuosically made movie about a possible near future made movie about a possible near future 2027. 2027, but with a lot of hallmarks 2027. 2027, but with a lot of hallmarks of the way we live now. It certainly of the way we live now. It certainly does. This is one of the most preient does. This is one of the most preient films made in recent times and one of films made in recent times and one of the best. So, you didn't you never lost the best. So, you didn't you never lost the faith in this though. You No, but I the faith in this though. You No, but I the the way that I'm working through the the way that I'm working through this project, which I love. I'm having this project, which I love. I'm having such a great time. Great. Me, too. Not such a great time. Great. Me, too. Not really, but okay. really, but okay. Is that once a week I hear from you uh Is that once a week I hear from you uh in crisis mode and you have, you know, in crisis mode and you have, you know, you have a crisis of faith. Sometimes you have a crisis of faith. Sometimes you're on a plane. Sometimes you're you're on a plane. Sometimes you're just, you know, in plane mode at home just, you know, in plane mode at home because as we've discussed, that's a because as we've discussed, that's a that's a spiritual plane that you can that's a spiritual plane that you can reach. It's not location based. Yeah. reach. It's not location based. Yeah. And you're like, I don't know how I feel And you're like, I don't know how I feel about our choice. And I, Sean, just use about our choice. And I, Sean, just use that as an opportunity to talk to you that as an opportunity to talk to you about cinema, which is great. And that's about cinema, which is great. And that's why we do this podcast. And frankly, why we do this podcast. And frankly, this year there haven't been there this year there haven't been there hasn't been a lot of real cinema hasn't been a lot of real cinema released. Yes. So, you you go back and released. Yes. So, you you go back and forth. You share your feelings, you go forth. You share your feelings, you go up, you go down with Children of Men. At up, you go down with Children of Men. At first, uh, you were like, I think that first, uh, you were like, I think that this is like a five-star masterpiece this is like a five-star masterpiece that maybe I don't want to rewatch. That that maybe I don't want to rewatch. That is what I said. And I said, okay, well, is what I said. And I said, okay, well, do you want to do Ichimama? Do you want do you want to do Ichimama? Do you want to put it on hold? I threw out some to put it on hold? I threw out some other selections of things that did not other selections of things that did not make it onto the list. make it onto the list. And we we bumped up Something's Got to And we we bumped up Something's Got to Give and took a little more time. Um, Give and took a little more time. Um, and in that time you and I both and in that time you and I both rewatched the film, which we like rewatched the film, which we like actually hadn't done before making the actually hadn't done before making the long list. long list. long list. Uh, and then we were like, "Oh Uh, and then we were like, "Oh this is way too low. This might actually this is way too low. This might actually like like this might be top 10. Do we like like this might be top 10. Do we want to redo the list so that we can get want to redo the list so that we can get it? This is I was flat out blown away by it? This is I was flat out blown away by this." And I knew that there I I this." And I knew that there I I remembered being blown away by it when I remembered being blown away by it when I saw it. Um, and probably like I've saw it. Um, and probably like I've probably seen it a couple times and I probably seen it a couple times and I remember it being perfect, but I too was remember it being perfect, but I too was not expecting both the emotional and not expecting both the emotional and just the holy movies response that just the holy movies response that I had to it. Yeah, I think the list is I had to it. Yeah, I think the list is now getting into a um it's going to be now getting into a um it's going to be hard to debate territory, you know, hard to debate territory, you know, where almost everything that we pick is where almost everything that we pick is going to have a kind of ecstatic quality going to have a kind of ecstatic quality in the film making or the storytelling in the film making or the storytelling or the acting. This movie or the acting. This movie is clearly, I think, inarguably worthy is clearly, I think, inarguably worthy of this list. And I didn't want to of this list. And I didn't want to rewatch it in part because I remember rewatch it in part because I remember the first time that I saw it in theaters the first time that I saw it in theaters and the absolute pit in my stomach that and the absolute pit in my stomach that it left. Yeah, I've revisited a couple it left. Yeah, I've revisited a couple of times. I think I rewatched it a of times. I think I rewatched it a couple of years ago, we talked about couple of years ago, we talked about disaster movies and I think I had framed disaster movies and I think I had framed it as a disaster movie and some people it as a disaster movie and some people quibbled with that take, but the idea of quibbled with that take, but the idea of a worldwide infertility pandemic is a a worldwide infertility pandemic is a disaster. Yeah. Did you do it for disaster. Yeah. Did you do it for disaster or could have been disaster or could have been apocalypse? I sort of remember it cuz apocalypse? I sort of remember it cuz the apocalypse episode was a very the apocalypse episode was a very special episode of I think that was like special episode of I think that was like have no recollection. April 2020. Oh, have no recollection. April 2020. Oh, okay. Yeah. And it was and that was that okay. Yeah. And it was and that was that was where we were emotionally and we was where we were emotionally and we were like was that like clever were like was that like clever programming in the face of a pandemic? programming in the face of a pandemic? Yeah, it was. I'm very sorry about that. Yeah, it was. I'm very sorry about that. Maybe maybe it was May 2020. Maybe it Maybe maybe it was May 2020. Maybe it was June. Okay. And it might have been was June. Okay. And it might have been tied to a movie as well. It wasn't like tied to a movie as well. It wasn't like Bill making you guys do a contagion Bill making you guys do a contagion rewatchables on, you know, March 3rd, rewatchables on, you know, March 3rd, 2020. That wasn't ideal. No, it wasn't. 2020. That wasn't ideal. No, it wasn't. But it was it was it was weirdly fair But it was it was it was weirdly fair and reasonable. And you made a note in and reasonable. And you made a note in the in our in our document about the in our in our document about contagion here because these two films contagion here because these two films share the same thing. Now, Children of share the same thing. Now, Children of Men is played to a kind of uh a kind of Men is played to a kind of uh a kind of extreme in the story because you can see extreme in the story because you can see the sort of nation states and the sort of nation states and governments and the general rules of our governments and the general rules of our society completely folding in on society completely folding in on themselves and a world falling apart in themselves and a world falling apart in this film. It is the absolute endgame of this film. It is the absolute endgame of destruction for if something like this destruction for if something like this were to transpire. So, just the details were to transpire. So, just the details of the film so we're clear. As I said, of the film so we're clear. As I said, it's directed by Quiron. I'd like to it's directed by Quiron. I'd like to talk about him for quite a while talk about him for quite a while because he might be the world's greatest because he might be the world's greatest living filmmaker who has not made a living filmmaker who has not made a movie in seven years and so he has not movie in seven years and so he has not been a constant source of discussion on been a constant source of discussion on the show since Roma which is really when the show since Roma which is really when you and I started cooking on the show. you and I started cooking on the show. We haven't had a lot of opportunity to We haven't had a lot of opportunity to discuss him but um he also has a writing discuss him but um he also has a writing credit on this film. There are a number credit on this film. There are a number of credited writers on this movie of credited writers on this movie including Timothy J. Ston, David Arada, including Timothy J. Ston, David Arada, Mark Fergus, and Hawk Ospby. And it's Mark Fergus, and Hawk Ospby. And it's based on The Children of Men by Pey based on The Children of Men by Pey James. Pey James um a renowned uh James. Pey James um a renowned uh English novelist who she died about 10 English novelist who she died about 10 years ago. And I think this is really years ago. And I think this is really the only major film of note that is the only major film of note that is adapted from her work. She's best known adapted from her work. She's best known for Detective Stories, right? Um you're for Detective Stories, right? Um you're just you're overlooking Death Comes to just you're overlooking Death Comes to Peberly, but that's fine. That's on your Peberly, but that's fine. That's on your I mean, was that released in America? I mean, was that released in America? Like I know it exists, but like I don't Like I know it exists, but like I don't It was, but I think it might have been It was, but I think it might have been one of those like British TV special to one of those like British TV special to something. That's that's fine. Matthew something. That's that's fine. Matthew Reese, it's a it's a it's a murder Reese, it's a it's a it's a murder mystery set at the fictional home in U mystery set at the fictional home in U from Pride and Prejudice for those of from Pride and Prejudice for those of you not on the level. Okay. So, clearly you not on the level. Okay. So, clearly this is important to you. Perly where is this is important to you. Perly where is where Mr. Darcy lives and uh Matthew where Mr. Darcy lives and uh Matthew Reese plays Mr. Darcy I believe in the Reese plays Mr. Darcy I believe in the death comes to Pimberly. Yeah, it was a death comes to Pimberly. Yeah, it was a PD I've read both the book and seen the PD I've read both the book and seen the the film. So that's very funny. I was the film. So that's very funny. I was going to say PD James's her work is very going to say PD James's her work is very Amanda. Yes. And this novel is not very Amanda. Yes. And this novel is not very PD James. No. Um I I think it's PD James. No. Um I I think it's interesting of course a a woman writing interesting of course a a woman writing a kind of sci-fi dystopian nightmare a kind of sci-fi dystopian nightmare military movie um or military novel that military movie um or military novel that you know you features fertility as a key you know you features fertility as a key subject seems notable. Um the movie subject seems notable. Um the movie stars Clive Owen, Clare Hope, Ashite, stars Clive Owen, Clare Hope, Ashite, Julianne Moore, Chuatel Ezor, Pam Julianne Moore, Chuatel Ezor, Pam Ferris, Charlie Hunnham, and Michael Ferris, Charlie Hunnham, and Michael Kaine. Um it is notably as all of Kaine. Um it is notably as all of Cororon's movies are shot by Emanuel Cororon's movies are shot by Emanuel Chivbo Lubeski who is also along with Chivbo Lubeski who is also along with Coron widely considered one of the Coron widely considered one of the greatest filmmakers, arguably the greatest filmmakers, arguably the greatest cinematographer in the world, greatest cinematographer in the world, give or take a Roger Deakons. and this give or take a Roger Deakons. and this movie which charts what basically what movie which charts what basically what happens to this small pocket of rebels happens to this small pocket of rebels in the face of this infertility epidemic in the face of this infertility epidemic which has been going on for well over 15 which has been going on for well over 15 years. It's I guess 18 years is the years. It's I guess 18 years is the extent. Yes. And 3 months and something extent. Yes. And 3 months and something days. Yes. And so the film isn't just a days. Yes. And so the film isn't just a portrait of kind of the world falling portrait of kind of the world falling apart. It's a portrait particularly of apart. It's a portrait particularly of two modes of rebellion and how to save two modes of rebellion and how to save humanity. And the way to do that is to humanity. And the way to do that is to find somebody who can give birth. And of find somebody who can give birth. And of course, they do find someone in this course, they do find someone in this story who can give birth. Clive Owen is story who can give birth. Clive Owen is our perspective character. He is a man our perspective character. He is a man who was once a rebel or was once a who was once a rebel or was once a progressive who is kind of slipped out progressive who is kind of slipped out of the cause and is a bit lost until he of the cause and is a bit lost until he is drawn back into it by his former wife is drawn back into it by his former wife lover who's portrayed by Julianne Moore. lover who's portrayed by Julianne Moore. And then he becomes kind of an agent of And then he becomes kind of an agent of change throughout this story. So you change throughout this story. So you mentioned that you saw it a long time mentioned that you saw it a long time ago. You loved it. You watched it again. ago. You loved it. You watched it again. It could be a top 10 movie. Notes the It could be a top 10 movie. Notes the arbitrary nature of our list. What else arbitrary nature of our list. What else did you feel while you were watching the did you feel while you were watching the movie? I thought of your sentence of movie? I thought of your sentence of this might be like a five-star this might be like a five-star masterpiece and or you know masterpiece and or you know conventional movie nerd wisdom that this conventional movie nerd wisdom that this is like a quote unquote perfect film. It is like a quote unquote perfect film. It is a perfect screenplay. It is a perfect is a perfect screenplay. It is a perfect technical execution. There is a stunning technical execution. There is a stunning amount of amount of amount of like capital C like camera work, like capital C like camera work, athletic film making. It's most famous athletic film making. It's most famous for the single action single single shot for the single action single single shot action sequences particularly there's a action sequences particularly there's a car attack uh which is terrifying and car attack uh which is terrifying and then there is a um a raid like a battle then there is a um a raid like a battle sequence at the end um that are filmed sequence at the end um that are filmed you know you know you know there's you know it's not like the there's you know it's not like the studio they're using a whip pen or studio they're using a whip pen or whatever but um but it is but the effect whatever but um but it is but the effect is that you are just watching a single is that you are just watching a single take of absolutely wild stuff take of absolutely wild stuff happening. But the whole movie is that happening. But the whole movie is that level level level of like of like of like astonishing film making and craft that astonishing film making and craft that works totally with the screenplay. It's works totally with the screenplay. It's not just doing it to be like and here's not just doing it to be like and here's our wer like here we go look at us use our wer like here we go look at us use the camera. It is it works with the the camera. It is it works with the story. It works beautifully story. It works beautifully to the way that you see this world to the way that you see this world because of the the way they film it with because of the the way they film it with just the one camera and just following just the one camera and just following people people people is like is is magnificent because you is like is is magnificent because you can both learn everything but as you can both learn everything but as you said it is it's focused on a small group said it is it's focused on a small group of people and so the way that they of people and so the way that they establish the world the way they do uh establish the world the way they do uh exposition um you know even the like the exposition um you know even the like the visual composition of what you see in a visual composition of what you see in a frame and and how you see and there like frame and and how you see and there like absolutely grotesque things are absolutely grotesque things are happening in the background of almost happening in the background of almost every shot but they are in the every shot but they are in the background you know like you mentioned background you know like you mentioned Charlie Hunnham is is in this movie I Charlie Hunnham is is in this movie I don't think his face is ever close don't think his face is ever close enough to the camera to actually like enough to the camera to actually like face ID Charlie he may never be in focus face ID Charlie he may never be in focus yeah exactly so um but yeah exactly so um but that that works with the what the story that that works with the what the story itself which is of like this one person itself which is of like this one person who's co-opted in to try to figure who's co-opted in to try to figure out like his path and this other out like his path and this other person's path to safety and to savor of person's path to safety and to savor of the world and without knowing what else the world and without knowing what else is going on because at this point in the is going on because at this point in the existence of the world uh like all you existence of the world uh like all you have is what you're doing every day and have is what you're doing every day and then whatever like propaganda is being then whatever like propaganda is being artfully displayed on the various artfully displayed on the various televisions. televisions. televisions. So it it is like the real it is practice So it it is like the real it is practice like form and function and all working like form and function and all working together in a way that like is together in a way that like is exhilarating. So the film almost nothing exhilarating. So the film almost nothing that you see in the movie this is not a that you see in the movie this is not a POV movie. It's not through the eyes of POV movie. It's not through the eyes of Theo the the Cliveone character but Theo the the Cliveone character but almost everything that you see the sort almost everything that you see the sort of panorama of this world is through his of panorama of this world is through his experience of the world. The thing is is experience of the world. The thing is is that it shows you those things, but it that it shows you those things, but it doesn't zero in on them. It doesn't let doesn't zero in on them. It doesn't let you sit in them because essentially this you sit in them because essentially this character is always on the move. The character is always on the move. The handful of times when he's sitting when handful of times when he's sitting when he's in the home with Michael Kane's he's in the home with Michael Kane's character, the sort of like burntout character, the sort of like burntout hippie who is his sort of former, you hippie who is his sort of former, you know, mentor, adviser, and friend. know, mentor, adviser, and friend. um you know uh moments when they have um you know uh moments when they have been captured and they're you know the been captured and they're you know the the birth sequence uh late in the film the birth sequence uh late in the film is a sustained period of time where is a sustained period of time where there's not a lot of movement but the there's not a lot of movement but the the bulk of this film these characters the bulk of this film these characters are on their feet and moving and so even are on their feet and moving and so even though we don't necessarily get every though we don't necessarily get every detail of this universe explained to us. detail of this universe explained to us. We get the occasional kind of news We get the occasional kind of news report where we hear something on report where we hear something on television or on the radio, right? But television or on the radio, right? But the idea of how the refugee camps work the idea of how the refugee camps work as opposed to um why they started and as opposed to um why they started and where they are specifically located like where they are specifically located like we get dribbs and drabs but we get dribbs and drabs but experientially we understand and feel experientially we understand and feel everything. I think that this serves the everything. I think that this serves the story really well. I think when I look story really well. I think when I look back on the movie my only note is that I back on the movie my only note is that I just wish I knew the characters a little just wish I knew the characters a little bit better. Um I don't necessarily need bit better. Um I don't necessarily need to know Julian and Theo. I think what to know Julian and Theo. I think what Clive Owen and Julian Moore get to do Clive Owen and Julian Moore get to do and how they get to show us what was of and how they get to show us what was of their relationship and what they lost their relationship and what they lost when their son died um is enough. Every when their son died um is enough. Every other character in the movie I wish I other character in the movie I wish I you know I wish I understood Chuel SJ4 you know I wish I understood Chuel SJ4 just a little bit more. You know what I just a little bit more. You know what I like what he represents as a character like what he represents as a character which is there are two sides to progress which is there are two sides to progress to the idea of reaching progress and I to the idea of reaching progress and I think the movie is sophisticated about think the movie is sophisticated about this this kind of forward action direct this this kind of forward action direct action approach which is that the one he action approach which is that the one he is taking one that is violent one that is taking one that is violent one that is aggressive one that is meant to make is aggressive one that is meant to make a kind of spectacle of the rebellion a kind of spectacle of the rebellion versus the one that Julian and Theo versus the one that Julian and Theo ultimately portrays which is like a ultimately portrays which is like a humanist approach to this kind of thing humanist approach to this kind of thing but the movie gives you a lot it even but the movie gives you a lot it even with the the Chuatel Edor character Luke with the the Chuatel Edor character Luke I believe which there's there's a lot of I believe which there's there's a lot of Bible running through this just you know Bible running through this just you know um but it but but with a nice twist in um but it but but with a nice twist in that particular scene where the that particular scene where the character once the baby is character once the baby is born um I like I I think is like born um I like I I think is like absolutely like astonishing and the way absolutely like astonishing and the way that every single person in the this that every single person in the this movie responds to the sight of this baby movie responds to the sight of this baby is like so revealing. I think about the is like so revealing. I think about the characters and the world and he has that characters and the world and he has that moment where he's like sitting up by a moment where he's like sitting up by a window and just being like I'd forgotten window and just being like I'd forgotten how beautiful they are and he's so how beautiful they are and he's so visibly moved and also just like in visibly moved and also just like in between just shooting you know out the between just shooting you know out the window. But I think he does an window. But I think he does an incredible job in that. And even those incredible job in that. And even those few moments of this character few moments of this character being still so dead set on his ways, but being still so dead set on his ways, but also absolutely overcome with what what also absolutely overcome with what what is essentially like hope, you know, in is essentially like hope, you know, in corporeal form for the first time for corporeal form for the first time for literally every single person in the in literally every single person in the in the world is, I think, really beautiful the world is, I think, really beautiful and says enough about him. And then also and says enough about him. And then also the fact that he keeps being like, I the fact that he keeps being like, I need him, I need him. And then there's need him, I need him. And then there's that great moment of no it it's a girl. that great moment of no it it's a girl. Then he says I had a sister once. Like I Then he says I had a sister once. Like I I do kind of feel like you get moments I I do kind of feel like you get moments I guess you don't know that much about guess you don't know that much about Charlie Hunnham except like he has Charlie Hunnham except like he has dreads and he's not in focus. A lot of dreads and he's not in focus. A lot of white dreads in this. There are. Yeah, white dreads in this. There are. Yeah, that's an interesting choice. Um I think that's an interesting choice. Um I think in I haven't read this novel. I actually in I haven't read this novel. I actually would like to give it a look because I would like to give it a look because I think in novel form stories like this think in novel form stories like this characters are just deepened. This is a characters are just deepened. This is a this is a movie about um about images this is a movie about um about images and feeling. You know, it is not a movie and feeling. You know, it is not a movie or character development. I think even or character development. I think even which like you know like the the the which like you know like the the the Virgin Mary Jesus, you know, we kind of Virgin Mary Jesus, you know, we kind of I know what we're drawing on here. The I know what we're drawing on here. The uh Zlavo Ziz, the uh the famed thinker uh Zlavo Ziz, the uh the famed thinker and film fan um is a really big fan of and film fan um is a really big fan of this movie and has talked about it and this movie and has talked about it and written about it in the past. And one of written about it in the past. And one of the things that he points out that I the things that he points out that I think is super interesting is um there's think is super interesting is um there's no sex in the movie. You know, that the no sex in the movie. You know, that the conception, right, is meant to seem conception, right, is meant to seem immaculate. um if not literally then immaculate. um if not literally then figuratively. And even between former figuratively. And even between former lovers like Theo and Julian, we don't lovers like Theo and Julian, we don't see sex like that isn't really what this see sex like that isn't really what this world is about. Um it's um it's about world is about. Um it's um it's about survival and it's about procreation but survival and it's about procreation but not in the same way. And I think like not in the same way. And I think like removing that I think it kind of like removing that I think it kind of like withstands some of that religious withstands some of that religious imagery in a way. Yeah. Um, I think this imagery in a way. Yeah. Um, I think this is such an interesting movie for Quarro is such an interesting movie for Quarro to have chosen at this stage of his to have chosen at this stage of his career because he's coming off of It career because he's coming off of It Mama Tambien, which he says he sees as Mama Tambien, which he says he sees as essentially his first real movie. He had essentially his first real movie. He had made two films before that. made two films before that. Um, and those films were wellreceived Um, and those films were wellreceived and he was consider he made three films and he was consider he made three films before that. I uh they were very before that. I uh they were very wellreceived but he was starting to feel wellreceived but he was starting to feel like a an assignment director, somebody like a an assignment director, somebody who would get sent screenplays and would who would get sent screenplays and would decide whether he wanted to make them. decide whether he wanted to make them. Um he made one film in his native Mexico Um he made one film in his native Mexico solo contjo. Uh he made a little solo contjo. Uh he made a little princess and he made Great Expectations. princess and he made Great Expectations. Great Expectations. A kind of much Great Expectations. A kind of much touted film starring Gwennneth Paltro touted film starring Gwennneth Paltro and Ethan Hawk uh adaptation of Dickens and Ethan Hawk uh adaptation of Dickens that fizzled pretty hard. Yeah. And so that fizzled pretty hard. Yeah. And so he resets. Don't fast forward past A he resets. Don't fast forward past A Little Princess though. I It's a good Little Princess though. I It's a good film. I haven't seen it in a very long film. I haven't seen it in a very long time. I mean, he doesn't have any bad time. I mean, he doesn't have any bad films. Yeah. Um, and what's interesting films. Yeah. Um, and what's interesting is that Solo Ku Perea and A Little is that Solo Ku Perea and A Little Princess and Great Expectations are all Princess and Great Expectations are all very different from one another. The very different from one another. The production designs are very different. production designs are very different. The pacing and tone is very different. The pacing and tone is very different. He's like a real shape shifter He's like a real shape shifter filmmaker. It maten is even more filmmaker. It maten is even more different from those films. That's like different from those films. That's like a road movie. It's a very personal a road movie. It's a very personal movie. Um it's a movie about friendship, movie. Um it's a movie about friendship, about love, about like who you are about love, about like who you are really in love with, identity, really in love with, identity, sexuality, freedom, right, in the face sexuality, freedom, right, in the face of uh the of uh the encroaching structures of life, right? encroaching structures of life, right? And the filmmaking style of that And the filmmaking style of that movie is weirdly very similar even movie is weirdly very similar even though the kind of movie it is is very though the kind of movie it is is very different which is like it's a lot of different which is like it's a lot of handheld it's a lot of following a lot handheld it's a lot of following a lot of sort of like follow film making where of sort of like follow film making where you're a character is moving through the you're a character is moving through the world and you're seeing the their back world and you're seeing the their back and you're seeing what they're seeing and you're seeing what they're seeing very clearly and you can see in it which very clearly and you can see in it which I really strongly considered pushing for I really strongly considered pushing for in this spot because it's just I'm very in this spot because it's just I'm very I'm very personally affected by like the I'm very personally affected by like the story in that movie story in that movie But the fact that he makes that movie, But the fact that he makes that movie, then takes a Harry Potter job. Yeah. And then takes a Harry Potter job. Yeah. And does a good job and that's one of the does a good job and that's one of the best franchise movies of the 21st best franchise movies of the 21st century in uh Prisoner of Aszkaban. And century in uh Prisoner of Aszkaban. And then it's almost like he has to like then it's almost like he has to like cleanse out the taste Yeah. of the cleanse out the taste Yeah. of the franchise of like the paycheck that he franchise of like the paycheck that he got um and makes this movie which is the got um and makes this movie which is the just the most grim subject matter just the most grim subject matter possibly imaginable and and a real possibly imaginable and and a real cocktail of grim subject matters. I cocktail of grim subject matters. I haven't read the full PD James novel. I haven't read the full PD James novel. I read some of it. Um, but the the refugee read some of it. Um, but the the refugee element of this film, which is a a major element of this film, which is a a major part part part of the plot in that um Key, the the of the plot in that um Key, the the mother figure, is a a refugee and, you mother figure, is a a refugee and, you know, needs to be able to travel, but know, needs to be able to travel, but there are a huge amount of restrictions there are a huge amount of restrictions and also I mean, she's constantly in and also I mean, she's constantly in danger in Britain. Um and then also danger in Britain. Um and then also visually we pass cages, we pass camps, visually we pass cages, we pass camps, there is the the final act takes place there is the the final act takes place in a camp. So, um that is all stuff that in a camp. So, um that is all stuff that Quirron added. Um that he used the novel Quirron added. Um that he used the novel as a sort of jumping off point and the as a sort of jumping off point and the Pety James novel as you know I I did Pety James novel as you know I I did jumping back and jumping back and forth I I is as best I could tell kind forth I I is as best I could tell kind of more class focused and that is what of more class focused and that is what Peters out in the which you know makes Peters out in the which you know makes sense a British novel you guys are never sense a British novel you guys are never going to get over that apparently. Um I going to get over that apparently. Um I mean we aren't either but along with the mean we aren't either but along with the infertility which you know just becomes infertility which you know just becomes just the total lack of of hope and a just the total lack of of hope and a future and that there's nothing to live future and that there's nothing to live for and the movie does like amazing for and the movie does like amazing images you know the the the empty images you know the the the empty playground and then key on the empty playground and then key on the empty playground. I like I feel a little sick playground. I like I feel a little sick right now just thinking about it. right now just thinking about it. Um, so it brings all of that to life and Um, so it brings all of that to life and then it adds in uh a lot of images that then it adds in uh a lot of images that we have uh come to have comps for in we have uh come to have comps for in real life and it is really pretty um real life and it is really pretty um astonishing and upsetting and uh timely. astonishing and upsetting and uh timely. If you situate the movie upon its If you situate the movie upon its release, it's 2006. Were engaged in release, it's 2006. Were engaged in international conflict in the United international conflict in the United States of America. The PD James novel is States of America. The PD James novel is 1992 is when it's published. So this 1992 is when it's published. So this film in a post 911 world in a operation film in a post 911 world in a operation Iraqi freedom universe. I mean there are Iraqi freedom universe. I mean there are some like Abu Grae some like Abu Grae references. There's clearly a lot of references. There's clearly a lot of these forces a lot of these current these forces a lot of these current events are informing a lot of what events are informing a lot of what Quiron and the writers are after in Quiron and the writers are after in terms of what they're trying to portray terms of what they're trying to portray about effectively what can happen and about effectively what can happen and what like a police state can do in the what like a police state can do in the face of a crisis like this. that this face of a crisis like this. that this would send the world into a tail spin would send the world into a tail spin and that its citizenry would then be and that its citizenry would then be really vulnerable to the powers that be really vulnerable to the powers that be taking more control and creating you taking more control and creating you know there's these interesting images of know there's these interesting images of protest in the movie um that are shot protest in the movie um that are shot through the lens of faith you know a lot through the lens of faith you know a lot of the protesters sort of like will God of the protesters sort of like will God ever forgive us for what we have done ever forgive us for what we have done and we are being punished for this and we are being punished for this transgression and then there are other transgression and then there are other examples where there is just this pure examples where there is just this pure sort of like like I said direct action sort of like like I said direct action um progressive citizenry that is um progressive citizenry that is attempting to form and use sometimes attempting to form and use sometimes nonviolent, sometimes violent means to nonviolent, sometimes violent means to accomplish their goals. The fact that it accomplish their goals. The fact that it was made in 2006 and all of these events was made in 2006 and all of these events are happening and informing them doesn't are happening and informing them doesn't for like foresee what's coming with the for like foresee what's coming with the first Trump administration with what's first Trump administration with what's happening with ICE with what's happening happening with ICE with what's happening with literally children in cages. Yes. with literally children in cages. Yes. And um and you know parental separation And um and you know parental separation and all these awful things that have and all these awful things that have happened in our world in the last 10 happened in our world in the last 10 years. But Quiron and the writers are years. But Quiron and the writers are smart enough to know that that reality smart enough to know that that reality was in touching distance. Obviously, we was in touching distance. Obviously, we don't live inside of Children of Men. don't live inside of Children of Men. That would be a gross overstatement, That would be a gross overstatement, right? But there are literal details of right? But there are literal details of this world that are shown in the movie this world that are shown in the movie that are actually happening right now. that are actually happening right now. And you know, this is a usually not a And you know, this is a usually not a very serious show. We usually like to very serious show. We usually like to have a lot of fun, but the movie is very have a lot of fun, but the movie is very chilling in in the in the way it chilling in in the in the way it portrays some of these things. It's and portrays some of these things. It's and and and honestly really that in those and and honestly really that in those images of the cages in the recreation of images of the cages in the recreation of the some of the torture images things do the some of the torture images things do not look that different. And one of the not look that different. And one of the um like amazing and incredibly scary um like amazing and incredibly scary parts of this film is the way it creates parts of this film is the way it creates a dystopia that is really not that far a dystopia that is really not that far from you know everything is like griier from you know everything is like griier but it is it's set in London and it's but it is it's set in London and it's like Big Ben is still there and like St. like Big Ben is still there and like St. Paul's is still there and there's still Paul's is still there and there's still a double-decker bus and the the opening a double-decker bus and the the opening shot uh is of the Clive Owen character shot uh is of the Clive Owen character Theo in a coffee shop where like he's Theo in a coffee shop where like he's going to get coffee and and so is going to get coffee and and so is everyone else. Um the world is going on everyone else. Um the world is going on continuing like the it's the BCC instead continuing like the it's the BCC instead of the BBC I guess but like they they of the BBC I guess but like they they use the chime they like get really close use the chime they like get really close to that to as close as they can. um is to that to as close as they can. um is like reporting on horrors like worldwide like reporting on horrors like worldwide but you know in its like very calm BBC but you know in its like very calm BBC voice. So that the the fact that the voice. So that the the fact that the world is so recognizable world is so recognizable um like in this dystopia and then also um like in this dystopia and then also that so many of the images from the like that so many of the images from the like the migrant crisis to you know torture the migrant crisis to you know torture to like militarization to all of these to like militarization to all of these issues are also so recognizable from issues are also so recognizable from real life real life real life is I mean it's a it's emotionally is I mean it's a it's emotionally walloping. It's really really messed up. walloping. It's really really messed up. And we didn't even mention the pandemic And we didn't even mention the pandemic stuff. Um, which is just like is like a stuff. Um, which is just like is like a it's like a back note, but um the theo it's like a back note, but um the theo and Jul um Julianne who's that's and Jul um Julianne who's that's Julianne Moore is named Julian. Julian Julianne Moore is named Julian. Julian um their son dies in uh died in a flu um their son dies in uh died in a flu pandemic. Yeah. In like 2008 or pandemic. Yeah. In like 2008 or something. But I mean, you know, that's something. But I mean, you know, that's it's it's what co was. It's like it's it's it's what co was. It's like it's just what the hell. There are a lot of just what the hell. There are a lot of scientists and futurists who have been scientists and futurists who have been foretelling matters like this and you foretelling matters like this and you know it's not just to have just been know it's not just to have just been preient would not have been enough. preient would not have been enough. Obviously it's the collision of this Obviously it's the collision of this incredible film making style truly incredible film making style truly amazing actors being thrust into this amazing actors being thrust into this world and being able to give world and being able to give performances like we always talk about performances like we always talk about the kind of physicality and athleticism the kind of physicality and athleticism of the filmmakers and of the camera. of the filmmakers and of the camera. Clive Bowen's performance in this movie, Clive Bowen's performance in this movie, specifically that raid that you're specifically that raid that you're talking about near the end of the film talking about near the end of the film when he's been separated from Keyi and when he's been separated from Keyi and he's trying to find her by following the he's trying to find her by following the baby's cries and the camera is following baby's cries and the camera is following him and he is like nauseous right now to him and he is like nauseous right now to space. I mean, he really is giving an space. I mean, he really is giving an amazing physical performance in this amazing physical performance in this movie. You know, he's an actor who was a movie. You know, he's an actor who was a top of the billing star for a hot top of the billing star for a hot minute. You know, when this is around minute. You know, when this is around the time of Closer, the Mike Nichols the time of Closer, the Mike Nichols film. um you know coming out of the big film. um you know coming out of the big success of Croo he made a couple of cool success of Croo he made a couple of cool movies did a very important Wimbledon movies did a very important Wimbledon like intro voice over I don't remember like intro voice over I don't remember that but I'll take your word for it um that but I'll take your word for it um but he's fantastic in this movie the but he's fantastic in this movie the other thing that I wanted to note is I other thing that I wanted to note is I think the music is so so good in it's so think the music is so so good in it's so good so John Taverner um composed the good so John Taverner um composed the music and there are a ton of great music and there are a ton of great needle drops there's one that sticks out needle drops there's one that sticks out in my there's two that stick out in my in my there's two that stick out in my mind one as we're seeing the sort of mind one as we're seeing the sort of landscape of London is sort of burnt out landscape of London is sort of burnt out and you've got protesters and you've got and you've got protesters and you've got um military and police and people trying um military and police and people trying to go about their day. You can hear in to go about their day. You can hear in the court of the Crimson King by King the court of the Crimson King by King Crimson which is this sort of like Crimson which is this sort of like dystopian '7s Prague rock epic. And then dystopian '7s Prague rock epic. And then the sequence when we first see Theo and the sequence when we first see Theo and Michael Kane's character seated Michael Kane's character seated together, they're listening, he's together, they're listening, he's Michael Kane is listening to music. He Michael Kane is listening to music. He cares for his wife who it appears has cares for his wife who it appears has Alzheimer's or is, you know, Alzheimer's or is, you know, disconnected somehow. I think I mean disconnected somehow. I think I mean they in background in like uh newspapers they in background in like uh newspapers suggest that she went she was like suggest that she went she was like tortured as well cuz like there's some tortured as well cuz like there's some headline MA5 tortes journalist or headline MA5 tortes journalist or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um and so something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um and so he cares for her grows pot in his house he cares for her grows pot in his house and tries to wild away the hours while and tries to wild away the hours while keeping the faith for the cause and keeping the faith for the cause and they're listening to a song called Life they're listening to a song called Life in a Glass House by Radio Head which is in a Glass House by Radio Head which is the last song on Amnesia. And it's a the last song on Amnesia. And it's a very unusual Radio Head song. It very unusual Radio Head song. It features like a New Orleans brass band features like a New Orleans brass band and it sounds like a funeral durge. It and it sounds like a funeral durge. It sounds like literally Radio Head is like sounds like literally Radio Head is like walking down the streets um uh in New walking down the streets um uh in New Orleans and Tom York is like wailing his Orleans and Tom York is like wailing his weird Tom York whale surrounded by this weird Tom York whale surrounded by this huge brass band. Um huge brass band. Um and I've always loved that song and I've and I've always loved that song and I've always been like this is this song you always been like this is this song you play like right before you die. Yes. play like right before you die. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So, um there are a handful Yeah. Yeah. So, um there are a handful of really like clever needle drops mixed of really like clever needle drops mixed in with this sort of like um coral in with this sort of like um coral symphonic score throughout the film that symphonic score throughout the film that toggles between doom and hope, right? toggles between doom and hope, right? Which is really what the movie is. The Which is really what the movie is. The movie is a story about people who are on movie is a story about people who are on the precipice of disaster trying to find the precipice of disaster trying to find a reason to keep going to survive to a reason to keep going to survive to find something else. Um I'm so str I was find something else. Um I'm so str I was so struck by the final sequence. Um I I so struck by the final sequence. Um I I guess if you haven't seen this movie, guess if you haven't seen this movie, we're talking about lots of detail when we're talking about lots of detail when he leave when they leave the h the when he leave when they leave the h the when they finally get off and every single they finally get off and every single and it's just the reaction shot of every and it's just the reaction shot of every single person. So every single soldier single person. So every single soldier observing the baby crying which you observing the baby crying which you talked about. It's un it's unbelievable. talked about. It's un it's unbelievable. But then leading all the way up until But then leading all the way up until the the rowboat um and finding escape the the rowboat um and finding escape thanks to this this woman who is thanks to this this woman who is described as a gypsy or an Arab, the described as a gypsy or an Arab, the immigration cop Sid played by Peter immigration cop Sid played by Peter Mullen doesn't know which kind of it's Mullen doesn't know which kind of it's also like a little detail where it's also like a little detail where it's like I don't care what these people are like I don't care what these people are or what they're about. Um and she or what they're about. Um and she effectively saves them. I mean she is effectively saves them. I mean she is like an a like an like an angel to them. like an a like an like an angel to them. Yeah. and takes them to safe harbor and Yeah. and takes them to safe harbor and then they're just kind of rowing out then they're just kind of rowing out into the nothingness, the vast into the nothingness, the vast nothingness of the sea hoping to be nothingness of the sea hoping to be saved, which is what life feels like saved, which is what life feels like sometimes. You know, it's a very sometimes. You know, it's a very powerful visual image. Um, and I guess I powerful visual image. Um, and I guess I won't spoil anything more than that. And won't spoil anything more than that. And then like and then the final line which then like and then the final line which like you know is coming and is in some like you know is coming and is in some ways like so ways like so uh like classic Hollywood like put the uh like classic Hollywood like put the button on the kicker but in in the in button on the kicker but in in the in the moment and after what you've been the moment and after what you've been through is like so lovely and emotional through is like so lovely and emotional which is I like I'll call my baby Dylan. which is I like I'll call my baby Dylan. It's a girl's name too. Yeah. Um, and It's a girl's name too. Yeah. Um, and it, sorry, I'm It's like it's an it, sorry, I'm It's like it's an incredibly moving incredibly moving incredibly moving uh movie and moment. And that also as uh movie and moment. And that also as that's happening. I mean, spoiler, we're that's happening. I mean, spoiler, we're spoiling it, I guess. Turn this off. spoiling it, I guess. Turn this off. Yeah, Clyde Bowman is is that's it. Yeah, Clyde Bowman is is that's it. That's like that's his moment of That's like that's his moment of release, which is like really Oh god, release, which is like really Oh god, like two parents are just crying right like two parents are just crying right now. Um, great movie. It's a wonderful now. Um, great movie. It's a wonderful movie. And when it was released, movie. And when it was released, everyone knew that it was a great movie. everyone knew that it was a great movie. It was widely hailed. Yeah. But and yet It was widely hailed. Yeah. But and yet more like more critical fave. So what more like more critical fave. So what happened here? This is 2006. Yeah. So happened here? This is 2006. Yeah. So this is the departed year. It is I mean this is the departed year. It is I mean just some with all just some with all respect to the to our number one guy and respect to the to our number one guy and to the departed which is a great movie to the departed which is a great movie that you guys watched in Boston re that you guys watched in Boston re recently. This is just this was a weird recently. This is just this was a weird year. year. year. people 2005, 2006, two, you know, the people 2005, 2006, two, you know, the Oscars did not cover themselves in Oscars did not cover themselves in glory. Yeah. So, um, this movie got glory. Yeah. So, um, this movie got three Oscar nominations and there are three Oscar nominations and there are three of the right kind of nominations. three of the right kind of nominations. It got a best adapted screenplay It got a best adapted screenplay nomination. It got a best cinematography nomination. It got a best cinematography nomination and it got a best film nomination and it got a best film editing nomination. Usually, when a film editing nomination. Usually, when a film has those three nominations, they're has those three nominations, they're pretty likely to get best director and pretty likely to get best director and best picture. You know, we know this best picture. You know, we know this from talking about the Oscars non-stop from talking about the Oscars non-stop on this show. That's true. Uh Quarro not on this show. That's true. Uh Quarro not nominated. No, not nominated for best nominated. No, not nominated for best picture. No, no performance nominations. picture. No, no performance nominations. And not only that, uh the film did not And not only that, uh the film did not win any of the three prizes it was win any of the three prizes it was nominated for. You up. just just nominated for. You up. just just for the sake of context, you know, I for the sake of context, you know, I don't think 2006 is the worst year by don't think 2006 is the worst year by any means, but then the nominees um that any means, but then the nominees um that year were The Departed, as you said, the year were The Departed, as you said, the winner, Babel, Letters from Ioima, winner, Babel, Letters from Ioima, Little Miss Sunshine, and The Queen. May Little Miss Sunshine, and The Queen. May I have some notes? What happened? Why I have some notes? What happened? Why did this happen? I don't I'd like This did this happen? I don't I'd like This movie was released on December 25th, movie was released on December 25th, 2006. 2006. 2006. Maybe it was too late and people were Maybe it was too late and people were just too bummed out by it. I don't know. just too bummed out by it. I don't know. When was the Departed release? departed When was the Departed release? departed was yeah October. It was in October. was yeah October. It was in October. That's what I was going to say. But I That's what I was going to say. But I feel like Letters from Iuima was later feel like Letters from Iuima was later in the year, right? Yeah, that was in the year, right? Yeah, that was December 20th, 2006. I mean, look, I December 20th, 2006. I mean, look, I think Letters from is a very good film. think Letters from is a very good film. Um I think both of those Clint uh that Um I think both of those Clint uh that pair of uh World War II films that he pair of uh World War II films that he made are good films. I think I Little made are good films. I think I Little Miss Sunshine was an absolute phenomenon Miss Sunshine was an absolute phenomenon coming out of Sundance and just ran the coming out of Sundance and just ran the table for a long stretch there. It's a table for a long stretch there. It's a huge box office hit. Um Babel sucks. And huge box office hit. Um Babel sucks. And of course, Inaritu is one of Quoron's of course, Inaritu is one of Quoron's best friends and he's among with the best friends and he's among with the three amigos along with Del Toro. You three amigos along with Del Toro. You know, you and I are not the biggest know, you and I are not the biggest Initu fans on the show. We're gonna have Initu fans on the show. We're gonna have to deal with that in in a little while. to deal with that in in a little while. Um when when Tom Yes. Yes. In I didn't Um when when Tom Yes. Yes. In I didn't mean on the list. I'm not putting Yeah, mean on the list. I'm not putting Yeah, I thought you meant I thought you meant spoiler. Not on this list. No, no, he's spoiler. Not on this list. No, no, he's not on the list, but I thought you meant not on the list, but I thought you meant like when Children of Men comes and we like when Children of Men comes and we are confronted by Eneroo. are confronted by Eneroo. Um, you know, I'm I'm not a fan of Babel Um, you know, I'm I'm not a fan of Babel and I think The Queen is a good movie, and I think The Queen is a good movie, but it's not Children of Men. Yeah. No, but it's not Children of Men. Yeah. No, it's not Children of Men. I like it a it's not Children of Men. I like it a lot, but that's a tough one. Um, there lot, but that's a tough one. Um, there is a great directing nominee from that is a great directing nominee from that year, Paul Greengrass for United 93. year, Paul Greengrass for United 93. Another movie that was sort of in the Another movie that was sort of in the aftermath of living in 2001 and thinking aftermath of living in 2001 and thinking about kind of, you know, obviously about kind of, you know, obviously that's a pure Docky drama recreating that's a pure Docky drama recreating something that had happened. But this is something that had happened. But this is a real old school Oscar a this is a real old school Oscar travesty that this movie was not travesty that this movie was not recognized in its time. I I was thinking recognized in its time. I I was thinking back on our list so far. So just some back on our list so far. So just some list notes. This is our second uh novel list notes. This is our second uh novel adaptation out of four. And I think adaptation out of four. And I think we've got one Oscar total among four we've got one Oscar total among four movies. One win. Is it just Hilda movies. One win. Is it just Hilda Swinton? Yes. Did Michael Clayton win Swinton? Yes. Did Michael Clayton win anything else? I don't think so. Yeah, anything else? I don't think so. Yeah, that's it. And I don't think The that's it. And I don't think The Handmaiden wasn't even nominated for by Handmaiden wasn't even nominated for by in an international feature. Something's in an international feature. Something's got to give snubbed down the line. No, got to give snubbed down the line. No, it Oh, no. Dian Keen was on the show. it Oh, no. Dian Keen was on the show. She was nominated, but she didn't win. She was nominated, but she didn't win. Yeah. Uh, did she win the Globe that Yeah. Uh, did she win the Globe that year? That sounds right. Okay. Um, I year? That sounds right. Okay. Um, I mean, that's not surprising, right? So, mean, that's not surprising, right? So, that's that's We do have some best that's that's We do have some best picture winners on our list. Yeah, we picture winners on our list. Yeah, we have a couple, but that's we're tracking have a couple, but that's we're tracking towards you, you know, writing wrongs. towards you, you know, writing wrongs. Yes. You know, I've just remembered a Yes. You know, I've just remembered a scene from this film that I love that scene from this film that I love that when I rewatched it and it's relevant to when I rewatched it and it's relevant to this conversation about kind of this conversation about kind of historicizing art. Oh, the Danny Houston historicizing art. Oh, the Danny Houston scene. The Danny Houston scene, which is scene. The Danny Houston scene, which is really, really good and shows you one really, really good and shows you one little portrait of the world inside the little portrait of the world inside the world that's happening in this movie. world that's happening in this movie. Danny Houston plays a very powerful man Danny Houston plays a very powerful man who is a friend of the Theo character who is a friend of the Theo character who he goes to to get transit papers. who he goes to to get transit papers. But we see that he is living lavishly. But we see that he is living lavishly. So lavishly in fact that he has Garai in So lavishly in fact that he has Garai in his home. Yeah. you know, he has the his home. Yeah. you know, he has the David statue in his home, but he has the David statue in his home, but he has the these works of art um devoid of these works of art um devoid of admiration. There's no one in the world admiration. There's no one in the world who can enjoy these works except for who can enjoy these works except for him, right? Not even his son at West who him, right? Not even his son at West who is like using a weird computer with his is like using a weird computer with his hand, you know, again, extremely hand, you know, again, extremely precious. Yes. Exactly. Like he's precious. Yes. Exactly. Like he's basically playing Minecraft, right? In basically playing Minecraft, right? In an Argal sweater. Yes. Um I find that an Argal sweater. Yes. Um I find that scene to be wildly unnerving. as scene to be wildly unnerving. as unnerving as any violent action sequence unnerving as any violent action sequence in the movie because he does something in the movie because he does something that I am guilty of which is he just that I am guilty of which is he just sort of pretends whatever's happening sort of pretends whatever's happening outside is not happening. Yeah. And that outside is not happening. Yeah. And that compartmentalization putting that in the compartmentalization putting that in the movie and showing that there are people movie and showing that there are people who could make more change but won't who could make more change but won't make more change. Even the Theo make more change. Even the Theo character is I mean he is he is starts character is I mean he is he is starts the movie you know one way and and move the movie you know one way and and move towards another moves towards another towards another moves towards another and it is really the memory of of his and it is really the memory of of his own son that impels him to do that and own son that impels him to do that and this like last idea of like a tiny bit this like last idea of like a tiny bit of hope but yeah it's what happens when of hope but yeah it's what happens when we all do that is is this we all do that is is this yeah I mean I think there's really yeah I mean I think there's really something to that I think there's really something to that I think there's really something to the urgency something to the urgency and in some ways necessity of this movie and in some ways necessity of this movie that it is kind of fearless in showing that it is kind of fearless in showing what happens if you take a back seat. what happens if you take a back seat. Now I can argue that celebrating art and Now I can argue that celebrating art and celebrating humanity on a daily basis on celebrating humanity on a daily basis on podcast is not nothing. It's a little podcast is not nothing. It's a little it's a little something. True. It's not it's a little something. True. It's not a lot. I think I Yeah. So if if you're a lot. I think I Yeah. So if if you're doing it publicly, basically doing it publicly, basically Danny Houston keeping Garica in his Danny Houston keeping Garica in his house is as to you building your own house is as to you building your own little DVD library. Just before we little DVD library. Just before we started recording, I just told you I started recording, I just told you I would lend it to you. That's true. would lend it to you. That's true. That's true. I would share the great That's true. I would share the great work. You open it up. Um well, you'll be work. You open it up. Um well, you'll be there Sunday, so maybe that will be the there Sunday, so maybe that will be the time to do it. Um time to do it. Um recommend it if you like. We probably recommend it if you like. We probably could go on and on because there is a a could go on and on because there is a a vast history of post-apocalyptic cinema. vast history of post-apocalyptic cinema. Obviously, if you like Quiron and Obviously, if you like Quiron and Quaron, who you know went on to make Quaron, who you know went on to make Gravity, which is one of the great Gravity, which is one of the great crowd-pleasers of its time. Sure. And crowd-pleasers of its time. Sure. And the Oscars celebrated that one, which the Oscars celebrated that one, which felt like a bit of a too late thing. Um, felt like a bit of a too late thing. Um, space is cool, but you know, that's it's space is cool, but you know, that's it's a good meme of Sandra Bulock. It is. a good meme of Sandra Bulock. It is. That's me at the end of every solid core That's me at the end of every solid core class floating in space or on the beach. class floating in space or on the beach. No, on the beach but laying face down. No, on the beach but laying face down. Like I actually do that and then I think Like I actually do that and then I think of that one image. So, you know, in of that one image. So, you know, in terms of image making, it stays with me. terms of image making, it stays with me. In this equation, I'm dead. George In this equation, I'm dead. George Clooney. Yeah. Yes. Most I like Gravity. Clooney. Yeah. Yes. Most I like Gravity. When I saw Gravity movie theaters, I When I saw Gravity movie theaters, I loved it. Yeah. Um, it's a movie that loved it. Yeah. Um, it's a movie that has not held up to rewatches. The has not held up to rewatches. The characterization is pretty minimal in characterization is pretty minimal in that movie. Also got to say, 90 minutes that movie. Also got to say, 90 minutes long. You're in, you're out. It is 90 long. You're in, you're out. It is 90 minutes long. Yeah. This one is under minutes long. Yeah. This one is under two hours. Thank you. It it it feels two hours. Thank you. It it it feels really tight. Children of men. Um in really tight. Children of men. Um in 2018, he made Roma, a deeply personal 2018, he made Roma, a deeply personal movie about growing up in Mexico and the movie about growing up in Mexico and the caregivers who he lived with that is a caregivers who he lived with that is a beautiful film that I think also kind of beautiful film that I think also kind of like hit us really in a deep place. Yes. like hit us really in a deep place. Yes. Um and he hasn't made a movie and made Um and he hasn't made a movie and made one series for Apple called Disclaimer one series for Apple called Disclaimer that I watched two and a half episodes. that I watched two and a half episodes. I never saw but I listened to I know I never saw but I listened to I know what the twist is. Do you know what the what the twist is. Do you know what the twist is? I don't. Uh, I sure I'm sure I twist is? I don't. Uh, I sure I'm sure I heard Chris Nandy discuss it on a heard Chris Nandy discuss it on a podcast. Yeah, that's how I learned it. podcast. Yeah, that's how I learned it. I'll tell you once we're done recording. I'll tell you once we're done recording. I can't even remember. We spoiled I can't even remember. We spoiled Children of Men, but we won't spoil. Children of Men, but we won't spoil. Disclaimer, starring Kate Blanch. Um, Disclaimer, starring Kate Blanch. Um, every artist has their journey. I make every artist has their journey. I make another movie, bro. I'm eager for Quarro another movie, bro. I'm eager for Quarro to come back to films. I think to come back to films. I think especially at a time like this, a person especially at a time like this, a person who knows how to make movies that are who knows how to make movies that are meant to be seen in theaters. All of his meant to be seen in theaters. All of his movies are I've seen all of them since movies are I've seen all of them since E2 Mama Matambia in theaters. Was E2 Mama Matambia in theaters. Was fortunate enough to see Rome at the New fortunate enough to see Rome at the New York Film Festival. Yeah. York Film Festival. Yeah. and he has an extraordinary gift for and he has an extraordinary gift for image making and pace and tone that is image making and pace and tone that is almost unmatched and he can do any kind almost unmatched and he can do any kind of movie and like we just need more of movie and like we just need more movies from him. So I I hope he makes movies from him. So I I hope he makes more movies. Uh, so in addition to his more movies. Uh, so in addition to his movies, if you love his films, I think movies, if you love his films, I think all of the sort of political dramas of all of the sort of political dramas of Costagus, um, you know, Z is the most Costagus, um, you know, Z is the most famous for sure, but we talked about famous for sure, but we talked about Missing on the 1982 movie draft with Missing on the 1982 movie draft with Tracy Le, which is a terrific movie with Tracy Le, which is a terrific movie with Jack Lemon and Space. I think Jack Lemon and Space. I think State of Siege. I think The Confession, State of Siege. I think The Confession, you know, most of his films in the 70s you know, most of his films in the 70s are excellent. You should seek those out are excellent. You should seek those out if you like this movie. if you like this movie. Um, Bladeunner. Yeah, of course. Great Um, Bladeunner. Yeah, of course. Great call. Uh, the the also a kind of preient call. Uh, the the also a kind of preient movie about a police state and um, you movie about a police state and um, you know, there's a little bit more and what know, there's a little bit more and what AI robotics and the smog is is really AI robotics and the smog is is really going. What was what year what what was going. What was what year what what was the Bladeunner year? Was it in 2019, the Bladeunner year? Was it in 2019, 2022? 2022? 2022? Bladeunner year Bladeunner year Bladeunner year 80. Oh, okay. No, that's when it was 80. Oh, okay. No, that's when it was released. 2019. 2019. Okay. It's released. 2019. 2019. Okay. It's according to AI. I didn't check it. So, according to AI. I didn't check it. So, you know, I don't usually recommend TV, you know, I don't usually recommend TV, but we actually both have TV but we actually both have TV recommendations. That's true. In this recommendations. That's true. In this list, well, my both of my list, well, my both of my recommendations were like, if you recommendations were like, if you thought that was good, then let's try thought that was good, then let's try something really good. Oh, interesting. something really good. Oh, interesting. Yeah. Um, but you know, Oh, meaning if Yeah. Um, but you know, Oh, meaning if you Oh, if you I seriously say, yeah, you Oh, if you I seriously say, yeah, these are slightly lesser then. Yeah. these are slightly lesser then. Yeah. Right. But it's like if if you they're Right. But it's like if if you they're both successful, so if you like them, both successful, so if you like them, let me really blow your mind with let me really blow your mind with Children of Men. I'm I'm I'm a fan of Children of Men. I'm I'm I'm a fan of The Leftovers. Um and I think the The Leftovers. Um and I think the leftover I don't usually recommend leftover I don't usually recommend television on this show. I think The television on this show. I think The Leftovers is I don't have the same I Leftovers is I don't have the same I don't hold it in the same esteem that I don't hold it in the same esteem that I think some of our colleagues do. I don't think some of our colleagues do. I don't think it's like you know Mina Kim's our think it's like you know Mina Kim's our friend. That's like what that's I think friend. That's like what that's I think that's our favorite show of all time. that's our favorite show of all time. Um, but there are certain things Um, but there are certain things specifically in the second season of the specifically in the second season of the show that feel very closely synced to show that feel very closely synced to this sense of like societal decay in the this sense of like societal decay in the face of an inexplicable event that face of an inexplicable event that really resonates with me. Um, the same really resonates with me. Um, the same is true of 12 Monkeys, another movie is true of 12 Monkeys, another movie that is very wildly different in tone that is very wildly different in tone but feels very similar. Um, and then I but feels very similar. Um, and then I just wanted to give a quick shout out to just wanted to give a quick shout out to Peter Watkins Punishment Park, which is Peter Watkins Punishment Park, which is completely different in style, but not completely different in style, but not different in tone. A 70s British film different in tone. A 70s British film that I think people would enjoy. That's that I think people would enjoy. That's more of me recommending a movie to more of me recommending a movie to people that fewer people have seen than people that fewer people have seen than Children of Men. What are the two that Children of Men. What are the two that you wanted to point out? So, if you wanted to point out? So, if recommended, if you like is the prompt. recommended, if you like is the prompt. So, if you thought Civil War was good, So, if you thought Civil War was good, let me show you what can really happen let me show you what can really happen when you do like some exposition and when you do like some exposition and world building that makes sense, like a world building that makes sense, like a line around bang up action sequences and line around bang up action sequences and and it's about a group of people trying and it's about a group of people trying to navigate the end of the world. Um, to navigate the end of the world. Um, very similar films. They're trying to do very similar films. They're trying to do more than take a picture. So, you know, more than take a picture. So, you know, there's that. Uh, and then The there's that. Uh, and then The Handmaid's Tale, which is a wildly Handmaid's Tale, which is a wildly popular TV show predicated on, uh, what popular TV show predicated on, uh, what happens when reproduction is the happens when reproduction is the government's business in one way or government's business in one way or another. Um, and and and the world's another. Um, and and and the world's business as large, uh, at large. And I, business as large, uh, at large. And I, you know, that show is somehow still you know, that show is somehow still going on or it just released another going on or it just released another season. I feel like they'vecliped the season. I feel like they'vecliped the novel at this point. I think theycliped novel at this point. I think theycliped the novel in like season two. But the novel in like season two. But anyway, I did watch the first season of anyway, I did watch the first season of that show. I did. I did too. I'm a big that show. I did. I did too. I'm a big Elizabeth Moss believer. As am I. I The Elizabeth Moss believer. As am I. I The needle drops in that and The Handmaid's needle drops in that and The Handmaid's Tail were a bit much for me. But again, Tail were a bit much for me. But again, if you like that, then here are some if you like that, then here are some real needle drops. Yes. The needle drops real needle drops. Yes. The needle drops in this movie. I'm just going to say in this movie. I'm just going to say superior. Yeah. Uh Children of Men is an superior. Yeah. Uh Children of Men is an all-time classic. Will we regret placing all-time classic. Will we regret placing it at 22? I don't know. it at 22? I don't know. Probably. Let's I like We could do this Probably. Let's I like We could do this whole thing with regret. What? But what whole thing with regret. What? But what if if if instead we appreciated the fact that we instead we appreciated the fact that we got to do this? I was psyched. I was got to do this? I was psyched. I was like driving into work today and I was like driving into work today and I was like, I can't wait to talk about this like, I can't wait to talk about this movie. I've been talking a lot about it. movie. I've been talking a lot about it. We both almost cried. Yeah. Yeah. Well, We both almost cried. Yeah. Yeah. Well, like we kind of did, but like we held it like we kind of did, but like we held it back. Um, back. Um, back. Um, but I was also like very excited to talk but I was also like very excited to talk about a good film. I've been talking about a good film. I've been talking about this with the people in my life, about this with the people in my life, which is really nice. and they're all which is really nice. and they're all like involved and they have notes and like involved and they have notes and they want to, you know, I did I had they want to, you know, I did I had dinner with friends last night and they dinner with friends last night and they were like, "Oh, are you sure children of were like, "Oh, are you sure children of men shouldn't be top 10?" as soon as I men shouldn't be top 10?" as soon as I told them. So, Jake, you're right. Um, told them. So, Jake, you're right. Um, and then our friend Izzy was like, "Oh, and then our friend Izzy was like, "Oh, you guys are getting really serious, you guys are getting really serious, huh?" So, it's it's fun. I like the huh?" So, it's it's fun. I like the feedback. I like that people are feedback. I like that people are involved. Uh, I like that we're doing involved. Uh, I like that we're doing this. I think um next week we'll shift this. I think um next week we'll shift the tone again for a different kind of the tone again for a different kind of film, no less deathdeying, film, no less deathdeying, but different in tone, so it won't be but different in tone, so it won't be that serious all the way through. Um I'm that serious all the way through. Um I'm looking forward to continuing on while looking forward to continuing on while living with regret every day. Uh thank living with regret every day. Uh thank you. That's what you do. Thank you. That you. That's what you do. Thank you. That is what I do. Thank you to our producer is what I do. Thank you to our producer Jack Sanders for his work on this Jack Sanders for his work on this episode. later this week, building the episode. later this week, building the Val Kilmer Hall of Fame in honor of one Val Kilmer Hall of Fame in honor of one of the uh great actors of the '9s and of the uh great actors of the '9s and 2000s who recently passed. We will see 2000s who recently passed. We will see you then.