================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: TQAXQLkilu8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TQAXQLkilu8
TITLE: The 25 Best Movies of the Century: No. 21 - ‘Mission: Impossible - Fallout’ | The Big Picture
CHANNEL: Ringer Movies
PUBLISHED: 2025-04-30
DURATION: 42m 19s
VIEWS: 25,428
LIKES: 517
COMMENTS: 190
TAGS: Movies, Film, Cinema, The Ringer, Ringer, Rewatchables, The Rewatchables, Big Pic, Big Picture, Bill Simmons

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sean and Amanda return to continue their yearlong project of listing the 25 best movies of the 21st century so far. Today, they discuss their favorite installment of the beloved Tom Cruise action franchise with ‘Mission: Impossible—Fallout’, which features some of the greatest action filmmaking of all time. They explain why this concretized director Christopher McQuarrie as a legitimate star filmmaker, explore what this film means and represents about Cruise’s movie stardom persona, and share why they went with this film instead of ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ as the official late-stage Cruise movie for the list.

Hosts: Sean Fennessey and Amanda Dobbins
Producer: Jack Sanders

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RINGER CHANNELS
The Ringer-Verse YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@ringerverse
The Bill Simmons YouTube channel: youtube.com/billsimmons

CONNECT
Shop: https://theringer.com/shop
Website: http://theringer.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ringer
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ringer
Instagram:
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 16,377

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobbins. I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobbins. And this is 25 for 25, a big picture And this is 25 for 25, a big picture special conversation show about fate special conversation show about fate whispers to the warrior. And the warrior whispers to the warrior. And the warrior whispers back. The storm is coming. I am whispers back. The storm is coming. I am the storm. Our pick today is Mission the storm. Our pick today is Mission Impossible Fallout, the sixth Impossible Fallout, the sixth installment in the franchise and a installment in the franchise and a sacred totem of this podcast. Let's talk sacred totem of this podcast. Let's talk about Mission Impossible. It's Mission about Mission Impossible. It's Mission Impossible month just about here on the Impossible month just about here on the Big Picture. I don't know that I Big Picture. I don't know that I strategized for this choice strategized for this choice specifically, but I like where it landed specifically, but I like where it landed in our tiny little bit. We did. It was in our tiny little bit. We did. It was accidentally it slid down a little bit. accidentally it slid down a little bit. And this is a marvelous movie that is And this is a marvelous movie that is written and directed by Christopher written and directed by Christopher McQuary. It of course stars Tom Cruz, McQuary. It of course stars Tom Cruz, Henry Caval, Ving Reigns, Simon Peg, Henry Caval, Ving Reigns, Simon Peg, Rebecca Ferguson, Shawn Harris, Angela Rebecca Ferguson, Shawn Harris, Angela Basset, Vanessa Kirby, Michelle Monahan, Basset, Vanessa Kirby, Michelle Monahan, and Alec Baldwin. It was released on and Alec Baldwin. It was released on July 27th, 2018. It was a birthday movie July 27th, 2018. It was a birthday movie for me, which was absolutely wonderful. for me, which was absolutely wonderful. It was, but we went together. Do you It was, but we went together. Do you remember this? Remind me. I I think I remember this? Remind me. I I think I do, but remind me. So cruel. Once again, do, but remind me. So cruel. Once again, here we are. You can remember every here we are. You can remember every single Criterion Closet pick from like, single Criterion Closet pick from like, you know, someone I've never heard of, you know, someone I've never heard of, but you don't remember our show. Yes. but you don't remember our show. Yes. So, we went I for your birthday. I got So, we went I for your birthday. I got I'm trying to remember. I guess it would I'm trying to remember. I guess it would have been Arklight Dome. Um, and we had have been Arklight Dome. Um, and we had Center Seats, which was like a little Center Seats, which was like a little bit stressful and at like 2:15 in the bit stressful and at like 2:15 in the movie because we also got beers. Uh, but movie because we also got beers. Uh, but I made it through and then we went out I made it through and then we went out to sushi dinner. It was you, me, our to sushi dinner. It was you, me, our spouses, Chris, Juliet was there. I spouses, Chris, Juliet was there. I can't remember if Phoebe was in town. I can't remember if Phoebe was in town. I remember the dinner very well because we remember the dinner very well because we ate at Matsuhisa which was extremely ate at Matsuhisa which was extremely nice. That was a very nice birthday nice. That was a very nice birthday dinner. It was a fancy birthday dinner dinner. It was a fancy birthday dinner that we had. And of course, this is a that we had. And of course, this is a shared passion of ours. And this was it shared passion of ours. And this was it fell right in between our birthdays fell right in between our birthdays really cuz this was your birthday really cuz this was your birthday weekend too essentially. And the this weekend too essentially. And the this franchise was getting long in the tooth franchise was getting long in the tooth though it also felt like it was in its though it also felt like it was in its prime at this time. This is the sixth prime at this time. This is the sixth movie that they've made out of this movie that they've made out of this franchise. franchise. franchise. and why did we choose it and why is it and why did we choose it and why is it on this list is an interesting on this list is an interesting conversation to have. We could have conversation to have. We could have chosen from all but I believe one of the chosen from all but I believe one of the Mission films. I'm not sure. Was when is Mission films. I'm not sure. Was when is Mission Impossible 2? It might have be Mission Impossible 2? It might have be just before 2000. Um so we had a bunch just before 2000. Um so we had a bunch to choose from. 2000. 2000. Okay. So we to choose from. 2000. 2000. Okay. So we had five potential choices here. No, six had five potential choices here. No, six potential choices including Dead potential choices including Dead Reckoning. Reckoning. Reckoning. Why did we choose Fallout when you think Why did we choose Fallout when you think about this movie? What is it that about this movie? What is it that resonates for you for the century? I resonates for you for the century? I mean, it wasn't a question, right? This mean, it wasn't a question, right? This is when the Mission Impossible project is when the Mission Impossible project and really like the latestage Mission and really like the latestage Mission Impossible project really comes Impossible project really comes together. It's the signature movie of together. It's the signature movie of the franchise. I would say it is when the franchise. I would say it is when late period Tom late period Tom Cruz really reinvents himself and you Cruz really reinvents himself and you kind of you see all the pieces come kind of you see all the pieces come together and you're like, "Oh, I see together and you're like, "Oh, I see what you're doing here." And it's not what you're doing here." And it's not what you were doing in the '9s. And it what you were doing in the '9s. And it it's pretty weird. And we've come to a it's pretty weird. And we've come to a different place from the movie star that different place from the movie star that we know and love, but like jump out of we know and love, but like jump out of planes. Got it. And in that Halo jump, planes. Got it. And in that Halo jump, which you know there are a lot of which you know there are a lot of signature stunts and like we can argue signature stunts and like we can argue about it, but this has become the about it, but this has become the shorthand for what Tom Cruz is doing shorthand for what Tom Cruz is doing now, what latestage movie stardom is now, what latestage movie stardom is like, what practical action um can be like, what practical action um can be even now in the age of CGI. even now in the age of CGI. and the the good parts of franchise and the the good parts of franchise entertainment, right? Like the best entertainment, right? Like the best version of this serialized installment. version of this serialized installment. We've been doing this for 30 years now. We've been doing this for 30 years now. Uh we're selling you on some big like Uh we're selling you on some big like corporate enterprise, but also it's corporate enterprise, but also it's wellmade. It's well acted. It is really wellmade. It's well acted. It is really like overcommitted. Uh but you're along like overcommitted. Uh but you're along for the ride and we all love it. Yeah. I for the ride and we all love it. Yeah. I think another reason why I really love think another reason why I really love this movie in particular and feel like this movie in particular and feel like it sets that new course for Cruz that it sets that new course for Cruz that you're talking about is because it's you're talking about is because it's probably the funniest of all the Mission probably the funniest of all the Mission Impossible movies. It is the one that Impossible movies. It is the one that introduces the idea of Ethan Hunt as introduces the idea of Ethan Hunt as like a real slapstick physical comedian. like a real slapstick physical comedian. He has moments where he is in peril that He has moments where he is in peril that are funny in the in a couple of the are funny in the in a couple of the previous films, but this one really previous films, but this one really leans into that. But then secondarily, I leans into that. But then secondarily, I feel like it is actually legitimately feel like it is actually legitimately the first psychologically probing the first psychologically probing Mission movie since the first movie. The Mission movie since the first movie. The first movie is a movie where a guy first movie is a movie where a guy thinks he has everything under control. thinks he has everything under control. He has his team and then his team is He has his team and then his team is murdered in the first 20 minutes of the murdered in the first 20 minutes of the movie and you find him going through movie and you find him going through this really like this trauma search to this really like this trauma search to figure out what happened to all these figure out what happened to all these people that he cares about and then people that he cares about and then comes to find out that his mentor has comes to find out that his mentor has betrayed him deeply. Deep spoilers for betrayed him deeply. Deep spoilers for Brian Dealma's Mission Impossible 1996. Brian Dealma's Mission Impossible 1996. It's a 29year-old movie. Um if you're It's a 29year-old movie. Um if you're listening to this episode, definitely listening to this episode, definitely check out the original Mission check out the original Mission Impossible. It's an excellent film. Uh Impossible. It's an excellent film. Uh that is my second favorite Mission that is my second favorite Mission movie. This is my favorite. And I think movie. This is my favorite. And I think not just that slapstick and that not just that slapstick and that psychology, but a portal into maybe how psychology, but a portal into maybe how Cruz thinks about his movie star persona Cruz thinks about his movie star persona while being trapped in this era where he while being trapped in this era where he knows that this is maybe the only real knows that this is maybe the only real place where he can stay on top of the place where he can stay on top of the heat. You know that there is this slight heat. You know that there is this slight sense of sweaty desperation on his movie sense of sweaty desperation on his movie star persona where a lot of the things star persona where a lot of the things that he was doing in the past have not that he was doing in the past have not been working in the recent past. And if been working in the recent past. And if you look at the movies that are around you look at the movies that are around this time, you know, Oblivion, Lions for this time, you know, Oblivion, Lions for Lambs, uh, American Made, a lot of Night Lambs, uh, American Made, a lot of Night and Day, a lot of those films, night and and Day, a lot of those films, night and day. Wow. On the surface look like they day. Wow. On the surface look like they should be classic Tom Cruz vehicles, and should be classic Tom Cruz vehicles, and none of them really quite get there. none of them really quite get there. Some of them are out now bad. And, you Some of them are out now bad. And, you know, that he is clinging to Ethan Hunt know, that he is clinging to Ethan Hunt for dear life the same way he clings to, for dear life the same way he clings to, you know, the the the edges of a you know, the the the edges of a helicopter to survive. And that gives helicopter to survive. And that gives the movie like an added weight, I think. the movie like an added weight, I think. Totally. You and I, I think, differ a Totally. You and I, I think, differ a little bit on how much authorship we little bit on how much authorship we attribute and and and self-awareness to attribute and and and self-awareness to Tom Cruz himself versus Christopher Tom Cruz himself versus Christopher McQuary, who wrote and directed this McQuary, who wrote and directed this film and has become like Tom Cruz's um film and has become like Tom Cruz's um like Sherpa, you know, exactly for for like Sherpa, you know, exactly for for lack of a better word, through this. and lack of a better word, through this. and you know they worked together on a few you know they worked together on a few projects before this and and I would say projects before this and and I would say the Tom Cruz films of the era that we the Tom Cruz films of the era that we actually like at least um but this is actually like at least um but this is like where he really takes the wheel. like where he really takes the wheel. Yes. Um, and I do think also, you know, Yes. Um, and I do think also, you know, obviously knows how to write a movie, obviously knows how to write a movie, but has an understanding of both what but has an understanding of both what like Cruz can do and also um that movie like Cruz can do and also um that movie star persona and how to make it work and star persona and how to make it work and how to bring out the best in the new Tom how to bring out the best in the new Tom Cruz. I totally agree with you. Um, I Cruz. I totally agree with you. Um, I think this is the apotheiois of the think this is the apotheiois of the franchise in this period of time of franchise in this period of time of franchise film making. And I think that franchise film making. And I think that point about McCory is interesting point about McCory is interesting because if you talk to McCory, I talked because if you talk to McCory, I talked to him on this show for Fallout uh which to him on this show for Fallout uh which I guess is seven years ago now. And if I guess is seven years ago now. And if you read uh interviews with him or you you read uh interviews with him or you listen to him talk about movies and listen to him talk about movies and movie craft and storytelling and he movie craft and storytelling and he started as a screenwriter, not as a started as a screenwriter, not as a director, won an Academy Award in his director, won an Academy Award in his 20s for The Usual Suspects. He's really 20s for The Usual Suspects. He's really interested in mechanics and he's really interested in mechanics and he's really interested in tone. And the tone that he interested in tone. And the tone that he favors is adventure movies. And I think favors is adventure movies. And I think like we think of Mission Impossible and like we think of Mission Impossible and we think of the stunts that we see with we think of the stunts that we see with Tom Cruz and we think of action and Tom Cruz and we think of action and action franchises and that this is a action franchises and that this is a movie that lives alongside the Fast and movie that lives alongside the Fast and the Furious and Jurassic World and this the Furious and Jurassic World and this those are sort of its contemporaries. those are sort of its contemporaries. Spoiler alert, Jurassic World and Fast Spoiler alert, Jurassic World and Fast and Furious. F5 did not make our list. and Furious. F5 did not make our list. Not on the list. I can assure you those Not on the list. I can assure you those movies are not on the list. But this movies are not on the list. But this movie I really see more in a lineage of movie I really see more in a lineage of the adventure movies that McQuary likes the adventure movies that McQuary likes to talk about. So, the movies that you to talk about. So, the movies that you hear him site all the time are like The hear him site all the time are like The Bridge on the River Quai, The Three Bridge on the River Quai, The Three Musketeers, Raiders of the Lost Arc. I Musketeers, Raiders of the Lost Arc. I think these are movies that he's framing think these are movies that he's framing them on, but it goes all the way back to them on, but it goes all the way back to like, you know, um, The Adventures of like, you know, um, The Adventures of Robin Hood or The Great Escape. He sees, Robin Hood or The Great Escape. He sees, I think, Cruz in the mold of a Steve I think, Cruz in the mold of a Steve McQueen kind of figure. And you could McQueen kind of figure. And you could make the case that these are the best make the case that these are the best movies. Like, these are the best kinds movies. Like, these are the best kinds of movies when executed well. You know, of movies when executed well. You know, like there are obviously going to be the like there are obviously going to be the the Wizard of Oz and Casablanca have the Wizard of Oz and Casablanca have something to say about what is the best something to say about what is the best kind of movie, whether it be fantasy or kind of movie, whether it be fantasy or romance, but in terms of crowd-pleasing romance, but in terms of crowd-pleasing mainstream film, mainstream film, mainstream film, when you get one of these right, Yeah. when you get one of these right, Yeah. There is nothing better. Yeah. You go to There is nothing better. Yeah. You go to see someone you're rooting for do see someone you're rooting for do impossible things and win the day. Yes. impossible things and win the day. Yes. And and and do it sincerely. Sinc Exact. And and and do it sincerely. Sinc Exact. Sincerely, but with a sense of humor, Sincerely, but with a sense of humor, which is the that is the that's the which is the that is the that's the center piece of the target. These are center piece of the target. These are really these are like earnest and like I really these are like earnest and like I said like overcommitted movies like Tom said like overcommitted movies like Tom Cruz is just is is like doing these Cruz is just is is like doing these stunts all of the time and landing in stunts all of the time and landing in old ladies like backyards in London, old ladies like backyards in London, right? He is given his life over to this right? He is given his life over to this but they're never winking, right? They but they're never winking, right? They don't take on this like glib tone that don't take on this like glib tone that so many action movies of the last 20 to so many action movies of the last 20 to 25 years they are they like they mean it 25 years they are they like they mean it but they're also having fun 100%. So, but they're also having fun 100%. So, this film comes three years after Rogue this film comes three years after Rogue Nation, which is the first McQuary film. Nation, which is the first McQuary film. And the film that precedes that film is And the film that precedes that film is uh Ghost Protocol, which is Brad Bird's uh Ghost Protocol, which is Brad Bird's entry in the franchise, which I think is entry in the franchise, which I think is an important movie, somewhat flawed an important movie, somewhat flawed movie. Some people that are listening to movie. Some people that are listening to this episode right now might say, this episode right now might say, "Actually, Ghost Protocol is my "Actually, Ghost Protocol is my favorite, or actually Rogue Nation is my favorite, or actually Rogue Nation is my favorite." I think that these three are favorite." I think that these three are kind of in a battle. There's a lesser kind of in a battle. There's a lesser group of people who love three. You and group of people who love three. You and I are a little bit more down on three I are a little bit more down on three than than the consensus. Shout out than than the consensus. Shout out Bobby. Especially at the ringer. Bobby Bobby. Especially at the ringer. Bobby loves three. CR loves three. I think loves three. CR loves three. I think Bill Simmons loves three. Um, three is a Bill Simmons loves three. Um, three is a little bit too JJ TV show for me little bit too JJ TV show for me personally. But it's interesting because personally. But it's interesting because three is very very important to this three is very very important to this movie because Three introduces the movie because Three introduces the Michelle Monahan character and the idea Michelle Monahan character and the idea of Ethan Hunt as a regular person. And of Ethan Hunt as a regular person. And if we didn't have that movie, we would if we didn't have that movie, we would not have the depth of this movie. People not have the depth of this movie. People might be laughing listening to me say might be laughing listening to me say that I think that this movie has a lot that I think that this movie has a lot of depth, but I do think it has a lot of of depth, but I do think it has a lot of depth because it is the first movie in depth because it is the first movie in the franchise that spends a lot of time the franchise that spends a lot of time kind of obsessing over Ethan's mortality kind of obsessing over Ethan's mortality and what he's done to other people, and what he's done to other people, right? Which I think is like now right? Which I think is like now McCrory's critical obsession with the McCrory's critical obsession with the with the story. Now we see we have not with the story. Now we see we have not yet seen the final reckoning. We're yet seen the final reckoning. We're recording this just a week before we get recording this just a week before we get a chance to see. Yeah. But we do know a chance to see. Yeah. But we do know that the entire campaign is centered that the entire campaign is centered around that. I'm asking you to trust me around that. I'm asking you to trust me one last time quote which brought both one last time quote which brought both of us to tears in the theater. It truly of us to tears in the theater. It truly did. Um and so I think it is all of the did. Um and so I think it is all of the movies matter to the story in a way that movies matter to the story in a way that I never would have expected even when I I never would have expected even when I was watching Rogue Nation which I was watching Rogue Nation which I thought was a super cool movie. thought was a super cool movie. Introduced us to Rebecca Ferguson's Introduced us to Rebecca Ferguson's character Ilsa who I think kind of character Ilsa who I think kind of supercharged the franchise in a in a few supercharged the franchise in a in a few ways. That's the one where he's hanging ways. That's the one where he's hanging off the plane at the beginning. Correct. off the plane at the beginning. Correct. Yeah. I mean good one. I think a lot of Yeah. I mean good one. I think a lot of these movies are best remembered for these movies are best remembered for those stunt sequences that you're those stunt sequences that you're talking about. I've got six allworld talking about. I've got six allworld sequences. One, two, three, four. Yeah. sequences. One, two, three, four. Yeah. Well, I added one of them. You had five. Well, I added one of them. You had five. I had five and you've added one of them. I had five and you've added one of them. Yeah. You mentioned the Halo jump. Yeah. Yeah. You mentioned the Halo jump. Yeah. Which is not the first action sequence Which is not the first action sequence of the film, I suppose, because there is of the film, I suppose, because there is a kind of shootout in a tunnel for three a kind of shootout in a tunnel for three nuclear warheads, but um plutonium. nuclear warheads, but um plutonium. Yeah. Yes. Uh, but I I don't I don't Yeah. Yes. Uh, but I I don't I don't view that as a set piece. It is action view that as a set piece. It is action that is also putting together exposition that is also putting together exposition and and setting up the story. But I like and and setting up the story. But I like I agree. The Halo jump after we are I agree. The Halo jump after we are introduced to Henry Cavl's character introduced to Henry Cavl's character Walker in which they both leap onto what Walker in which they both leap onto what is the building that they are leaping is the building that they are leaping onto in Paris? It's the Pal Royale. onto in Paris? It's the Pal Royale. Okay. Right. Uh, that sounds right. And Okay. Right. Uh, that sounds right. And you wrote it down in the document, but you wrote it down in the document, but it is. It's the Pal Royale, which I it is. It's the Pal Royale, which I think was built at some point as like think was built at some point as like it's Paris's version of a like it's Paris's version of a like convention center, you know. Oh, that's convention center, you know. Oh, that's significantly nicer than the Javit significantly nicer than the Javit Center. I mean, I think it's like, you Center. I mean, I think it's like, you know, like 250 years old and other I know, like 250 years old and other I like I could be wrong. Also, pale means like I could be wrong. Also, pale means palace, so I assume at some point palace, so I assume at some point someone fancy was living in there, but someone fancy was living in there, but now interesting like exhibitions and now interesting like exhibitions and things are there. That sequence in things are there. That sequence in particular is great because we watch particular is great because we watch Ethan get bullied by Walker and we see Ethan get bullied by Walker and we see that the dynamic between these two guys that the dynamic between these two guys is going to be a pretty fascinating is going to be a pretty fascinating cruise. then eventually of course saves cruise. then eventually of course saves Walker and but Walker doesn't realize Walker and but Walker doesn't realize that he's been saved by or does he that he's been saved by or does he realize that he's been saved by Ethan realize that he's been saved by Ethan Hunt at this point of the film if you've Hunt at this point of the film if you've never seen it I don't know what the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] never seen it I don't know what the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you're doing um you're doing um do you when you re look at this movie do you when you re look at this movie and you know that the role that Walker and you know that the role that Walker eventually plays right which is that he eventually plays right which is that he is ultimately the heavy of the film he is ultimately the heavy of the film he is the the John Lark character who was is the the John Lark character who was identified as the target in that early identified as the target in that early mission delivery do any of the decisions mission delivery do any of the decisions as to how the missions are executed as to how the missions are executed leave you scratching your at all. I leave you scratching your at all. I don't want to pick too many nits on don't want to pick too many nits on Fallout, but Walker is going to some Fallout, but Walker is going to some great lengths to get closer to what I I great lengths to get closer to what I I would say that the Walker Angela Basset would say that the Walker Angela Basset plot lines, which in some ways are like plot lines, which in some ways are like a classic double cross and and other a classic double cross and and other ways are like what the hell is going on? ways are like what the hell is going on? You know, I I I would say that logic is You know, I I I would say that logic is not the primary goal of that particular not the primary goal of that particular setup. So, let's talk about suspension setup. So, let's talk about suspension of disbelief. Yeah. Because a lot of of disbelief. Yeah. Because a lot of times we'll record an episode of the times we'll record an episode of the show about a new big budget movie and I show about a new big budget movie and I at least I can say will be like, "What at least I can say will be like, "What the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] was this?" Like, "How could the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] was this?" Like, "How could this happen?" I And maybe it's because I this happen?" I And maybe it's because I can't get emotionally invested in what's can't get emotionally invested in what's happening in the story. So, logic takes happening in the story. So, logic takes over. Yeah. And I start thinking through over. Yeah. And I start thinking through the problem of the plotting. Yeah. I the problem of the plotting. Yeah. I very rarely have that issue in this very rarely have that issue in this franchise. Now, obviously, I have a big franchise. Now, obviously, I have a big Tom Cruz blind spot. I have a mission Tom Cruz blind spot. I have a mission blind spot. But what do you think it is blind spot. But what do you think it is about the movies that allows us to just about the movies that allows us to just say, "Yeah, John Lark is going to jump say, "Yeah, John Lark is going to jump out of a plane now just cuz he's got to out of a plane now just cuz he's got to get into the Pallet Royale and fight a get into the Pallet Royale and fight a guy in a bathroom." But they do a good guy in a bathroom." But they do a good job of job of job of setting the stakes or even the the setting the stakes or even the the suspension of disbelief and the suspension of disbelief and the theatricality of everything that's going theatricality of everything that's going on like very early on. I mean, there is on like very early on. I mean, there is the classic the classic the classic setup in each of these movies where your setup in each of these movies where your mission, should you choose to accept it, mission, should you choose to accept it, and I just want to note, if you don't and I just want to note, if you don't remember, that uh Ethan's mission in remember, that uh Ethan's mission in this film is delivered in literally a this film is delivered in literally a copy of Homer's Odyssey, which is just copy of Homer's Odyssey, which is just really funny. And also like, hello, really funny. And also like, hello, Christopher Nolan. But, um, we've talked Christopher Nolan. But, um, we've talked before about the relationship between before about the relationship between Nolan and the Mission movies and that Nolan and the Mission movies and that they are trying to one up each other they are trying to one up each other every time. This was a big leveling up every time. This was a big leveling up and I don't think we get tenant if not and I don't think we get tenant if not for this movie. Totally. But so your for this movie. Totally. But so your mission should you choose to accept it mission should you choose to accept it and then there is just a a huge dialogue and then there is just a a huge dialogue or you know exposition dump that is or you know exposition dump that is always like a little bit ridiculous and always like a little bit ridiculous and a little bit it's usually made up. I a little bit it's usually made up. I mean sometimes it's like Russian mob or mean sometimes it's like Russian mob or something. They're not afraid of certain something. They're not afraid of certain geopolitical hotspots. geopolitical hotspots. geopolitical hotspots. Um, this one is particularly high level Um, this one is particularly high level because it is about anarchy essentially because it is about anarchy essentially about disassembling the world order, but about disassembling the world order, but but there is something it like they're but there is something it like they're real but not real. It's not particularly real but not real. It's not particularly grounded. And then within 20 minutes grounded. And then within 20 minutes like a mask shows up and you're like, like a mask shows up and you're like, "Oh, okay. So the the rules of this "Oh, okay. So the the rules of this world and of this franchise are world and of this franchise are um larger than life, right? There is um larger than life, right? There is there is something where you're either there is something where you're either like you know masks can't be put on and like you know masks can't be put on and revealed like we don't have this revealed like we don't have this technology yet you know the wolf lits a technology yet you know the wolf lits a reveal fairly early in the film which is reveal fairly early in the film which is such a magnificent scene so fun when such a magnificent scene so fun when Neil's Delbrook the scientist who they Neil's Delbrook the scientist who they capture to then try to get closer to capture to then try to get closer to John Lark right before this Halo jump John Lark right before this Halo jump sequence. Um, it's a defining silliness sequence. Um, it's a defining silliness that I think aids my comfort with some that I think aids my comfort with some of the strange plotting. It's It's of the strange plotting. It's It's silliness, but also like a little clever silliness, but also like a little clever and you're just and and it gets you on and you're just and and it gets you on their side. Like you you you don't their side. Like you you you don't believe it, but you're along you buy in. believe it, but you're along you buy in. And if you don't buy in, then this is And if you don't buy in, then this is like just not the movie for you and you like just not the movie for you and you should get up right now. I fully should get up right now. I fully agree. The bathroom fight. Sure. very agree. The bathroom fight. Sure. very young which comes after they have landed young which comes after they have landed post Halo Jump and post Halo Jump and to me that is cinema is cinema to me to me that is cinema is cinema to me that fight is makes me as as excited as that fight is makes me as as excited as I get at the movies and really good I get at the movies and really good screw ball moments from Cruz within it screw ball moments from Cruz within it where he's kind of roaming around in where he's kind of roaming around in between like whacking people with stuff between like whacking people with stuff and playing the older and weaker guy I and playing the older and weaker guy I mean he takes some real blows and he mean he takes some real blows and he kind of like starts developing I think kind of like starts developing I think this particular tick edge of tomorrow this particular tick edge of tomorrow where he gets killed over and over and where he gets killed over and over and over and and he very smartly realizes over and and he very smartly realizes that to win he doesn't have to be the that to win he doesn't have to be the strongest and coolest guy all the time. strongest and coolest guy all the time. He takes some absolute shots from the He takes some absolute shots from the supposed John Lark standin in this supposed John Lark standin in this figure who's an amazing stunt performer figure who's an amazing stunt performer who's been appeared in a number of who's been appeared in a number of movies. Um but that battle between him movies. Um but that battle between him and Walker and Ethan Hunt and Walker and Ethan Hunt is exquisite choreography. Yeah. All is exquisite choreography. Yeah. All practical. All shot against the practical. All shot against the glimmering white of that bathroom. The glimmering white of that bathroom. The set design is A+ phenomenal and it is set design is A+ phenomenal and it is and and moments of humor too like the and and moments of humor too like the the French guys drunk guys just singing the French guys drunk guys just singing love vian rose for whatever reason which love vian rose for whatever reason which is the funniest like we're in France is the funniest like we're in France guys and then also um you know when guys and then also um you know when Walker is like hope isn't a strategy and Walker is like hope isn't a strategy and Rebecca Ferguson's character is like you Rebecca Ferguson's character is like you must be new. Yeah, exactly. Um, it's a must be new. Yeah, exactly. Um, it's a franchise that like knows who it is, franchise that like knows who it is, knows what it is, and and even when you, knows what it is, and and even when you, you know, there I think there's a little you know, there I think there's a little bit of John Wick inspo going on in this bit of John Wick inspo going on in this sequence, too, where this is probably sequence, too, where this is probably maybe short of some of the John Woo maybe short of some of the John Woo stuff, the best pure fight scene in all stuff, the best pure fight scene in all of these movies. And that eventually of these movies. And that eventually leads very quickly, I mean, this all leads very quickly, I mean, this all happens in a very tight succession, happens in a very tight succession, these three sequences, but very quickly these three sequences, but very quickly to this kind of gayla shootout, stabbing to this kind of gayla shootout, stabbing fight when we're introduced to the White fight when we're introduced to the White Widow, the Vanessa Kirby character. And Widow, the Vanessa Kirby character. And I bring brought up the first film and I bring brought up the first film and the emotionality and the connectivity the emotionality and the connectivity because of course this character Alana because of course this character Alana Mopoulos is the daughter of Max who is Mopoulos is the daughter of Max who is portrayed by is it Vanessa Redgrave? portrayed by is it Vanessa Redgrave? Vanessa Redgrave in the first film and Vanessa Redgrave in the first film and she also is a kind of um connective she also is a kind of um connective tissue in the criminal underworld. tissue in the criminal underworld. Someone who is constantly seeking and Someone who is constantly seeking and redistributing awful information to bad redistributing awful information to bad people. Uh Vanessa Kirby lights out people. Uh Vanessa Kirby lights out performance. Yeah, definitely. I'm performance. Yeah, definitely. I'm trying to not say something trying to not say something inappropriate. No, but it's it's really inappropriate. No, but it's it's really really powerful and and she's playing really powerful and and she's playing into it and they just let her have fun. into it and they just let her have fun. It's really the Tom Cruz playing It's really the Tom Cruz playing opposite her is great because he doesn't opposite her is great because he doesn't always respond to the person opposite always respond to the person opposite him. Yes. and he is definitely seeing him. Yes. and he is definitely seeing what's going on and is like kind of what's going on and is like kind of amused by it and is also just hanging in amused by it and is also just hanging in which there's something I assume this which there's something I assume this was written into the script. Maybe it was written into the script. Maybe it was a choice that Kirby made. But every was a choice that Kirby made. But every time Tom Cruz posing as John Lark does time Tom Cruz posing as John Lark does something incredibly devious and something incredibly devious and violent, Alana gets really turned on and violent, Alana gets really turned on and you can see it in Vanessa's face. She's you can see it in Vanessa's face. She's like so twitchy and like, "Oh wow, I like so twitchy and like, "Oh wow, I didn't know you would go to that didn't know you would go to that terrible place." That is just a great terrible place." That is just a great choice. And I think that kind of choice. And I think that kind of elevates some of that weird muted elevates some of that weird muted sexuality that Cruz like he's kind of sexuality that Cruz like he's kind of lost the ability to be like we're going lost the ability to be like we're going to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] now. Like he just can't do it to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] now. Like he just can't do it anymore. He's just been in too many anymore. He's just been in too many movies and it's too strange a person. movies and it's too strange a person. But when you get the right performer, But when you get the right performer, Haley Atwell, I think does this very Haley Atwell, I think does this very well with him as well. Um and and well with him as well. Um and and they're very good in these movies at they're very good in these movies at locating who can give him that energy. locating who can give him that energy. She's fabulous and she also fits very She's fabulous and she also fits very well, I think, with some of the well, I think, with some of the physicality of this part of the moment physicality of this part of the moment when she, you know, removes the knife when she, you know, removes the knife from her leg holster, her thigh holster, from her leg holster, her thigh holster, and they're stabbing people together and and they're stabbing people together and that that this is really the sex scene that that this is really the sex scene of this movie. Um, I don't know anything of this movie. Um, I don't know anything else but the Gayla shootout. else but the Gayla shootout. She's just she's very funny in it, too. She's just she's very funny in it, too. you know, like there is and even the you know, like there is and even the next scene when they're they're doing next scene when they're they're doing the plans for the Solomon Lane the plans for the Solomon Lane extraction, you don't really know where extraction, you don't really know where she's she's gonna go and you don't she's she's she's gonna go and you don't she's playing off of like the dumb brother and playing off of like the dumb brother and Walker and something. It's she's pretty Walker and something. It's she's pretty extraordinary. She's wonderful in this extraordinary. She's wonderful in this movie. They eventually do plan an movie. They eventually do plan an extraction of Solomon Lane who is the extraction of Solomon Lane who is the villain from the previous film portrayed villain from the previous film portrayed by Shawn Harris. We first see him at the by Shawn Harris. We first see him at the top of the movie in a dream that Ethan top of the movie in a dream that Ethan has in which he is the uh wedding has in which he is the uh wedding officient for his marriage before a officient for his marriage before a nuclear disaster to Michelle Monahan's nuclear disaster to Michelle Monahan's character um Julia in a dream. character um Julia in a dream. Solomon Solomon Solomon Lane. Is Solomon Lane the best villain Lane. Is Solomon Lane the best villain in these movies? in these movies? Yeah. Is Caval a better villain? Yeah. Is Caval a better villain? Well, Well, Well, Caval's better at what he's doing. Um, Caval's better at what he's doing. Um, which is being along for the ride until which is being along for the ride until he's not. Um, yeah, but he doesn't spend he's not. Um, yeah, but he doesn't spend a lot of time in villain mode in this a lot of time in villain mode in this and like what he's actually the parts and like what he's actually the parts when he's in villain mode, he's just when he's in villain mode, he's just like throwing helicopters around. So, like throwing helicopters around. So, which I mean which he's very good at. I which I mean which he's very good at. I find the I think the best performance find the I think the best performance pretty clearly is Philip Seymour Hoffman pretty clearly is Philip Seymour Hoffman in three but I don't have some questions in three but I don't have some questions about that character about the rabbit's about that character about the rabbit's foot about all the kind of chicannery in foot about all the kind of chicannery in that movie um Owen Davian is that that movie um Owen Davian is that character's name the extraction is a character's name the extraction is a very cool sequence because it is um an very cool sequence because it is um an expectation subverter you know it does expectation subverter you know it does feel like a sequence out of the great feel like a sequence out of the great escape where you think things are going escape where you think things are going to go one way and they go the complete to go one way and they go the complete opposite way everyone know one knows opposite way everyone know one knows what's going on except for the two leads what's going on except for the two leads of the movie which and brings us to this of the movie which and brings us to this moment moment moment of Ethan Hunt morality in which he saves of Ethan Hunt morality in which he saves the life of a French police officer and the life of a French police officer and murders nine goons. Uh murders nine goons. Uh that I'm trying to figure out like what that I'm trying to figure out like what this still means to Cruz that Ethan like this still means to Cruz that Ethan like what what his code is. will only well what what his code is. will only well there's a whole theme there's a whole theme in this movie about how he's like the in this movie about how he's like the type of guy who will like save one in type of guy who will like save one in instead of the millions and that's his instead of the millions and that's his flaw but Alec Baldwin gives that whole flaw but Alec Baldwin gives that whole speech about but it's actually what speech about but it's actually what makes you important to me incredible makes you important to me incredible Alec Baldwin yelling in airplane hangers Alec Baldwin yelling in airplane hangers movie. Yeah. Um I would like to do a movie. Yeah. Um I would like to do a dramatic reading of that sequence if you dramatic reading of that sequence if you don't mind. You had a terrible choice to don't mind. You had a terrible choice to make in Berlin. Recover the plutonium or make in Berlin. Recover the plutonium or save your team. You chose your team and save your team. You chose your team and now the world's at risk. Some flaw deep now the world's at risk. Some flaw deep within your core being simply won't within your core being simply won't allow you to choose between one life and allow you to choose between one life and millions. You see that as a sign of millions. You see that as a sign of weakness. To me, that's your greatest weakness. To me, that's your greatest strength. He that also like basically is strength. He that also like basically is the line delivery. He's just like the line delivery. He's just like yelling rapidly like very angrily, yelling rapidly like very angrily, intensely, but also like no breaks intensely, but also like no breaks between sentences. It explain he he uses between sentences. It explain he he uses this as an explanation of why he this as an explanation of why he basically took a demotion to work with basically took a demotion to work with Ethan Hunt, which is like that's every Ethan Hunt, which is like that's every director t making a choice to work with director t making a choice to work with Tom Cruz. Like there's so much self- Tom Cruz. Like there's so much self- mythologizing going on in the Ethan Hunt mythologizing going on in the Ethan Hunt character and that's why that like you character and that's why that like you choose um one over millions and you choose um one over millions and you don't really know how to manage your don't really know how to manage your emotional personal life and I you know I emotional personal life and I you know I have some strong feelings about why this have some strong feelings about why this movie is the way that it is that you've movie is the way that it is that you've been encouraging me to share. I'm trying been encouraging me to share. I'm trying to figure out how what's the best way to to figure out how what's the best way to share it on this podcast. You think that share it on this podcast. You think that it reflects some like well publicized it reflects some like well publicized events in Tom Cruz's personal life. I events in Tom Cruz's personal life. I do. I think it's an I think it's an do. I think it's an apology to someone in his life because apology to someone in his life because especially as the film goes on and we especially as the film goes on and we see that Julia actually does enter this see that Julia actually does enter this story and Ethan cannot stop apologizing story and Ethan cannot stop apologizing to Julia. He just says, "I'm so sorry. to Julia. He just says, "I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry." And we know I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry." And we know that he's apologizing for I mean, she is that he's apologizing for I mean, she is like in mortal danger. She has like once like in mortal danger. She has like once again she has been given like her own again she has been given like her own doctors without borders camp just doctors without borders camp just basically in order to set up world basically in order to set up world destruction. Not ideal. Not not ideal. destruction. Not ideal. Not not ideal. She she got kind of duped pretty hard on She she got kind of duped pretty hard on that one. And that was obviously a that one. And that was obviously a honeypot for Ethan. It is like a little honeypot for Ethan. It is like a little bit like call someone calls up and is bit like call someone calls up and is like I just want to send you two to this like I just want to send you two to this particular place. Like do ask some particular place. Like do ask some questions. But, you know, but if someone questions. But, you know, but if someone called you and was like, I want to send called you and was like, I want to send you to movie paradise in Europe for 2 you to movie paradise in Europe for 2 weeks, you and you and Zach, you weeks, you and you and Zach, you wouldn't you be like, "Sounds good. I'm wouldn't you be like, "Sounds good. I'm in." I don't know. It's like we're in in." I don't know. It's like we're in the era of like too many spam phone the era of like too many spam phone calls and scams. You know, like anyone calls and scams. You know, like anyone who's just coming to you with, you know, who's just coming to you with, you know, there's no free lunch. So, I don't know. there's no free lunch. So, I don't know. a rando just being like I mean I'm sure a rando just being like I mean I'm sure that you know Lane built out this ask that you know Lane built out this ask with a lot of shell companies and you with a lot of shell companies and you could trace back the email addresses or could trace back the email addresses or whatever and had people on retainer. I whatever and had people on retainer. I suspect that's true. So you know if the suspect that's true. So you know if the can film festival is calling me can film festival is calling me themselves if it's Thierry and he's like themselves if it's Thierry and he's like hey come on over sure then I guess I hey come on over sure then I guess I would do it. But I do would do it. But I do think I, you know, we got to ask think I, you know, we got to ask questions. That would be another questions. That would be another nitpick. nitpick. nitpick. That's not something that Ethan does That's not something that Ethan does very well. You know, he's a man of very well. You know, he's a man of action. He likes to get down to it. He action. He likes to get down to it. He knows he's always going to have Luther knows he's always going to have Luther and uh Simon Peg's character at his side and uh Simon Peg's character at his side no matter what. I think this film also no matter what. I think this film also kind of concretizes that that is the kind of concretizes that that is the core team. And Rebecca Ferguson core team. And Rebecca Ferguson eventually reintroduces herself into eventually reintroduces herself into this story. And we see that like for this story. And we see that like for this little stretch of the series, this this little stretch of the series, this is the defining unit. These are the is the defining unit. These are the people who execute on the missions and people who execute on the missions and they are the people who Ethan is they are the people who Ethan is ultimately most loyal to in addition to ultimately most loyal to in addition to Julia. Um the final two action set Julia. Um the final two action set pieces that we were talking through you pieces that we were talking through you added the London chase sequence. Yeah. added the London chase sequence. Yeah. Which does feature the signature move Which does feature the signature move which is what right Tom Cruz running which is what right Tom Cruz running just like running over many bridges just like running over many bridges throughout London at top speed and you throughout London at top speed and you just get these like beautiful panoramic just get these like beautiful panoramic shots. That is also it. It was that shots. That is also it. It was that sequence where he injured himself and sequence where he injured himself and they had to pause for however many weeks they had to pause for however many weeks because one of the one of the because one of the jumps didn't really land the way it was jumps didn't really land the way it was supposed to. There's one extraordinary supposed to. There's one extraordinary jump sequence where he lands and he is jump sequence where he lands and he is hanging right off the edge of the hanging right off the edge of the building that is one I think in part building that is one I think in part because of the way that the camera zooms because of the way that the camera zooms in as he lands and the sound design on in as he lands and the sound design on that sequence. It really feels like he that sequence. It really feels like he has yeah just sacrificed his life. It has yeah just sacrificed his life. It really does. And it's silly to say that really does. And it's silly to say that because we see all this behind the because we see all this behind the scenes featurettes about the stunt work scenes featurettes about the stunt work in these films, but I remember watching in these films, but I remember watching that movie in real time and thinking that movie in real time and thinking like that's not he's going to die, he's like that's not he's going to die, he's going to fall. That sequence also it so going to fall. That sequence also it so it starts he's in St. Paul's Cathedral it starts he's in St. Paul's Cathedral like the giant dome in London and you like the giant dome in London and you know there's the funny moments where the know there's the funny moments where the Simon Peg character is following him on Simon Peg character is following him on you know like iPad tracking and he's you know like iPad tracking and he's like why is he running in circles? like why is he running in circles? because he's like running through the because he's like running through the dome and then out through windows and dome and then out through windows and you know I'm I'm jumping out a window you know I'm I'm jumping out a window right and like you know I'm sure it's right and like you know I'm sure it's like stitched together a little bit but like stitched together a little bit but he does go they design it in such a way he does go they design it in such a way where he goes from St. falls in London where he goes from St. falls in London like across the river like to the tape like across the river like to the tape modern. It's it is like designed in the modern. It's it is like designed in the city in like a very cool exciting way city in like a very cool exciting way which is true also of the Solomon Lane which is true also of the Solomon Lane instruction like I re-watching this instruction like I re-watching this movie for the 40th time or whatever. I movie for the 40th time or whatever. I was like this might be one of the great was like this might be one of the great Paris movies. It just uses these Paris movies. It just uses these European cities so beautifully and like European cities so beautifully and like actually which is as we know rarer and actually which is as we know rarer and rarer in movies. Yeah, I think the white rarer in movies. Yeah, I think the white widow's Parisian estate, the bank, them widow's Parisian estate, the bank, them looking over the bank of the sen at a looking over the bank of the sen at a certain point. There are a series of certain point. There are a series of visuals that are just gorgeous. And then visuals that are just gorgeous. And then likewise in London and and being at the likewise in London and and being at the Tate and being in the in St. Paul's and Tate and being in the in St. Paul's and being on those rooftops, which has a being on those rooftops, which has a little bit of like vertigo going on little bit of like vertigo going on there as well. There's a lot of homage there as well. There's a lot of homage to a lot of classic Hollywood films to a lot of classic Hollywood films going on throughout this film. And then going on throughout this film. And then the fifth and final sequence is when the fifth and final sequence is when they arrive at that camp um with Julia they arrive at that camp um with Julia and Wes Bentley's character, one of the and Wes Bentley's character, one of the funniest characters in the movie, uh funniest characters in the movie, uh cuck daddy himself. Right. Again, I'm cuck daddy himself. Right. Again, I'm just like this guy needs to ask a just like this guy needs to ask a question or two. Yeah, that's a fair question or two. Yeah, that's a fair point. Um, we get this extended point. Um, we get this extended intercutting between Solomon Lane intercutting between Solomon Lane attempting to murder Elsa, to murder attempting to murder Elsa, to murder Simon Peg's character, and to execute Simon Peg's character, and to execute his plan alongside Walker, and then his plan alongside Walker, and then Walker and Ethan engaging in an an Walker and Ethan engaging in an an airbound helicopter fight that then airbound helicopter fight that then becomes, I think, probably the gnarliest becomes, I think, probably the gnarliest fight and survival sequence in this fight and survival sequence in this entire franchise after Walker has had entire franchise after Walker has had his face burned after the helicopter his face burned after the helicopter crash and they are beating the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out crash and they are beating the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out of each other on a cliff. and eventually of each other on a cliff. and eventually all hanging from that cliff of us and all hanging from that cliff of us and then like Tom Cruz is doing like free then like Tom Cruz is doing like free climbing. Yes. In order to get it's as climbing. Yes. In order to get it's as want Yeah. pretty stressful though. want Yeah. pretty stressful though. Yeah. Um you take those six Yeah. Um you take those six scenes there's there's not nothing even scenes there's there's not nothing even really close to them in action film really close to them in action film making. I love the John Wick movies. The making. I love the John Wick movies. The John Wick movies are not on our list. Um John Wick movies are not on our list. Um I think they're great but they feel very I think they're great but they feel very designed in a video game fashion and designed in a video game fashion and they can be thrilling. They feel they can be thrilling. They feel schematic. I often find that these schematic. I often find that these sequences tell the story of the movie in sequences tell the story of the movie in a way that makes me feel like I'm I a way that makes me feel like I'm I forget that I am like awaiting another forget that I am like awaiting another action setpiece. You know, it can action setpiece. You know, it can sometimes in John Wick can be like, sometimes in John Wick can be like, "Okay, when will be the next time, "Okay, when will be the next time, right, when he will go into Gunfu?" So, right, when he will go into Gunfu?" So, you know, I think that they're really you know, I think that they're really important to each other, you know, and I important to each other, you know, and I do feel like I can see the filmmakers do feel like I can see the filmmakers behind both of these movies kind of behind both of these movies kind of working in conversation, but Tom Cruz working in conversation, but Tom Cruz kind of lifts it over John Wick for me kind of lifts it over John Wick for me pretty significantly. I agree. I mean pretty significantly. I agree. I mean also, you know, this is these are more also, you know, this is these are more like deathdeying spectacular jumping out like deathdeying spectacular jumping out of planes and like running and jumping of planes and like running and jumping off buildings as opposed to there are off buildings as opposed to there are just a lot of gunfights in John Woo, you just a lot of gunfights in John Woo, you know, and there are a lot of people know, and there are a lot of people punching each other here and there or punching each other here and there or guns or whatever. But yes, let's not guns or whatever. But yes, let's not forget Henry Caval loading up his arms forget Henry Caval loading up his arms before attempting to beat the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out before attempting to beat the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out of the John Lark standin. But I I don't of the John Lark standin. But I I don't know. This like has a bigger canvas. I know. This like has a bigger canvas. I guess it does. Uh I also love the score guess it does. Uh I also love the score in this movie. Lauren Balf does this in this movie. Lauren Balf does this score. This might be my favorite. That's score. This might be my favorite. That's kind of an interesting conversation. I kind of an interesting conversation. I just have to go back and listen. Um, but just have to go back and listen. Um, but this one has this sort of like Marshall this one has this sort of like Marshall drum scheme that keeps returning every drum scheme that keeps returning every time you see Angela Basset walking time you see Angela Basset walking aggressively through a hallway. She her aggressively through a hallway. She her heels are kind of in time. She's never heels are kind of in time. She's never in a hallway. I mean, she's definitely in a hallway. I mean, she's definitely like green screened into various like like green screened into various like beautiful Paris locations, but like the beautiful Paris locations, but like the the Shauna Mar scene with like her and the Shauna Mar scene with like her and Cavl and then the the Eiffel Towers back Cavl and then the the Eiffel Towers back behind it's it's you know what is that behind it's it's you know what is that sequence though where she's I think is sequence though where she's I think is she talking on the phone or maybe just she talking on the phone or maybe just talking to Walker and he's walking talking to Walker and he's walking behind her and she's walking and her behind her and she's walking and her heels are clicking and Balf score is in heels are clicking and Balf score is in tune with her heels which is just a tune with her heels which is just a great little sonic moment and then also great little sonic moment and then also just these huge heavy expressive just these huge heavy expressive strings. This is a big like big cello strings. This is a big like big cello movie. Um, and some of them are movie. Um, and some of them are different like the music of Mission different like the music of Mission Impossible is weird. You know, let's not Impossible is weird. You know, let's not forget that Limp Biscuit once forget that Limp Biscuit once participated in the musical score of I participated in the musical score of I mission Impossible. So, every movie is mission Impossible. So, every movie is different in that respect. I do think different in that respect. I do think that this film's legacy that this film's legacy is interesting and a little bit hard to is interesting and a little bit hard to settle on because we have not seen the settle on because we have not seen the new film. Mhm. So, is there any chance new film. Mhm. So, is there any chance any chance at all that we see the new any chance at all that we see the new movie and think we should have taken movie and think we should have taken Fallout off and put put Final Reckoning Fallout off and put put Final Reckoning on? I mean, there's always a chance. I on? I mean, there's always a chance. I think they have so many loose ends to think they have so many loose ends to tie up. They're bringing everybody back, tie up. They're bringing everybody back, you know, from all of the and so it it you know, from all of the and so it it it is a little bit overloaded. Mhm. We it is a little bit overloaded. Mhm. We There's We kind of know what some of the There's We kind of know what some of the plot will be from like an AI thing plot will be from like an AI thing perspective and the the crucififor key perspective and the the crucififor key and all this sort of stuff. We know and all this sort of stuff. We know there's got to be an underwater element there's got to be an underwater element because of the submarine. I have to be because of the submarine. I have to be honest, I don't really like underwater honest, I don't really like underwater stunts as much as, you know, sailing stunts as much as, you know, sailing around stunts. around stunts. around stunts. But, you know, the biplane that we've But, you know, the biplane that we've seen in the trailer, the emotions, seen in the trailer, the emotions, maybe. Maybe. I think I think this the maybe. Maybe. I think I think this the last one has too much to do, which is last one has too much to do, which is always the way, right? Like the finale always the way, right? Like the finale of anything is rarely the best episode, of anything is rarely the best episode, installment, you know, what have you. installment, you know, what have you. What about Avengers Endgame? That was What about Avengers Endgame? That was the last Marvel movie ever made. Okay. the last Marvel movie ever made. Okay. Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, that's not what my Google calendar tells that's not what my Google calendar tells me. Uh I I I don't know. I would love me. Uh I I I don't know. I would love for it to be better than if it's better for it to be better than if it's better than Fallout, going to be great going to than Fallout, going to be great going to be a great movie year. That's that's a be a great movie year. That's that's a really good sign because this is really good sign because this is definitely one of the absolute best definitely one of the absolute best movies. I think another reason why this movies. I think another reason why this movie's legacy is really strong is I it movie's legacy is really strong is I it kind of saved Paramount these movies in kind of saved Paramount these movies in in the 2010s and look where we are now. in the 2010s and look where we are now. I know. Well, I'm not sure if it's we I know. Well, I'm not sure if it's we don't we honestly don't know if it's don't we honestly don't know if it's going to be a good outcome or a bad going to be a good outcome or a bad outcome, but Sky Dance participates in outcome, but Sky Dance participates in Mission and Mission success and Sky Mission and Mission success and Sky Dance's partnership there matters and Dance's partnership there matters and just like it matters to this these just like it matters to this these companies coming together to make Top companies coming together to make Top Gun Maverick and so Top Gun Maverick for Gun Maverick and so Top Gun Maverick for all of those films but otherwise and you all of those films but otherwise and you know I think all the people that know I think all the people that Paramount employs are are you know Paramount employs are are you know deserve a job and otherwise like let's deserve a job and otherwise like let's light it all on fire in my opinion but light it all on fire in my opinion but well I think it's important to have big well I think it's important to have big movie studios In some ways, you know, movie studios In some ways, you know, how they do their work, we can debate. how they do their work, we can debate. But when you look at their highest But when you look at their highest grossing movies, grossing movies, grossing movies, you know, five of them are Transformers you know, five of them are Transformers films in the 2000s. films in the 2000s. After that, Indiana Jones and the After that, Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, Shrek, Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, Shrek, that was tough. Shrek sequels. Listen, that was tough. Shrek sequels. Listen, don't speak ill of Shrek. Madagascar, don't speak ill of Shrek. Madagascar, you know, Jack's back there. I have no you know, Jack's back there. I have no beef with Shrek one whatsoever. In fact, beef with Shrek one whatsoever. In fact, I quite like it. I can't remember I quite like it. I can't remember anything about Shrek two, three, or anything about Shrek two, three, or four. Nor do I. Um, we're gonna find out four. Nor do I. Um, we're gonna find out because Shrek 5 coming. Listen, I know because Shrek 5 coming. Listen, I know the youth have told me that it's really the youth have told me that it's really important. important. important. Should we do a Shrek movie marathon at Should we do a Shrek movie marathon at Vid Idiots this year? That's funny. All Vid Idiots this year? That's funny. All All and then we all have to sit there. All and then we all have to sit there. Yeah. We all sit together arm in- arm. I Yeah. We all sit together arm in- arm. I guess our children could come to at guess our children could come to at least a couple of them, right? least a couple of them, right? Absolutely. Yeah. Donkey. Donkeyy's just Absolutely. Yeah. Donkey. Donkeyy's just crushing with little kids. Uh, but Top crushing with little kids. Uh, but Top Gun Maverick and the Mission films are Gun Maverick and the Mission films are by far the best films that are, you by far the best films that are, you know, high grossers for this studio. know, high grossers for this studio. Other than like, I don't know, Force Other than like, I don't know, Force Gump, you know, Titanic, like these, we Gump, you know, Titanic, like these, we got to go back to the mid '90s. Those got to go back to the mid '90s. Those are good, though. They're great. That's are good, though. They're great. That's like 30 years ago. Listen, I hear you. like 30 years ago. Listen, I hear you. Um, I really like the Paramount lot. Um, I really like the Paramount lot. There we go. I said something nice. It's There we go. I said something nice. It's a truly great lot. Uh, I think they're a truly great lot. Uh, I think they're going to like turn into condos. Thanks, going to like turn into condos. Thanks, David Ellison. I hope that doesn't David Ellison. I hope that doesn't happen. I really hope that does not happen. I really hope that does not happen. I I like visiting and I like happen. I I like visiting and I like watching films there. watching films there. McQuary, I think this is the one that McQuary, I think this is the one that certifies him. He had directed a bunch certifies him. He had directed a bunch of films before this and he had been a of films before this and he had been a fixer on a lot of films. Like for fixer on a lot of films. Like for example, example, example, it's it's been reported that McQuary it's it's been reported that McQuary wrote a lot on Rogue One before Tony wrote a lot on Rogue One before Tony Gilroy came in. What did he do? We don't Gilroy came in. What did he do? We don't know. What specifically did he do to Top know. What specifically did he do to Top Gun Maverick? Even though he's a Gun Maverick? Even though he's a producer or I think he has a writing producer or I think he has a writing credit on the film, but I'm not sure. He credit on the film, but I'm not sure. He does as well. We know that he he had a does as well. We know that he he had a kind of kind of kind of script doctor skill that is very rare script doctor skill that is very rare and I think that's one of the reasons and I think that's one of the reasons why Cruz adopted him. But I think Bruce why Cruz adopted him. But I think Bruce told a great story at Cineacon, which told a great story at Cineacon, which I'm sure he's told a million times about I'm sure he's told a million times about um McCory coming on the set of Ghost um McCory coming on the set of Ghost Protocol and and they're trying to Protocol and and they're trying to figure out that that scene, the the figure out that that scene, the the climbing the Burj Khalifa scene and Tom climbing the Burj Khalifa scene and Tom is like Tom he says like this is Mchugh is like Tom he says like this is Mchugh and then Mchugh says okay. So they and then Mchugh says okay. So they explain how it works and Mchu just goes explain how it works and Mchu just goes okay so blue is glue, red is dead and okay so blue is glue, red is dead and that I mean that is like very that I mean that is like very illustrative of what he can do. Yes, he illustrative of what he can do. Yes, he has an incredible mind for this stuff, has an incredible mind for this stuff, but I think he's very underrated as a but I think he's very underrated as a filmmaker. I think he's like a very very filmmaker. I think he's like a very very very very skilled director. So, I think very very skilled director. So, I think there's that. And then I think that that there's that. And then I think that that self- mythology that he imparts into self- mythology that he imparts into this film or that we impart for him. this film or that we impart for him. But, you know, either way, it is it's a But, you know, either way, it is it's a rich text. If you had to guess, do you rich text. If you had to guess, do you think he has a a a discreet think he has a a a discreet consciousness about putting himself into consciousness about putting himself into his his his character or is it something that character or is it something that McQuary compels him to do or that it is McQuary compels him to do or that it is just an abstraction that just can't help just an abstraction that just can't help but find its way into the movie? This is but find its way into the movie? This is the kind of thing I would ask a the kind of thing I would ask a director. Yeah, I I mean I think that he director. Yeah, I I mean I think that he has some understanding. I mean, it's has some understanding. I mean, it's just you an entire school of medicine just you an entire school of medicine and therapy is dedicated to how much can and therapy is dedicated to how much can someone understand themselves and then someone understand themselves and then like channel into this. So, you know, I like channel into this. So, you know, I I don't know if he has like his arms I don't know if he has like his arms around all of it, but he does seem to around all of it, but he does seem to understand his persona at least a little understand his persona at least a little bit. Um, you know, he's out there posing bit. Um, you know, he's out there posing with the movie posters and being like, with the movie posters and being like, "Stay to the end of the credits for "Stay to the end of the credits for sinners. Thank you, Tom Cruz. Motion sinners. Thank you, Tom Cruz. Motion smoothing forever." smoothing forever." smoothing forever." So I I think that he has some knowledge, So I I think that he has some knowledge, but I the the level of psych psychology but I the the level of psych psychology that you and I want to read into it is I that you and I want to read into it is I think either um being developed with think either um being developed with McCory and with others or as just us McCory and with others or as just us being like, you know, huge nerds. The being like, you know, huge nerds. The division division division between the intentionality and the between the intentionality and the metatext. Yeah, that's what we do here. metatext. Yeah, that's what we do here. You know, this is these are very You know, this is these are very important things. Even if he doesn't important things. Even if he doesn't know what he's doing, I think it's know what he's doing, I think it's undeniable that he has made Ethan the undeniable that he has made Ethan the most important man in the universe, most important man in the universe, right? And only he can solve problems, right? And only he can solve problems, but he will never abandon his friends, but he will never abandon his friends, right? And when he transgresses against right? And when he transgresses against someone he loves, he will profusely someone he loves, he will profusely apologize and make it clear. Also make apologize and make it clear. Also make sure that everyone in the movie tells sure that everyone in the movie tells him 45 times what a good man he is. Yes, him 45 times what a good man he is. Yes, absolutely. There's nothing going on absolutely. There's nothing going on there whatsoever. I'm sure that's a there whatsoever. I'm sure that's a complete mistake. complete mistake. complete mistake. Okay. Any other thoughts about the Okay. Any other thoughts about the film's legacy before we move on? No, film's legacy before we move on? No, just a banger. Banger movie. Recommend just a banger. Banger movie. Recommend it if you like. Yeah, obviously any it if you like. Yeah, obviously any Mission Impossible movie. I think any Mission Impossible movie. I think any spy movie candidly would probably go spy movie candidly would probably go pretty well. I put like I put Born pretty well. I put like I put Born Identity on here, which is, you know, a Identity on here, which is, you know, a guy in various European locations trying guy in various European locations trying to figure things out bit by bit and save to figure things out bit by bit and save someone that he loves. Absolutely. It someone that he loves. Absolutely. It would be pretty weird if would be pretty weird if you like were really into Born Identity, you like were really into Born Identity, but were like, I don't want to watch a but were like, I don't want to watch a Mission Impossible movie. Yeah, that Mission Impossible movie. Yeah, that would be a bit strange. You know, I would be a bit strange. You know, I think these are all fairly obvious, but think these are all fairly obvious, but they speak to the power of this movie. they speak to the power of this movie. You know, Skyfall, I feel like also has You know, Skyfall, I feel like also has a lot in common with this movie. Um, in a lot in common with this movie. Um, in terms of the history of the character terms of the history of the character and is this where we announce that and is this where we announce that Skyfall is not on our list? I guess you Skyfall is not on our list? I guess you just did. Yeah. How do you feel about just did. Yeah. How do you feel about that? I mean, we had to make choices and that? I mean, we had to make choices and this but I do think that this is like this but I do think that this is like the Skyfall spot. This movie is carrying the Skyfall spot. This movie is carrying a lot of our favorites. There's another a lot of our favorites. There's another movie recommended if you like tenant. movie recommended if you like tenant. Uh, no. Well, yeah, tennis is not on our Uh, no. Well, yeah, tennis is not on our list. It's not on our list and and list. It's not on our list and and neither is Top Gun Maverick. I had to neither is Top Gun Maverick. I had to choose. And and Mission Impossible was choose. And and Mission Impossible was the right choice. So, let let's let's the right choice. So, let let's let's make that the closing conversation. make that the closing conversation. Okay. Cuz I I'm I'm grateful to you. Top Okay. Cuz I I'm I'm grateful to you. Top Gun Maverick, which is a movie I I Gun Maverick, which is a movie I I really quite like, right? And to me, it really quite like, right? And to me, it is like it is a four-star movie and is like it is a four-star movie and these are five star conversations. So, these are five star conversations. So, is was this hard for you? is was this hard for you? Of course it was. But that's okay. I Of course it was. But that's okay. I think you can only have one latestage think you can only have one latestage Tom Cruz movie about the former glory of Tom Cruz movie about the former glory of Tom Cruz and also what Tom Cruz still Tom Cruz and also what Tom Cruz still means to all of us and how Tom means to all of us and how Tom Cruz is the only good man who saves the Cruz is the only good man who saves the rest of us, you know, like you you can't rest of us, you know, like you you can't have both of them. And I think, you have both of them. And I think, you know, Tom Cru Top Gun Maverick was a know, Tom Cru Top Gun Maverick was a massive success. Some of it was about massive success. Some of it was about the weird moment in time and kind of the weird moment in time and kind of like the first movie theater back. Um, like the first movie theater back. Um, and also, you know, it obviously has and also, you know, it obviously has personal significance to me and that my personal significance to me and that my son is deeply obsessed with it because son is deeply obsessed with it because it just has like a lot of planes. Uh, it just has like a lot of planes. Uh, and it goes really fast. But we do like and it goes really fast. But we do like literally every night I tell him the literally every night I tell him the story of Top Gun in a bridged version story of Top Gun in a bridged version that we do in um in the you know like that we do in um in the you know like oral uh history form. Mhm. But oral uh history form. Mhm. But this what mission what Fallout stands this what mission what Fallout stands for is franchise movies. I think it is for is franchise movies. I think it is like more signature of the range of like more signature of the range of action like Tom Cruz is flying all the action like Tom Cruz is flying all the planes in Top Gun Maverick, but um he's planes in Top Gun Maverick, but um he's doing literally everything. He's jumping doing literally everything. He's jumping off these buildings in in Mission off these buildings in in Mission Impossible Fallout. And Impossible Fallout. And also they both are like I guess a a team also they both are like I guess a a team that's got to come together sort of but that's got to come together sort of but the Mission Impossible movies are like the Mission Impossible movies are like built around Ethan and built around Ethan and Top Gun Maverick is like at least trying Top Gun Maverick is like at least trying to introduce all of these other people. to introduce all of these other people. It gives Glenn Powell its nice moment, It gives Glenn Powell its nice moment, you know. So it's the signature. I you know. So it's the signature. I understand that Mission Impossible is understand that Mission Impossible is the signature, but I love you forever, the signature, but I love you forever, Top Gun Maverick. I appreciate you being Top Gun Maverick. I appreciate you being open-minded about this. Yeah. Um, as I open-minded about this. Yeah. Um, as I do think it is the superior movie, but do think it is the superior movie, but you know, we Tom Cruz needs them both you know, we Tom Cruz needs them both for his self mythology. Uh, well, that's for his self mythology. Uh, well, that's what What was this? Number 21. Seems what What was this? Number 21. Seems right. Number 21. This seems like one right. Number 21. This seems like one that most people probably could have that most people probably could have predicted. I think every we've been predicted. I think every we've been we've been incredibly effusive about in we've been incredibly effusive about in the past. Yeah. I mean, this was number the past. Yeah. I mean, this was number one on our shared rankings after Dead one on our shared rankings after Dead Reckoning came out. And I think for most Reckoning came out. And I think for most Mission Impossible heads, this is the Mission Impossible heads, this is the best one, but not for everyone. Also best one, but not for everyone. Also overlaps with the timeline of the show. overlaps with the timeline of the show. It does. Pretty. It does. Pretty neatly. It does. Pretty. It does. Pretty neatly. That's something we should do the math That's something we should do the math on at some point is how many of the on at some point is how many of the films were filmed while we were making films were filmed while we were making the show versus what? Not that many. Is the show versus what? Not that many. Is that true? Yeah. Interesting. Okay. that true? Yeah. Interesting. Okay. because it does feel like 2000 to because it does feel like 2000 to 2005 does not feel like a part of the 2005 does not feel like a part of the century to me. Even though plenty of century to me. Even though plenty of great films came out at that time, you great films came out at that time, you know, like they just announced that know, like they just announced that they're reissuing Brokeback Mountain in they're reissuing Brokeback Mountain in theaters for its 20th anniversary. Yeah, theaters for its 20th anniversary. Yeah, they reissued Pride and Prejudice for they reissued Pride and Prejudice for its 20th. That's a a whole thing that's its 20th. That's a a whole thing that's happening on a quarter reissued Revenge happening on a quarter reissued Revenge of the Sith. Yeah. Uh we have a couple of the Sith. Yeah. Uh we have a couple early early aunts. I I mean I can think early early aunts. I I mean I can think of one example um in a prime spot but of one example um in a prime spot but yeah I would say the m 2005 to 20 well yeah I would say the m 2005 to 20 well really to the pandemic it's a sweet spot really to the pandemic it's a sweet spot is the sweet spot I agree with you okay is the sweet spot I agree with you okay well until number 20 thanks to Jack well until number 20 thanks to Jack Sanders for his work on this episode Sanders for his work on this episode later this week we'll be digging into later this week we'll be digging into thunderbolts see you thunderbolts see you