================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: lihYbulfmjM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lihYbulfmjM
TITLE: The Forever Enigmas of Japan: The Observations, Provocations, and Aphorisms of Pico Iyer
CHANNEL: Vinay Lal
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-24
DURATION: 51m 43s
VIEWS: 268
LIKES: 16
COMMENTS: 4
TAGS: Kyoto, Japan, silence, Basho, Japanese aesthetics, make-up, inner and outer, private and public, Roland Barthes, Pico Iyer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
This talk is on Pico Iyer's book, A Beginner's Guide to Japan: Observations and Provocations (New York and New Delhi: Penguin Viking, 2019). Pico Iyer, a well-established writer and son of the Gandhi scholar and philosopher, Raghavan Iyer, has lived in Kyoto for several decades and is married to a Japanese woman. This book is elegantly written, beguiling and yet annoying at the same time; the mode of writing is largely, though not exclusively, aphoristic. The author describes it as a series of "observations and provocations", and many will be taken in by these provocations; but some of them, frankly, are a bit shallow. The book touches on many subjects -- such as Japanese views on the private/public, inner/outer divide, make-up, public presentation, silence, aesthetics, and so on. Despite the reservations one may have, the book is worth a read --and one can certainly go through parts of it without reading it in its entirety.

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 12,965

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
So uh this evening uh I'm going to talk So uh this evening uh I'm going to talk about a book by uh Pico Ayer called a about a book by uh Pico Ayer called a beginner's guide to Japan beginner's guide to Japan observations observations observations and provocations and provocations and provocations and this is a book that was published by and this is a book that was published by Penguin Viking Penguin Viking Penguin Viking um um um in 2019. in 2019. in 2019. It's a book that is extremely It's a book that is extremely interesting interesting interesting but also rather annoying but also rather annoying in some respects. in some respects. It makes for lovely reading because he's It makes for lovely reading because he's an gifted writer, an elegant writer. an gifted writer, an elegant writer. But as I said, the book is a book that But as I said, the book is a book that uh leaves one uh leaves one not so much with questions. not so much with questions. Uh there are questions that certainly Uh there are questions that certainly emerge from a reading of this book, but emerge from a reading of this book, but it leaves one with the feeling that it leaves one with the feeling that there is a kind of shallowess about it there is a kind of shallowess about it at all. And of course, and some of you at all. And of course, and some of you might ask reasonably then why am I might ask reasonably then why am I really doing a book talk on it? And I am really doing a book talk on it? And I am because because because I think that I think that this book exemplifies this book exemplifies a lot of the kinds of feelings that a lot of the kinds of feelings that people have people have people have especially in the west especially in the west about Japan. And one of the problems uh about Japan. And one of the problems uh in the book uh is the reference point uh in the book uh is the reference point uh is always the west uh even though Pico is always the west uh even though Pico himself is a writer from India and we'll himself is a writer from India and we'll see why this might be an issue. But when see why this might be an issue. But when I say that it's worth reading, it's not I say that it's worth reading, it's not only because he's an elegant and gifted only because he's an elegant and gifted writer. He is a thoughtful writer. But writer. He is a thoughtful writer. But the book suggests some of the problems the book suggests some of the problems when one descends into when one descends into speaking in apherisms. Uh now if a speaking in apherisms. Uh now if a person is an oracle uh or would like to person is an oracle uh or would like to be an oracle perhaps they should uh be an oracle perhaps they should uh straight away uh let it be known that straight away uh let it be known that the book is really a book which is the book is really a book which is intended to uh work much like oracular intended to uh work much like oracular pronouncements you know which seem very pronouncements you know which seem very definitive and seem prophetic. definitive and seem prophetic. Um and yet as I said uh there are a Um and yet as I said uh there are a number of difficulties number of difficulties uh that this book poses because uh it's uh that this book poses because uh it's a book that uh really uh traverses a a book that uh really uh traverses a terrain that many people have attempted terrain that many people have attempted to deal with. Um and I'm yet another one to deal with. Um and I'm yet another one of these persons who's attempting to of these persons who's attempting to deal with it uh in my talk about this deal with it uh in my talk about this book. uh I I do recommend uh more so book. uh I I do recommend uh more so than with other talks that people listen than with other talks that people listen to the very end because just some of the to the very end because just some of the quotations and the apherisms are really quotations and the apherisms are really quite wonderful. Um and then it's u up quite wonderful. Um and then it's u up to the reader to assess how they're to the reader to assess how they're going to really interpret them. So going to really interpret them. So Picoire is someone whom I heard of Picoire is someone whom I heard of uh I think about four decades ago. Uh he uh I think about four decades ago. Uh he wrote a book called video nights in wrote a book called video nights in Kutmandu. So it was a travalogue and u Kutmandu. So it was a travalogue and u uh I I I don't recall much of the book uh I I I don't recall much of the book to be quite honest. I mean I I read to be quite honest. I mean I I read parts of it I know. Uh but that's how he parts of it I know. Uh but that's how he first came to my attention. um uh his first came to my attention. um uh his writings uh have been available in uh writings uh have been available in uh lots of different journals. Uh I believe lots of different journals. Uh I believe he's written for the New Yorker as well. he's written for the New Yorker as well. Uh and he's a prolific writer. He's been Uh and he's a prolific writer. He's been living in Japan. He's married for living in Japan. He's married for several decades. He's married to a several decades. He's married to a Japanese uh uh woman. Um and he's also Japanese uh uh woman. Um and he's also the son of Ragan Ayar uh who uh wrote the son of Ragan Ayar uh who uh wrote one of the most uh extraordinary books one of the most uh extraordinary books on Gandhi um uh back in the late 1960s on Gandhi um uh back in the late 1960s the moral and political thought of the moral and political thought of Mahatma Gandhi and Ayar then Mahatma Gandhi and Ayar then subsequently went on to do a fabulous subsequently went on to do a fabulous three volume anthology of the moral and three volume anthology of the moral and political writings of Gandhi which is political writings of Gandhi which is rather scarce. It's a extremely rather scarce. It's a extremely expensive set. Uh cost several hundred expensive set. Uh cost several hundred uh published by Oxford Clarendon Press u uh published by Oxford Clarendon Press u sometime in the early 1990s as I recall sometime in the early 1990s as I recall which is when I had purchased it. Um um which is when I had purchased it. Um um and there's lots of stories to be told and there's lots of stories to be told about Raguan too because uh he was uh uh about Raguan too because uh he was uh uh quite a scholar uh lived in Jussi uh quite a scholar uh lived in Jussi uh lived in Santa Barbara taught at lived in Santa Barbara taught at University of California in Santa University of California in Santa Barbara where Pico of course spent some Barbara where Pico of course spent some of his years with his father and his of his years with his father and his mother uh who also taught Nandini Ayar mother uh who also taught Nandini Ayar who also taught uh at the University of who also taught uh at the University of California Santa Barbara um and Rago and California Santa Barbara um and Rago and Ayar had a legendary ivory that was Ayar had a legendary ivory that was burned to the ground. Uh that's yet burned to the ground. Uh that's yet another story. All right, so let's get another story. All right, so let's get on with the book. Now, um the uh the on with the book. Now, um the uh the table of contents uh of this book uh uh table of contents uh of this book uh uh of course gives a guide to how the uh of course gives a guide to how the uh the book is divided. Uh the sections are the book is divided. Uh the sections are called on the streets, at the counter, called on the streets, at the counter, in the temple, behind closed doors, out in the temple, behind closed doors, out the window, on the horizon, the window, on the horizon, and then it ends with a very brief and then it ends with a very brief a letter from a friend. The book is a letter from a friend. The book is about 225 230 pages. And um uh if we if about 225 230 pages. And um uh if we if we lavish our attention just on the we lavish our attention just on the first few pages first few pages uh and spend a little bit time on it uh uh and spend a little bit time on it uh we will get a very good flavor of this we will get a very good flavor of this book uh and also what in my judgment are book uh and also what in my judgment are some of the things that are its some of the things that are its limitations and perhaps some of the limitations and perhaps some of the things uh that might even be annoying. things uh that might even be annoying. Uh they certainly were annoying uh to Uh they certainly were annoying uh to me. Uh so he uh uh Picuire has uh lived me. Uh so he uh uh Picuire has uh lived uh in Japan as I said for uh several uh in Japan as I said for uh several decades now. Uh he says that his command decades now. Uh he says that his command of Japanese is still not adequate. Uh of Japanese is still not adequate. Uh although he seldom speaks English in although he seldom speaks English in Japan. Uh so he certainly knows enough. Japan. Uh so he certainly knows enough. um u but uh but confesses that you know um u but uh but confesses that you know he's not really someone who is really in he's not really someone who is really in some respects at home uh in the language some respects at home uh in the language if we may put it this way. Um now if we may put it this way. Um now um he says uh bottom of page three much um he says uh bottom of page three much of this book may infuriate anyone who of this book may infuriate anyone who knows Japan. It infuriates me most of knows Japan. It infuriates me most of the time. Um, and that's you would say a the time. Um, and that's you would say a candid confession. Uh, you could also candid confession. Uh, you could also say it's a little bit too clever because say it's a little bit too clever because he's saying that look, I mean, you know, he's saying that look, I mean, you know, you're going to find it annoying. Uh, I you're going to find it annoying. Uh, I find it annoying, too. Uh, but the find it annoying, too. Uh, but the reason why he says you might find it reason why he says you might find it annoying, the reader, you the reader, annoying, the reader, you the reader, and why he finds it annoying, well, that and why he finds it annoying, well, that leads to yet more annoyance. Uh, leads to yet more annoyance. Uh, assertions in one section seem to assertions in one section seem to contradict those in another. and what contradict those in another. and what appears to belong in the temple appears appears to belong in the temple appears in a section on the love hotel and vice in a section on the love hotel and vice versa. A lot of what I ascribe to Japan versa. A lot of what I ascribe to Japan clearly applies to much of East Asia. clearly applies to much of East Asia. And some of what I see in Kyoto, you'd And some of what I see in Kyoto, you'd never find in more rural areas. So that never find in more rural areas. So that is to say that yes uh is to say that yes uh that uh what he's describing is not that uh what he's describing is not simply uh Japan. is actually maybe simply uh Japan. is actually maybe describing describing describing uh the traditional culture or the uh the traditional culture or the streets uh or the experiences streets uh or the experiences uh that he's familiar with from his life uh that he's familiar with from his life in Kyoto. And Kyoto as we know is the in Kyoto. And Kyoto as we know is the cultural uh center of Japan. Uh the cultural uh center of Japan. Uh the amount of mystification amount of mystification about Kyoto is enormous. Uh right. uh about Kyoto is enormous. Uh right. uh and by mystification I mean of course uh and by mystification I mean of course uh not just the uh conversation that one not just the uh conversation that one hears or anecdotes that one hears about hears or anecdotes that one hears about geishas uh and uh you know the temples geishas uh and uh you know the temples but uh the Zen temples uh in particular but uh the Zen temples uh in particular but the whole ambiance you know the idea but the whole ambiance you know the idea that this is the place where you go to that this is the place where you go to meditate uh where uh the essence of life meditate uh where uh the essence of life can be revealed to you and one apherism can be revealed to you and one apherism after another uh and so on, right? Um after another uh and so on, right? Um then he says, "No matter. These are then he says, "No matter. These are simply provocations, opening lines simply provocations, opening lines designed to quicken you to better designed to quicken you to better comebacks of your own. The opposite of a comebacks of your own. The opposite of a great truth as they say in the temples great truth as they say in the temples of Kyoto is also true." Uh well, do they of Kyoto is also true." Uh well, do they say it only in the great temples of say it only in the great temples of Kyoto? Uh that's the first question to Kyoto? Uh that's the first question to ask because uh uh certainly my sense of ask because uh uh certainly my sense of things has been uh in fact it's an things has been uh in fact it's an argument that's often made about India argument that's often made about India uh that anything that you say about uh that anything that you say about India you can say exactly the opposite India you can say exactly the opposite uh with uh equal degree of conviction u uh with uh equal degree of conviction u right so uh the opposite of a great right so uh the opposite of a great truth is also true uh as I say in the truth is also true uh as I say in the temples of Kyoto. Uh and and I'm temples of Kyoto. Uh and and I'm suggesting uh that suggesting uh that what he is already beginning to ascribe what he is already beginning to ascribe as a certain Japanese way of thinking. as a certain Japanese way of thinking. Well, what is distinctly Japanese about Well, what is distinctly Japanese about it is not quite clear. The question is it is not quite clear. The question is whether the book will make that clear. whether the book will make that clear. Uh then in the last paragraph of that Uh then in the last paragraph of that introduction he says I call this a introduction he says I call this a beginner's guide not only because it's beginner's guide not only because it's aimed at beginners but mostly because aimed at beginners but mostly because it's written by one being in Japan has it's written by one being in Japan has taught me to say I wonder more often taught me to say I wonder more often than I think. Well, I think if one is a than I think. Well, I think if one is a thoughtful person, thoughtful person, thoughtful person, one does wonder one does wonder often, right? Uh the wonder the word often, right? Uh the wonder the word wonder has many wonder has many uh many registers of meaning. Uh Stephen uh many registers of meaning. Uh Stephen Greenblat uh wrote a book called Greenblat uh wrote a book called Marvelous Possessions, the Wonder of the Marvelous Possessions, the Wonder of the New World. Um and there of course the New World. Um and there of course the wonder there has a different sense than wonder there has a different sense than what he's really invoking here Pico when what he's really invoking here Pico when he says that being in Japan this long he says that being in Japan this long has taught him to say I wonder more has taught him to say I wonder more often than I think that there's always often than I think that there's always some some some degree degree degree of doubt of ambiguity of uncertainty of doubt of ambiguity of uncertainty u and of course in a way what he's doing u and of course in a way what he's doing is he's anticipating some of the is he's anticipating some of the criticism criticism criticism uh by saying uh here that look uh by saying uh here that look everything that I'm saying in some ways everything that I'm saying in some ways is really tentative you know and that's is really tentative you know and that's why he's saying I wonder right and then why he's saying I wonder right and then there is a not quite certain right so there is a not quite certain right so um now he uh um um um now he uh um um you know he also I should say has a Um you know he also I should say has a Um it has a epitap it has a epitap um an apherism actually u from Simon um an apherism actually u from Simon Whale Whale Whale which appears which appears which appears at the beginning of the book. Okay. So I at the beginning of the book. Okay. So I meant an apherism that begins be that meant an apherism that begins be that appears in the beginning of the book. appears in the beginning of the book. Let's first start with that as well Let's first start with that as well before we now turn to the substantive before we now turn to the substantive chapters. chapters. chapters. Simone Whale, Simone Whale, Simone Whale, an extraordinary an extraordinary an extraordinary 20th century writer. I will 20th century writer. I will unquestionably be talking about one or unquestionably be talking about one or more of her books in the months or years more of her books in the months or years ahead. Uh especially her book Waiting ahead. Uh especially her book Waiting for God, right? She said, and I quote for God, right? She said, and I quote from Picoire, "Attention from Picoire, "Attention taken to its highest degree taken to its highest degree is the same thing as prayer. Attention taken to its highest degree is Attention taken to its highest degree is the same thing as prayer." the same thing as prayer." And you know uh And you know uh there are many ways there are many ways yet again to think about attention right yet again to think about attention right uh I will call to mind attentiveness right to pay attention to thing to be right to pay attention to thing to be attentive to things right attentiveness attentive to things right attentiveness is unquestionably is unquestionably is unquestionably I think something that one finds in I think something that one finds in Japan And I think that that's one of the And I think that that's one of the reasons he began with this apherism from reasons he began with this apherism from Simon Whale. Simon Whale. Simon Whale. Attentiveness to the smallest details. And if his reference point is always the And if his reference point is always the west, let me also introduce the west, let me also introduce the reference point of India. Because what I reference point of India. Because what I find most alarming about India, at least in the domain of aesthetics, at least in the domain of aesthetics, and this domain of aesthetics has some and this domain of aesthetics has some relationship to other things in life, of relationship to other things in life, of course, is course, is course, is the sheer lack of attentiveness that we the sheer lack of attentiveness that we find today in India. When we look at the find today in India. When we look at the kind of work that is being done, right? kind of work that is being done, right? When we look at the crafts, when we look When we look at the crafts, when we look at a product, when we look at how a room at a product, when we look at how a room is being cleaned, is being cleaned, right? When we look at how when workmen right? When we look at how when workmen finish something, finish something, finish something, the debris that they leave behind, and the debris that they leave behind, and even when they think they've done a even when they think they've done a really good job in cleaning up, really good job in cleaning up, that's seldom the case, right? Japan is that's seldom the case, right? Japan is a is the sheer embodiment of a is the sheer embodiment of attentiveness in almost every way that attentiveness in almost every way that one can think of particularly when it one can think of particularly when it comes to attentiveness to the smallest comes to attentiveness to the smallest details of life where one places one's details of life where one places one's slippers in a home. Okay. slippers in a home. Okay. Right. The manner in which a toilet is Right. The manner in which a toilet is designed, the attentiveness the attentiveness the attentiveness given by public officials to citizens given by public officials to citizens who come to them, right? how a form is written and right? how a form is written and designed, a form that you fill out, you know, at a a form that you fill out, you know, at a government office when you want to apply government office when you want to apply for a password license, for a password license, all those kinds of things. all those kinds of things. And so Simone Whale was suggesting, of And so Simone Whale was suggesting, of course, something much loftier in a way. course, something much loftier in a way. I've taken it at a at a much more I've taken it at a at a much more mundane level because partly she's mundane level because partly she's speaking about attention right uh to God speaking about attention right uh to God as it were attention to to the voice as it were attention to to the voice within oneself within oneself within oneself uh a certain form of discipline within uh a certain form of discipline within oneself she has all of this in mind but oneself she has all of this in mind but I dare say many of the mundane examples I dare say many of the mundane examples that I've given are also exceedingly that I've given are also exceedingly important important important in thinking about um what she means and in thinking about um what she means and it was certainly important to Muandas it was certainly important to Muandas Gandhi whose attentiveness to every Gandhi whose attentiveness to every single detail single detail single detail uh is really quite extraordinary. All uh is really quite extraordinary. All right. Now right. Now right. Now um um let's uh look at um some of the um um let's uh look at um some of the passages passages passages uh that he that he has. Right. So um uh that he that he has. Right. So um uh in in considering these passages uh we in in considering these passages uh we we have to uh think about uh we have to uh think about uh some of the preliminary remarks that some of the preliminary remarks that I've already offered. I want you to keep I've already offered. I want you to keep those in mind. Right? that you know those in mind. Right? that you know there are things that sound there are things that sound extraordinarily extraordinarily extraordinarily insightful and then you have to really insightful and then you have to really ask yourself ask yourself ask yourself uh what is the passage really saying uh uh what is the passage really saying uh don't we need a lot of interpretive work don't we need a lot of interpretive work uh to try to see what this passage is uh uh to try to see what this passage is uh and then if this is a beginner's guide and then if this is a beginner's guide to Japan uh of course one is not to Japan uh of course one is not expecting a guide about how to uh you expecting a guide about how to uh you know u uh navigate the train system in know u uh navigate the train system in the country or in Tokyo uh right or how the country or in Tokyo uh right or how to use a vending machine uh because to use a vending machine uh because Japanese vending machines uh are Japanese vending machines uh are completely out of this world uh they are completely out of this world uh they are on a level that very few people can on a level that very few people can think of in in many other countries um think of in in many other countries um and so forth and so on. Uh and so forth and so on. Uh I I think the question here is um how do I I think the question here is um how do we actually really think about some of we actually really think about some of the kinds of observations that he's the kinds of observations that he's sharing and what exactly is their sharing and what exactly is their effect. All right. So here's a chapter effect. All right. So here's a chapter begins on page 15 begins on page 15 and it's called Empire of Smiles. and it's called Empire of Smiles. And And And the minute I, the minute I, you know, saw that heading, I knew that you know, saw that heading, I knew that he was um he was um mocking or paraphrasing, mocking or paraphrasing, invoking invoking invoking another famous book on Japan, right? And another famous book on Japan, right? And that book is this book right here by that book is this book right here by Roland Bar, Empire of Science, right? Roland Bar, Empire of Science, right? Roland Bart was of course uh French Roland Bart was of course uh French intellectual intellectual intellectual famously associated famously associated famously associated u uh with the u uh with the um uh semiotics um uh semiotics uh with structuralism uh with structuralism and uh uh again a writer who extremely and uh uh again a writer who extremely prolific prolific prolific u and uh this uh this book that he wrote u and uh this uh this book that he wrote uh Empire of signs. Uh just to give you uh Empire of signs. Uh just to give you an idea of the table of contents, it's an idea of the table of contents, it's important. And then we go back to important. And then we go back to Picoire. So the table of contents Picoire. So the table of contents includes chapters which are simply includes chapters which are simply called the following. Uh water and called the following. Uh water and flake, flake, flake, chopsticks, chopsticks, chopsticks, pachinko, pachinko, pachinko, packages, packages, packages, bowing, bowing, bowing, right? stationary store, the written right? stationary store, the written face, face, face, inside outside, right? Empire of science. right? Empire of science. So imagine So imagine So imagine that that that you know you had to explain Japan to you know you had to explain Japan to someone and you said, "Yeah, let me do someone and you said, "Yeah, let me do it through 10 or 15 words. Each of this it through 10 or 15 words. Each of this words is a sign. It creates an empire words is a sign. It creates an empire unto itself." Pachinko, Geisha, Kimono, unto itself." Pachinko, Geisha, Kimono, anime today of course, right? Samurai, anime today of course, right? Samurai, right? Much of the way in which for right? Much of the way in which for example, if you asked a person uh example, if you asked a person uh somewhere in the west, perhaps even in somewhere in the west, perhaps even in China or China or China or you know um in the Middle East, uh what you know um in the Middle East, uh what do they know about India? Uh and uh what do they know about India? Uh and uh what do they know about Indian food? So what do they know about Indian food? So what do you suppose you'll hear? you'll hear do you suppose you'll hear? you'll hear Taj Mahal, right? Uh in an earlier Taj Mahal, right? Uh in an earlier generation, they would definitely have generation, they would definitely have said snake charmers. Um and someone said snake charmers. Um and someone might say Shah Ruk Khan or Amitab might say Shah Ruk Khan or Amitab Bachan. Okay. Uh I remember my wife and Bachan. Okay. Uh I remember my wife and I were traveling in Thailand and uh the I were traveling in Thailand and uh the in the mid 1990s when a number of Indian in the mid 1990s when a number of Indian women had won um uh the world beauty women had won um uh the world beauty contest uh Miss Universe and Miss World contest uh Miss Universe and Miss World you know there was there was Aishwarai you know there was there was Aishwarai there was uh this Bengali woman I forget there was uh this Bengali woman I forget her name now uh Shushmita something like her name now uh Shushmita something like that I forget the name um and there were that I forget the name um and there were actually several there were three or actually several there were three or four Lara Duta I think was one. Uh but four Lara Duta I think was one. Uh but in any case uh the point is that uh you in any case uh the point is that uh you know uh India to most people would be know uh India to most people would be reduced to these signs signs right a reduced to these signs signs right a samosa uh chicken tikka right okay samosa uh chicken tikka right okay never mind that chicken tikka uh never mind that chicken tikka uh so they say uh actually is an Indian so they say uh actually is an Indian dish that was invented did in Britain. dish that was invented did in Britain. Uh chicken tick and masala. All right. Uh chicken tick and masala. All right. But I think you get the point that But I think you get the point that people will reduce India to Taj Mahal, people will reduce India to Taj Mahal, uh yoga, samosa, Bollywood, right? And a uh yoga, samosa, Bollywood, right? And a handful of other terms. handful of other terms. Now he says, Now he says, "Picquire, "Picquire, "Picquire, a celebrated French semiotician, a celebrated French semiotician, wrote a ludicrous book on Japan called wrote a ludicrous book on Japan called Empire of Science." Right? Empire of Science." Right? And before I even read out the rest to And before I even read out the rest to you, I sort of paused when I read this you, I sort of paused when I read this because because because continuously you know Pico is kind of continuously you know Pico is kind of affecting a certain kind of like modesty affecting a certain kind of like modesty like one never really knows the country like one never really knows the country you know um and he's a man who's been you know um and he's a man who's been immersed in meditation uh has taken has immersed in meditation uh has taken has been under the tutel age of a Zen priest been under the tutel age of a Zen priest um or tutor meditation Asian master, you um or tutor meditation Asian master, you know, for decades, um, thoughtful know, for decades, um, thoughtful person. And these words seemed harsh. person. And these words seemed harsh. A celebrated French semiotician wrote a A celebrated French semiotician wrote a ludicrous book because, of course, uh, ludicrous book because, of course, uh, you'd have to really explain why it is you'd have to really explain why it is ludicrous. Uh, what he simply says is, ludicrous. Uh, what he simply says is, and I quote, what he failed to see was and I quote, what he failed to see was that Japan is in truth an empire of that Japan is in truth an empire of smiles. smiles being more human, more alluring, smiles being more human, more alluring, and much more emotionally complex than and much more emotionally complex than any sign. Uh, and I must say I wasn't any sign. Uh, and I must say I wasn't really impressed with his take down of really impressed with his take down of Roland Bar. Uh, not that Roland Bar is Roland Bar. Uh, not that Roland Bar is necessarily my favorite writer on Japan. necessarily my favorite writer on Japan. Far from that. But, uh, one has to Far from that. But, uh, one has to understand what Roland Bar was seeking understand what Roland Bar was seeking to do. All right? And what is a system to do. All right? And what is a system of semiotics with which he really works. of semiotics with which he really works. uh because uh because uh because uh in a sense what Roland Bar is really uh in a sense what Roland Bar is really doing is he's inventing Japan, right? Uh doing is he's inventing Japan, right? Uh it exists. Yes. But he's inventing it it exists. Yes. But he's inventing it because the Japan he's analyzing is not because the Japan he's analyzing is not a Japan that's there that exists. It's a a Japan that's there that exists. It's a Japan of his own imagination. Right? And Japan of his own imagination. Right? And to that extent, I think Picoa really, so to that extent, I think Picoa really, so to speak, lost the plot on this one. All to speak, lost the plot on this one. All right. Okay. Um, right. Okay. Um, so but this is how he begins that so but this is how he begins that chapter, Empire of Smiles. Girls in chapter, Empire of Smiles. Girls in Japan are trained to put the right Japan are trained to put the right earring on with the left hand because it earring on with the left hand because it looks more attractive. No comment is offered beyond that. no No comment is offered beyond that. no interpretation. Young women in Japan are interpretation. Young women in Japan are also trained to seem as cheerful, as also trained to seem as cheerful, as sweet, as girlish as teenagers. sweet, as girlish as teenagers. That seems to be the case. Since we That seems to be the case. Since we often try to seem sophisticated, we often try to seem sophisticated, we don't always know what to do with those don't always know what to do with those who aspire to seem innocent and who aspire to seem innocent and wideeyed, right? Something charming wideeyed, right? Something charming about that uh observation. And and then about that uh observation. And and then uh bottom of that page, Jaguar model uh bottom of that page, Jaguar model names sound like rockets. notes Paul Bey names sound like rockets. notes Paul Bey and the sellout and the sellout XJS XJ8 E typeas XJS XJ8 E typeas sound like cars designed by pacifists sound like cars designed by pacifists and humanitarian diplomats and humanitarian diplomats the accord civic insight end quote and the accord civic insight end quote and and once again you say to yourself h I and once again you say to yourself h I think there's something to it well think there's something to it well really is there something to it uh really is there something to it uh because uh uh if uh Japanese cars sound because uh uh if uh Japanese cars sound like they've been designed by pacifists like they've been designed by pacifists and humanitarian diplomats. Well, I and humanitarian diplomats. Well, I think you know these Japanese um just think you know these Japanese um just two generations ago uh were creating two generations ago uh were creating havoc all over Asia, right? All over havoc all over Asia, right? All over Asia. uh conquering, killing, murdering. Asia. uh conquering, killing, murdering. Um so the fact that they name their cars Um so the fact that they name their cars uh civic and accord um that well perhaps uh civic and accord um that well perhaps perhaps uh uh this is an attempt and perhaps uh uh this is an attempt and repentance maybe then right uh the repentance maybe then right uh the question is whether it's really question is whether it's really something these names that exemplify something these names that exemplify gentleness and diplomacy gentleness and diplomacy um right or whether there's something um right or whether there's something else going on here or whether It's just else going on here or whether It's just plain old marketing actually. Right. Uh plain old marketing actually. Right. Uh this is what I mean when I say that this is what I mean when I say that there these kinds of judgments that he there these kinds of judgments that he arrives at uh whether he's quoting arrives at uh whether he's quoting someone in approbation or whether uh someone in approbation or whether uh they're his own uh is something to think they're his own uh is something to think about. Uh let's turn to page 25. Making about. Uh let's turn to page 25. Making oneself up. oneself up. oneself up. uh most interesting chapter uh most interesting chapter unquestionably makeup is essential to a unquestionably makeup is essential to a society in which public face is crucial society in which public face is crucial and in which making up with everyone is and in which making up with everyone is an indis indispensable part of an indis indispensable part of sustaining a larger harmony sustaining a larger harmony my colleague my colleague my colleague Spence so this is now the the next sort Spence so this is now the the next sort of anecdote apherism apherism right uh of anecdote apherism apherism right uh this is how the you can see so he just this is how the you can see so he just puts a little star after the first set puts a little star after the first set of the first sentence or the first set of the first sentence or the first set of observations then he will follow this of observations then he will follow this up with a second one and then a third up with a second one and then a third and a fourth and so forth and so on and a fourth and so forth and so on right so second my colleague spends 2 right so second my colleague spends 2 hours a day making herself up my wife hours a day making herself up my wife says on her way to the department store says on her way to the department store where she works and Pico says in reply where she works and Pico says in reply she wants everyone to look at her no she she wants everyone to look at her no she wants everyone not too. Right now, of wants everyone not too. Right now, of course, this is a resting thought course, this is a resting thought because it's like when she has the because it's like when she has the makeup, right, then no one is paying any makeup, right, then no one is paying any attention to her. No one is paying any attention to her. No one is paying any attention to her. Um, uh, that's the attention to her. Um, uh, that's the point. When she doesn't have makeup, point. When she doesn't have makeup, then people pay attention to her. uh but then people pay attention to her. uh but you know I mean the point here is that you know I mean the point here is that what really one needs is one needs some what really one needs is one needs some interpretive work to try to understand interpretive work to try to understand the politics the politics the politics of conformity the politics of apparent of conformity the politics of apparent conformity the politics of a desirable conformity the politics of a desirable conformity the politics of a strategic conformity the politics of a strategic conformity that's that's a terrain that we're that's that's a terrain that we're really speaking about. really speaking about. And then And then And then um um um third, Hioko will spend 20 minutes third, Hioko will spend 20 minutes hastily applying makeup just to go to hastily applying makeup just to go to the grocery store around the corner. the grocery store around the corner. That's his wife. But when even the most That's his wife. But when even the most elegant visitor comes to her flat, she elegant visitor comes to her flat, she thinks nothing of running around with no thinks nothing of running around with no makeup and t-shirt and jeans. And of makeup and t-shirt and jeans. And of course this is the inside outside that course this is the inside outside that when you go outside well there's a when you go outside well there's a public face that you present right so public face that you present right so the question then is is every Japanese the question then is is every Japanese have a persona that is very different have a persona that is very different outside the home than what they have outside the home than what they have inside the home and could we say then to inside the home and could we say then to that extent that every Japanese outside that extent that every Japanese outside is an actor is an actor right can we push the argument right can we push the argument further right fourth observation here the Japanese fourth observation here the Japanese famously have separate words for the famously have separate words for the self inside the home and the one that's self inside the home and the one that's outside on the streets two different outside on the streets two different selves but what is less often noticed is selves but what is less often noticed is that many spaces are kind of transit that many spaces are kind of transit zone effectively public sites turned zone effectively public sites turned into private thoroughares and this is into private thoroughares and this is really uh a question about how does one really uh a question about how does one actually maintain a kind of private acy actually maintain a kind of private acy in an entirely public sphere. Right? How in an entirely public sphere. Right? How does one become solitary amidst a crowd? does one become solitary amidst a crowd? Right? There are different languages in Right? There are different languages in which one can paraphrase some of the which one can paraphrase some of the kinds of ideas here. But we have to kinds of ideas here. But we have to think about the self within the self think about the self within the self without. We have to think of the inside, without. We have to think of the inside, the outside, the complimentariness of the outside, the complimentariness of the home and the world, the public, the the home and the world, the public, the private. Right? the the different private. Right? the the different languages in which one can attempt to languages in which one can attempt to really try to work it out. really try to work it out. Um, Um, Um, everybody wants to look their best everybody wants to look their best advises a notice in a Brooklyn subway advises a notice in a Brooklyn subway car filledy with trash and smeared with car filledy with trash and smeared with a graffiti, but it's a subway car, not a a graffiti, but it's a subway car, not a restroom." End quote. In Japan, however, the subway End quote. In Japan, however, the subway car really is a public convenience that car really is a public convenience that serves since everyone contrives not to serves since everyone contrives not to look at everyone else as a private look at everyone else as a private anti-chamber. anti-chamber. anti-chamber. Notice here the reference point here is Notice here the reference point here is Brooklyn and then in the following um Brooklyn and then in the following um observation he be it begins the New York observation he be it begins the New York subway however quicksortically bans subway however quicksortically bans clipping and primping etc etc. Here clipping and primping etc etc. Here again, the reference point is New York, again, the reference point is New York, right? Throughout the book, on the right? Throughout the book, on the following page, and I'm going to look at following page, and I'm going to look at this one here for a moment, this this one here for a moment, this observation here. All right. Um, bottom observation here. All right. Um, bottom of page seven. When Anel Adams took of page seven. When Anel Adams took pictures of Japanese attorneys in pictures of Japanese attorneys in Californian concentration camps during Californian concentration camps during World War II, his subjects were so World War II, his subjects were so determined to offer bright smiles. determined to offer bright smiles. Empire of smiles. His subjects were so Empire of smiles. His subjects were so determined to offer bright smiles and to determined to offer bright smiles and to project a hopeful confidence to the project a hopeful confidence to the world that the photographer was world that the photographer was criticized for falsifying the truth. criticized for falsifying the truth. Right? So before we Right? So before we think about analyzing it just for a think about analyzing it just for a moment, right? Uh moment, right? Uh let's recall what I'd said before. The let's recall what I'd said before. The reference point whenever there's a reference point whenever there's a comparison is almost invariably the comparison is almost invariably the United States. Why the United States, United States. Why the United States, right? Or maybe once in a rare while right? Or maybe once in a rare while somewhere else in England or Europe, but somewhere else in England or Europe, but it's us especially the US. Now, I think it's us especially the US. Now, I think that that's a problem with this book. I that that's a problem with this book. I mean, you could say that it's written mean, you could say that it's written for an American audience. Uh there's for an American audience. Uh there's nothing in the title, nothing in, you nothing in the title, nothing in, you know, what he says as such. Uh which know, what he says as such. Uh which would suggest that that's the limit that would suggest that that's the limit that that book is designed for an American that book is designed for an American audience. audience. audience. Uh no, I don't think it is. I think the Uh no, I don't think it is. I think the problem here is simply that this is yet problem here is simply that this is yet another illustration of the particular another illustration of the particular way in in which uh the US has come to way in in which uh the US has come to monopolize the imagination of a writer monopolize the imagination of a writer who imagines he's really writing a book who imagines he's really writing a book on Japan only right and of course you on Japan only right and of course you could say that it puts in relief what he could say that it puts in relief what he has to say about Japan right when he has to say about Japan right when he thinks of the United States. My question thinks of the United States. My question simply is why not think of India for simply is why not think of India for example particularly when your subject example particularly when your subject is for example uh certain kinds of is for example uh certain kinds of aphoristic sayings uh and the and the aphoristic sayings uh and the and the Indian texts are are full of these right Indian texts are are full of these right they're full of these u observations they're full of these u observations about emptiness um the kinds of about emptiness um the kinds of quotations he has from Zen masters well quotations he has from Zen masters well there are plenty of writers in India who there are plenty of writers in India who were who were offering insights were who were offering insights uh of this of this kind. But let's to go uh of this of this kind. But let's to go back to this particular passage. Um and back to this particular passage. Um and I'm going to wind up in about 5 to 7 I'm going to wind up in about 5 to 7 minutes uh because I think I would have minutes uh because I think I would have conveyed enough of the flavor of this conveyed enough of the flavor of this book uh and conveyed some of um the book uh and conveyed some of um the kinds of observations that Picoire wants kinds of observations that Picoire wants to share about Japan. uh uh when Anel to share about Japan. uh uh when Anel Adams went to these concentration camps, Adams went to these concentration camps, well you know some of the photographs uh well you know some of the photographs uh we know are staged. All right. Uh but we know are staged. All right. Uh but it's also the case uh that the there was it's also the case uh that the there was a substantial number of Japanese a substantial number of Japanese incarcerated in these camps who were incarcerated in these camps who were Japanese Americans. Japanese Americans. In fact, the Japanese Americans. In fact, the majority of them were Japanese majority of them were Japanese Americans. the supple and these same Americans. the supple and these same Japanese Americans uh uh they were even Japanese Americans uh uh they were even young men among the Japanese Americans young men among the Japanese Americans who actually served who actually served in World War II right now. If they can in World War II right now. If they can serve in World War II, they can serve in World War II, they can certainly put on some smiles at a certainly put on some smiles at a concentration camp. Right? What I'm concentration camp. Right? What I'm trying to suggest here is this uh that trying to suggest here is this uh that we would again have to understand this we would again have to understand this empire of smiles uh is not it seems to empire of smiles uh is not it seems to me a very insightful way uh of really me a very insightful way uh of really thinking. Okay, it's almost cliched. thinking. Okay, it's almost cliched. It's stereotypical in some ways. Uh you It's stereotypical in some ways. Uh you know uh Picoire is almost inviting us to know uh Picoire is almost inviting us to think about Hello Kitty, right? when think about Hello Kitty, right? when he's when he's talking about this empire he's when he's talking about this empire of smiles and uh we have to understand of smiles and uh we have to understand that the Japanese Americans who were that the Japanese Americans who were incarcerated they were trying to put on incarcerated they were trying to put on uh the best possible uh face that they uh the best possible uh face that they could. uh they they wanted to suggest could. uh they they wanted to suggest that as American patriots they still stood behind the country even they still stood behind the country even though grievous harm had been done to them. grievous harm had been done to them. Right? Right? Right? when the entire book is a series of more when the entire book is a series of more or less observations or less observations or really aferisms cast as observations or really aferisms cast as observations right and puires right and puires leaves all the interpretive work to you leaves all the interpretive work to you because after all it is a beginner's because after all it is a beginner's guide but then I think guide but then I think it it it opens him up to the risk as I said of opens him up to the risk as I said of being shallow or being extremely being shallow or being extremely annoying at times because one wonders annoying at times because one wonders how much of Japan he really understands how much of Japan he really understands and it's not sufficient for him to say and it's not sufficient for him to say that look I wonder you know and that I'm that look I wonder you know and that I'm not sure I know much about Japan to not sure I know much about Japan to begin with right now he's also quotes begin with right now he's also quotes Oscar Wild quite often and it struck me Oscar Wild quite often and it struck me why he quotes Oscar Wild because of why he quotes Oscar Wild because of course Oscar Wild was a master of the course Oscar Wild was a master of the apherism particularly that apherism apherism particularly that apherism which was always a paradox, something which was always a paradox, something impossible. U right uh um he begins page impossible. U right uh um he begins page 51. Uh this section is called the 51. Uh this section is called the advanced guide to Japan. And uh but one advanced guide to Japan. And uh but one day I was browsing through Oscar Wild day I was browsing through Oscar Wild and I found the line, the true mystery and I found the line, the true mystery of the world is the visible, not the of the world is the visible, not the invisible, right? Uh well, yes, I mean invisible, right? Uh well, yes, I mean that is certainly the case. Uh there are that is certainly the case. Uh there are things that are transparent. They're things that are transparent. They're before our eyes before our eyes and they're completely utterly and they're completely utterly incomprehensible. Uh one of my favorite incomprehensible. Uh one of my favorite quotations uh particularly because I've quotations uh particularly because I've written about the politics of statuary written about the politics of statuary right public statues is a quotation by right public statues is a quotation by Robert Mucil uh where he said that the Robert Mucil uh where he said that the most astonishing thing about these most astonishing thing about these monuments and these statues is how monuments and these statues is how invisible they are. Right? invisible they are. Right? It's like you walk by the same statue It's like you walk by the same statue every day for 50 years of your life and every day for 50 years of your life and often you have no idea u uh whose statue often you have no idea u uh whose statue it is. It's it's almost like you're not it is. It's it's almost like you're not even aware that there's a statue there. even aware that there's a statue there. Right? I think that was one of the Right? I think that was one of the reasons why why Mayawati uh um and some reasons why why Mayawati uh um and some others in India have built gigantic others in India have built gigantic statues. Right? uh so that uh one statues. Right? uh so that uh one shouldn't be able to engage in the shouldn't be able to engage in the politics so to speak of the visible uh politics so to speak of the visible uh that becomes invisible to you. They want that becomes invisible to you. They want to make sure that what is visible to make sure that what is visible remains visible to you, right? Um so he remains visible to you, right? Um so he begins uh the invocation of Oscar Wild begins uh the invocation of Oscar Wild uh over here but then u talks about the uh over here but then u talks about the interest that the Japanese had in Oscar interest that the Japanese had in Oscar Wild right so bottom of page 51 and as Wild right so bottom of page 51 and as soon as wild began bringing Japanese soon as wild began bringing Japanese principles into the west Japan began principles into the west Japan began turning with reverence to Oscar Wild. My turning with reverence to Oscar Wild. My neighbors most value their own things neighbors most value their own things after these come back to them with after these come back to them with foreign stamps. I think we all do. Um foreign stamps. I think we all do. Um towards the end of World War II, kamikaz towards the end of World War II, kamikaz pilots started penning poems as if in pilots started penning poems as if in the shadow of wild. The pain of lev love the shadow of wild. The pain of lev love reflected one is happiness itself. reflected one is happiness itself. Another wrote, "Strolling in the dark Another wrote, "Strolling in the dark with my comrades, we dream of beautiful with my comrades, we dream of beautiful pastures and orchards." pastures and orchards." The prime minister in 1941, Fuminaro The prime minister in 1941, Fuminaro Konoi had published a translation of Konoi had published a translation of wild while at Cyoto Imperial University. wild while at Cyoto Imperial University. The novelist Taniaki schooled himself in The novelist Taniaki schooled himself in the works of the renegade aesthetic, the works of the renegade aesthetic, sorry, from Dublin. Soon after the war, sorry, from Dublin. Soon after the war, Japan's most assertive novelist, Yukio Japan's most assertive novelist, Yukio Mishima, published a book whose title, Mishima, published a book whose title, Confessions of a Mask, was pure wild, as Confessions of a Mask, was pure wild, as were its sentiments. quote, "It is were its sentiments. quote, "It is precisely what people regard as my true precisely what people regard as my true self. That is a masquerade." End quote. self. That is a masquerade." End quote. Right now, well, yes, it's very Right now, well, yes, it's very interesting. I think that this is a this interesting. I think that this is a this is something that a scholar could look is something that a scholar could look at this kind of interculturality, the at this kind of interculturality, the Japanese engagement with Oscar Wild and Japanese engagement with Oscar Wild and and uh the English uh uh uh you know and uh the English uh uh uh you know engagement with Japan. All right. engagement with Japan. All right. or Oscar Wild's engagement with Japan. or Oscar Wild's engagement with Japan. Um, Um, Um, and yes, the onus of Oscar Wild of Pico and yes, the onus of Oscar Wild of Pico is not to give us a scholarly account of is not to give us a scholarly account of all of this, but my suspicion is that it all of this, but my suspicion is that it is really Pico who is more interested in is really Pico who is more interested in Oscar Wild precisely because of these Oscar Wild precisely because of these kinds of kinds of kinds of paradoxes. paradoxes. paradoxes. um and aferisms um and aferisms uh in which Oscar Wild absolutely uh in which Oscar Wild absolutely reveled, right? So for example, and here reveled, right? So for example, and here I quote page 53 uh I quote page 53 uh right one quotation after another, right one quotation after another, right? From Oscar Wild. I adore simple right? From Oscar Wild. I adore simple pleasures, he observes in the picture of pleasures, he observes in the picture of Dorian Gray. They are the last refuge of Dorian Gray. They are the last refuge of the complex, right? I adore simple the complex, right? I adore simple pleasures. They are the last refuge of pleasures. They are the last refuge of the complex. I remember when I was very the complex. I remember when I was very young, I read Oscar Wild actually uh young, I read Oscar Wild actually uh when I was ill with jaundice. when I was ill with jaundice. I was 15 years old. I was in bed for I was 15 years old. I was in bed for about a month in Delhi about a month in Delhi and there two English writers and there two English writers whom I read and I copied whom I read and I copied copious passages copious passages copious passages on blank sheets of paper from Oscar Wild on blank sheets of paper from Oscar Wild and writer Haggard and writer Haggard particularly his novel she right particularly his novel she right and I read the importance of being and I read the importance of being earnest earnest earnest the picture of Dorian Gray, the picture of Dorian Gray, right? right? right? And as I said, I was very attracted to And as I said, I was very attracted to Oscar Wild. I think Oscar Wild. I think those who are interested in Oscar Wild, those who are interested in Oscar Wild, I think fall into several categories. I think fall into several categories. Those who love apherisms, those who love Those who love apherisms, those who love the playfulness, the playfulness, the playfulness, right? Without really serious probing right? Without really serious probing the playfulness either, right? the the playfulness either, right? the playfulness of uh these paradoxes and playfulness of uh these paradoxes and those who are frankly a little juvenile. those who are frankly a little juvenile. Let's be quite candid about it. When Let's be quite candid about it. When one's young, one loves these kinds of one's young, one loves these kinds of things. If that is one has something of things. If that is one has something of an appetite for books and for ideas and an appetite for books and for ideas and so on, so on, so on, some things are more precious. some things are more precious. It's asserted at the same text because It's asserted at the same text because they don't last long. thinking of uh of they don't last long. thinking of uh of course I mean you know that's not just course I mean you know that's not just vintage Oscar Wild I mean that's the vintage Oscar Wild I mean that's the philosophy of philosophy of philosophy of the Mandela the Mandela the Mandela that you know some monks will spend days that you know some monks will spend days making making making right on the sand elaborate right on the sand elaborate and when it's there this beautiful and when it's there this beautiful artwork then they stand around it and they blew it away. Right? A lesson to us they blew it away. Right? A lesson to us about the transient nature of things, about the transient nature of things, the transient nature of life. the transient nature of life. Right? Some things are more precious Right? Some things are more precious because they don't last long. because they don't last long. And perhaps we would treat life And perhaps we would treat life as a precious gift when we realized that as a precious gift when we realized that it doesn't last long. Certainly when we it doesn't last long. Certainly when we look at the long history of our look at the long history of our planetary existence, planetary existence, planetary existence, right? right? right? And we look at forms of life that have And we look at forms of life that have existed for millions of years. Then what existed for millions of years. Then what is one is one is one life of 80 or 85 or 90 years? Right? life of 80 or 85 or 90 years? Right? Beauty, real beauty. Wild also notes in Beauty, real beauty. Wild also notes in Dorian Gay ends where an intellectual Dorian Gay ends where an intellectual expression begins. Right? The fact that expression begins. Right? The fact that he's not even referencing Japan at this he's not even referencing Japan at this point is a very indication that he point is a very indication that he thinks that Oscar Wild's mind is so to thinks that Oscar Wild's mind is so to speak speaking for the speak so to speak speaking for the Japanese for the same kind of mentality Japanese for the same kind of mentality right to be modern. It said in a woman right to be modern. It said in a woman of no importance of no importance this is another work by Oscar Wild is this is another work by Oscar Wild is the only thing worth being nowadays the only thing worth being nowadays right um and this is where I said you right um and this is where I said you know yes I mean it it's all sounds so know yes I mean it it's all sounds so wonderful but there is a kind of perhaps wonderful but there is a kind of perhaps shallowess in it and uh one could go on shallowess in it and uh one could go on really in this vein for a very long really in this vein for a very long period of time some of the things that period of time some of the things that he says about Japan frankly do strike me he says about Japan frankly do strike me as cliched he has this long episode as cliched he has this long episode where he describes uh about uh you know where he describes uh about uh you know what happens in Japan when something what happens in Japan when something really quite unexpected happens and no really quite unexpected happens and no one really knows what to do. no one one really knows what to do. no one really knows what to do. And the story really knows what to do. And the story that he narrates is there is a story that he narrates is there is a story where um he had a problem with an Apple where um he had a problem with an Apple product and and he called uh and product and and he called uh and um you know the response uh of the um you know the response uh of the Japanese. They were just absolutely Japanese. They were just absolutely taken aback um uh by what he was taken aback um uh by what he was describing and what the proposed describing and what the proposed solution was and the difficulties. Um solution was and the difficulties. Um but that's all of that is a little bit but that's all of that is a little bit cliched because the idea here is that cliched because the idea here is that well you know the Japanese are really in well you know the Japanese are really in a way sworn to predictability a way sworn to predictability and and once you move outside that what and and once you move outside that what people uh and cliched English will call people uh and cliched English will call their comfort zone uh then um u their comfort zone uh then um u everything begins to crumble. All right. everything begins to crumble. All right. Uh but let me conclude with this. Let me Uh but let me conclude with this. Let me conclude appropriately enough with some observations about silence and with some observations about silence and about about about the claim that the deepest things can the claim that the deepest things can ever be expressed through words. Um ever be expressed through words. Um again a claim that is far from being again a claim that is far from being distinct to uh Zen Buddhism uh or to distinct to uh Zen Buddhism uh or to Huskar Wild. Uh it's it's a claim that Huskar Wild. Uh it's it's a claim that any number of people any number of great any number of people any number of great thinkers have made. Um um thinkers have made. Um um whether in the west uh or in the east um whether in the west uh or in the east um we can think about a typology of we can think about a typology of silences page 107. silences page 107. This chapter is called no words. No This chapter is called no words. No words right there are two silences wrote words right there are two silences wrote Harold Pinter Harold Pinter Harold Pinter here again note reference point is the here again note reference point is the west okay not the US here an English west okay not the US here an English writer but it's the west right he he writer but it's the west right he he doesn't really doesn't really doesn't really he he doesn't really take recourse to to he he doesn't really take recourse to to Indian text to Indian traditions Indian text to Indian traditions um or even to Chinese to the anal uh um or even to Chinese to the anal uh let's say of confucious uh or to uh la let's say of confucious uh or to uh la where he would have found many uh where he would have found many uh apherisms, many passages, many apherisms, many passages, many observations that resonate with what observations that resonate with what he's saying. Right? There are two he's saying. Right? There are two silences wrote Harold Pinter introducing silences wrote Harold Pinter introducing his complete works. One when no word is his complete works. One when no word is spoken, spoken, spoken, the other when perhaps a torrent of the other when perhaps a torrent of language is being employed. language is being employed. This speech is speaking of a language This speech is speaking of a language locked beneath it. A person is uttering locked beneath it. A person is uttering gibberish perhaps, but even uttering gibberish perhaps, but even uttering something that seems, you know, profound something that seems, you know, profound but perhaps labored and yet the real but perhaps labored and yet the real meaning meaning meaning is the meaning is the meaning that is locked underneath that. that is locked underneath that. Perhaps the most celebrated poem in Perhaps the most celebrated poem in Japan is Basho's gasp of delight at Japan is Basho's gasp of delight at seeing the island of Matsushima. Very seeing the island of Matsushima. Very famous poem indeed. The whole poem famous poem indeed. The whole poem consists of just the name, a gasp and consists of just the name, a gasp and two particles. Matsushima. Matsushima. Matsushima. Hours after the bomb was dropped on Hours after the bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, what struck a German priest Hiroshima, what struck a German priest was a silence. Even in a grove where was a silence. Even in a grove where hundreds of survivors had gathered, no one wept or screamed. No one no one wept or screamed. No one complained. Children barely cried. Those complained. Children barely cried. Those who sobbed sobbed silently. who sobbed sobbed silently. Those given water bowed their thanks. Those given water bowed their thanks. Well, this is one account. Well, this is one account. There are other accounts which suggest There are other accounts which suggest something different. But let's accept something different. But let's accept this account, right? Because there are this account, right? Because there are other accounts that suggest that some other accounts that suggest that some people started shrieking, you know, but people started shrieking, you know, but but let's accept this account. And I say but let's accept this account. And I say let's accept it not only because it's an let's accept it not only because it's an account by someone account by someone who was there at that time, but because who was there at that time, but because it's very plausible. It was the sheer it's very plausible. It was the sheer enormity, the sheer gravity of what had enormity, the sheer gravity of what had occurred that made people absolutely speechless. Speechless, Speechless, Speechless, right? right? right? Silence. No words. Silence. No words. No word. No word. No word. Though Japan's Nobel Prize winning Though Japan's Nobel Prize winning novelist Yasu Nari Kawabata novelist Yasu Nari Kawabata can say as much as can say as much as silence. silence. silence. Let us recall friends that Maandas Let us recall friends that Maandas Gandhi observed Gandhi observed Gandhi observed one day of silence every week. one day of silence every week. And I urge all of those you if you are And I urge all of those you if you are listening to this in India at whatever listening to this in India at whatever point you listen to it point you listen to it take a trip to Ahmedabad and to go to take a trip to Ahmedabad and to go to Gujarat Vidya one day and there is a Gujarat Vidya one day and there is a room there called the silence room where room there called the silence room where Gandhi sat in absolute Gandhi sat in absolute utter silence. for nearly a month.