================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: QNnYp9oTCDM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QNnYp9oTCDM
TITLE: The 25 Best Movies of the Century: No. 17 - ‘Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy’| The Big Picture
CHANNEL: Ringer Movies
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-25
DURATION: 50m 54s
VIEWS: 15,644
LIKES: 355
COMMENTS: 156
TAGS: Movies, Film, Cinema, The Ringer, Ringer, Rewatchables, The Rewatchables, Big Pic, Big Picture, Bill Simmons

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sean and Amanda return to continue their yearlong project of listing the 25 best movies of the 21st century so far. Today, they discuss Adam McKay’s ‘Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy’ starring Will Ferrell, one of the most iconic comedies of all time. They highlight the wildly successful partnership of McKay and Judd Apatow, why they made the painfully difficult decision to choose this as their official studio comedy selection over ‘Superbad’, and celebrate Christina Applegate’s wonderful performance.

Hosts: Sean Fennessey and Amanda Dobbins
Producer: Jack Sanders

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RINGER CHANNELS
The Ringer-Verse YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@ringerverse
The Bill Simmons YouTube channel: youtube.com/billsimmons

CONNECT
Shop: https://theringer.com/shop
Website: http://theringer.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ringer
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ringer
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ringer

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 19,699

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobin. And I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobin. And this is 25 for2, a big picture special this is 25 for2, a big picture special conversation show about anchor man, the conversation show about anchor man, the legend of Ron Burgundy. And I don't know legend of Ron Burgundy. And I don't know how to put this, but I'm kind of a big how to put this, but I'm kind of a big deal. People know me. I'm very deal. People know me. I'm very important. I have many leatherbound important. I have many leatherbound books and my apartment smells of rich books and my apartment smells of rich mahogany. Amanda, how do you feel about mahogany. Amanda, how do you feel about those facts? Uh, I didn't realize until those facts? Uh, I didn't realize until I rewatched that I had that full speech I rewatched that I had that full speech memorized. Like I could I could say it memorized. Like I could I could say it word for word. Very important important word for word. Very important important film, important text for our generation. film, important text for our generation. Yes, let's explore why that is the case Yes, let's explore why that is the case because I suspect we will be repeating a because I suspect we will be repeating a lot of lines of dialogue from this movie lot of lines of dialogue from this movie as we talk about it. I love lamp. We do as we talk about it. I love lamp. We do love lamp here. This movie was released love lamp here. This movie was released on July 9th, 2004. on July 9th, 2004. Special time in my life. was living in Special time in my life. was living in New York City. Um, it is co-written and New York City. Um, it is co-written and directed by Adam McKay. It's his directed by Adam McKay. It's his directorial debut after an incredible directorial debut after an incredible run at Saturday Night Live where he run at Saturday Night Live where he formed an extraordinary partnership and formed an extraordinary partnership and bond with the other coowwriter and star bond with the other coowwriter and star of this movie Will Ferrell. It also of this movie Will Ferrell. It also stars Christina Applegate, Paul Rudd, stars Christina Applegate, Paul Rudd, Steve Carell, David Kekner, Chris Steve Carell, David Kekner, Chris Parnell, Fred Willard. Cameos galore. Parnell, Fred Willard. Cameos galore. Yeah. This is the beginning the Yeah. This is the beginning the beginning Yes. of the Appattow McKay era beginning Yes. of the Appattow McKay era of comedy, right? which also began to of comedy, right? which also began to sort of suck up Hoover up and grow a sort of suck up Hoover up and grow a great many stars basically for a 15-year great many stars basically for a 15-year period, I would say, roughly through period, I would say, roughly through 2018, 2019, right? And then the pandemic 2018, 2019, right? And then the pandemic pandemic kind of killed it. Yeah. And pandemic kind of killed it. Yeah. And then the slap put an end to that. Was it then the slap put an end to that. Was it the slap that ended comedy? Well, I just the slap that ended comedy? Well, I just kind of Yeah. Wow. The slap killed kind of Yeah. Wow. The slap killed comedy. Yeah, I guess so. We've already comedy. Yeah, I guess so. We've already made great progress here on this episode made great progress here on this episode of 25 for 25. So, let's let's talk about of 25 for 25. So, let's let's talk about it. Um, this is this was this was a it. Um, this is this was this was a tricky one to choose because there are a tricky one to choose because there are a number of representative mega comedies number of representative mega comedies from this era. Um, there's The Hangover. from this era. Um, there's The Hangover. There's other Pharaoh McKay projects There's other Pharaoh McKay projects like Tallaladega Nights or Step like Tallaladega Nights or Step Brothers. There's This is the End. Brothers. There's This is the End. There's uh Forgetting Sarah Marshall. There's uh Forgetting Sarah Marshall. There's we could go on and on. Really There's we could go on and on. Really the entire Aptile universe. 40-year-old the entire Aptile universe. 40-year-old Virgin Knocked Up. girls trip and and I Virgin Knocked Up. girls trip and and I think the most egregious and what was think the most egregious and what was the alternative on a list for me? Super the alternative on a list for me? Super bad. Right. So, let let's go there. bad. Right. So, let let's go there. Superb was I think the leader in the Superb was I think the leader in the clubhouse at the start. We made a couple clubhouse at the start. We made a couple of pivots over time. I'm f I think we of pivots over time. I'm f I think we made the right decision because of of made the right decision because of of everything that this movie brings everything that this movie brings together. Um, and it is the starting together. Um, and it is the starting point both for Avt universe, Adam McKay point both for Avt universe, Adam McKay universe. It brings in the the tail end universe. It brings in the the tail end of like the SNL stuff. Mean Girls is of like the SNL stuff. Mean Girls is another movie spoiler that's not on our another movie spoiler that's not on our list, but is a was a contender. Yeah. list, but is a was a contender. Yeah. And is a SNL, you know, figure And is a SNL, you know, figure transitioning in a different way to the transitioning in a different way to the big screen. So, you have everything in big screen. So, you have everything in in this one movie, but yeah, Superb in this one movie, but yeah, Superb Bad's not on our list. So, I feel sad Bad's not on our list. So, I feel sad about that. I feel sad about it, too. I about that. I feel sad about it, too. I love that movie very much. Superb love that movie very much. Superb obviously, I don't believe would be obviously, I don't believe would be possible without this movie and without possible without this movie and without Jud Appattow. You know, this is not the Jud Appattow. You know, this is not the first thing Jud Appattow did by any first thing Jud Appattow did by any stretch of the imagination. But I think stretch of the imagination. But I think what it showed is his great strength what it showed is his great strength colliding with another great filmmaker colliding with another great filmmaker strength and then making something very strength and then making something very special and unique. Apat had been making special and unique. Apat had been making television and movies in the 90s, you television and movies in the 90s, you know, but this style of film making that know, but this style of film making that he pursues, which is very improv based, he pursues, which is very improv based, which is very manic and absurdist, which is very manic and absurdist, hitting with McKay, who had a ton of hitting with McKay, who had a ton of experience writing sketch and a ton of experience writing sketch and a ton of experience performing in sketch on experience performing in sketch on stage. Those two energies fit together stage. Those two energies fit together beautifully. Right. The other thing is beautifully. Right. The other thing is that Appet was a concept guy and McKay that Appet was a concept guy and McKay is an idea guy. You know what I mean is an idea guy. You know what I mean when I say that? Yes. So, you know, when I say that? Yes. So, you know, Appetau is really good at saying like, Appetau is really good at saying like, "What if this was the situation?" And "What if this was the situation?" And McKay is really good at dumping thematic McKay is really good at dumping thematic stuff into those premise versus theme. stuff into those premise versus theme. Exactly. Right. So, this is both a funny Exactly. Right. So, this is both a funny setup and like a world you want to be in setup and like a world you want to be in and crucially like a setup that can and crucially like a setup that can sustain the whole movie where a lot of sustain the whole movie where a lot of SNL to movie uh pivots are just an SNL SNL to movie uh pivots are just an SNL sketch that we just do for sometimes two sketch that we just do for sometimes two and a half hours, which is inexplicable. and a half hours, which is inexplicable. Um but so the premise works and then Um but so the premise works and then McKay is there is like no this is about McKay is there is like no this is about you know sexism and and chauvinism in you know sexism and and chauvinism in the 70s and can craft the comedy the 70s and can craft the comedy correctly and correctly and correctly and um and like and make it be about um and like and make it be about something while also being funny and something while also being funny and also crucially edit it. So this is the also crucially edit it. So this is the other thing I I I had allotted like other thing I I I had allotted like three hours to rewatch this and because three hours to rewatch this and because in my mind it was one of the late app in my mind it was one of the late app production like bloated forever and ever production like bloated forever and ever and the improv just goes on this movie and the improv just goes on this movie is 90 minutes god bless you. It's a lean is 90 minutes god bless you. It's a lean machine of comedy. Now that being said machine of comedy. Now that being said we know that they made a lot more movie we know that they made a lot more movie totally. Um there are a lot of cut totally. Um there are a lot of cut scenes and bloopers. There's an extended scenes and bloopers. There's an extended edition that I think is 5 minutes edition that I think is 5 minutes longer, the unrated edition. And then longer, the unrated edition. And then there is also a movie that is now there is also a movie that is now available called Wake Up Ron Burgundy, available called Wake Up Ron Burgundy, which is an entire other movie that they which is an entire other movie that they cut together that I would say has less cut together that I would say has less narrative strand. Sure. Um, but narrative strand. Sure. Um, but nevertheless, like is just rippling with nevertheless, like is just rippling with jokes, has got a ton of material, and jokes, has got a ton of material, and and this is what these guys do. They and this is what these guys do. They they they write a lot and then they they they write a lot and then they improv a lot and then they collide it improv a lot and then they collide it all together. This film is all together. This film is simultaneously feels like I don't want simultaneously feels like I don't want to say the cheapest, but the sort of to say the cheapest, but the sort of like the most fly by night, the least like the most fly by night, the least like hard studio movie out of this like hard studio movie out of this generation. You know, it's got a generation. You know, it's got a silliness to it, but also has kind of a silliness to it, but also has kind of a really strong core at the center of it really strong core at the center of it because it has real relationships because it has real relationships between real people that is kind of between real people that is kind of keeping you invested in the story while keeping you invested in the story while the joke machine flies at you. So, this the joke machine flies at you. So, this is this is my favorite comedy of the is this is my favorite comedy of the century. Um, it has I think it's century. Um, it has I think it's representative of something that is representative of something that is great, but also to sit inside of it and great, but also to sit inside of it and watch it, it's just fun. Yeah. Do you watch it, it's just fun. Yeah. Do you want to speak on Wolf Frell and what he want to speak on Wolf Frell and what he means to you? Sure. Um, this is not the means to you? Sure. Um, this is not the first movie that he co-wrote. He first movie that he co-wrote. He co-wrote a movie in 1988 called The co-wrote a movie in 1988 called The Night at the Roxberry, which was based I Night at the Roxberry, which was based I can't do I like Which way? It's hard. can't do I like Which way? It's hard. Yeah, that's it. Um, based on a sketch Yeah, that's it. Um, based on a sketch about guys in a club. Sure. He, Chris about guys in a club. Sure. He, Chris Katan, and the eventual, you know, Katan, and the eventual, you know, whoever the guest was that week. Jim whoever the guest was that week. Jim Carrey famously participated in a funny Carrey famously participated in a funny night at the Roxberry sketch where he night at the Roxberry sketch where he kind of out rocks buried Will Ferrell kind of out rocks buried Will Ferrell and Chris Katan. Um, that was an that's and Chris Katan. Um, that was an that's an interesting example of what you just an interesting example of what you just cited, which is that Will Frell when he cited, which is that Will Frell when he hit Saturday Night Live in the 90s was a hit Saturday Night Live in the 90s was a supernova. He was an instantaneous mega supernova. He was an instantaneous mega star. He felt like to me he was the era star. He felt like to me he was the era apparent to Mike Myers and Eddie Murphy apparent to Mike Myers and Eddie Murphy where and you you could say John where and you you could say John Belalushi before and and and to me who Belalushi before and and and to me who that that's the era when I came in. So that that's the era when I came in. So Will Frell is like my SNL star forever. Will Frell is like my SNL star forever. Yes. And there that's a great stretch of Yes. And there that's a great stretch of SNL. Obviously we remember it fondly SNL. Obviously we remember it fondly because we were adolescent but you know because we were adolescent but you know the Tina Feay and Amy Polar stretch but the Tina Feay and Amy Polar stretch but then there's also Jimmy Fallon and then then there's also Jimmy Fallon and then there's folks like Sherot Terry Horatio there's folks like Sherot Terry Horatio Sans very very good the Spartans. Yes. Sans very very good the Spartans. Yes. which is one of the things that vaulted which is one of the things that vaulted Will Ferrell to mega fame among many Will Ferrell to mega fame among many other characters that he created many of other characters that he created many of whom were created with Adam McKay. So whom were created with Adam McKay. So for me for me for me he was an icon. He is my favorite SNL he was an icon. He is my favorite SNL cast member aside from Phil Hartman. cast member aside from Phil Hartman. Like he is just he was an immediate rock Like he is just he was an immediate rock star. But that didn't mean that he was star. But that didn't mean that he was an immediate movie star. And and the an immediate movie star. And and the jump has proved has foiled many people. jump has proved has foiled many people. It has and he I think he did some It has and he I think he did some interesting things. He had a very interesting things. He had a very memorable cameo in a movie that I think memorable cameo in a movie that I think is a nice setup for this movie, which is is a nice setup for this movie, which is Austin Powers: International Man of Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery, where he plays I think his name Mystery, where he plays I think his name is Mustafa. Um, he culturally is Mustafa. Um, he culturally appropriated and was wearing what are appropriated and was wearing what are those hats called? The red hat with the those hats called? The red hat with the You know what I'm talking about? Is You know what I'm talking about? Is that's not his name in uh Zoolander? that's not his name in uh Zoolander? What's his name in Isn't that Mugatu? What's his name in Isn't that Mugatu? Yes, you're right. Thank you. Okay. Yes, you're right. Thank you. Okay. Yeah. So, I mean, we're like edging on, Yeah. So, I mean, we're like edging on, you know, in a It's again 2000s, very you know, in a It's again 2000s, very different. A lot of appropriation going different. A lot of appropriation going on. It's possible that that character in on. It's possible that that character in Austin Powers is meant to be white, but Austin Powers is meant to be white, but he's informed by a certain kind of James he's informed by a certain kind of James Bond villain. Okay. Um, nevertheless, Bond villain. Okay. Um, nevertheless, he's really really funny in that movie he's really really funny in that movie and he gets a very small role where he's and he gets a very small role where he's like, I'm badly hurt when he's at the like, I'm badly hurt when he's at the bottom of the whatever where whatever bottom of the whatever where whatever trap door he's fallen down. Um, but trap door he's fallen down. Um, but Night of the Rockberry was like a reach. Night of the Rockberry was like a reach. It didn't work. It was it was what you It didn't work. It was it was what you described. It was a stretched out sketch described. It was a stretched out sketch and he needed a vehicle that was more and he needed a vehicle that was more appropriate for his appropriate for his how to describe his essence. I think he how to describe his essence. I think he is the ultimate is the ultimate full of it man baby you know he is the full of it man baby you know he is the overconfident overconfident overconfident idiotic representation of false idiotic representation of false masculinity right and or his performance masculinity right and or his performance let's not let's not Will Ferrell not as let's not let's not Will Ferrell not as a man I I do I I want to talk a little a man I I do I I want to talk a little bit about him and McKay's dynamic bit about him and McKay's dynamic especially since they no longer work especially since they no longer work together I know which is sad and what together I know which is sad and what they gave to each other and kind of what they gave to each other and kind of what they mean to each other but I find him they mean to each other but I find him to be funny in a primal to be funny in a primal Um I I'll I tend to intellectualize Um I I'll I tend to intellectualize these things and verbalize these things these things and verbalize these things as much as I can, but he has something as much as I can, but he has something that just makes me happy. Yes, he I mean that just makes me happy. Yes, he I mean it is presence. There's there's it is presence. There's there's physicality. there's what he does with physicality. there's what he does with his voice, you know, and the the Steve his voice, you know, and the the Steve Carell performance in this is like also Carell performance in this is like also early Steve Carell and very funny and is early Steve Carell and very funny and is like playing with volume which I like playing with volume which I associate with Steve Carell now but I associate with Steve Carell now but I realized watching this again I was like realized watching this again I was like okay so that is first and foremost a okay so that is first and foremost a Will Ferrell thing and like weird sounds Will Ferrell thing and like weird sounds and and it's it's like pre- language in and and it's it's like pre- language in some ways his level of of humor um the some ways his level of of humor um the crow magn comedy but it speaks to on crow magn comedy but it speaks to on that level. I'm in a glass cage of that level. I'm in a glass cage of emotion. Um, obviously him shouting just emotion. Um, obviously him shouting just makes people laugh, you know, get off makes people laugh, you know, get off the shed. Like all the SNL sketches are the shed. Like all the SNL sketches are are born of him seeming calm and then are born of him seeming calm and then quickly losing his [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Ron Burgundy, quickly losing his [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Ron Burgundy, especially presentational character that especially presentational character that he is. He's a 1970s newscaster. I'll he is. He's a 1970s newscaster. I'll describe the setup of the movie for describe the setup of the movie for anybody who's not seen Anchorman, which anybody who's not seen Anchorman, which is I don't know who that is. Is anybody is I don't know who that is. Is anybody alive who hasn't seen Anchor Man? alive who hasn't seen Anchor Man? Anybody at least under the age of 20 Anybody at least under the age of 20 maybe hasn't seen it. Okay. Um, Hot Shot maybe hasn't seen it. Okay. Um, Hot Shot Television anchor man Ron Burgundy Television anchor man Ron Burgundy welcomes upstart reporter Veronica welcomes upstart reporter Veronica Corningstone into the maledominated Corningstone into the maledominated world of 1970s broadcast news. That is world of 1970s broadcast news. That is until the talented female journalist until the talented female journalist begins to outshine Burgundy on air. Soon begins to outshine Burgundy on air. Soon he grows jealous, begins a bitter feud he grows jealous, begins a bitter feud with Veronica, and eventually makes a with Veronica, and eventually makes a vulgar slip on live TV that ruins his vulgar slip on live TV that ruins his career. However, when an outrageous career. However, when an outrageous story breaks at the San Diego Zoo, Ron story breaks at the San Diego Zoo, Ron may get a chance to redeem himself. So may get a chance to redeem himself. So we can talk about the reasons why we we can talk about the reasons why we added this movie to the list. One is added this movie to the list. One is obviously the Appatau McKay collision obviously the Appatau McKay collision which kicks off an era of comedy, right? which kicks off an era of comedy, right? The other is obviously Will Ferrell The other is obviously Will Ferrell movie star, right? He he goes on to make movie star, right? He he goes on to make some of it. Is he the signature comedy some of it. Is he the signature comedy star of the 21st century? I think is an star of the 21st century? I think is an interesting question to explore. Right. interesting question to explore. Right. I mean, Vince Vaughn being in this is I mean, Vince Vaughn being in this is another one because it's so you get old another one because it's so you get old school and wedding crash showers very school and wedding crash showers very soon after that. No one from Hangover is soon after that. No one from Hangover is in this. So, and those I feel are sort in this. So, and those I feel are sort of like the temple. Mhm. Those are the of like the temple. Mhm. Those are the big box office sensations first 10 big box office sensations first 10 years, right? Um, years, right? Um, but to us probably what because he Well, but to us probably what because he Well, Frell's also an old school. What else do Frell's also an old school. What else do we have? I mean, step brothers. Mhm. we have? I mean, step brothers. Mhm. Step Brothers is the is the only other Step Brothers is the is the only other one besides Superb that I seriously one besides Superb that I seriously considered. No, I mean I also when we considered. No, I mean I also when we were doing our like, you know, Devil's were doing our like, you know, Devil's Advocate, I was like, are we sure it Advocate, I was like, are we sure it shouldn't be Step Brothers instead of shouldn't be Step Brothers instead of Anchorman? And I think that Anchorman? And I think that you have to be a little boring when you have to be a little boring when you're making those list. Like Anchorman you're making those list. Like Anchorman brings together all the themes and brings together all the themes and everything we're talking about. And Step everything we're talking about. And Step Brothers is just like uh per it is like Brothers is just like uh per it is like performance art. It is like a on guard performance art. It is like a on guard almost. Um, but is really, really, almost. Um, but is really, really, really funny. I love it. We did a really funny. I love it. We did a rewatch about it many, many years ago. rewatch about it many, many years ago. I don't want to say there's less to talk I don't want to say there's less to talk about with Step Brothers and that being about with Step Brothers and that being the reason why we didn't choose it, but the reason why we didn't choose it, but it does feel like you are watching a it does feel like you are watching a live exhibit of some kind, you know, live exhibit of some kind, you know, like them kind of like going to the like them kind of like going to the absolute ends of their quest for the absolute ends of their quest for the like lost masculinity of the American like lost masculinity of the American man in the 21st century. As opposed to a man in the 21st century. As opposed to a movie like this, which actually is maybe movie like this, which actually is maybe just like a little bit thematically just like a little bit thematically richer. Plus, this movie also has richer. Plus, this movie also has Christina Applegate. Yeah. Um, which is Christina Applegate. Yeah. Um, which is the kind of performance that we the kind of performance that we definitely do not have in Step Brothers. definitely do not have in Step Brothers. There's not a lot of female depth There's not a lot of female depth explore. It's true. Um, there were a explore. It's true. Um, there were a couple of other movies that I couple of other movies that I considered. 21 Jump Street, which I considered. 21 Jump Street, which I think is very, very well-liked. Really, think is very, very well-liked. Really, really funny. Um, and by me as well. really funny. Um, and by me as well. Yeah. And we have no like Jonah Hill is Yeah. And we have no like Jonah Hill is not represented here. Neither Super Bad not represented here. Neither Super Bad nor 21 Jump Street Once Upon a Time. He nor 21 Jump Street Once Upon a Time. He was a huge comedy star. It's okay. No was a huge comedy star. It's okay. No spoilers, but Jonah will be back. He spoilers, but Jonah will be back. He will be back. Uh, will be back. Uh, Tropic Thunder. Yeah, this one not a big Tropic Thunder. Yeah, this one not a big one for you. No, like I I I know its one for you. No, like I I I know its importance. Um, and but as a as a as a importance. Um, and but as a as a as a fan of Tom movie documentaries, Tom fan of Tom movie documentaries, Tom Cruz, I mean, it's inspired by Hearts of Cruz, I mean, it's inspired by Hearts of Darkness wasn't there at that time. like Darkness wasn't there at that time. like it's good, but it's not on the level of it's good, but it's not on the level of uh of of really any of and it's not like uh of of really any of and it's not like culturally significant in the way that culturally significant in the way that Anchorman, Super Bad, Knocked Up, Anchorman, Super Bad, Knocked Up, Hangover, like those were really at the Hangover, like those were really at the center of pop culture for a while. I center of pop culture for a while. I they they felt to me, forgive this they they felt to me, forgive this comparison because it's going to annoy comparison because it's going to annoy you, but they felt to me what it was you, but they felt to me what it was like to go to Marvel movies in like the like to go to Marvel movies in like the late 2010s. Yeah. late 2010s. Yeah. where it was like Friday night is a where it was like Friday night is a party. Everyone is everyone knows when party. Everyone is everyone knows when the movie is coming out and they're the movie is coming out and they're excited and it is loud in the theater excited and it is loud in the theater with laughter and they also like we had with laughter and they also like we had like so many like discussions and think like so many like discussions and think pieces about you know like is Knocked Up pieces about you know like is Knocked Up sexist and like all these sorts of sexist and like all these sorts of things like they we were things like they we were the fan culture was different but the the fan culture was different but the fan culture was applied to these movies. fan culture was applied to these movies. It was it um and and now as to Marvel. It was it um and and now as to Marvel. These were very broy and very white These were very broy and very white movies. There's no doubt about it. And movies. There's no doubt about it. And they received a lot of criticism in the they received a lot of criticism in the aftermath of their success. The same way aftermath of their success. The same way that basically like every open acknowledgment of the quote unquote open acknowledgment of the quote unquote problem with these movies, with culture, problem with these movies, with culture, with Yeah. American life. It's a one of with Yeah. American life. It's a one of the best things about it. It's like a the best things about it. It's like a very nifty comedic like not even trick. very nifty comedic like not even trick. I think it takes a lot of work. They are I think it takes a lot of work. They are the men, the sexist buffoons. Like they the men, the sexist buffoons. Like they are the topic of the joke, but they are are the topic of the joke, but they are also the butt of the joke. And so also the butt of the joke. And so quickly and in like in any other hands, quickly and in like in any other hands, you would be asked to laugh at their you would be asked to laugh at their sexist jokes, you know, and that would sexist jokes, you know, and that would be the thing that you're you're that is be the thing that you're you're that is supposed to be quote unquote funny. And supposed to be quote unquote funny. And somehow in this movie, they are like somehow in this movie, they are like they are being gross and it is a sendup they are being gross and it is a sendup of 70s like and and just general of 70s like and and just general chauvinist culture. chauvinist culture. chauvinist culture. But like the joke is always on them and But like the joke is always on them and that's really hard to do. I agree. I that's really hard to do. I agree. I think it would not work without Frell at think it would not work without Frell at the center of it. You know, without the center of it. You know, without somebody who basically is comfortable somebody who basically is comfortable being the butt of the joke, but who has being the butt of the joke, but who has his physique and is willing to have his his physique and is willing to have his shirt off all the time, you know what I shirt off all the time, you know what I mean? Who is willing to have an erection mean? Who is willing to have an erection in a sequence and be the, you know, in a sequence and be the, you know, object of embarrassment, right? I mean, object of embarrassment, right? I mean, it I agree with you that it's like a it I agree with you that it's like a very effective idea movie in that way. very effective idea movie in that way. I I think it's also like um I I think it's also like um ensembles are hard to do in comedy and a ensembles are hard to do in comedy and a lot of movies try to ape this and this lot of movies try to ape this and this is a collection of people who like even is a collection of people who like even if they didn't work together a lot after if they didn't work together a lot after this all were kind of destined to be in this all were kind of destined to be in a movie together in some ways like Paul a movie together in some ways like Paul Rudd had been in comedies before this Rudd had been in comedies before this but not quite like this. No, not like but not quite like this. No, not like Sex Panther. Not not in this register Sex Panther. Not not in this register specifically. X Panther is the part of specifically. X Panther is the part of the movie when Zach, who was eager to the movie when Zach, who was eager to watch this one with me, was just like watch this one with me, was just like speechless, couldn't bul, you know, just speechless, couldn't bul, you know, just like literally like couldn't breathe. like literally like couldn't breathe. 60% of the time it works every time. Uh 60% of the time it works every time. Uh I think the other thing too is that it's I think the other thing too is that it's in a really great tradition of movies in a really great tradition of movies like Airplane, like Mel Brooks movies, like Airplane, like Mel Brooks movies, like the Marx Brothers, like Jerry like the Marx Brothers, like Jerry Lewis, where it's just like joke, joke, Lewis, where it's just like joke, joke, joke, joke, joke. They don't you don't joke, joke, joke. They don't you don't get to go more than 90 seconds even if get to go more than 90 seconds even if something incredibly dramatic has just something incredibly dramatic has just happened without getting hit with a happened without getting hit with a joke. Yeah. Which joke. Yeah. Which I actually don't know how that has aged I actually don't know how that has aged for lack of a better word. I don't know for lack of a better word. I don't know if that brand of comedy obviously we if that brand of comedy obviously we like our consumption patterns, the way like our consumption patterns, the way we use our phones and the way we like we use our phones and the way we like look at Tik Tok for example works in the look at Tik Tok for example works in the same way but not in sustained same way but not in sustained spaces like we we've been lamenting the spaces like we we've been lamenting the loss of the studio comedy for 10 years loss of the studio comedy for 10 years now. Yeah. And the like people laughing now. Yeah. And the like people laughing over a joke in a movie theater thing. over a joke in a movie theater thing. You you must remember this as like an You you must remember this as like an issue especially for a movie like this issue especially for a movie like this that is so loaded. Yes. But I mean it that is so loaded. Yes. But I mean it just is kind of like rolling and in the just is kind of like rolling and in the movie theater it's so loud that you know movie theater it's so loud that you know it it just keeps going and and it and it it it just keeps going and and it and it builds. Also, I what's interesting to me builds. Also, I what's interesting to me about it is you mentioned that there are about it is you mentioned that there are like actual relationships between people like actual relationships between people and ideas in this, but the comedy like and ideas in this, but the comedy like never stops to have a moment of like, never stops to have a moment of like, you know, what is Veronica like going you know, what is Veronica like going to, you know, what's she going to do and to, you know, what's she going to do and how does it it must be really hard to how does it it must be really hard to that's all in the movie, but she's also that's all in the movie, but she's also making fun of herself or the movie is making fun of herself or the movie is she's playing the comedy of it. Totally. she's playing the comedy of it. Totally. Yeah. Exactly. and and the movie is Yeah. Exactly. and and the movie is playing the comedy of it and it does playing the comedy of it and it does somehow manage to you know it's like somehow manage to you know it's like it's funny that they're so hot for each it's funny that they're so hot for each other and that is like part of the joke other and that is like part of the joke so you don't have to go into some like so you don't have to go into some like actual emotional development that's actual emotional development that's believable. I don't really know whether believable. I don't really know whether movie audiences allow for that anymore movie audiences allow for that anymore in I it's a good question. I wonder in I it's a good question. I wonder because I wish they would. I think you because I wish they would. I think you and I would but like you know all our and I would but like you know all our like Marxist materialist girls I like I like Marxist materialist girls I like I don't know. Well, you know what I'm don't know. Well, you know what I'm saying? I I do I we can't make movies saying? I I do I we can't make movies based on that though. Like I feel like based on that though. Like I feel like oddly this movie has more respect for oddly this movie has more respect for its audience because it doesn't pretend its audience because it doesn't pretend to have this like false dramatic sense to have this like false dramatic sense of urgency. But you know I I do think of urgency. But you know I I do think people expect a speech where like the people expect a speech where like the moral like and the like is is read aloud moral like and the like is is read aloud aloud to them. Yeah. It's just not aloud to them. Yeah. It's just not necessary because for example let's take necessary because for example let's take a scene the scene when Veronica arrives a scene the scene when Veronica arrives into San Diego and she doesn't know the into San Diego and she doesn't know the town well. She's just come in from a town well. She's just come in from a different um a different place where she different um a different place where she had been working as a newscaster and Ron had been working as a newscaster and Ron wants to take her out on a date, but wants to take her out on a date, but he's using it as a sort of like let me he's using it as a sort of like let me show you around the town. And he takes show you around the town. And he takes her to the overlook where you would her to the overlook where you would presumably make out with someone. and he presumably make out with someone. and he delivers this famous Santiago, you know, delivers this famous Santiago, you know, founded by the Germans in 19, you know, founded by the Germans in 19, you know, you don't once you have that scene where you don't once you have that scene where she's smarter than him, she's smarter than him, um, you know, whales vagina, all that um, you know, whales vagina, all that stuff, stuff, stuff, it kind of eradicates the necessity of it kind of eradicates the necessity of any overwritten speech about what this any overwritten speech about what this movie is really about. It's like this movie is really about. It's like this guy's a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] buffoon. He's kind of at guy's a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] buffoon. He's kind of at the absolute core kind of sweet, you the absolute core kind of sweet, you know, like he does his dog. He Yes, he know, like he does his dog. He Yes, he does. He does. He loves his dog. And does. He does. He loves his dog. And the, as you know, I have a complicated the, as you know, I have a complicated relationship with the deployment of relationship with the deployment of animals and pets in movies, but this is animals and pets in movies, but this is perfectly done. Yeah. And also funny. perfectly done. Yeah. And also funny. Well, the the real dramatic hinge of the Well, the the real dramatic hinge of the movie is not Veronica versus Ron. It's movie is not Veronica versus Ron. It's Ron throwing a burrito at Jack Black on Ron throwing a burrito at Jack Black on a motorcycle. Jack Black skidding out a motorcycle. Jack Black skidding out and then going over to Ron. and then going over to Ron. First of all, Jack Black's character First of all, Jack Black's character asking Ron, "What do you love?" And asking Ron, "What do you love?" And Ron's immediate response is, "I love Ron's immediate response is, "I love poetry." poetry." poetry." This always gets me. Um, but then him This always gets me. Um, but then him grabbing Baxter, his little dog, and grabbing Baxter, his little dog, and punting him off of the side of a bridge. punting him off of the side of a bridge. And then that sending Ron into a tail And then that sending Ron into a tail spin, which then disallows him from spin, which then disallows him from reading the news that day. Sure. That reading the news that day. Sure. That being what the narrative crux of the being what the narrative crux of the movie is [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] hilarious. movie is [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] hilarious. And then also setting up the the final And then also setting up the the final resolution of the movie which is Baxter resolution of the movie which is Baxter bless him still alive and can speak bear bless him still alive and can speak bear and comes to save them from this. It's and comes to save them from this. It's an amazing movie. Um even like the bear an amazing movie. Um even like the bear and dog dialogue and so is just so and dog dialogue and so is just so funny. It is truly ridiculous. I will funny. It is truly ridiculous. I will tell tales of your like compassion or tell tales of your like compassion or whatever. whatever. whatever. We all live in the animal kingdom, you We all live in the animal kingdom, you know. It's really funny. If you want to know. It's really funny. If you want to throw down fisticuffs, fine. I've got throw down fisticuffs, fine. I've got Jack Johnson and Tom Olirri waiting for Jack Johnson and Tom Olirri waiting for you right here. I I It's rare that a you right here. I I It's rare that a movie um from this century for me can movie um from this century for me can conjure the desire to just say movie conjure the desire to just say movie dialogue. The men saying movie dialogue dialogue. The men saying movie dialogue together, and I'm not gender together, and I'm not gender essentializing. I'm merely speaking of essentializing. I'm merely speaking of my experiences is just that is a love my experiences is just that is a love language, a friendship. That is a way to language, a friendship. That is a way to communicate with your boys. and I don't communicate with your boys. and I don't have it as much anymore. Now, there are have it as much anymore. Now, there are like a million reasons for it. We don't like a million reasons for it. We don't have as many comedies. I live in a house have as many comedies. I live in a house with two women and not my boys anymore. with two women and not my boys anymore. Uh I am in my 40s and that would seem a Uh I am in my 40s and that would seem a little bit ridiculous. Although, I found little bit ridiculous. Although, I found myself in Atlanta with my brother and we myself in Atlanta with my brother and we shared a room in a hotel. That's very shared a room in a hotel. That's very cute. And we just said big Labowski cute. And we just said big Labowski dialogue to each other the whole time. dialogue to each other the whole time. So, you know that it's still it's it's So, you know that it's still it's it's it's buried deep, but it's still there. it's buried deep, but it's still there. I always like try to do that, but I always like try to do that, but there's no one else who has my there's no one else who has my references, you know? It's like, so references, you know? It's like, so where do you go? You know, like no one, where do you go? You know, like no one, you know, everywhere in LA is 20 you know, everywhere in LA is 20 minutes. What's that from? Uh, I know minutes. What's that from? Uh, I know where that's from. Yeah. See, there we where that's from. Yeah. See, there we go. It's done. But it's like I clueless. go. It's done. But it's like I clueless. I But I have like a lot of I have things I But I have like a lot of I have things that are either it's basically you've that are either it's basically you've got mail or clueless that I repeat as if got mail or clueless that I repeat as if everybody would know it. You need more everybody would know it. You need more clueless gal pals. I Well, I know clueless gal pals. I Well, I know Clueless is a very popular. I do. I do Clueless is a very popular. I do. I do know that, but it's it's not wired in us know that, but it's it's not wired in us to be speaking the same way. You might to be speaking the same way. You might just be stuck working at the ringer. just be stuck working at the ringer. Yes, I know. That's kind of an issue. Yes, I know. That's kind of an issue. Yeah, it's pride's problem. Yeah, it's pride's problem. Talk to me about Christine Applegate Talk to me about Christine Applegate before cuz I feel like she's come up in before cuz I feel like she's come up in the past and you've been like h a little the past and you've been like h a little bit like she's not my favorite but I bit like she's not my favorite but I feel like this is that's unfair. Okay, feel like this is that's unfair. Okay, tell me. I don't know. I guess that this tell me. I don't know. I guess that this is this is probably my number one is this is probably my number one connection because I married with connection because I married with children was not in well we just didn't children was not in well we just didn't watch it growing up. Um she's fantastic watch it growing up. Um she's fantastic in this. in this. in this. really really funny and like Veronica really really funny and like Veronica has like a very hard job of hanging with has like a very hard job of hanging with you know 45 men she is like in the in you know 45 men she is like in the in this the script in the movie has like a this the script in the movie has like a lot more love for her and wants to help lot more love for her and wants to help her but it's like you have to play the her but it's like you have to play the the sexist interloper you know like you the sexist interloper you know like you got to get it just right and she does got to get it just right and she does she's hilarious she is lit so she's hilarious she is lit so beautifully I just want to say that beautifully I just want to say that whoever did that and he can did a really whoever did that and he can did a really good job. And like even when they that good job. And like even when they that first scene when they're cutting at the first scene when they're cutting at the party when they're cutting between her party when they're cutting between her and Frell, I'm like, "Okay, so we have and Frell, I'm like, "Okay, so we have different setups here." Yes. He doesn't different setups here." Yes. He doesn't get the same lighting treat. Yeah. Which get the same lighting treat. Yeah. Which is I think purposeful and adds to the is I think purposeful and adds to the text, but she looks great. Um text, but she looks great. Um I think it it must be really I mean I think it it must be really I mean comedy is hard. I think comedy is hard. comedy is hard. I think comedy is hard. Also, these people also all the the men Also, these people also all the the men have worked together or have some sort have worked together or have some sort of like training together and she's of like training together and she's coming in. So, hats off to her. It's coming in. So, hats off to her. It's really good. There's not a lot of really good. There's not a lot of female comedy actresses that have her female comedy actresses that have her bonafidees, her experience. You know, bonafidees, her experience. You know, she obviously I think she's a bit she obviously I think she's a bit underrated in that she comes from a underrated in that she comes from a tradition of like Carol Lombard, Marilyn tradition of like Carol Lombard, Marilyn Monroe, you know, the like the stunning Monroe, you know, the like the stunning blonde. Yes. who can hang with the boys, blonde. Yes. who can hang with the boys, so to speak. Um, who's just as funny, so to speak. Um, who's just as funny, who's just as funny as all of them. And who's just as funny as all of them. And I think this movie for a certain I think this movie for a certain generation of guys, maybe just a little generation of guys, maybe just a little bit younger than me, is like the first bit younger than me, is like the first time that they ever saw her. But it's it time that they ever saw her. But it's it wasn't just Married with Children. It wasn't just Married with Children. It was like Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's was like Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead. It was uh Sweetest Thing. It was Dead. It was uh Sweetest Thing. It was like there were a bunch of movies that like there were a bunch of movies that were happening in the 90s and the 2000s were happening in the 90s and the 2000s where she was the the lead of the movie. where she was the the lead of the movie. She was the lead of movies when she was She was the lead of movies when she was like 20 years old. So she's an old hand, like 20 years old. So she's an old hand, so to speak. And she's also like won an so to speak. And she's also like won an Emmy, Golden Globes, Tony's, like she's Emmy, Golden Globes, Tony's, like she's extremely accomplished. She's not as extremely accomplished. She's not as much in the culture because she was much in the culture because she was diagnosed with MS and so she doesn't diagnosed with MS and so she doesn't perform nearly as much as she used to, perform nearly as much as she used to, but I think her character is pretty well but I think her character is pretty well written because it also doesn't she written because it also doesn't she doesn't take herself too seriously. Like doesn't take herself too seriously. Like very early on in the film, she gets to very early on in the film, she gets to do voice over which shifts the do voice over which shifts the perspective pretty dramatically in the perspective pretty dramatically in the movie. And then she says, "This is movie. And then she says, "This is definitely a man's world, but while definitely a man's world, but while they're laughing and grabbassing, I'm they're laughing and grabbassing, I'm chasing down leads and practicing my chasing down leads and practicing my non-regional diction." You know, like non-regional diction." You know, like there's like a recognition of the fact there's like a recognition of the fact that she also is like kind of an that she also is like kind of an insecure hustler just like all these insecure hustler just like all these other guys. So, as much as the movie is other guys. So, as much as the movie is about the fragility of the male psyche. about the fragility of the male psyche. Yeah. Even in the 1970s when men ran Yeah. Even in the 1970s when men ran everything, right? It's also about her everything, right? It's also about her own vulnerability, fragility. I I even own vulnerability, fragility. I I even think the the scene like the end of think the the scene like the end of their night out when she is like their night out when she is like desperately attracted him and is like desperately attracted him and is like but I never mixed professional and but I never mixed professional and something like she is playing that as a something like she is playing that as a you know a parody of that type of woman you know a parody of that type of woman who's been in that situation before and who's been in that situation before and is you know uh like and she's also like is you know uh like and she's also like weak and can't help it. So it's it's weak and can't help it. So it's it's very funny. The rest of the cast is very funny. The rest of the cast is a pretty amazing collection of people a pretty amazing collection of people who are great with like three shots a who are great with like three shots a night. Yeah. You know, Fred Willard Mhm. night. Yeah. You know, Fred Willard Mhm. in a in a kind of a glory third in a in a kind of a glory third generation. Um he's already smoking the generation. Um he's already smoking the Christopher Guest movies by this point Christopher Guest movies by this point after all of his years in comedy. It's after all of his years in comedy. It's one of the first times I can remember one of the first times I can remember seeing Kathern Han. seeing Kathern Han. Oh, interesting. Uh, this is 2004, so Oh, interesting. Uh, this is 2004, so you wouldn't have seen How to Lose a Guy you wouldn't have seen How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days before this. I probably did. in 10 Days before this. I probably did. Okay. Well, she is a very vital and Okay. Well, she is a very vital and memorable Is she best friend? She's the memorable Is she best friend? She's the desk. She's the one who keeps doing desk. She's the one who keeps doing everything wrong. And so, and she's like everything wrong. And so, and she's like calling and crying and being like, I calling and crying and being like, I showed up at his door after one coffee. showed up at his door after one coffee. Are you surprised at all that Kathern Are you surprised at all that Kathern Han has emerged as an icon? No, I get Han has emerged as an icon? No, I get it. I love her. She's um the funniest it. I love her. She's um the funniest performance to me is in Step Brothers. performance to me is in Step Brothers. That's where she's at her best. I But I That's where she's at her best. I But I like that she gets to do other things like that she gets to do other things now and I'm like I'm very drawn to her. now and I'm like I'm very drawn to her. I mean, never forget her performance on I mean, never forget her performance on the Bill Simmons podcast where she read the Bill Simmons podcast where she read her husband's letter. That was elite her husband's letter. That was elite stuff. That's that's a comedy icon. stuff. That's that's a comedy icon. She's she's an excellent podcast guest She's she's an excellent podcast guest as well. She's she's also in the meme. as well. She's she's also in the meme. Is is she staring at Rachel Vice like Is is she staring at Rachel Vice like very lovingly during one of the roundts? very lovingly during one of the roundts? Yes. Yeah. I mean, it's you relate to Yes. Yeah. I mean, it's you relate to that. I really relate to that. But so that. I really relate to that. But so listen, she has range. She has listen, she has range. She has longevity. I I'm I have been with longevity. I I'm I have been with Katherine Han since the beginning. Uh Katherine Han since the beginning. Uh you mentioned Carell. The Office was on you mentioned Carell. The Office was on at this time, was it not? I'm trying to at this time, was it not? I'm trying to think what year what year did the think what year what year did the American Office launch? American sitcom American Office launch? American sitcom 2005. So no, this was before. Yeah. So 2005. So no, this was before. Yeah. So this would have been Daily Show and he this would have been Daily Show and he was familiar. Interesting. But not was familiar. Interesting. But not before. This is before Office and before before. This is before Office and before 40-year-old Virgin. Well, thank you for 40-year-old Virgin. Well, thank you for saying the Daily Show because that's saying the Daily Show because that's also an important part of this is the also an important part of this is the fake news as an idea and it being, you fake news as an idea and it being, you know, and that's something that know, and that's something that obviously SNL had been doing for years obviously SNL had been doing for years with Weekend Update, but that being a with Weekend Update, but that being a part of the culture and also at a time part of the culture and also at a time even though this movie I would not say even though this movie I would not say is overtly politically about America in is overtly politically about America in 2004, right? This era of everyone in 2004, right? This era of everyone in charge is a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Yes. which charge is a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Yes. which then would go on to become kind of then would go on to become kind of definitional to what Adam McKay's movies definitional to what Adam McKay's movies were. It being steeped in that without were. It being steeped in that without being about that, I think also hugely being about that, I think also hugely helps the movie. Absolutely. So, let's helps the movie. Absolutely. So, let's talk about McKay a little bit. Mhm. Um, talk about McKay a little bit. Mhm. Um, it's been on the show a couple times. I it's been on the show a couple times. I really like Adam's movies. really like Adam's movies. I think he has taken a turn in the I think he has taken a turn in the culture. Sure. Where he takes more blows culture. Sure. Where he takes more blows than he used to. Yeah. Well, you know, than he used to. Yeah. Well, you know, you're just if you're tweeting about the you're just if you're tweeting about the politics of Wicked once again, I politics of Wicked once again, I everybody that we've just talked about everybody that we've just talked about Appatau, Adam Mccay, Appatau, Adam Mccay, just you hit Twitter, you post too much, just you hit Twitter, you post too much, and then things fall back. That's a big and then things fall back. That's a big part of it. I part of it. That's a big part of it. I think if you don't, and obviously I think if you don't, and obviously I think both of those guys would say it's think both of those guys would say it's my duty to speak out about what I think my duty to speak out about what I think is wrong in the world, but I think most is wrong in the world, but I think most people in the world perceive their duty people in the world perceive their duty to be to entertain them. And there's a to be to entertain them. And there's a there's a a tension there. Yeah. Um, I there's a a tension there. Yeah. Um, I think Adam as a filmmaker, the more he's think Adam as a filmmaker, the more he's gotten interested in his ideas and less gotten interested in his ideas and less interested in the comedy, people have interested in the comedy, people have been a little bit confused as kind of been a little bit confused as kind of like what what he wants, what he's going like what what he wants, what he's going for. Does he want to be strictly an for. Does he want to be strictly an ideologue? Does he want to be somebody ideologue? Does he want to be somebody who thinks entertainment first? You who thinks entertainment first? You know, him and Frell know, him and Frell were very, very special together, right? were very, very special together, right? And you know, there's some suggestion And you know, there's some suggestion that the Winning Time series was where that the Winning Time series was where um things got a little bit fractured um things got a little bit fractured between them. They obviously had a between them. They obviously had a company together for many years. Gary company together for many years. Gary Sanchez Productions, which produced a Sanchez Productions, which produced a ton of really funny movies. They're ton of really funny movies. They're still like the Gloria Sanchez arm of the still like the Gloria Sanchez arm of the company. They're still producing stuff, company. They're still producing stuff, but not necessarily in tandem the way but not necessarily in tandem the way that they used to. But remember the that they used to. But remember the landlord? Yeah. I mean, that digital landlord? Yeah. I mean, that digital comedy, you know, the online viral comedy, you know, the online viral comedy thing, they give me my money. comedy thing, they give me my money. They helped launch that. Was that Adam's They helped launch that. Was that Adam's daughter? Uh, I think so. Yes. Yeah. daughter? Uh, I think so. Yes. Yeah. They They They Hi. It's really funny. There is a long Hi. It's really funny. There is a long tradition of the kind of like festering tradition of the kind of like festering angry comedy writer at SNL going all the angry comedy writer at SNL going all the way back to Michael O'Donny tall guy, you know, the Chvy chases of tall guy, you know, the Chvy chases of the world and making them an avatar for the world and making them an avatar for the idiocy of the world at large. One of the idiocy of the world at large. One of the key roles that Frell played when he the key roles that Frell played when he was on the show was George W. Bush. was on the show was George W. Bush. George W. Bush is a target of Anchor George W. Bush is a target of Anchor Man. Yeah. He is the kind of person that Man. Yeah. He is the kind of person that this movie is about and and modeled and this movie is about and and modeled and you know maybe not maybe not the look you know maybe not maybe not the look specifically but certainly the affect specifically but certainly the affect the staring into the camera and we'll the staring into the camera and we'll say whatever's on the prompter won't say whatever's on the prompter won't even think about it. Yes. Yeah. And the even think about it. Yes. Yeah. And the overconfidence in the communication of overconfidence in the communication of information that is probably false. You information that is probably false. You know this know this know this believe diversity that was my I was just believe diversity that was my I was just looking for that one. That's my I could looking for that one. That's my I could be wrong but I believe diversity is an be wrong but I believe diversity is an old old wooden ship that was used during old old wooden ship that was used during the Civil War era. Um, why would wooden the Civil War era. Um, why would wooden ships be used during the Civil War? It's ships be used during the Civil War? It's not unexamined. Uh, I think all of that not unexamined. Uh, I think all of that stuff, the fact that McKay is able to stuff, the fact that McKay is able to make that stuff to make us think about make that stuff to make us think about it without having to say it is one of it without having to say it is one of the great powers of the movie and one of the great powers of the movie and one of the reasons why I like it so much. I'm the reasons why I like it so much. I'm very curious where his career goes. I'm very curious where his career goes. I'm very curious what kind of movies he very curious what kind of movies he makes. Don't Look Up, as much kind of makes. Don't Look Up, as much kind of slings and arrows as it took, right, is slings and arrows as it took, right, is one of the most successful movies in the one of the most successful movies in the history of Netflix. So, it's not as history of Netflix. So, it's not as though like he has become an obscure though like he has become an obscure filmmaker cuz he's not at all. Um, and filmmaker cuz he's not at all. Um, and he's had success in TV, too. He was he's had success in TV, too. He was going to make that movie with Robert going to make that movie with Robert Downey Jr. and Robert Patson, I think, Downey Jr. and Robert Patson, I think, about an assassination. Do you remember about an assassination. Do you remember this? That then got cancelled. Oh, it this? That then got cancelled. Oh, it got cancelled. Yeah, they they they got cancelled. Yeah, they they they killed it. I think it was going to be a killed it. I think it was going to be a Netflix movie and they killed it. Sad. Netflix movie and they killed it. Sad. Yeah. So, I actually don't know what Yeah. So, I actually don't know what he's doing next, but the arc of his he's doing next, but the arc of his career is really interesting because it career is really interesting because it was just it it pressed the limits of was just it it pressed the limits of absurdity. And then I find that The absurdity. And then I find that The Other Guys is the turning point because Other Guys is the turning point because The Other Guys is basically about the The Other Guys is basically about the financial crisis and the absurdity of financial crisis and the absurdity of the banking system in this country and the banking system in this country and the way that wealth and capital the way that wealth and capital operates. And the first time you saw it, operates. And the first time you saw it, you were like, I think this is actually you were like, I think this is actually about something different than Mark about something different than Mark Wahberg and Will Ferrell being, you Wahberg and Will Ferrell being, you know, silly partners together, right? know, silly partners together, right? And then the second time you watch it, And then the second time you watch it, you're like, oh man, this is like a you're like, oh man, this is like a manifesto of some kind. And then every manifesto of some kind. And then every other movie since has been kind of a other movie since has been kind of a manifesto, right? Um, manifesto, right? Um, this is pro this is still my favorite of this is pro this is still my favorite of his of his films, I think. Yeah, I think his of his films, I think. Yeah, I think this is number one. Step Brothers up this is number one. Step Brothers up there. I I really like The Big Short. there. I I really like The Big Short. Big Short gets the combination of Big Short gets the combination of manifesto and ensemble and and funny manifesto and ensemble and and funny moments and just like trying stuff, moments and just like trying stuff, right? And then it is kind of right? And then it is kind of structurally audacious, right? Margot structurally audacious, right? Margot Robbie and the Batab like the first time Robbie and the Batab like the first time is you're is amusing, you know, and then is you're is amusing, you know, and then well, you can feel that stuff in this well, you can feel that stuff in this movie, you know, the big fight sequence movie, you know, the big fight sequence in this movie where all the news teams in this movie where all the news teams go to war with each other is the kind of go to war with each other is the kind of like record scratch, we're going to a like record scratch, we're going to a different kind of movie feeling, which I different kind of movie feeling, which I I love that stuff. I love the ability to I love that stuff. I love the ability to like break form the way that he does like break form the way that he does over and over again. So, that's a really over and over again. So, that's a really cool thing that he does. Will Ferrell. cool thing that he does. Will Ferrell. Yeah. Now, You know, Elf came before this and Old You know, Elf came before this and Old School came before this. Old School was School came before this. Old School was before this. Oh, I didn't realize that. before this. Oh, I didn't realize that. So, he's already done by the time this So, he's already done by the time this movie comes around, you know, not just movie comes around, you know, not just Austin Powers. And Old School is 2003. Austin Powers. And Old School is 2003. Wow. Yeah. I guess that makes sense Wow. Yeah. I guess that makes sense because I watched it about 8,000 times because I watched it about 8,000 times in college. I I saw it not too long ago in college. I I saw it not too long ago and still laughed really hard. Nice and still laughed really hard. Nice little Maybe Bed Bath Me. Nice little little Maybe Bed Bath Me. Nice little Saturday. Like, I think about that every Saturday. Like, I think about that every single Saturday. To me, Vince Vaughn is single Saturday. To me, Vince Vaughn is the best part of that movie, though. And the best part of that movie, though. And he is the one who is the like Yes. He is he is the one who is the like Yes. He is truly trapped emotionally. Yeah. You truly trapped emotionally. Yeah. You know, he's the one who doesn't really is know, he's the one who doesn't really is having a harder time coming to grips. having a harder time coming to grips. Will Ferrell is like he just got married Will Ferrell is like he just got married and is confused, right? Vince Vaughn has and is confused, right? Vince Vaughn has a family. He's like, and he's Frank the a family. He's like, and he's Frank the He's just like running naked, you know? He's just like running naked, you know? Yes, he's the he's the belushi for sure. Yes, he's the he's the belushi for sure. Um, but you know, Elf was a massive hit. Um, but you know, Elf was a massive hit. And Elf not on our list. Sorry to anyone And Elf not on our list. Sorry to anyone who's it I there is a I didn't even who's it I there is a I didn't even consider it. It does locate something consider it. It does locate something about Frell's comedy as I mean it is about Frell's comedy as I mean it is overgrown child overgrown fantastical overgrown child overgrown fantastical child who doesn't understand how this child who doesn't understand how this world works but there is also still world works but there is also still something something something sweet about his the difference between sweet about his the difference between Frell and Chvy Chase is that Chvy Chase Frell and Chvy Chase is that Chvy Chase is an [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and and which can be very is an [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and and which can be very funny. Uh, and Will Ferrell has funny. Uh, and Will Ferrell has something ultimately harmless, if something ultimately harmless, if ridiculous, about him. ridiculous, about him. Yeah. I mean, I'm looking at his movies Yeah. I mean, I'm looking at his movies since The Other Guys, which was in 2010, since The Other Guys, which was in 2010, and there's some really funny stuff. and there's some really funny stuff. Mhm. But there's nothing that really got Mhm. But there's nothing that really got close to that. No. you know, and a lot close to that. No. you know, and a lot of successful movies, you know, Daddy's of successful movies, you know, Daddy's Home and um the Lego movie he's a big Home and um the Lego movie he's a big part of, and there there was, of course, part of, and there there was, of course, Anchor Man 2. Sure. Which I didn't Anchor Man 2. Sure. Which I didn't revisit for this conversation, though. I revisit for this conversation, though. I think I remember liking more than the think I remember liking more than the consensus, which was that it was kind of consensus, which was that it was kind of like a bloated been there, done that, like a bloated been there, done that, right? but to me was also a very pointed right? but to me was also a very pointed political text about the rise of cable political text about the rise of cable news and the way that cable news like news and the way that cable news like infest people's minds that you know that infest people's minds that you know that movie was made in 2013 and like look at movie was made in 2013 and like look at us now where we are trapped inside the us now where we are trapped inside the pain cave of disinformation. I can't pain cave of disinformation. I can't even. Um, but I think you can make the even. Um, but I think you can make the case that not only is 2004 the pinnacle case that not only is 2004 the pinnacle of his comedy powers, but it's also the of his comedy powers, but it's also the pinnacle of him and McKay working pinnacle of him and McKay working together and that they just they they we together and that they just they they we talked about this with Alex Garland and talked about this with Alex Garland and Danny Bole, right? That some creative Danny Bole, right? That some creative people find each other and they just people find each other and they just make each other better. And I've always make each other better. And I've always Lennon and McCartney very much and I Lennon and McCartney very much and I really feel that with McKay and I really really feel that with McKay and I really I really hope that they will one day get I really hope that they will one day get back together and make another movie. I back together and make another movie. I think they're very special together. And think they're very special together. And honestly, what could be I don't know if honestly, what could be I don't know if they need to go back to Ron Burgundy, they need to go back to Ron Burgundy, per se, but what could be better than per se, but what could be better than like men in their 50s kind of looking at like men in their 50s kind of looking at what men in their 50s have done to the what men in their 50s have done to the world, but in not such an obvious way. world, but in not such an obvious way. Well, so would that put Ron Burgundy in Well, so would that put Ron Burgundy in uh Reagan's 80s? uh Reagan's 80s? I think that's but that's what two is I think that's but that's what two is about. She was still in the 80s. Oh, about. She was still in the 80s. Oh, that's Well, that's 90s. No, it's like that's Well, that's 90s. No, it's like Yeah, it's like late '8s. Um, Yeah, it's like late '8s. Um, what else? Where else should we go from what else? Where else should we go from here? I mean, this movie was not a huge here? I mean, this movie was not a huge box office success. It did okay. Yeah. box office success. It did okay. Yeah. And then it was an all-time DVD classic. And then it was an all-time DVD classic. Everybody I knew this movie. Yes. Everybody I knew this movie. Yes. Exactly. Yeah. And watched it 1,00 times Exactly. Yeah. And watched it 1,00 times in college. You know, Eert only gave it in college. You know, Eert only gave it three stars. Okay. Um, AO Scott three stars. Okay. Um, AO Scott basically gave it three stars. Well, you basically gave it three stars. Well, you know, they don't give out stars. It know, they don't give out stars. It wasn't hailed. wasn't hailed. wasn't hailed. I I don't comedies are seldom understood I I don't comedies are seldom understood in their in their time. You know, I've in their in their time. You know, I've I've talked about this a lot on the I've talked about this a lot on the rewatchables. Let's talk about this rewatchables. Let's talk about this because was Picasso celebrated in his because was Picasso celebrated in his time. Yes, he absolutely was. Um time. Yes, he absolutely was. Um what was he very famous and wealthy? what was he very famous and wealthy? Sure. That it's true. Yeah. And lots of Sure. That it's true. Yeah. And lots of wives then. Who am I thinking of? wives then. Who am I thinking of? Whatever. Uh Vincent Van Go. Okay. He Whatever. Uh Vincent Van Go. Okay. He obviously famous. That's right. That's obviously famous. That's right. That's what I meant. Sure. Yeah. Took that what I meant. Sure. Yeah. Took that year, made himself a legend, died, you year, made himself a legend, died, you know, never to be heard from again. know, never to be heard from again. Except we all want to pay $38 million Except we all want to pay $38 million for his James Frey or James Fry piece, for his James Frey or James Fry piece, you know, where he just like owns you know, where he just like owns Picassos. Whatever. Different Picassos. Whatever. Different conversation. I absolutely did not read conversation. I absolutely did not read that piece, but we can talk about it that piece, but we can talk about it offline. I just I'm just kind of like offline. I just I'm just kind of like what plagiarism leads to whatever. what plagiarism leads to whatever. Yeah. I mean that being infamous has has Yeah. I mean that being infamous has has its power. Okay. Uh I think I don't know how to get back on track I don't know how to get back on track with that. I mean the you know the with that. I mean the you know the confident men who uh put themselves out confident men who uh put themselves out there and then and and and reap the there and then and and and reap the benefits I guess. Yeah. I think the the benefits I guess. Yeah. I think the the the thing I was trying to think about the thing I was trying to think about was was was critics are usually roughly our age. The critics are usually roughly our age. The sort of like leading critics of the time sort of like leading critics of the time are usually in their 40s and 50s when are usually in their 40s and 50s when they have reached the place where they they have reached the place where they become the authority that you go to. become the authority that you go to. Right? Right? Right? This is not a movie that if I saw it This is not a movie that if I saw it today, I would understand or build the today, I would understand or build the same relationship to as I did when I was same relationship to as I did when I was 22, right? Because I've lost a kind of 22, right? Because I've lost a kind of adolescent joy that still existed. And adolescent joy that still existed. And I've often used this to explain the I've often used this to explain the appeal to people my age of Adam Sandler, appeal to people my age of Adam Sandler, which is when you were 14 or 18 when which is when you were 14 or 18 when Happy Gilmore or Billy Madison came out Happy Gilmore or Billy Madison came out or Tommy Boy for Chris Farley, like that or Tommy Boy for Chris Farley, like that that generation that is right before that generation that is right before Will Ferrell. Will Ferrell. Will Ferrell. If you were a 48-year-old man working at If you were a 48-year-old man working at a local newspaper in Iowa and you a local newspaper in Iowa and you watched Chris Farley, I could understand watched Chris Farley, I could understand saying like, "I get it, but this isn't saying like, "I get it, but this isn't really a very good movie." Right. I'm really a very good movie." Right. I'm not laughing out loud. Yes. Or even if not laughing out loud. Yes. Or even if it made me laugh, it like it isn't a it made me laugh, it like it isn't a great film. Anchor Man to me is unusual great film. Anchor Man to me is unusual in that in that in that it is actually a great film even if it it is actually a great film even if it is not athletic or different. Right. is not athletic or different. Right. Well, there are different, you know, Well, there are different, you know, there there there There are a lot of different ways to There are a lot of different ways to make a great film and we can reward a make a great film and we can reward a lot of different things and and and we lot of different things and and and we are trying to reward a lot of different are trying to reward a lot of different things on this list. Um which is one things on this list. Um which is one thing I wanted to ask you and just kind thing I wanted to ask you and just kind of put out there is like why can we only of put out there is like why can we only have one comedy on the list, you know? have one comedy on the list, you know? Well, we could have done whatever we Well, we could have done whatever we wanted, right? But we we chose to get wanted, right? But we we chose to get one. That's a comedy. Sure. And it but one. That's a comedy. Sure. And it but it's like a different you know it it's a it's like a different you know it it's a different type of film making that is different type of film making that is more I guess like script and character more I guess like script and character and production design. Those two movies and production design. Those two movies though I think this is notable and not though I think this is notable and not true of all the movies you could have true of all the movies you could have put on are both about the the put on are both about the the complicated complicated complicated attempt of men and women to communicate attempt of men and women to communicate with each other. Sure. Which is a theme with each other. Sure. Which is a theme of this show. Right. Yes. But so there of this show. Right. Yes. But so there there are things that we respond to but there are things that we respond to but there are a lot of different ways to put there are a lot of different ways to put the pieces together. Right. So and a lot the pieces together. Right. So and a lot of different ways to make something of different ways to make something great. So this is I think obviously like great. So this is I think obviously like the performances and the improv the performances and the improv contribute to a lot of it, but a very contribute to a lot of it, but a very fine line to walk in terms of script and fine line to walk in terms of script and ideas and like it it could go very wrong ideas and like it it could go very wrong and could be very gross, but instead it and could be very gross, but instead it is absolutely seared into all of our is absolutely seared into all of our brains because it's the funniest thing brains because it's the funniest thing alive. Yeah. And and has a tinge of alive. Yeah. And and has a tinge of sweetness. Yeah. You know, it's not an sweetness. Yeah. You know, it's not an acid burn movie, whereas I feel like a acid burn movie, whereas I feel like a lot of the movies, you know, The lot of the movies, you know, The Hangover is like kind of a mean-spirited Hangover is like kind of a mean-spirited movie. It's very It's to me still very movie. It's very It's to me still very funny. There are jokes now that don't funny. There are jokes now that don't feel sensitive to 2025 or what have you, feel sensitive to 2025 or what have you, but it still has that kind of like but it still has that kind of like electric electric electric energy. Yeah. That when Todd Phillips is energy. Yeah. That when Todd Phillips is at his best, I think he brings to the at his best, I think he brings to the table. But it's it's it's nasty. It's table. But it's it's it's nasty. It's made by somebody who's like, "Fuck made by somebody who's like, "Fuck everybody." Yeah. Everybody's an everybody." Yeah. Everybody's an [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] And including the stars of my [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] And including the stars of my movie. These guys are [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Anchor movie. These guys are [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Anchor man knows these guys are really, really man knows these guys are really, really [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] up, but they're not. Like David [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] up, but they're not. Like David Kekner, for example, in this movie as Kekner, for example, in this movie as Champ Kind, the sports cer, I think he's Champ Kind, the sports cer, I think he's really really funny. He has one scene in really really funny. He has one scene in particular where they're talking about particular where they're talking about the pancake breakfast that they have the pancake breakfast that they have every month. and he and and and Ron and every month. and he and and and Ron and uh Brian Fantana and Paul Rod's uh Brian Fantana and Paul Rod's character are talking and and Champ character are talking and and Champ realizes that Ron is starting to drift realizes that Ron is starting to drift away from him a little bit away from the away from him a little bit away from the boys because he's falling in love with boys because he's falling in love with Veronica and he just starts saying how Veronica and he just starts saying how he feels, which is that he wants to be he feels, which is that he wants to be close to him and he wants to get an close to him and he wants to get an apartment with him because he just he apartment with him because he just he loves him. He loves his friend and maybe loves him. He loves his friend and maybe he loves him even more than that. Maybe he loves him even more than that. Maybe he's going underneath that he hasn't he's going underneath that he hasn't reckoned with because of this huge reckoned with because of this huge performance of masculinity and it's like performance of masculinity and it's like kind of sad and weird but kind of sweet. kind of sad and weird but kind of sweet. You know, there's something underneath You know, there's something underneath Kind. Yes. It's not um It's not ugly. Kind. Yes. It's not um It's not ugly. Yes. He's not beating the It's not ugly. Yes. He's not beating the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out of Ron because of his own [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out of Ron because of his own self-hatred about how he feels about self-hatred about how he feels about Ron, which is, you know, a theme you can Ron, which is, you know, a theme you can find in many films in the early 2000s. find in many films in the early 2000s. that was also as like kind of a a rise that was also as like kind of a a rise in much more sensitive LGBTQ film making in much more sensitive LGBTQ film making was a was hitting Hollywood. You know, was a was hitting Hollywood. You know, this movie is also kind of exploring this movie is also kind of exploring that. There is like a how the boys are that. There is like a how the boys are quality to this movie that is very very quality to this movie that is very very funny. So, I'm happy it's here. I don't funny. So, I'm happy it's here. I don't really have an an excuse for why it's really have an an excuse for why it's the only comedy. There are funny aspects the only comedy. There are funny aspects of other movies we're doing in the of other movies we're doing in the future. future. future. I I think that the comedy is essential I I think that the comedy is essential to most of the other movies. Yeah. Even to most of the other movies. Yeah. Even in the top five, I can think of at least in the top five, I can think of at least three movies that are very very funny. three movies that are very very funny. So, it's more just this is like the So, it's more just this is like the formal comedy and the studio comedy and formal comedy and the studio comedy and we had other things that we wanted to we had other things that we wanted to honor. But it when you think of all the honor. But it when you think of all the movies that aren't on the list, it does movies that aren't on the list, it does feel a little stupid. feel a little stupid. It's not stupid, but it's just kind of It's not stupid, but it's just kind of it's it's a tough list of movies that it's it's a tough list of movies that didn't make the cut. Can they come back? didn't make the cut. Can they come back? Can they come back on the list? Oh, Can they come back on the list? Oh, studio comedies. Uh, I don't know studio comedies. Uh, I don't know because you made a good point about how because you made a good point about how it's it's the 22-year-olds who kind of it's it's the 22-year-olds who kind of who the young people who have a kind of who the young people who have a kind of fanta a essential response to it that fanta a essential response to it that makes it uh and I the young I young makes it uh and I the young I young people do go to movies sort of but I people do go to movies sort of but I don't think they expect it in this don't think they expect it in this format anymore. Right. They have other format anymore. Right. They have other formats for comedy. We are just like a formats for comedy. We are just like a month away from The Naked Gun. Sure. month away from The Naked Gun. Sure. Which I think obviously is very Which I think obviously is very different because it is based on a you different because it is based on a you know it's a it's a reboot of a older know it's a it's a reboot of a older comedy IP, comedy IP, comedy IP, but it's going for the same energy that but it's going for the same energy that we're describing, which is it's a it's a we're describing, which is it's a it's a studio theatrically released movie. studio theatrically released movie. Yeah. With stars that has Jokum in it, Yeah. With stars that has Jokum in it, right? And obviously I thought the right? And obviously I thought the trailer was really funny. We saw it trailer was really funny. We saw it together, but it seems like people are together, but it seems like people are kind of into it. Sure. No, I think kind of into it. Sure. No, I think that's true. But like I I sat between that's true. But like I I sat between you and Matt Belly and had a great time you and Matt Belly and had a great time and and you were both chuckling, but and and you were both chuckling, but like you guys ain't 22. You know what like you guys ain't 22. You know what I'm saying? It's a great point. All my I'm saying? It's a great point. All my 22 year olds. Jack Sanders, you you 22 year olds. Jack Sanders, you you gonna you gonna go see The Naked Gun? I gonna you gonna go see The Naked Gun? I will. I wouldn't say I'm like dying to will. I wouldn't say I'm like dying to see it, but I will see it. Jesus Christ, see it, but I will see it. Jesus Christ, Jack, help me out here, buddy. Uh Jack, help me out here, buddy. Uh recommend it if you like. Yeah. I don't recommend it if you like. Yeah. I don't even Everybody's seen this movie. This even Everybody's seen this movie. This is not melancholia. You know what I This is not melancholia. You know what I This is not one where people like, "Oh, I've is not one where people like, "Oh, I've been meaning to check that out." Um, been meaning to check that out." Um, Dumb and Dummer. Uhhuh. Austin Powers. Dumb and Dummer. Uhhuh. Austin Powers. Yeah. Are obvious, right? Catty Shack Yeah. Are obvious, right? Catty Shack Airplane. Those are obvious. History of Airplane. Those are obvious. History of the World Part One. I don't know what the World Part One. I don't know what that is. That's a Mel Brooks movie. I that is. That's a Mel Brooks movie. I think a lot of those Mel Brooks movies, think a lot of those Mel Brooks movies, you know, Blazing Saddles, Young you know, Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, on and on and on. Um, Frankenstein, on and on and on. Um, Super Bad. Sure. Certainly. Yeah. But Super Bad. Sure. Certainly. Yeah. But then I think also Network, it's a good then I think also Network, it's a good call. If you like Network, it's a good call. If you like Network, which I think is hilarious. Mhm. We've which I think is hilarious. Mhm. We've just seen a film that reminded me a lot just seen a film that reminded me a lot of Network just last night. Uh this kind of Network just last night. Uh this kind of like the the chaos. I So Network is of like the the chaos. I So Network is hilarious, but it's it's not haha funny. hilarious, but it's it's not haha funny. It's a it's a different only you know me It's a it's a different only you know me in a movie theater though and I'm like in a movie theater though and I'm like I'm happy to be the only person laughing I'm happy to be the only person laughing at a scene. Like it is the same that at a scene. Like it is the same that same energy. Anchorman is like we're all same energy. Anchorman is like we're all laughing together. Right. Right. Right. laughing together. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. No, I think I'm I think Right. Right. No, I think I'm I think Network is Network is Network is like I'm laughing because I'm horrified like I'm laughing because I'm horrified sort of. Yes. And but that but that's sort of. Yes. And but that but that's fine. As Ron Burgundy would say, I'm not fine. As Ron Burgundy would say, I'm not even mad. That's amazing. I do think even mad. That's amazing. I do think that, you know, obviously they both take that, you know, obviously they both take place in newsrooms in the 70s. Exactly place in newsrooms in the 70s. Exactly my point. There you go. About the my point. There you go. About the incursion of corporate influence on our incursion of corporate influence on our lives, you know, women in the newsroom. lives, you know, women in the newsroom. Christina Applegate styling is not Christina Applegate styling is not unlike Fayenway. That's right. Diana unlike Fayenway. That's right. Diana Christensen. They're they're very Christensen. They're they're very similar. In fact, I would be stunned if similar. In fact, I would be stunned if that was not a reference. I think it is that was not a reference. I think it is definitely especially that first white definitely especially that first white pants suit is absolutely a fake pants suit is absolutely a fake reference. The hair um good. You know, reference. The hair um good. You know, if you got a reference, that's a good if you got a reference, that's a good one. I just can't get so many words from one. I just can't get so many words from this movie out of my head. Words that this movie out of my head. Words that we'd never heard together. Yeah. Like we'd never heard together. Yeah. Like panda watch. Like I I just No one had panda watch. Like I I just No one had ever said those words together. I said ever said those words together. I said they say them all the time now on uh the they say them all the time now on uh the Ringer Fantasy football show. That's an Ringer Fantasy football show. That's an ongoing bit that they have. Great Odin's ongoing bit that they have. Great Odin's Raven. You know, there's just a lot of Raven. You know, there's just a lot of Will stuff. Will just saying things out Will stuff. Will just saying things out loud. I'd love to know. I'd like to see loud. I'd love to know. I'd like to see the original shooting script the original shooting script and how much of that is kind of pre and how much of that is kind of pre pre-engineered versus off the top of his pre-engineered versus off the top of his head. Yes. You got to figure that there head. Yes. You got to figure that there were like a lot of alts for Great Odin's were like a lot of alts for Great Odin's Raven, you know, 100%. They probably Raven, you know, 100%. They probably should many of those and I'm sure should many of those and I'm sure they're very funny. they're very funny. uh the opening sequence of the film uh the opening sequence of the film where we watch Ron Burgundy warming up where we watch Ron Burgundy warming up and doing his vocal exercises. Um it and doing his vocal exercises. Um it just almost feels like I've never really just almost feels like I've never really quite seen it before. It almost feels quite seen it before. It almost feels like the blooper reel before the movie like the blooper reel before the movie starts where he's kind of working on starts where he's kind of working on Lanolin like sheep's wool. Um Lanolin like sheep's wool. Um the Human Torch was denied a bank loan. the Human Torch was denied a bank loan. You know, there's like so many of those You know, there's like so many of those gags that feel very written, but it also gags that feel very written, but it also feels like there's a really, really feels like there's a really, really smart person behind the camera just smart person behind the camera just saying phrases out loud fast. But to me, saying phrases out loud fast. But to me, it almost feels like it, you know, they it almost feels like it, you know, they get him in hair and makeup and they put get him in hair and makeup and they put him behind the desk and they're just him behind the desk and they're just like start talking or and or it's like like start talking or and or it's like free association. Yeah. Or they're just free association. Yeah. Or they're just like, you know, they throw out a word like, you know, they throw out a word and then he starts going. Why do you not and then he starts going. Why do you not do vocal exercises before our do vocal exercises before our recordings? Have you considered that? recordings? Have you considered that? What would you do? What what what What would you do? What what what syllables do you struggle with? Ours. RS syllables do you struggle with? Ours. RS as you know. Yeah. Okay. I don't know. as you know. Yeah. Okay. I don't know. Well, Trolls world tour is just very Well, Trolls world tour is just very it's but that's like rural juror, you it's but that's like rural juror, you know, which rock. Yeah. How do we get know, which rock. Yeah. How do we get you doing ours? I'm very American. It's you doing ours? I'm very American. It's really tough. Okay. Um, you know, and I' really tough. Okay. Um, you know, and I' I've like worked on it for many years. I've like worked on it for many years. You can't do you know foreign dial. can, You can't do you know foreign dial. can, but it's always like, you know, you but it's always like, you know, you don't want to be the person be like, you don't want to be the person be like, you know, why not? What would be wrong with know, why not? What would be wrong with that? Really obnoxious. Yeah. Uh, so that? Really obnoxious. Yeah. Uh, so it's I I don't have just like the it's I I don't have just like the natural in between R. natural in between R. I got to think I I don't really struggle I got to think I I don't really struggle with too much. Diction is not an issue with too much. Diction is not an issue for me. Okay, that's my one my one for me. Okay, that's my one my one thing. As I told you, I once I once uh thing. As I told you, I once I once uh trained a classroom of sixth graders on trained a classroom of sixth graders on how to be a game show host. This is how to be a game show host. This is something part of the reason why I like something part of the reason why I like this movie is because the puffery of Ron this movie is because the puffery of Ron is, you know, I that's my the small part is, you know, I that's my the small part of my character. The puffery of whatever of my character. The puffery of whatever this is that we're doing here together. this is that we're doing here together. Um, Um, Um, some quick data points here. Ron some quick data points here. Ron Burgundy was ranked the 16th best movie Burgundy was ranked the 16th best movie character of all time in a 2020 poll by character of all time in a 2020 poll by Empire. Okay, seems pretty high actually Empire. Okay, seems pretty high actually in the history of movies. Some recency in the history of movies. Some recency bias there perhaps. Um, Rolling Stone bias there perhaps. Um, Rolling Stone ranked it as the 13th best 21st century ranked it as the 13th best 21st century comedy. That's shocking. All right. comedy. That's shocking. All right. Shocking. Is that high or low? Shocking. Shocking. Is that high or low? Shocking. Way too low. 13th. Yeah. I mean, Way too low. 13th. Yeah. I mean, IndieWire said it was the seventh best. IndieWire said it was the seventh best. Yeah. And as I said, I said it was Yeah. And as I said, I said it was number one on the September IndieWire number one on the September IndieWire list and like along came Polly was in list and like along came Polly was in the top 10, which I like I understand the top 10, which I like I understand cuz that's Philip Seymour Hoffman. He's cuz that's Philip Seymour Hoffman. He's amazing in it, but the movie is still I amazing in it, but the movie is still I would agree. So, you know, okay, you got would agree. So, you know, okay, you got to know context. Our our list is the to know context. Our our list is the only list for us. only list for us. You are having some doubts about the You are having some doubts about the next movie on our list. Yeah, I noticed next movie on our list. Yeah, I noticed that you didn't respond to my text that you didn't respond to my text message. Well, I thought I would be message. Well, I thought I would be seeing you very shortly and here I am seeing you very shortly and here I am with you. I have no doubts. I know. I with you. I have no doubts. I know. I understand the other movie that you're understand the other movie that you're trying to get on. Is there another place trying to get on. Is there another place to get it on? You just might have to to get it on? You just might have to have a blood sacrifice if you want to have a blood sacrifice if you want to get it on. That's the thing you got to get it on. That's the thing you got to think about. I I am having a blood think about. I I am having a blood sacrifice and it's I want to sacrifice sacrifice and it's I want to sacrifice the next movie. No, that's not a blood the next movie. No, that's not a blood sacrifice for you. The next movie is has sacrifice for you. The next movie is has been a point of discussion, contention, been a point of discussion, contention, um, doubt, um, doubt, um, doubt, complication both for this project and complication both for this project and on this podcast. on this podcast. It's it's a great it's great programming It's it's a great it's great programming for an episode, right? Because we'll for an episode, right? Because we'll have a very wide-ranging conversation. have a very wide-ranging conversation. It could be like an hour and a half, but It could be like an hour and a half, but Oh my god. Yeah, but not just about the Oh my god. Yeah, but not just about the movie because of all the components of movie because of all the components of the movie. No, no, no. I think you're the movie. No, no, no. I think you're right. Well, but also about all of the right. Well, but also about all of the other movies that why it's that other movies that why it's that particular movie and not 15 other movies particular movie and not 15 other movies and why it was so difficult for us to to and why it was so difficult for us to to make this decision. I looked at the list make this decision. I looked at the list and I still think that this is I think and I still think that this is I think the next one's the weakest spot. Okay. the next one's the weakest spot. Okay. But, you know, it's a it's a group But, you know, it's a it's a group project, I guess. Um, I think there are project, I guess. Um, I think there are some other folks out in the world who some other folks out in the world who might say that some of the other films might say that some of the other films are weaker and the films to come could are weaker and the films to come could even be weaker. They are once again even be weaker. They are once again invited to make their own lists and invited to make their own lists and their own podcasts. Well, they're doing their own podcasts. Well, they're doing that at the New York Times now. I know. that at the New York Times now. I know. It's a great project. I just want to say It's a great project. I just want to say thank you to Sophia Copala for putting thank you to Sophia Copala for putting Michael Hanniki's The White Ribbon on Michael Hanniki's The White Ribbon on her personal top 10. My dad is thrilled. her personal top 10. My dad is thrilled. Uh I'm thrilled as as always a woman of Uh I'm thrilled as as always a woman of taste. Um I think we should go out this taste. Um I think we should go out this way. Well, all of us here at the Big way. Well, all of us here at the Big Picture, I'm Sean Fennessy. You stay Picture, I'm Sean Fennessy. You stay classy, San Diego. Thanks for stopping classy, San Diego. Thanks for stopping by. But mainly stay classy. Thanks for by. But mainly stay classy. Thanks for stopping by. Stay classy. I'm Sean stopping by. Stay classy. I'm Sean Fennessy. Thanks for stopping by. Stay Fennessy. Thanks for stopping by. Stay classy. Sean Fantazy.