================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: yLsCJ9klVMQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yLsCJ9klVMQ
TITLE: H-1Bs, India, and the Global Talent Wars
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-08
DURATION: 51m 23s
VIEWS: 1,238
LIKES: 23
COMMENTS: 0
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Earlier this month, the Trump administration announced a stunning $100,000 fee on new H-1B visas—the main channel through which U.S. employers hire foreign professionals in technology, engineering, and research.

The move has sent shockwaves through America’s innovation ecosystem, prompting fears that companies will either look abroad—or scale back their ambitions at home.

Few countries will be as impacted by this change as India, whose citizens account for nearly three-quarters of annual H-1B visa petitions. So, what happens when the world’s largest economy makes it harder for global talent to come in?

To answer this question, Milan is joined on the show this by Britta Glennon. Britta is an assistant professor of management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and a faculty research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Her research focuses on immigration and cross-border innovation. Much of her work dispels long-held myths about immigrants and how t
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 8,313

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
If you are a smart individual in another part of the world, the US has just gotten a lot less appealing, right? So whether you were thinking about studying or working or whatever in the US, it's no longer clear whether you could get a job. >> Unabashed. >> The most unpredictable >> becomes a headline. The most volatile, >> outrageous behavior, >> unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. >> Welcome to Grant Masha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Hindustan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bashnov. Earlier this month, the Trump administration announced a stunning $100,000 fee on new H-1B visas, the main channel through which US employers hire foreign professionals in technology, engineering, and research. The move has sent shock waves through America's innovation ecosystem, prompting fears that companies will either look abroad or scale back their ambitions at home. Few countries will be as impacted by this change as India, whose citizens account for nearly 3/4 of annual H-1B visa petitions. So, what happens when the world's largest economy makes it harder for global talent to come in? To answer this question, I'm joined on the show today by Britta Glennon. Brida is an assistant professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and a faculty research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Her research focuses on immigration and crossber innovation. Much of her work dispels long-held myths about immigrants and how they influence the US economy. I am pleased to welcome her to the podcast for the very first time. Brida, thanks for coming on the show. >> Thank you so much for having me. So I want to start with something that is really really basic and I think most of our listeners probably don't need this 101 introduction but just in case there are people who have been living under a rock let me ask you just a simple question which is what is the H1B visa program and why has it become you know such a critical part of America's broader innovation ecosystem. Yeah. So, it's a a skilled visa, skilled immigration visa. It's really the primary way for skilled immigrants to legally work in the US. It's by far the biggest, you know, uh, skilled immigration visa um, out there uh, in the US. And the way that it works is actually an employer has to sponsor you. So, it's not the immigrant themselves who are applying for the H-1B visa. it's actually an employer who has previously vetted them, has said that they would like to hire them. Once that's in place, then they apply for the H1B visa at that point. Um, it's been around since about 1990, the Immigration Act of 1990. Um, and you know, it's it can be converted into a green card. Uh, but, uh, there are some challenges there which I'm sure we'll get into later. So, and and remind us there about 85,000 a year and that's kind of a cap, but that does not include H-1B visa holders who are parts of nonprofits or universities. Is that right? >> Yes, that's right. Yeah. Uh and it also does not include renewables. So, the rules don't go against the C. >> So, just there's obviously various ways that skilled immigrants can come into the United States, right? the H1B says not the only way for the US to attract high skill talent. Tell us a little bit about what are some of the other pathways, right? Like and how does the H-1B compare in terms of scale and size? I mean, it's definitely the one that you hear the most about and seems to be the one that is the biggest political lightning rod. >> Yeah, that's right. So, uh the biggest one actually isn't an employment visa. It's actually the student visa. Right. So the F1 um is really the the biggest pathway for for skilled immigrants to enter the US, but that's of course not a work visa. That's just a study. So in terms of work visas, H1B is is by far the biggest. Um so the next biggest would be the L1. That's what multinational firms can use for managers or for sort of highly technical um individuals. Uh, and that's not capped the way that the H-1B uh, visa is, but it's still, you know, somewhere between 60 and 80,000 a year um, of of new L1 visas. Uh, so it is smaller. Uh, because even though the H-1B visa is capped at 85,000, that's only, as we mentioned, for four profits, you end up with actually about 200 or so thousand every year all. So the next biggest one is, you know, 70ish,000. So much much smaller. And then it gets smaller from there. So like the 01 for extraordinary ability, that's even smaller. You know, that's 20,000. That's actually even bigger than it's been for a while. Uh so that gives you kind of a sense for for how important the H1B visa is. And really for you know as I mentioned the F1 is the primary way that skilled immigrants get into the US through studying at universities here and usually they're then looking for a job afterwards in the US. So they would be seeking to basically to an H1B visa. So it's sort of that thing. You know what's funny to me when you talk about the numbers is, you know, these are still pretty small numbers in the context of overall immigration and the US labor force, are they not? I mean, these are not uh I mean, when you do it on a percentage basis, I'm guessing this is a very very small number. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's actually tiny, right? I mean given the amount of attention that it gets, it's actually like a very small share of of total total jobs and and even total immigrants actually. Um yeah, >> I I want to kind of get into uh some of your research. But before we do that, um, you know, one of the things that you've said in this very nice review piece you've done for the Journal of Economic Perspectives, and we'll link to that in the show notes, is you kind of sketch out the different types of immigration systems, big talent recruiting countries have. And you describe the US as running a quote unquote demanddriven skilled immigration system where a as you mentioned before it's really firms not the government that are deciding who gets in right when you're an H1B worker you are attached to a firm how does that differ from so-called pointbased systems like the kind you have in Canada Australia and and how do you see the sort of pros and cons of of the two approaches? Yeah. So, points based systems have gotten a lot of attention um because they are thought to perhaps be better at attracting like the the highest skilled. Um the way that they work is you basically the government decides what type of immigrant do we want. Okay? And they basically allocate points based on different observable characteristics. So, you know, having a graduate degree might get you a certain number of points. speaking English might get you a certain number of points. Your age, uh your occupation, right? So, um you get different set of points for different characteristics. All of that is determined by the government. And the idea is that basically if you go over that threshold um you you get a visa. Um and so that's very very different from the sort of demand-based approach that we have in the US where actually the firms are the ones who decide um which immigrants get in. And keep in mind this is all within the skilled immigration landscape. It operates differently for so-called unskilled or low skilled. Um, so the the upside of this is that if you know you have a shortage of a certain type of worker, you can just put a lot of points on that type, right? And it sort of makes sure that you will get that type of worker. Um, so in theory it can be a better at getting the types of skilled workers you might want, right? The problem of course is that it's the government deciding that and governments are not necessarily the most fastm moving of of organizations, right? So they might be very delayed in realizing what it is an economy needs. Um and in fact, you know, the the economies that have had these points based systems, you know, one of the big accusations is that they create um a so-called brain waste where they are kind of prioritizing certain skills or certain occupations that actually the economy doesn't have a need for. Um and maybe they're out of date or maybe there never really was that need. Um or maybe they're just letting too many in, right? Um and so that's that's really the big downside, right? Whereas in the US um you know the the big upside is because it's firms deciding it really is uh at least in theory right driven by what firms need right they have to go out they have to interview a lot of people um immigrants frankly it's difficult to hire immigrants under the H1B visa in particular right there's fees involved I mean not $100,000 until recently but still not not not minor either paperwork work and transaction cost, >> paperwork, transaction costs, uncertainty, you don't even know if you'll get them. You have to deal with law lawyers, you have to so it's it's not an easy process. Um, and so the the idea is that if you are going through that process is because you had a hard time finding um that work, right, the type that you needed. And so it's very much like a cotton driven. Um so that's sort of the the big upside. I mean there are some downsides um in that uh I think it it has been accused of being a little bit exploitative because they are tied workers are tied to employers right and so if there's big layoffs for example um those workers suddenly not only don't have a job but also don't have a visa right uh so there's there's there are still some challenges around that um but it does tend to be sort of more respons responsive. >> I mean, we're going to get into this for a bit, but like given that there are there's money involved, there's paperwork, there are transaction costs, there's uncertainty, you know, firms are presumably not making these decisions, taking these decisions lightly, right? Because they're jumping through a bunch of new hoops. >> Yeah. >> To hire a foreign worker as opposed to a native born American. >> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Um, I just want to ask you a little bit about this new fee. So, a couple weeks ago, the administration introduced a major change to the H-1B program, namely this new $100,000 fee for new H-1B visa petitions. You know, what do we know about who is going to be impacted by this? And and what do you think it's going to do if this doesn't change to kind of the broader US, you know, innovation ecosystem? >> Yeah. So, I I think it's useful to to sort of start out uh by highlighting all of the positives that we know um immigrants, you know, not just H-1B specifically, but but more generally um are bringing to the US economy, right? Um just that we kind of have that framework in mind. Um so, you know, one dimension that we know a lot about is their contribution to innovation. uh so for example you know immigrants account for about 14% of the US population but they're accounting for 36% of aggregate innovation. Um and something that's important here is that it's not just uh what they themselves are producing but it's also sort of the teams with Americans that are actually the most innovative. Um so there's sort of these they're coming from kind of diverse backgrounds and ideas and perspectives and actually it's the combination that that creates um this this innovation. Um and there's a lot of work about how they how they uh help firms, startups in particular, um they tend to be more entrepreneurial, right? So, and not just tend to be I mean 80% more entrepreneurial. Um significantly more this is a really big difference, right? Um they tend to attract investment as well. Um so you get a lot more foreign investment in particular when you have um immigrants and of course that might raise jobs as well. Um so you know with that as sort of the baseline um when you introduce this kind of fee that is you so it's making them much more expensive right it's in effect it's basically constraining the the the number that you can hire right price goes up okay um and so for large firms um there are maybe some positions that they can pay pay right so so we've heard about like Meta's hiring of all of these star AI scientists, >> right? >> Giving them like these six and seven figure salaries. >> Yeah. So, so you know, I don't know if any of them are on H-1B visas. I know the majority of them were immigrants. Um, if they were on H-1B visas, I mean, I'm sure Meta will pay the $100,000 fee, right? So there are some positions where yes they will they will just pay it um for a large company with lots of resources for really extraordinary talent um for an entry-level position um no matter how talented that person is that that's going to be very difficult to justify right um and so I think big firms what they're probably going to do is employ other strategies right so we know we don't have explicit research looking at fees, but we do have research looking at what happens when H-1B caps H-1B visas are harder to get. Um, and so we can look to that uh because at a much higher price is going to make it harder to get, right? So, we know that big firms are more likely to offshore. Um, that's what my research shows that when the H-1B cap dropped, uh, it used to actually be over 100,000, now it's 85,000. When it dropped, uh, multinational companies actually hired more at their foreign affiliates and opened up new foreign affiliates. Um, and so they just basically hired the foreign labor did elsewhere. So, um, we also know from a different paper of mine that they're more likely to engage in acquisitions. Um, so if they have trouble hiring the talent, what they'll do is they'll basically try and find uh, you know, a small company that might either have the technology or the talent they need to other form and they'll use that acquisition as a as another method. They might turn to outsourcing or automation, right? So they have a lot of alternative paths. So they'll probably do that. So, they have these strategies that frankly have been in place for a long time because the H-1B visa has been difficult to get for a long time. Um, so they may not pay the fee, but they will find other ways. Um, it will hurt them, but but it's not going to be a death death. Now, the ones that I think are going to really struggle are startups. Um, so we already know from research that when startups lose the H-1B lottery, um, they become less likely to successfully IPO. They patent less, they become less likely to have a successful acquisition. Um, there's no way that they're going to be able to pay that $100,000 fee, right? And so if we know that losing the lottery already leads to worse outcomes, this fee is probably going to lead to worse outcomes for for startups. And then you think about universities and nonprofits. They actually have not been facing this kind of constraint, right? Um they've been able to hire the the immigrants that that they need and suddenly for the first time they are facing this constraint. they don't have any alternative strategies in place and frankly it's universities can't really opt for or acquire. Um so the you know some of these strategies are just not even applicable for them. Um and so they're you know it's not quite clear what the options are for them. Um but they're they're much more limited. So you know I think they're most likely to be hurt. Um, and then of course just entry level positions generally, right? These are are going to be be the be hit the hardest. >> So I'm I'm I'm glad that you raised that point about entry- level positions because this seems to me to be like where the rubber meets the road, right? I mean, you have students from all around the world who want to come to colleges like yours, universities like yours, University of Pennsylvania. Um, and these are some of the best and brightest from literally all corners of the earth and we are making a big investment in educating them and trying to cultivate that talent. Um, but then unless you're a meta computer scientist who's making a million dollars, um, you are making much more modest salary and if you want to get sponsorship and get an H-1B visa from a entry-le job when you're 22 or 23, it it seems to me like this new fee is going to be a really huge barrier, right? And so you may be able to provide for people who have more experience, who are very specialized, but in terms of young people who are transitioning from their undergraduate degrees to the next step, I mean that entire link in the talent chain is really going to be hit badly, is it not? >> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think there's so many repercussions from this. So you know first of all of course all of the current um university students uh suddenly their their job options are a lot more limited and many of them will will have to leave the US even though you know they've been educated here places right >> and they made those decisions with the understanding that there was this visa program that they could um apply for >> exactly um but I think there's You know there's two other sort of repercussions. One is that that means there's a whole pipeline gap for firms, right? Because they are not going to basically be able to hire immigrants at any of those entry- level positions. And that was um you know a primary uh pathway before. Um it's much more difficult to hire an immigrant who has not been through the US university system, right? How do you evaluate talent in other parts of the world? Um, and so that was a really good way for sort of signaling and credibility and just understanding sort of what their skill set is going to be. Um, and so it'll it'll make it very difficult for firms to hire anyone who's not sort of at their very top because it'll just be difficult for them. >> I mean, it's essentially kind of like a screening mechanism, right? you know that if you're getting a Wharton degree or a Berkeley degree or a whatever uh UT Austin degree that means something and US employers kind of have a sense of like okay we can place this person in this box. >> Yeah. Um and and I mean I think there's there's also the point that if you are um a smart individual in another part of the world the US has just gotten a lot less appealing. Right? So whether you were thinking about studying or working or whatever in the US, it's no longer clear whether you could get a job. Um and so the appeal of the US has just declined dramatically and even beyond that just the general signaling of not being a welcoming place. um you know I I actually I have a paper looking at the effect of US China pensions on um the propensity of Chinese students uh coming to the US to do their PhD and so we find you know a 15% drop in the likelihood of Chinese students coming to do their PhD in the US concentrated at the top and they were actually more likely to go to other anglophone countries instead. Um and this was actually at the very you know in sort of the first Trump administration um that we were measuring this and this is you know much more extreme signaling that was and so if we saw just that size of a drop that um then I would expect you know the top talent is going to go somewhere else. So, I want to kind of try an argument out on you that I'm sure you've heard a million times before, but you know, whenever you give an interview or you write a paper or you write an op-ed making the case for high skilled immigration and what changes like this would do to that pipeline, you hear from people who say, "Well, it's not such a bad thing because it's going to force companies like Amazon or IBM or Meta or what have you to hire native USborn workers to do those jobs and given that these are people who are citizens of the country they should receive some kind of pride of place right so how do you respond to people who say like okay yes we may not be getting that Indian computer scientist right or that Japanese chemical engineer but we're going to get somebody from Nebraska or somebody from Illinois or somebody from Texas instead who can do the same Hey Granthamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Grand Theamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. So I think there are a few things I would push back on there. Um so the first and most fundamental I think is just pushing back on this idea that there's like a fixed number of jobs, right? So usually people making that point think that we have a fixed set of jobs in the economy. If one immigrant takes one job, then that means there's fewer for everyone else. Um and that that argument is flawed because it assumes that people are like goods, right? In that uh actually if if it were just goods that would be correct, right? But people consume goods and services, right? They invest. And so actually each additional immigrant who's coming in, they're basically, you know, they're going to, you know, need a nanny for their kids. they're going to buy some computers. They're going to, you know, go to the mechanic. They're going to, you know, and so all of those activities actually create they're creating more demand which firms then have to fill uh by creating more jobs, right? And so it it actually has this effect of growing the economy, right? Um, and so there's sort of a fundamental misunderstanding here that that kind of comes in >> that this is not a zero- sum game. In other words, that everybody can actually gain from this exchange. >> Exactly. Exactly. And I think it's really important that to note that most studies that we seem to suggest that immigrants and natives are compliments as opposed to substitutes. So they kind of because they come in with kind of a different skill set, perspective, background, ideas, etc. Um they actually tend to fill slightly different roles and sort of it's the combination of the two that really kind of grow the economy. Um so so I think that that's you know really uh important to to push back on that. I mean, I think there's a couple of other points I would make. Like, one is just that, um, you know, to be a competitive country, you do want the top talent in the world, right? Um, and so our companies are competing globally. Uh, and so if you care about sort of national competitiveness, then of course you should be trying to attract the best in the world. Um, and I the one thing I will agree with is that, you know, I do think that we could do a better job of educating the Americans in particular. You know, I I don't think it has to be the case that STEM is so skewed towards immigrants. I think more Americans do STEM. Um, and so I think there is sort of an education piece to it. Some of that is long-term, right? So that's that's a long-term solution, not a a short-term fix. But I think that's very much complimementaryary, not sort of substitute. >> I want to come now, Brida, to the paper that you alluded to a moment ago, which looks at um what happens when you artificially constrain the number of H-1B visas and how firms respond. So you have this paper which looks at the impacts on multinational firms when there's a sudden kind of slashing of the number of H-1B visas and you do this by kind of exploiting this kind of unique kind of exogenous shock right that that that that all of a sudden cuts the number by by significant degree. Tell us a little bit about the setting. What is the kind of shock that you're exploiting here and and how did firms respond to that shock? Yeah. So, I'm looking at US multinational companies. Um, and this is sort of the universe of US multinational companies, right? Uh, and basically prior to 2004, the cap was much higher. Um, and it fell in 2004 because Congress basically failed to renew uh the previous cap increase. And as a result of that, you know, before 2004, if you wanted an H-1B visa, you could pretty much get um just in the sense of uh the demand was far below that cap. After 2004, every single year since then actually um demand has exceeded the cap. And so what that has meant is that uh to different degrees every year, firms cannot always get the H1B visas they want, right? So they're submitting some applications that are are getting rejected because it's past the cap. And so what I did is I looked at basically firms that were constrained by that versus firms that weren't um before and after the the cap. And I find that the firms that were constrained by that cap change really increased their employment at their offices in other countries. Um and in particular in Canada, China and India. Um and what's kind of interesting there is, you know, China and India feel pretty intuitive, right? Most of the H-1B recipients are from one of those two countries. So you're sort of going straight to the source, right? So you can't hire that worker in the US. So you go to that country and you you hire directly. Um, but Canada is a little is interesting in that that's not sort of the source country, but because Canada has a more open immigration system, particularly towards skilled immigrants, but across the board really, um, it's pretty much guaranteed that if you want a visa for a skilled worker, you can get it in Canada. Um and so what a lot of companies started doing is basically having an office in Canada and hiring those immigrants who they couldn't get the visa for in the US um they are instead. Uh so you know clearly instead of sort of being um skilled immigrants and skilled Americans right being sort of the next best substitute instead the like next best substitute became skilled immigrants in a different country. >> Yeah. I mean, we forget, and many of our listeners will not even remember this, that there was this collective freakout known as the Y2K problem when people thought that when our computers hit the the year 2000, they were going to like basically explode. And so we ratcheted up right the number of computer scientists via the H1B route for this limited period of time until Congress essentially failed to act >> and then the cap after 2004 basically came down to the current levels which as you pointed out >> you're in a situation where year after year I mean it's been 21 years where the demand for these visas far outstrips the supply. >> Exactly. Yeah. I want to ask about Canada um because it was an interesting addition to this list of China and India which you say are much more intuitive. Um there are many countries including Canada um which have experimented with a startup visa and those visas basically are trying to attract immigrant entrepreneurs who meet a particular set of requirements. And before we kind of get into the Canada paper itself, you know, the US has always resisted this scheme for reasons that I don't fully understand because again it seems like we tout ourselves as a startup nation. We are you know you know kind of the hub of like the global startup world and Silicon Valley and so on and so forth. Why have we, do you think, been so resistant to this idea of having a startup visa that would say like we're going to attract the best talent around the world, come here and start your company and hire workers. >> Yeah. So before I answer that, just like to be extremely clear about sort of why a startup visa is important in the US. So you cannot start a firm on the H-1B visa, right? Remember that it's >> okay. That's a very very important clarification. >> Yeah. So, it's an employmentbased visa. This is one of the downsides of the demand driven system because an employer has to file it for you if you're a startup. You know, you can't file it for yourself, right? >> So, just to put this into concrete terms, assume you work at a Microsoft and you're an H-1B worker and you have a brilliant idea for starting your own firm and you quit your job at Microsoft. You basically don't have a legal status anymore to stay to build your startup. >> Exactly. That's exactly right. Yeah. Um, so there's no straightforward path to be um to to forming a startup as an immigrant until you get basically. Um, so there's several studies that have actually documented like how much lower the rates of entrepreneurship are for immigrants than they would be otherwise, which is actually shocking since we already know they're 80% higher than Americans, right? So it's really surprising. Um, so in terms of why we don't have one, I think, and this is speculation, uh, but my sense is that it's because it it's not because people disagree with it. Um, it's actually because both parties would like comprehensive immigration reform and so it would only be one piece of that reform. And the problem is that the bottleneck is actually not the startup visas. It's usually around, you know, the wall or what you do with >> to undocumented folks in the country. >> Exactly. And so that's the the hold up. Um I actually don't think there's so much of a hold up for the start of visas specifically. >> So So tell us a little bit about this this Canada paper, right? Because you're essentially looking at how Canada's immigration policies have made it a kind of magnet in a way to attract talent that's been shut out of. they're disgruntled by the kind of US system. What have they done to try and poach talent that was previously residing in the US and and and what do we know about who Canada's been able to attract this way? >> Yeah. So, so Canada does have a startup visa. Um, so they created one in 2013. um and my my co-author Ronnie V and I uh wrote this paper studying kind of the impact of that startup policy but explicitly um in relation to the US and so the way that their startup visa works is actually they took elements of our demand-driven system in that they actually had venture capital angel investor and incubators be the ones who decide who should get it um as opposed to the government. Um, and so they basically evaluate, you know, which entrepreneurs should get this startup visa that they apply for for the government. So it's actually kind of a demand driven system within their broader point space system. >> It's a weird kind of hybrid of the both in a way. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um and so what we look at is how immigrants in the US responded to this and we see you know a huge increase um over 100% increase actually in the propensity of immigrants in the US in their likelihood to move to Canada and start a company. Um, and to kind of try to estimate how much of this is driven by constraints in the US immigration system, we did things like looking at, you know, those individuals who are more likely to have trouble getting a green card. So, Indians are sort of the prime example. So the precise number varies constantly, but you know it could be anywhere from like 10 years to 100 years um in terms of how long they have to wait for for a green card. And so obviously if you can't form a startup until you get a green card, that's a huge problem. It's a problem for many reasons, but and so we basically found that uh citizens of countries that have longer green card wait times were more likely to respond. So that's one of the ways that that we got this. Um and you know, I mean, the Canadian government was very explicitly trying to do this. So they put up billboards in Silicon Valley um trying to >> you know saying like H1B problems like we have a startup visa >> but I remember there also there's this co-ethnic linkage right so like correct me if I'm wrong but like if you have a greater density of folks from your own community so say that's Koreans or Taiwanese or Indians in the United States then it may be harder for you to be attracted by such a visa because you know presumably you have this dense robust network of kind of social connections right so that does that is a kind of a dampener in a way >> yeah yeah although I would also say the reverse is true too in the sense that if there's a big community in Canada then you're more likely to respond >> okay so there's there's there's that co-ethnic effect is working essentially on both sides of the equation >> exactly exactly yeah and it makes sense because there's a lot of literature talking about how Um, a lot of success in entrepreneurship comes from having, you know, being really embedded in a community because it allows you to leverage connections for hiring, for raising money, for idea generation, um, all of that. Uh, and immigrants don't have that, right? When they move to a new country, they don't have that community. Um, and that's one reason why immigrants often move to areas where there are other immigrants. And so, you know, it makes sense that an entrepreneur who has found found found a community like that might be less likely to to move and vice versa. So I want to ask you about this issue of innovation which has come up several times and you know in this excellent review piece you have um you talk about the fact that look there's this burgeoning literature that has linked high-killed immigration to various dimensions of innovation but there's a line in there that really intrigued me and in fact then you go on to kind of elaborate and I just wonder if you could unpack that for us and I just want to quote says it is not immediately apparent that despite immigrant innovation linkages at the individual and regional levels. Hiring more skilled immigrants would lead to positive effects on firm innovation. So tell us a little bit about why that link is not as clear as as we might think based on what we've talked about thus far. What is the literature kind of found on that score? >> Yeah. So I think kind of the two so so there are kind of two theoretical arguments for why it might not lead to to more innovation. One is that if you think skilled immigrants and skilled Americans are perfect substitutes, then if you hire skilled Americans instead of skilled immigrants or vice versa, it should have no effect onation, right? Because they're they're completely substitutable, right? Um the other reason is basically immigrants because they are different right um there are different cultural norms there are different languages all of different communication styles that can lead to dissonance in an organization right um and so theoretically like that dissonance could actually potentially outweigh any innovation particularly if it's not managed Um and so on the negative side or or neutral side, right, there are sort of theoretical arguments for why they might not bring innovation games to firms. >> Sure. >> On the positive side, you know, there's a few arguments. One is, you know, if there are shortages of skilled workers, right? So there really are zero Americans or very few Americans who have that skill set. um then of course you know a firm that is suddenly able to just meet the you know their their human capital needs that they're going to boost innovation. >> Another is that skilled immigrants are unique. Um, so even if they maybe have the same skill set on paper, just the sort of infusion of like new ideas, new perspectives, new um uh backgrounds will basically lead to more more innovation within the firm, right? We there's sort of a general understanding in the innovation literature that it comes from like the recombination of ideas. And so you can imagine if you have Americans with a set of ideas, immigrants with a set of ideas, that combination creates new ones. Um and then the the third reason is is really more of a immigrants have to overcome a lot uh to be hired, right? To and not just to be hired but to move to a new country to sort of get into a a university or get into a graduate program or whatever. Um without all the same signaling benefits that an American would have. um they have to overcome being speaking a different language and all of these differences. And so if they're able to overcome all of those things, then they might actually just be more talented, right? Um and so, you know, all of those reasons would kind of move towards the positive side, right? So those would all suggest a positive effect on firm innovation. And so theoretically, we don't really know, right? There's reasons on either side. Um but if we look at the empirical evidence, So it tends to be stacked on the positive side. Uh startups, the effect on startups is pretty much unambiguously positive. As we already talked about the effect on sort of larger established firms, most of the literature seems to suggest that hiring skilled immigrants does lead to improved firm outcomes, improved firm innovation with a lot of it really focusing on evidence around immigrants being different, right? Um there are a couple of papers that do find, you know, no effect. Um I don't think there are any that find that negative effect but there are there is one paper in particular that um you know is is well done that does find a a a null effect and so I think what that tells us is that there is some heterogeneity here. So it seems like on average hiring more immigrants has positive uh effects on firm innovation but there may be subsets where that's not true. You know, I want to ask you about as we look forward, the Department of Homeland Security has introduced a proposal that would scrap the H-1B lottery and replace it with an allocation that is kind of weighted, giving priority to visa petitions that offer higher wages or more skilled roles. Now, you know, there are many people who are advocates of increasing high-skilled immigration who think the lottery is a really bad way of recruiting talent because there's a lot of randomness and noise involved. >> Yeah. >> Um but yet they also have concerns that if you link visas to wages for instance, you might lose out, for example, on entry- level positions of people you want to keep. So, how do you kind of see this, right? Do you think that this kind of a new scheme is an improvement on what's existed or do you think it's taking us in the wrong direction? >> Yeah, it's it's tricky. I mean, I think the versions of it that I have seen so far, I think there's some real problems with it. I think if done right, it could be a big improvement. Um the the challenge is yeah how do you deal with entrylevel positions? How do you deal with um startups right who are not able to pay the same salaries? And so I think in order to deal with both of those concerns, you have to do some kind of slicing by occupation or industry. Um, and so then the way that you do that slicing is going to have really big effects. So I think it is in the right direction. Um, but the the current versions that I've seen, they don't seem to be doing the slicing quite right. Um like I I think I saw that you know so sort of a a low lowlevel software engineer would have like higher priority than like an entrylevel like so they they don't seem to have sliced it quite quite right yet. Um, I think if you were to do it do it properly, um, then it could be a move in the right direction. But I actually think the bigger issue is we just need to raise the cap, >> right? >> It's just too constrained right now. >> I mean, we haven't really even gotten to this, but I want to just bring it in before we close this conversation, which is like even if you're lucky enough to get a scarce H-1B visa, >> it's really kind of where the process begins for a lot of immigrants, right? I mean, as you write in your piece, I mean, permanent residency is like a whole another ball game, right? And you've written about the extraordinary wait times people experience for green cards, right? I mean, for some Indian applicants, it's like more than a hundred years, right? So, how do you think about as an economist like the economic costs of those lengthy backlogs that you know you're in the country, you can stay here um as long as you have a visa, but you're not able to kind of quote unquote graduate to permanent residency. >> Yeah. I mean, it's incredibly wasteful, right? So, to it's wasteful because you have that talent kind of stuck, right? because it's you can move employers. Uh but it's difficult, right? So, you're sort of stuck with an employer. Mo most immigrants are a little scared to do it once they're in the green card waiting process. So, they're kind of trapped at that firm. They can't form a startup as we already talked about. >> Um and they they just have really limited options, right? And so you're attracting all of this top talent and then you're not allowing it to go to the optimal place, right? Uh so that seems like fundamentally problematic. I I think also it has actually caused us to to lose a lot of the people that we've trained, right? Because at a certain point you may not want to be in limbo the rest of your life, right? And so you might choose to to move to a different country that's going to allow you to to get um residency and citizenship. So I think we're we're probably losing a lot of uh talented individuals who have made it through all of the other hoops in the process and then we've lost them after all of that which seems seems really crazy. Um and I think there's also you know going back to the $100,000 fee being a deterrent. I mean this is a deterrent too, right? If you're trying to evaluate whether to come to the US and you're from a country like India that has this giant backlog, that's going to factor in um because you kind of know how low your chances of actually ever becoming a citizen. >> Let me just kind of end by asking you maybe just to reflect kind of personally. I mean, you know, you're a professor at the leading business school in the United States, if not the world. It's a very international campus. You have faculty from around the world. You have students from around the world. People are making decisions about their life uh choices. I mean, you know, if you're an undergrad at Penning full freight, you're paying like $90,000 or something along those lines, right? I mean, so it's like not an insignificant investment over four years. How do you as as somebody who, you know, spends a lot of time on on a on a major college campus, what's the vibe, right? I mean, what what how are people taking this new information in because it's it's it's coming sort of fast and furious on top of a whole range of other policy changes that are that are quite controversial. Um, how does it look from your vantage point? Yeah, I mean I I don't know that I want to speak for all of that, you know, the international students and faculty here, but but I mean I I think I can say just generally, you know, not just students and faculty here, but also friends and you know, colleagues at other institutions as well. Um I think uh there's a lot of reconsideration about whether the US is sort of a long term part of the long-term plan. Uh and I think a lot of stress and anxiety and uh new uncertainty about their future. Um you know I I think it's there's a feeling of sort of unwelcomeness that you know beyond just even concrete plans. uh adjust to what degree that can be tolerated. I mean I I hear from a lot of students particularly from India who are thinking about doing their undergrad or in some cases their masters or PhDs in the United States and you know many of them ask the question about like is it should I still do it right and it's a really difficult >> question to answer as an American who like you want to encourage people here to like send their best and bright at the same time right like one has to acknowledge that we do still live in the real world where there are new constraints and potentially other opportunities outside the United States which are more free in many ways in terms of what you can do you know once your degree is is over. >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. >> My guest on the show this week is Britta Glennon. She's assistant professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, a faculty research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Bette, thank you so much for taking the time to join us today and it was really a pleasure to talk to you. >> Thank you so much. This was really fun. Really appreciate it. >> Grandmasha is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hun Times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Granthemasha, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, grant themasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer, Mera Verge is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week.