================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: ggkZnh-9i_Q
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ggkZnh-9i_Q
TITLE: The Secret to Indian Americans' Success
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-04
DURATION: 57m 48s
VIEWS: 705
LIKES: 13
COMMENTS: 3
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Indian Genius: The Meteoric Rise of Indians in America is a new book by the author and journalist Meenakshi Ahamed. 

While many immigrant groups have found success in the United States, few have excelled as far and as fast as Indian Americans, reaching heights in a single generation that many thought would take the better part of a century to achieve. 

Ahamed’s new book offers fascinating portraits of several Indian Americans in three distinct sectors—technology, medicine, and public policy. The book tries to understand what exactly accounts for Indian Americans' ability to break into mainstream American culture and their meteoric rise within its ranks.

Listeners may remember our 2021 conversation with Meena on her previous book, A Matter of Trust: India–US Relations from Truman to Trump.

To talk about her new book, Meena joins Milan on the show this week. They talk about the “godfather” of the Indian tech community in Silicon Valley, the balance between creativity and execution, a
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 9,018

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. [Music] Welcome to Grand Theash, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Hindustan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bash. Indian Genius, the meteoric rise of Indians in America is a new book by the author and journalist Minakshi Emmed. While many immigrant groups have found success in the United States, few have excelled as far and as fast as Indian-Americans, reaching heights in a single generation that many thought would take the better part of a century to achieve. EMTT's new book offers fascinating portraits of several Indian-Americans in three distinct sectors: technology, medicine, and public policy. The book tries to understand what exactly accounts for Indian-Americans ability to break into mainstream American culture and their meteoric rise within its ranks. Listeners may remember my 2021 conversation with Mina on her previous book, A Matter of Trust: India US Relations from Truman to Trump to talk about her new book. I'm pleased to welcome Mina back to the show. Mina, congrats on the book and welcome back. Thank you, Melan. It's always a pleasure to be on your show, which I listen to devotedly. Well, we like to hear that from from all of our guests. Um, I actually want to rewind the clock a little bit and and back to when we had that conversation a few years ago. Your previous book, A Matter of Trust, was a really exhaustive study of US India relations, taking us from 1947 to the present day. It followed the story of successive US presidential administrations and and how they sort of navigated this relationship between the US and India. I'm wondering, you know, having finished that book, which I know took many years, it was a kind of labor of love. At what point did you decide to sit down, move on, and write this particular book on Indian-Americans? Well, thanks for asking that question and um it's such a pleasure to be on your show because you always ask great questions. Uh so I actually jumped almost straight from that book into this book because when I was writing about the nuclear deal um I began to realize that that is really when Indians found their political voice in America. That was around the time when Indians had established themselves economically and achieved success. And one of the three things if you remember that turned the relationship around uh one was of course the reforms in India that made India emerge as a important economic entity in the world. Um but the other major thing was that the Indian diaspora had become quite powerful in America and now was pushing to have better US India relationships which had been pretty rocky until then. And um and so when um they when George Bush um wanted to pass the nuclear deal, Gandhi Ryzen and the ambassador, Indian ambassador in Washington had called in Indians in America and said, "Look, we're going to have trouble getting this through Congress and we need your help." and they fanned out and they called their congressmen and senators and they held fundraisers for them and they did all kinds of, you know, they they exerted pressure um through, you know, the ability to convince them that they could give them votes and and money and and they uh used the system to make it very clear to them they wanted this deal passed. So that played a very quite a significant small but significant role in in helping with that nuclear deal. So when I was working on that a sort of little bulb went off and I thought this is very interesting um and deserves being looked into. Now it took me another couple of years before I had finished the book. And when I around 200 when I finished the book um after 2006 you know I began to look around and all of a sudden um by the time 2020 came around um you know Indians were all of a sudden in positions of CEOs and it wasn't just Indra newi here and a vicram pundit there there were there were really people who were running fortune 500 companies the you know Adobe and and Satya Nadela's. And so I I thought that was a story that needed to be told. So I immediately when I after my my first book um had been published, I began almost immediately to start collecting data and information and looking into the second book. And I began to ask you everyone is interested in this question about what is how do people become successful? what makes for success? Well, how do they distinguish themselves? And I and I sort of, you know, the re the book is it's got a provocative title, Indian genius. Um, and it's not necessarily that each person is a genius. It's sort of like the genius of the Indian people in the way that you talk about American genius or the Jews who are, you know, in the Jewish genius. But um but among them these are very transformative individuals. And so anyway um so I began to look into some of these high-flying people who had begun to have a very major impact on both the economic and cultural landscape in this country. So you know what's interesting about the book is you decided to focus on three sectors in particular and these are three sectors where you feel Indians have had a kind of disproportionate or perhaps transformational impact right and those sectors are technology science and medicine and public policy um now of course that does not uh contain all that Indian-Americans have accomplished or done they've made inroads in a number of other domains but you know reflect a little bit for us on on how you ended up with these three categories tech, medicine and policy. Yes, I think that's an important question. Um, because obviously you know every university you go to has so many Indian academic professors and obviously Nobel Prize winners among them. Um and and so there's no question that there are many many genius level smart people in academia and and in you know and in the arts you know there's the Salman Rashis and so there there is no question but what I wanted to what I looked at was what fields have they actually changed the field that they're in where have Indians actually transformed the entire sort of field that they have been working in and where have they attained a height which is truly transformational. So I'll give you an example. Um let's take Adul Gawande um the doctor. Um when Adul Gowande came up you know he was a surgeon very successful but Adul Gowande was a kind of a visionary. He he decided he came up with this book the checklist manifesto. It was a simple set of procedures that if hospitals followed um they could prevent infections. Now, it began to get adopted by hospitals because he proved, you know, that you could actually bring down infection rates. And once it began to get adopted across the board, it brought infection rates down by something like um 60%. So, that was pretty um pretty transformational. So he wasn't just, you know, achieving success, he was transforming an entire industry. Um, and it wasn't just that he had a it wasn't just one thing that he did. He then came up with a second idea and his book was u titled being mortal and it was about the end of life care. Now in this country in the US um 90% of the expenses are in the last two years of a person's life and you know healthcare costs are a big topic of discussion in this country and you know he presented everyone with dignity in death and an alternative way of dying and you know you generally you know most doctors will admit that you know if you have a problem there isn't they don't like to tell you that there isn't a cure. There's always another test. There's always another diagnosis. There's always some medicine that they will try and offer you. But he actually came up with um something else and and that book had a major impact across the medical community in this country and began to get adopted by people. So it was a transformative idea and so you know when someone changes um an entire industry an entire field and begins to begins to change the way people think uh I think that to me qualified that's what I was looking for. So Mina let me just maybe start by asking you about the tech sector and you know I I want to start with a name that I don't think a lot of people know. Um certainly a lot of people in my generation don't know. Uh I want to ask you about a gentleman by the name of Kwal Reki. He is referred to uh as the godfather of the Indian tech community in Silicon Valley. Um like I said his is name that most people including many Indians themselves may not know. uh tell us a little bit about who Kwall is and what role did he play in developing the kind of Indian American ecosystem within Silicon Valley. So um Conwell is a very interesting person. He's referred to often as the godfather of Silicon Valley and you know wherever he goes he's now around in his 80s but uh where wherever he goes people sort of almost part ways for him when he comes in uh I' I've been in places where people like him in SAS part where people will come and touch their feet and ask you know for their blessings and ask their advice about what their children should do with their lives. I mean it's really quite sweet. Um so Kwell is emblematic of that first generation of Indians that that entered the US in 19 after 1965 when the US changed its immigration laws. So, if you remember in 1965, actually I'm not sure you were born then, but um in 1965 um the US changed um their immigration laws and um relaxed them. Partly um it was driven out of their own um domestic needs. And what were the domestic needs? the domestic needs were one. Sputnik had happened and the r the uh the American military all of a sudden flipped out because they thought the Russians might win gold war. So they started investing a massive amount of money uh into military research and put money into all the universities all across the east coast and the west coast and so but they realized they didn't have enough engineers. It was the same time when the Vietnam war was was sort of escalating and so a lot of young men had gone off to fight in the Vietnam war and so there was a real shortage in this country. So what did they do? They went outside the country looking for engineers and in 19 and this is the same thing that happened with doctors. they had a real shortage of doctors and so they made an exception for people who were skilled and uh and so they looked uh they went to places like India which at that time uh with Neu's very visionary um mindset who believed in science had invested in those IITs and medical institutes the India was graduating very skilled um students and so it was a perfect match uh the pushpull worked out very well and um he was part of that those group of Indians that came to America after 1965 to meet that um rising desire to have more engineers in this country. Now when he came he was actually someone I call I call the first wave that came inventors and founders and part of that was driven out of necessity. They were extremely bright and they worked very hard but very often they were passed over for management positions. And why were they? Because you know Gunwell will tell you he says look I had a thick accent. I didn't know how to dress. um he married uh an American woman, but despite that he could see that people who were less um who were less capable than he was were being given management positions and so he decided he had invented a precursor of the internet today's internet it was pretty remarkable in those days you know everyone's computers it's hard to imagine now but computers didn't talk to each other computers were all built on different systems and he had this ability to be able to get computer systems to connect and be able to communicate with each other and he is the one who devised a way to connect them into a network. So he was quite ahead of his time. Um eventually what did he do? he he leaves the company and he starts his own company because he figures that's the only way to get ahead and to be uh in control of something. And uh to make a long story short, you can read about it in the book, but his was the first company that that got on the stock exchange and he went public with it. And it's a sort of um bittersweet situation because even when he was Even when he went public, his board insisted that he get a white person from Huelet Packard to um be the CEO instead of him to take the company public because they felt that he'd be a that person would be a better face for the company. So he was quite disgusted by that. But at any rate, he did it because he obviously wanted to sell the company and make the money and he made a lot of money. After that he and Suhas Batil who had started Sirrus Logic. It was the first fabulous computer, a sort of precursor to Nvidia today, which is such a powerful company to the to those chips and they all got together and decided to start this group called TYON uh the Indis Entrepreneurs. um and and and tie today it it was to help and mentor young Indians and people from other countries as well, young young immigrants who didn't have anyone to guide them. Um and they they they didn't want them to go through the hardships that they had gone through. And what these people did was they set up an office and it was really to mentor them. It wasn't uh to give them money necessarily, but to mentor them and to show them how to run a business, how you um how you get going, how you look for investors and and going from start to finish and even to tell them whether their ideas were good or bad. And then in the end, some of them then got a group together. They were called angel investors and they invested in the companies that they thought were worthwhile investing in and they ended up making almost more money in their investments in these companies than they did in the companies that they sold. So it became very successful and today TYON has almost 40 branches all over the world and it's become huge. I went to a TYON conference, by the way, just three weeks ago because I wanted to see for myself what it was like. And I have to tell you, I was bowled over. I went to one session where they had a man, a professor who was giving them a rundown rundown on how you do a startup. I was riveted. It was not anything that you would get in business school. It was not anything that you'd get, you know, it was a completely different way of thinking. And and then after that, they had a table. Each of them had a mentor and they had five kids on each table who was pitching an idea. on my table. There was this incredibly brilliant South Indian woman who had come up with a GPS device of how missiles uh it was a GPS device for missiles. She was a physicist. don't I mean it's beyond my imagination because I'm not that smart but she had figured out how to stabilize the GPS on these missiles that were like that went beyond a certain mileage into the sky and her partner was another IIT physicist engineer who had a also degree from Harvard Business School. These people were absolutely brilliant and I was wondering like what were they doing here? like why do they even need help from these people? But and actually uh she had got already got an investment from NASA and uh from from the defense department a small I mean couple of million dollars and the mentor said to her so why do you need Tai but she wanted Tai because she wanted the mentorship of Tai so impressive there was a guy whose father had worked for the Indian railways and he had spent his whole life observing railway lines and he figured out um some device uh of how to stabilize the railway tracks by just you know his childhood going around with his father to all the railway uh you know you know all over India. So it was you know the things that people come up with are quite remarkable and Tai has been a great fostering agent and Gwell Reiki is the one who who's who well SAS Patil and there were three or four of them that's that got a group that started it but um Gunwell uh was part of the global expansion of it and so he's very much associated with it because he really after he sold uh his companies he actually went and sat there in the offices and would uh make himself available to everyone. I mean, it's really it's it's quite remarkable. I mean, what one of the things that's so interesting about this book is that you have all of these very interesting, some of them larger than life personalities. I I want to just stick with the section on tech for a second and and and ask you about this exchange you had with a man named Nikkesh Aora who is the CEO of PaloAlto Networks a relatively uh well-known uh business person one of the highest paid executives in the world um you're talking to him and you make this observation that you know the Indian educational system including the prestigious Indian institutes of technology they're not really known to foster creativity per se and and he has this response which kind of comes across as a bit of a sharp response and I just want to quote and then have you reflect on it. He says don't short the Indians who are outstanding executors and have gone on to build the dreams of other people into big successful businesses. Executors can also have a dream. You can be a creative thinker but if you can't deliver the dream it doesn't matter what your dream is. Um, I I wonder if that kind of changed your view in terms of your perception of how you kind of saw these kind of, you know, what we call tech bros, but you know, obviously kind of tech entrepreneurs. Well, you know, um, everyone changed my view. Everyone I interviewed in a way changed my views about everything because you learn so much from each person. You know, you you have to be humble. You have to have humility when you go into it. I'm not a tech person. I wouldn't I mean I I can barely add two plus two. So you know my brother's an engineer but I am not and I have to tell you that um I am very tech challenged. So um I had to learn a lot. I read a lot of books um you know before I before I went in to speak to people but despite that there's no way that you can make up for a lack of your uh you know technical skills. They were so patient. Um I I wanted to I picked Nik because for one thing I think cyber security is going to be such a critical area um of our future because of how much dependence we now h we now have on tech and AI. and Nikkesh um Nikkesh um was is a CEO of one of the probably the most one of the premier um tech company cyber security companies. Um there's also there's another Indian who um is also a founder and CEO of of a of a cyber security company. Um but uh Nikesh stands out in terms of his risktaking ability and the way he has worked his way through Google um you know just the the whole industry in general he knows it well so I I think he's right I mean in the sense that you know you have these earlier guys who were the founders you know you know Kosla who helped found some micro systemystems you have gunal raiki Sas Patel you have a whole bunch of people who you know were the early guys and let's just take Satya Nadela for example I mean Satya Nadela is absolutely visionary and and what Nikesh's point was that you can if you have a vision but you don't have the ability to execute what is the vision nobody's going to know what your vision was and so Um if if you see Microsoft, let's go back to Microsoft and see after Bill Gates, Steve Balmer, Microsoft had really become a sort of company that was losing uh had lost altitude and um it was flailing and nobody was paying attention to Microsoft. It certainly wasn't uh on the cutting edge of anything after after Steve after Bill Gates left and today it's one of the it's probably the most interesting and visionary company around. Um I think and it's because of Satya Nadela because he is an incredible executive and he has he has that vision. uh you just have to see what he's doing with AI, the decisions he's taking. Um so I think Nikesh is right. I think you can if you don't have the ability to execute um you have to have um you know you have to have both. And so um you know he he he definitely he's a great manager um and he's a thinker but he's also philosophical. So I like that very much about him. There's a bit of a kind of sadness to be honest that one feels when reading some of your profiles particularly of successful Indian American women. And I'm thinking specifically of Chandra Katanden who is a highly successful businesswoman in her own right perhaps less well-known than her sister Indranui who was the ex-CEO of Pepsi. But um when you were talking to Tanden about her life story, you know, she was kind of reflecting on her on her upbringing and I just want to read a passage that she narrates to you and she says, "You know, I decided I wanted to attend Madros Christian College." This is when she was a young woman. There were only four women in the class, but I applied and was accepted and was determined to go. I faced two problems. It was co-ed and an hour away. I had to go on a hunger strike to overcome the family's objections. My mother used to say that when you put fire and cotton together, it's combustible. The implication was that nothing good would come of a co-ed education. Now, there were many other um examples of of things that her her mom had said to her, but you know, I want to just ask you to reflect a bit on the hurdles that Indian-American women, particularly of that generation, had to overcome. Um because you know frankly speaking as somebody who studies Indian-Americans these stories seem to get short shrift. Um but you know how representative is Chantrica's story of what you heard you know across women of of of that generation. So Chantrica is exactly my age. She's my generation. And um and I think growing up, you know, I was born in 1954, so growing up was a mixed bag. I think that if you um I mean, I was fortunate that my parents were very pushy about me getting an education. And I know other people who um whose parents were pretty pretty uh progressive about it. But there were many families, many many families where really um the best thing a girl could do was to marry well. And Chandria's mother was of the opinion that that's what she should do. And when you think of the amount of talent that was left on the table because of that, it's sort of mind-boggling. And I'm I'm sure even that's true to a degree today because when you look at the amount of women's participation in the labor force, it's not encouraging in India. Um so so I think especially as you know even amongst the sort of educated people it's not that encouraging. So I think that um I think the social um she came from a very conservative Brahman family in the south and uh and she and she had uh sort of cultural values stacked against her. And it had it was quite a push for her to um to try and be able to study and and pursue her dreams. Um there are many people who who where the preference was given to the boys. When I first came to this country uh in 1971, I it was hard for me to find um another woman foreign student. Um you know, if you're sending your kids abroad um in those days, generally you were going to put your resources into your son, not your daughter. It's just as simple as that. Hey Granthamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Grand Thea, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls [Music] out. You know, I want to pivot here for a second to talking about the fields of science and medicine. And you know, one of the names which surprised me, I guess it shouldn't have surprised me, but it did was the Chopra uh who is the best-selling author. He's a advocate of alternative medicine. And you know I think for a lot of people in my generation you know I'm in my mid-4s we we hear the name Deepak Choproper and we tend to dismiss him as this kind of newagy kind of guru that we might have seen on TV you know speaking in this calm soothing voice but but when you write about him you say that you know look if there's one person who deserves credit for the transformation and attitudes towards kind of eastern concepts of healing uh and medicine and mainstream American culture it's the book Chopra um what is his significance you know tell us why he is so important and why you decided to profile him you know um you are not far off uh in people's reactions and some people's reactions I myself was a bit of a skeptic and so I was confronted by you know who I was going to pick in the field of medicine some of them were very obvious um and Then one of my friends who was a national editor of the Washington Post at the time said to me you have to include Deepak Chopra. And I said why do you say that? And he said he described the story which I thought to me was quite revealing. He said, "Listen," he said, "I was doing a story about drug deals in in Virginia." and he he described this incident where he was working um with a in a rural area in the hills of Virginia and he was traveling with this cop who was sort of a redneck Trump supporter type of guy and and he said the guy was constantly complaining about his his divorce, his broken marriage, his custody problems, his debt, his mortgage. And then in the middle of driving around and getting towards a drug takeout, he pops in a deep choprat in the middle of this no placement. And he said all of a sudden the guy zones out and is very calm. And he said, "What happened?" And he said, he said, "Oh," he said, "How did you find out about Deepak Chopra?" And he said, "Oh man, ever since I came across Deepak Chopra, my whole life has changed." He said, "I get very centered." and he helped me get through everything. So you know um the national editor who was an Indian guy Rajiv Chandra Shakar and he he said to me he said you know the book just hasn't just influenced people in Beverly Hills and you know the rich salons he said he has helped people in places like this in rural Virginia he goes across the board. So I began to look into it more. Now you know you cannot go down 10 blocks in any street in America whether I mean it's Tennessee or whether it's Texas or whether it's you know California u without seeing a yoga center or a meditation center. I mean it's become so ubiquitous now. And and I and you know everyone's grandmother studying yoga. They're teaching meditation in prisons. They're teaching yoga in high schools. So um it's become an American product and who is responsible you know it was Deepak Chopra because it used to be something that was in the in the sort of R where hippies did it in the 60s and he's the one as an endocrinologist who as a doctor after he got on to Oprah Winfrey he legitimized alternative medicine in this country particularly yoga and meditation and so you know you have to give him credit now I pride myself on trying to you know just because it's my you know my background in history so I like to read before I go and interview anyone and I you know with I read all his seven books and with you know Sid Mukaji I read all his books and so I thought I better read books before I go to meet Deepak Chopra. Well, I discovered that Deepak Chopra had written 90 books. There was no way that I was going to be able to read all his 90 books. But I read a few and basically you know look you know I'm a Punjabi Hindu and I you know I was brought up with you know some amount of you know uh religion not not a huge amount but some and you know it's all based on the Bhagat Gita you know a lot of his teachings a lot of his books a lot of his philosophy so um you know he's he's kind of modernized it for um to make it accessible to a wider audience across the world. But you know I I found him a very kind, very um meditative, very philosophical human being who actually wants to help people. So anyway, I think he's been very transformational because in this country you you know the adaptation to at the turn towards alternative health is so transformational and we have him he is responsible for that. Wow. Um thank you. That that was an incredibly thoughtful answer. I think maybe makes me and a lot of our listeners kind of reconsider our our our ill-informed opinion of him. Uh let me just turn to the third and final uh domain that you cover which is kind of public policy. Um, and you know, when it comes to this question, you know, it's really about law and public policy, you decided to profile the kind of super lawyer Neil Katyal. And he's somebody who I think a lot of people will recognize from his op-eds in the New York Times, from his many television appearances on MSNBC, from, you know, obviously the various high-profile cases he's argued for the Supreme Court. Um, you say that that the decision to profile him was an easy one for you, but you were always asked by various people you encountered about the other quote unquote well-known Indian-American lawyer Pri Barara, who of course was the US attorney for the Southern District of New York, another well-known author, uh, columnist, podcast host, you know, so on and so forth. Uh, why was Katyal an easy one for you? Why does he deserve his own chapter? Because Katyal has changed the constitution. Uh I mean you know there not a lot of look um pri Barara is a brilliant lawyer there's no question about it and frankly there are some judges who have who are Indian who have been pretty brilliant some of them who've taken on the Trump cases or ruled on on certain Trump uh cases but um you know pri has done well and he stood up to Trump in a way by you know when he left the southern district of New work but and he you know he certainly pursued uh people on Wall Street as we know Raja Ratnam and Rajat Gupta and he made a name for himself there and with Goad and but um you know he um he then left he does a podcast I mean he's involved in in you know public life but Neil is actually trying to protect the constitution and that is a that is a pretty heavy lift with this administration. You know, I think he's he has put his career on the line several times. So, let me explain. Um I mean, first of all, he's he's now um way past Thug Marshall as the minority lawyer that has argued more cases before the Supreme Court. So, that in itself is quite a feat. But in um the recent Supreme Court case Moore versus Harper, which um was all about whether you could send fake electors, you know, when when Trump tried to challenge the 2020 election and they tried to bring all these lawsuits, which by the way, they failed at everyone. But that ruling put a stop to the politicization of elections by state legislators. I mean this was the kind of you was was around the topic of this quite controversial theory of called the independent state legislature theory, right? Yes. Which which kind of suggests that state legislators have the sole power to set aside uh state rules governing congressional elections and basically decide themselves. Well, his supporters were trying to overturn the results in some and so um you know he everyone told him he this case wasn't winnable but he won it in a 63 decision in a court dominated by conservative judges and a conservative judge Michael logic um who was you know on the United States Court of Appeals he said it was the most important case for American democracy Y in almost two and a half centuries since America's founding. Wow. So you know and Katy said that he said that had he not won the case he would have given up practicing law. He said so intensely serious for him that he was willing to put his career on the line for it. And he said this was the most significant case of my career because the stakes were astronomical because it gets to the heart of democracy. If you can have fake electors by state legislatures, which was Trump's theory, then you no longer have checks and balances, and it's not a functioning democracy anymore. So he said that Moore versus Harper is what he had taught and written about and thought about for 20 years. And he said it was a case he was put on earth to do. And and you know before this he had won um this other case which was Hamdan versus George Bush. That was his first case that made him, you know, he went from being a professor to an activist lawyer. And and you know, when in his press statement, he said he said, you know, this is a country, America is a country where you should and you could expect justice to be dispensed without prejudice. And he and and what he said is what happened today was that a man from Yemen with a fourth grade education accused of a conspiring with one of the most horrendous individuals on the planet which was Osama bin Laden was able to sue the most powerful man in the world, the president of the United States, and have his case heard. That is something that is fundamentally great about America and something that we should all be celebrating to the rest of the world. and no other country would this be possible. And you just have to hope that that um sentiment and that rule of law is still alive today because we know that that's trying to be people are trying to cut that. I mean, you know, just we we talked about the the Chandan story. I mean, just a shout out to Neil's wife Joanna who comes up in your interview um when you're kind of like how do you do all of this, right? And he basically says, "Look, she's the key to everything." And you know, the the year before um the book came came out, I guess, is when you had the interview, and he said, "Last year, I worked 7 days a week, 14 hours a day for 355 days." Uh he argued 10 major cases in a 10-month span. I mean, that's like a superhuman level of effort, but it didn't come uh alone. He obviously had this kind of incredible support system. So, I just wanted to and she and she, by the way, is a full-time physician. Right. She's she's a she's a a super achiever in her in her own right. Um, I want to kind of step back a little bit from these specific examples and domains as we as we kind of come to the end of this conversation, Amina, and just ask you a little bit about some of the broader lessons um, and maybe touch upon, you know, two or three things that that come up in the book in various places, but maybe just tease them out a bit more. I want to ask you about the role of cast. Um this is a very sensitive touchy subject in our community as you know. Um you're very familiar with the scholarly work of the Kapoor and his co-authors uh my sometimes co-author. Uh in in their book the other 1% which is a fantastic book about Indians in America they talk about Indians who came to America as being triple selected. And what they mean by that is that you had this pool of largely upperass brahinss who had priority access to education. Uh this allowed them to gain entry into prestigious institutions like the IITs and the IM. This then allowed them to take advantage of America's skill-based visa regime. Right? So they kind of passed through these three filters and the people who came out the end were really kind of the the creme dear creme in a sense. How does cast figure into your narrative? I mean, did you see it prop up? Um, you know, h how do you think about this having done this book? So, um, well, let can I just mention that you mentioned Dish Kapoor's book, The Other 1%, which he co-wrote with two other people. I I have to tell you that I I would recommend to all your listeners that they should pick up that book because I it was my Bible. I mean, you know, we all we all stand on the shoulders of others and and you know, honestly, Davish's work has just been uh quite uh uniquely uh astoundingly excellent and I just want to shout out his his co-authors Chukravori and Nervikar Singh. It was a joint project. I had the pleasure of of reading a attending a workshop actually when they presented the first drafts of that book. Um this was in Philadelphia when the veh used to run the center for the advanced study of India at UPEN and you had this feeling as you were reading these chapters of just total excitement because it was so new and the data that they had amassed on this community and as somebody who is Indian-American you just you were kind of wowed by what they were able to put together. So, we'll make sure that we include a link to that um in in in the show notes. But yeah, tell us a little bit of how you should put a link to your work at Carnegie with all the data that you have on Indian-Americans because I think that's quite fascinating all the work that Carnegie is doing on um on data collection on attitudes of Indian-Americans. I think that's fantastic work. Well, thank you. Well, we will do that too. Um um so um on cost um so this is not anything new for Indians as you well know. Uh another person who I have a great um regard for is Anil Seal. I'm sure Davish would know who he is. Um, Anil Seal is a professor was a professor at Cambridge University and he actually wrote a fascinating book about Indians and cost a long long time ago and you know about how the British used cast and to to pro to sort of further their you know to promote what they wanted to accomplish in India. And it was really layering their prejudices and their system onto the and using the Indian cast system to keep things constrained and keep Indians oppressed. And they under the British system the brahinss and the chhatrias were given privileges and a certain amount to I think the uh the people who were the transcribers and accountants. Uh they were given privileges to educ for education and others were not. So you know remember when India became independent uh the the illiteracy rates were appalling. I mean India was basically an illiterate country. I mean today people think of India producing all the engineers and doctors and you know educated people. But uh when when the British left I think 88% of India was uneducated. And so who had privileges the privileges uh were given to the upper casts 80% uh and I think this is probably a statistics that that is in Dish's book um most of the Indians that came to this country certainly were from the upper class at least until 2000 and and I think that that is because they are the ones who had one access to education in India and access to connections and privilege in India. You can't just come overseas without anything. I mean now Gunwwell Reiki you know did not come from a wealthy none of these people came from wealth Gwen Kosla but they still you know they still had some access you know there you know there are all these hidden privileges that people have that aren't actually obvious and in in my book I've tried to explain uh this theory uh a little bit um you see it in you know where where you know it looks like you stand before the kings and you know you that you you know made it all by yourself but actually you have had help along the way so people who get into an IIT have to one know about it and have to be able to access entrance into the IITs and in the 1960s it was unlikely for some some kid in a rural village to be able to have that access. But Kul Raiki even though his father was not wealthy, he was in the military. He he had a sort of um steady job in one of India's most prestigious institutions. So even though um he didn't know much about education, he gave his son gave his son the ability to have get an education himself and to be able to know about IIT and to be able to apply there and get in. So Dan's father didn't know about IIT. He wanted his son to go to um the military school. It was his commanding officer who was so impressed because he said his son hadn't gotten into IIT. That's when Kwell's father realized this was something. But Kwell because he'd had a good educ because he'd had an education thanks to the army, he was able to access it. So there there are hidden privileges built into belonging to, you know, a cast that is not from the bottom. Let me bring this to a close Mina by asking you about the next generation right. Um let's come back to the Chandan story which you know so powerful in a way. What's striking about her is that she recognized that she absorbed many of her mother's lessons but then repeated them with her daughter because she wanted her daughter to really excel in school and so on. At the end of the book, you reflect on the next generation and you and and you say, and I want to quote here, look at uh a few spelling be winners who are now adults. Uh you know, when you do that, it doesn't indicate any unusual talents that resulted from being put under a period of prolonged intense pressure. Um so you know there these are great achievements what Indian-Americans do in spelling bees and history bees and geographies and math olympiads and so on and so forth but um but there seems to be you know uh something that is is missing from just that kind of brute learning alone um you know what is it and how would you how would you characterize it? So I've come across so many Indian parents in India including members of my own family where you know parents literally sit with their kids uh doing their homework for hours a day get them all kinds of tutors and there are so many parents who who want who think that the only way to progress is for their kids to go to IIT or to get you know to take this J exam and they're and there's it's become ridiculous how much money they spend doing all is and it's similar to the spelling bee where you know this became sort of something that I looked into because I I initially thought shall I do a story on the spelling bee because it's such a phenomena that the last seven spelling bees have been won by Indian children and it became so ridiculous the competition that in the last two times the finalists there were eight finalists and they were all Indian and so uh I thought what you know I I I I looked at these there was a there have been a couple of documentaries and there have been lots of articles I mean I had a file that was so thick about all the information I collected and I began to say well how all this effort that the parents make because they had documented how the parents um deise all kinds of you know some of the parents are engineers and they produce produced 200,000 words for the kids to learn and everyone in the family was involved in teaching the kids and they were getting tutors in French and tutors in Latin and tutors in Greek for learning teaching them the derivatives of everything and I was wondering where does this lead you know does this lead to the children becoming some sort of genius and achieving some great stuff after you know the spelling be so I made a matrix for my own information to see maybe this is a great story, maybe I should be pursuing this as a book and I listed out all the winners and and some of the finalists and I by year and everything and then tried to see where they ended up. Now a lot of them are still young and they haven't you know reached their potential but I tried to see what they ended up doing and some of them you know they became doctors and engineers but it's not like they went on to win any kind of prizes or they weren't on some sort of Nobel track or anything like that. They just they had good careers. I mean perfectly respectable. Um it's not that they couldn't have achieved that without being pushed through the spelling be process and and I began to wonder you know what was the point of all this pressure that they put on their kids after all every weekend they were doing internal competitions the Indians now as a community have their own competitions within the community of spelling bees before they get to the main national spelling bee. I mean it's become quite a thing. And so um the amount of prep work that these kids have to do before they you know every weekend it's just phenomenal. And I began to wonder is all this parental pressure it's just bit like you know what the parents in India do with their kids trying to get into IIT. Where does this lead? Does this actually lead to high achieving kids? Well, the Indian Express did a six-year study of toppers in in India. Then they interviewed all kinds of kids who were at IIT and they discovered that a lot of them don't want to do engineering and they actually don't want to be there. They'd rather be doing something else and they were there because they were fulfilling their parents' dream, not their own. Um the other remarkable thing I found was that almost every single person that in my book who has achieved you know unimaginable success none of their parents were involved in their decisions or their education. So I thought that was really revealing that you know Venod Kosla and Kul Reiki and all of these people who you know I interviewed all said that their parents gave them a whole lot of freedom. No one pushed them to do anything. No one pushed them towards engineering. they actually it was when something clicked with them and they got locked into something they were interested in that is when they pursued it with their heart and soul and became passionate about it. So um yeah I mean Neil Kachal's mother was you know tried to bribe him with a car to become a doctor and he wanted right she that he felt pressured to be a doctor. I mean who among us has not have felt that pressure right and you know so you know she was he was pressured in the other in completely in a in a different way. I mean Satya Nadela didn't get into IIT neither did Shantanu Narayan and Shantanu wanted to become a journalist. So it's, you know, I I I just don't I think that there's a lesson there for people who are pushing their children that maybe that's not the way. If you want your children to become the next Satya Noda, that's maybe not the way to do it. Um maybe let them find their passion instead. My guest on the show this week is the author and journalist Minakshi Ahmed. He is the author of the brand new book Indian Genius, the meteoric rise of Indians in America. Uh the historian Michael Bes said that Indian Genius is a splendid combination of history, biography, and inspiration. Every American should read and treasure Emmed's brilliant and captivating new book and learn about the magnificent contributions of Indian-Americans. Mina, thank you so much. It was it was fun to read. We've talked about the book while you were working on it and so it's nice to see it in its kind of final uh edition. Um thanks for taking the time. Thank you. Milan Granda is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hindus Times. This podcast is an HT Smartcast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Granthamasha, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mira is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabel Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart glass.