================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 9epIvrbdnQc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9epIvrbdnQc
TITLE: Does The Manchester Derby Still Matter? | Libero 052
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-12
DURATION: 1h 2m 1s
VIEWS: 2,729
LIKES: 107
COMMENTS: 17
TAGS: football, podcast, soccer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sunday sees the first Meeting of Manchester United and Manchester City of the season at the Etihad. On today’s Libero, Jack Pitt-Brooke, Miguel Delaney and John Brewin look at the fixture and ask whether it is still one of the biggest in the Premier League calendar.

The dynamic between the two clubs has been flipped in the last 15 years, with City now the dominant team of this era and United lurching from crisis. The fixture has lost its edge since its golden period between 2009 and 2013, when City were the rising force trying to topple Sir Alex Ferguson’s United.

And while the local rivalry is a huge part of Premier League marketing, the question is whether a game like this can become a global product while still retaining its local appeal. Does it still matter in the same way?

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky.social
Follow us on Ins
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,655

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hello and welcome to Libero, the podcast about the most important of the least important things, as George Best used to say to Mike Summerrby. My name is Jack Pitbrook. I'm from The Athletic. I'm joined today by Miguel Delaney from The Independent and by John Brewan. Um, Miguel, we had a lovely time in Serbia, didn't we? >> Yeah, we did. Um, an interesting city. Obviously, it's also uh interesting politically right now, but it reminded me a little bit of Budapest in that sense in that you don't necessarily feel that around the center, which actually feels quite liberal. Uh people are very nice obviously and the Americana uh was a stadium that I always wanted to go to. So, delighted to have uh to have been there. >> Yeah, it was great. It was great seeing the famous old tunnel leading up into the ground. Uh the atmosphere was I mean it was there was so much talk about the atmosphere beforehand but it actually felt like the Serbian crowd were more they were kind of less interested in England and more interested in their own political issues and there was >> yeah I mean we were there like there was protests while we were there. There was lot there was a lot of um chance about the government and obviously Kosovo as well. Yeah. did it did feel they were much more consumed by their own issues because like I mean I have been to more intimidating atmosphere than that say and that was obviously an element I was looking forward to. We also had quite an interesting are we allowed to say this on air where me and Jack were standing outside the mix zone afterwards to do our usual stuff and uh we were just basically just walked right down into the tunnel the intimidating tunnel. Uh although I was stopped by a local when I tried to >> Yeah. there for all to see. And we went to the uh Nicola Tesla Museum. >> Yeah. >> Which was great. The great man, inventor of electricity. Uh and Miguel got zapped by the kind of I want to call it electricity machine. It's probably >> oil. Was it? Is that >> um And we went to Marshall Tito's house uh at the which has now turned into a big mu museum and saw where where he's buried. So yeah, it it was pretty good. John, what you been up to? much. It be funny if I always think of Tesla as a soft rock band from the late 80s, but uh kind of like um yeah uh as I'm not on the international beat too often watching quite a lot of international football uh and that includes I'm sorry Miguel Highland's performance against Armenia. >> I didn't have to see it actually. I was in a restaurant with Jack at the time. >> Well, it was very very >> updates. Uh, other than that, uh, I I watched a film about Bernie Maidoff with Robert Dairo in. I don't know if you've seen this one. Uh, and and, uh, also, uh, great documentary about the Essex boys of 1993, uh, as car dealers. It's on the BBC archive website, YouTube. Watch that. It's very interesting. Uh, a prelude to, uh, some of the political themes we have now. Let's put it that way. >> Amazing. Well, before we get on with today's show, we're just going to say as always, please leave a comment for us on Spotify or Apple or YouTube. You can uh you can subscribe on YouTube and on and on Spotify. You could even if you were very kind, leave us a fivestar rating. We do read all the comments. If you want to get in touch with us and criticize anything we said, the best way to do it is actually via a comment because even though we don't get we get we don't always get our hands dirty and reply to them all, we do actually read them all. Uh so yeah, thank you very much for all your all the feedback we've got so far and please keep it coming. Now on today's episode, we are going to talk about the big game this Sunday afternoon, the Manchester Derby. Um it's the first this clearly the first Manchester Derby of the season. It feels like one of the biggest games of the season so far. Um, and we want to get into this question of where it stands now in the amongst the biggest games in English football, but it's fair to say, John, this is not, you know, both teams really are coming into this at a low eB like that. City have won one league game this season. United last year had their worst season almost in history. City had their worst season under Guardiola. So, it's uh it's not really a clash of giants in quite the way it used to be. Yeah, I mean the way that football is these days is that obviously these are huge clubs, almost unsinkable ships in terms of relegation or whatever, but you're going back to like a late 80s doldrum period, aren't you? Actually, late ' 80s. uh Manchester City spent a lot of in the second division, but you get you almost go back to something like 1989, the famous 5-1 uh when both were City City were a developing force of of young players and Manchester United were in the latest of a long line of rebuilding processes. Um now, uh the developing force that is Manchester City is a very different one now. Obviously, it's redeveloping from the best team of the Premier League era uh to basically a shuffling of the of the decks, new players coming in. Big questions over the future of Pep Guardiola. How many more Manchester derbies has he got left in him? Uh and then Manchester United has become the great soap opera. Um these are punishing fixtures for Manchester United quite a lot of the time. Um though they don't have the worst record against City, but um so often over the last well since Alex Ferguson stepped down, the gulf between the teams has been huge. Uh in in it's almost like when United win the game, there's the role reversal of the ' 90s when a City win, which none of those actually happened, I don't think. Uh a City win would be a huge result. And uh uh a United fan is celebrating um it's funny United fans uh celebrate City's downfall in a way that uh City fans used to Man United. We're not quite into the uh utter utter uh much mocked sort of Bertie Mcoo bitteriness, but it's getting that way. It is getting that way, you have to say. But as we'll get on to, I'm not sure the rivalry is as white hot as it once was. Possibly because of global factors, dislocation of fans. >> Yeah, obviously it's been tempered by the very contrasting statuses of the two sides. I think that's why I mean it's not just this fixture. I suppose it's the last year of fixtures where it's been quite curious because really for the first time maybe since the 1980s we've been talking about two teams at a low web. Now obviously like the the one that Manchester United won in kind of almost absurd fashion last December. City were champions but it was champions when they're in the middle of this unprecedented crisis and that okay they did level out but clearly from the way the season started the issues aren't solved. Manchester United have ongoing issues and I have to I can't remember a Manchester derby in the modern era where both teams have had so much to solve and where the the game is actually big for both teams for the same reasons and they aren't good reasons. So for example say like obviously they both they're both going for the title in 1112 but I mean you know that that's a title race. This is one where they both really need the win to steady the season. Obviously, there's the kind of the extra effect of a win in this game either kind of propels you a bit more. There's all the feelood element of it. It kind of feel it's coming together or defeat actually kind of sends you into a further spiral because there's the extra emotional resonance. And it's Yes. And just picking up on John's point there, I I actually think the kind of the psychology of the derby, not just on the pitch, is really interesting to this because we've obviously had like look the the tone or maybe the relationship you'd most associate with the two clubs is City having to be used to United being the top dogs and United almost being dismissive of City for a lot of history. Even when when City have been good, there's still that sense that it's it's it's Liverpool for United and like we can all remember Fergy's comments say like around 0910 how dismissive he was or that city they're a small club you know it's you know around the te stuff but as John says it does feel like that's being skewed a bit I mean looking from externally it still feels like city fans the United game is the one they look to more the club that obviously drives the most emotion whereas for United fans that feels a little bit more complicated now and certainly in a different place than what it was. >> Yeah, I completely agree and it's it is really striking how if you take if you look at the two teams kind of aggregate points total from last season. Last season the two teams between them got 113 points which I think is the lowest combined points total between City and United since City came back up back up to the Premier League under Kevin Keegan more than 20 years ago. ly if you add up their their points totals you get kind of 160 170 180 or whatever. So it's a huge downgrade from from that level and as good as they used to be. I feel like I guess kind of taking a step back like this one of the issues with this fixture really in the last sort of 10 10 12 years has been that the gap is arguably too big now like City have won seven Premier League titles since Manchester United last won one in Sir Alex Ferguson's last season. Do you think that the how much of a problem do you think it is that that that gap exists? City United have not really compete or may I mean maybe this season will be different but sitting United John have not really been competing at the same level. >> I suppose you go to the the concept of a local derby. Um and it it it it's one of those concepts where it matters more almost to the smaller club but you've got this idea where one of them is the bigger club but one of them's the more successful club. So it's like a it's like both things are true at the same time. So like a man United winning a derby is a huge result for for Man United fans and for the club itself. But for City still, as Miguel said, beating United is the the absolute, you know, if if a a City fan looks at a season where they've got, you know, 100 points as they have done and have beaten United both home and away, I mean, that is as golden a season as it can be. Uh, and it's funny you look at those games like I mean, let's compare it to to Liverpool Everton. Everton have been uh in the doldrums well for decades it feels like. Uh and Liverpool are have been a very good team at least for the last decade or so. But that that that game still feels like a a local affair where um particularly at Goodison and and now the at Hill Dickinson, but we'll have to see how that goes. Um Everton have got a chance. Um it it just feels the the the um the the the local aspects of it. I mean, you know, I remember Derby Day as a as a as a kid and you know, the local radio, the the buildup in the local newspapers. Um and on local TV. Now, you don't really have any of those things these days. Local radio is in decline. Um the local press is in decline. the buildup when you're on the fringes of the city as I grew up or just to be on the fringes of the city. It was it was a huge huge day. Um actually a lot of the pubs would be shut and stuff like that. It felt like this thing dominated. That doesn't happen anymore. It feels like United and City are is an event for the rest of the globe because of the Premier Leagues pushing out to to to across the globe and you know Sky Super Sundays or or beat or TNC or whatever. It's just it's a totally different vibe to what I remember. Now, if you if you're a diehard City fan or die hard United fan, it probably has the same vibe, but that group of people is dwindling year on year by design. So it it these fixtures by nature are a very different one and you know even Celtic Rangers or something like that. It has that almost corporate edge to it that the classic local derby doesn't have. But in contrast to Liverpool everything that you mentioned there and I know we'll get into this more deeply later but I think it's worth mentioning. It does feel like in contrast to that fixture, the nature of the ownerships has kind of influenced and informed this derby much much more. And like I mean like obviously so much so much what United are is anchored to the Glazers and so much what City are is anchored to the ownership and while I'm always quite well I was going to say I'm always quite impressed with the City fan base. They have subjected me to a lot of verbal abuse in person. But but I think that even that is at least related to kind of the fact that at its core this the City fan base has stayed quite true to what it is. But around them it feels like everything about the club has changed h to a much more profound degree in United bar the success of United obviously where like it's with city it feels like and again this is in contrast say everything there's almost this kind of like I don't want to say sterile but basically this big massive politicized football project placed on top of what the fan base is and which is I think feeds into maybe some of what I externally feel is is a disconnect. >> Yeah, it's a really interesting point and one that we'll we will get back to later on in the episode. The strange thing to me about about this particular fixture at the moment is that if you grew up in as I did watching football in the 1990s, the images of the two clubs have not perfectly but almost been flipped in the sense that on the one hand you've got a kind of relentless trophy machine which is always making history and breaking records under the total power and control of an all-time great manager. they're really like the hegemonic club of the era or I mean in City's case they certainly were until maybe about 11 months ago and now that's up for debate a bit whereas on the other side you've got a club that lurches from crisis to crisis and manager to manager now obviously I'm kind of slightly doing a bit here because Manchester United have not yet reached kind of Steve Coppel Phil Neil le Alan B Frank Clark >> they're not in their they haven't had their they haven't yet had a manager for only 33 days. So, it's not quite comparable, but the City United comparison is I think valid like as in the modern day City with the Manchester United of the 1990s. And yet, of course, it's not a perfect comparison, right? Because City United have retained all of the or an awful lot of the support and the prestige and the history, right, at this even through this miserable period, whereas City in the 1990s were a kind of a different prospect. Well, on that exact point, I mean, like this, you can actually put this down to something quite binary. If both clubs are going for a player, despite United having been a shambles for so long, United have still got a fair shout of getting that player just because of what they are and I suppose the potential of what they can be through the money. And that's obviously completely different to what it was in the '90s. And I mean that feeds into I think a transfer that actually articulates a lot of what this game is and where the derby currently is which is Donnaruma where United had the chance to sign Donnaruma. wanted to go but they didn't want to go anywhere near it because of the wages he wanted. Whereas city have obviously are obviously willing to pay those wages and and and again that alone says a lot maybe how maybe the recent dynamic is going to shift a bit and I do think that's al do you think that might also be true with managers as well like manag obviously like the one of the big moments really to happen in English football in the last 10 years it was probably inevitable in hindsight was Guardiola choosing city right Guadiola's decision in the 201516 season to go to City rather than United was so big. How do you think how do how do you see that particular moment in this context? >> Well, just before John, there's a massive side in doors there. Just it occurred to me as you're saying it 2011 12. I think it's pretty well known that Ferguson won that league title. He was going to retire there and there. And that's pretty much why he stayed on 13 to get the final going. And obviously this is actually relevant to Guardiola's own future now. And in 2012, I think Soriano had just come in. He was about to bring in Cheeky. But had Ferguson gone then, I like we all know he met Guardiola in New York, all this sort of stuff. Had Ferguson gone in 2012, it's very possible they could have got Guardiola right then or done some sort of deal that he comes for 2013. City winning on that final day in 2011 12 season might have changed the course of modern English football history because obviously then Ferguson stays on a year. City get the Catalan hierarchy in place and the big explanation for Guardiola going to City as he's talked about so much himself is that Beirustain gave him his chance at Barcelona so he felt a kind of debt of loyalty. H but yeah as you say when it like as well as players it also comes down to manage. I mean Pep Guardiola could as easily then have been at um at United and OB and and obviously actually Amarim especially given the Yugo Vana connection he could I mean we know City liked him when we're looking at him he if let's make some comparisons from the past the the city of the '9s was a was a a badly run club um uh in which managers had to arrive and try and make their way through what was uh you know a a misfiring institution. You could almost put uh Frank Clark uh who had been a very good manager at Nottingham Forest uh went to City took them down uh despite winning 5-2 at Stoke I think it was on the final day of the season. It was a fairly famous game in the city's history. Um and uh they uh but Frank Clark they had 52 professionals, didn't they? And it's like this clear out that they had to do with professionals. Joe Royal did it. You've always got Ruben Amarim in the Joe Royal role of clearing out all these players um and and trying to rebuild again. Now Now Joe Ro had his own philosophy. We know what that was. It was a fairly direct style of play. Um but incidentally uh I used to work in a an office in in Cheshire around that time and uh there was a very sarcastic city fan as as as they often used to be in those days. Uh and he had a screen saver. Remember a screen saver on a on a computer and it you walk past and it just said I love Frank Clark. And so in the office would just be this. I love Frank Clark which I was thought was quite amusing. But yes, so those listen if you're a Man United fan those were the golden days because City was something to be to be giggled at. You had the whole uh ticking counter up in the Stratford end of you know what since City last won a trophy. Uh City are not the same club. They have many of the same fans. Some of the same people are still involved in the club. you know, when you do go to Manchester City and visit to to work there or whatever or go to the ground, it's Manchester people working there. It it's still at the heart of it. They have tried to keep a link to the old Manchester City. Um, but it's such a different institution and it's an institution that was built around Pep Guardiola. That's the big difference that we're looking at now is when PEP steps away and we speculate all the time about when that's going to happen is how different it's going to be. Are you going to arrive at a Ferguson steps away from Man United situation? That that that that's one for the future to look for. >> The one thing I would say with City in that sense actually and Jack, you made this point actually when we were talking about this podcast in in Belgrade. I mean, when when you go to the club, there are a lot of kind of staff there that have been there years. And for all the kinds of criticisms that I would have the ownership in bigger in bigger terms and people know I've written a book that touches on all this um but like obviously there's there's the ownership and then there's the actual company the club that runs it and like as you said Jack I think it it does feel like as if you work for city they've they've obviously kept this core which is which is a very good thing to like to keep that kind of that that that staff that have been there years you get it when you you go up uh when you go up to the academy and pick up your accredititation and all that you're greeted by lovely lovely city people that have been there years. But on top of that, it feels like almost as if you work for maybe some sort of tech firm or something like that just in terms of their outlook. Whereas at United it just feels I mean look obviously we've seen everything with the kind of redundancies you by in contrast to city o old staff members who've been there years kind of having to go and it's just certainly it it right now and let's see what um big sir Jim does next but right now it doesn't exactly feel like the most kind of proactive or uh the furthest looking uh player >> there there is a coldness to Man United and there possibly always has been a coldness to Man United. I think that's a problem that a lot of managers found post Busby pre Fergie and and certainly post Ferguson is that there is a icy sort of that aristocratic air around there. There's a horniness about the place. Listen, within the staff, of course, there was a community there and that big Jim for for whatever reason has decided to strip out because, you know, people cost money. People people like Big S Jim refer to stuff as headcount, don't they? Because it takes the head away from the body. So therefore, it's not humanity. Um, and City have, listen, they had the finances to do this. They've retained that. And funny enough, I I tell you a club that you know is of a similar cash injection. You go to Chelsea, you always feel like old Chelsea is there despite the fact that uh it's been owned by a Russian oligarch is now owned by a you know American billionaire um venture capitalist. I wonder if in part the having owners like that does almost I think there's there's kind of an incentive to look after the people who have been there a long way for a long time. An incentive which I don't it doesn't feel as if Jim Ratcliffe particularly feels right. But if you are coming in from outside and buying up a club and you want to associate yourself with the with the traditions and the local community of that club, the best thing you can do is not make those people redundant, right? It's to keep them in their jobs and to make sure so that you can say, you know, there's yeah, we've come in from abroad with all this money, but we want to keep the the local people at the heart of this institution still in place. >> On that exact point, right, I I I was talking to someone at another big six club. And when all the stuff started to come out about you know the cuts being made to the canteen say and what United are doing are doing there and even kind of like where it it doesn't feel as if this the sort of place where the staffing come together. They said for all that someone like Ratcliffe talks about you know sporting standards and culture and all this he said it's actually underappreciated how much the canteen is the center of club life especially at training ground because there is that sense of an entire club coming together where someone you know from who's on a fairly everyday wage is suddenly in the same vicinity as you know one of the biggest stars of the club and that is actually crucial to creating a period of belonging and I think that has been true obviously I mean like we all know what they've done with the kind of with the training ground they based on Lamasi and all the best in the world there stories about like Pep Guardiola emerging for his off emerging from his office when he's in one of his kind of elouy style transers and trying to come up with some kind of system for the next game and people are laughing as he walks around the place and it's that almost adds to that to that culture and once you start messing with that which is what Ratcliffe has done in contrast to say the city ownership that actually starts to affect the culture of a club more than anyone else because it affects that sense of belonging because you're you're actually you're I suppose you're interfering with what is a meeting place and I know people go on about like oh in my job I don't get free lunches and all that. That's not the point though like this is an elite sporting institution and elite sporting institutions are dependent on cultures different to business. >> Yeah. It's about it's about team spirit as well, isn't it? And the team spirit goes far beyond the dressing room. It goes to, you know, the the the famous thing is Ferguson, you know, knew the the lives and names and families of all the people that he worked with. And listen, I I I know some people that worked at Man United that no longer work there while Ratcliffe was undergoing his, you know, strategic overhaul. And this been through redundancy process, many of them actually, until the moment finally came. This is it. You're living in a culture of fear. A a club has to to to succeed sport like football where so much of it psychological you have to have that sort of basis that equilibrium. >> Yeah. >> City have done that wonderfully well. You can't deny that. >> On exactly that as well. This is a tangent but this is actually relevant to where we are. Remember hearing a story that around 0708 when Robbie Brady was a young player at United. Now Brady obviously went on to have a good career. Um, but at one point in the in the canteen, he was queer for food and Ronaldo came along and Brady basically stepped out of his way and Ferguson saw it and goes, "Um, son, what are you doing there? It's Ronaldo, boss. You're here to take his place. Don't do that again." Uh, and which, you know, speaks, I suppose, to that point of this you top down culture and that is centered in something like that that United are obviously trying to find. city have had for so long and I suppose there are suggestions now that it is potentially fracturing a bit especially as we come to the kind of maybe the the end days of the Guardiola tenure. >> Yeah. I mean what whatever you might think about the the morality of the city being owned by the um by shape mansur and the alan family of Abu Dhabi there's um they're not penny pinchers and they have been able to invest in creating that culture in a way that man and I think that as the guys have said is probably where a big part of how city have or one of the edges that let's say city have developed over Man United in the last 15 years. I just want to go back to I want to turn the clock a little bit back historically to the start of the Abu Dhabi era because I think I don't think this derby has ever really been as good as it was between let's say 2009 and 2013. I think that during that period so this is obviously Abu Dhabi bought Manchester City in 2008. Sir Alex Ferguson left Manchester United in 2013. So it's really during those five years I during that time I think this was probably the best and most important feature in English football and by extension it was probably one of the best and most interesting games in the whole world. You know if you just run run through the quality of games during that time span you've got the famous 4-3 at Old Trafford in September 2009. You've got the 2010 League Cup semis last minute winner for United. You've got the Paul Scholes last minute winner at the Etihad that header. You've got the Wayne Rooney overhead kick game. You've got City winning the 2011 FA Cup semi-final which was an absolutely momentous m game. You've got City winning 6-1 Old Trafford. You've got the Vincent Company header 1-0il which went some way to deciding the 20112 Premier League title. Obviously Miguel said earlier what a historic moment that was. You've then got Van Persie going to United scoring the last minute winner at the Yeti had. And then there's Ferguson's last derby Sergio Aguero late winner at Old Trafford. that was I think over the course of those four years there was nothing else like this game and like the you couldn't m I mean the quality of the games was so good and also the historical importance right because Man United was so much on their perch at this point city were the coming force and obviously this was a city without PSR right this was a city who could spend as much as they needed to spend to try and catch up with United and to knock them off their perch and I just think it's never really been as good as that since then has there Miguel >> no absolutely not and and there's two really interesting undercurrens to that as well I Think one is I was talking to someone who used to be at City at an event recently and we obviously discussing the trajectories of the two clubs and they were saying about how even by 2014 or 2012 obviously won the title people at City were remembering what they used to hear from like those at United think you'll never catch up with us. So obviously the city were actually that city were filled by this and like around that time say United had this kind of more of a football rivalry with Chelsea because because they were going for Chloe trophies. It obviously never reached the emotions of this because it wasn't a local derby. So there was that extra dimension already. And I think there was another really interesting other current that I referenced earlier which was Ferguson like throughout Ferguson's entire time at Manchester United he'd been able to dismiss City basically and then suddenly for the first time he's not and and this is probably really signaled when they bought they bought Tez in 2009 and City's gone on about sorry Ferguson's going on about that famous welcome to Manchester ad and he's there like that's it's poor stuff. So Ferguson is basically he he wants to be able to dismiss city but he knows they're on the rise and for someone like him as well that is actually suppose quite a quite a difficult thing when someone's musling in in in that way and I think that's the whole thing was so charged for four years first book the first uh I suppose he wrote several books Fergus and in fact uh he's far more than you have Miguel you've got plenty of catching up to do first book he wrote with Hugh Macvanic. Uh his first, you know, all-encompassing autobiography, he talked about the the civic shame of the 51, you know, burying his head under the the pillow and not wanting to leave the house and all that. City were readily dismissed by uh by the early 90s. Uh I remember that there was a game when United were going for the season for the league championship as it was 9192. There's a game where a Keith Curl scores a penalty after a Steve Bruce horror tackle. I was watching footage of that quite recently. The atmosphere on that game is just you know unimaginable now just the noises that the crowd are making. But flip forward 20 years for that and I just trying to remember some other games like that. uh the the the one where Paul Scholes made that sudden comeback in an FA FA Cup. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Which came suddenly Skoles arrives on the bench uh and but United were winning 3-0 and it went back to two all Vince company got sent off but the game actually the key game as you as you pinpointed I think Jack the Wembley game the one nil at Wembley in uh when Skulls was sent off was it 1 nil? Yeah, one nil. You Yaya Tori scored just before half one nil. Um the one with the famous Clive Tildley uh commentary uh where he sees Liam Gallagher with his mates cheering and Clive goes in the sunshine. Uh which is about as bad a moment as you could get really. So I'm sorry Clive if you're listening. Uh but it it w but that game and I was at that game uh and uh I spent the afternoon before with a load of Man United fans. The confidence there right Sunny City. It was a pretty um as Danny Dy would call it naughty atmosphere outside the ground as well because the pressure of that game and it was almost at that point okay Ferguson was around for another two years but almost at that point it became hang on City are not going anywhere and it felt like chatting to and I believe it or not have many friends at sport man city it felt like that was the moment where they thought right we can get there Ferguson wasn't going to last forever. City had the funds and the momentum to get there and it was a monumental day in English football. It really was. >> I'm not going to lie, that was one of the best days of my entire life. I think, you know, wedding, baby. I think that for me that was that was the most uh Yeah, I think that was the most kind of emotionally charged Manchester City win I've ever been to. And you're right because it it's obviously like with hindsight it feels it's it's easy to say oh of course it was inevitable that city would become this kind of huge force but it didn't feel inevitable at the time. It felt it felt like they were climbing a mountain. Now, of course, you can say, "Ah, it's easy to climb a mountain if you buy Davis Silva and Yayore, but it like there was still a huge psychological block there, and I think that that was the single most important game to overcoming that psychological block. And without that, there's no there's no chance they would have won 6-1 at Old Trafford the following year. There's no chance they would have won the title the following year. They had to do they had to beat United in a big game first." And this was still such a good United team, right? This was a few weeks later, United were playing Barcelona in the Champions League final. uh they won the title that season and for me that is that is the that's the most important one. It's more important than the 61. The the 6-1 was basically the the kind of outcome, right? That that was the symptom of the change. But it was the FA Cup semi-final in 2011 that really marked the start of that change. Can I actually say my my my moment of of similar was when Skozy came back which was after that I I sobbed. It's about the only time it's ever happened. It was like it the golden days are coming back. Well, obviously they couldn't last forever. It was like you you're crying for a youth that is already gone. And that's what that's what that was that's what City had done to United, wasn't it really? They they they got Ferguson on the turn like asking Scott to come back. >> It it was getting desperate. It was, "Hang on a second. This isn't looking too good." >> They didn't sign Snyder that summer. Of course, that was the big one running for about a year. Um, but but but I mean Vincent Company does he Vincent Company speaks about how that game was the change. That was a transformation also because if you remember the buildup to that, okay, they'd drawn nil all in a desperate game in October 2010 that had actually been built up as the first major Manchester derby. But the ones preceding that, United there had been something like what was it? Was it three out of the previous four games United scored like really late winners. You referenced some of them there Jack. There was like Michael Owens goal in the 4-3. There was Rooney in the League Cup because City really wanted that League Cup that season because it was supposed to be the kind of the first landmark and then of course the Paul Skull going see like they had all this money for two years with this point and still everything was conforming to these old characteristics. United won and they won in like the crulest way. It's a bit like Atletico Madrid and Real Madrid actually. Yeah. Um so so that alone is why it was so especially being at Wembley United going on to United were actually I mean it's incredible thinking now because that team while good it's obviously nowhere near the kind of the the 99 team or even the08 team two years before but they're going for treble that season in 101 United. >> Yeah it was it it was a great moment. Um, coming up after the break, we will look a bit more at what's happened to this fixture since those kind of Ferguson Manchini years and why it's maybe lost some of its edge. So, what's really interesting to me is that this I feel like the City United rivalry, it's been I think I feel like it's been chasing this sense of being like Real Madrid Barcelona and it's been chasing this sense of being like Real Madrid Barcelona during the Guardiola Mourinho era, right? Because that's probably the biggest in the modern era. I'd say that's the biggest rivalry between two teams with two two teams and two managers and you of course in that instance two great players at the same time. So that that's the kind of that's what every fixture aspires to be and we thought that we were going to get this when Guardiola and Mourinho both took new jobs in Manchester in 2016, didn't we? It was really, it was sold so much as being, oh, we're going to have our real our version, you know, Manchester's going to have its version of Real Madrid Barcelona, but it didn't really happen, did it? Like, there was so much buildup to that first that first derby in, I believe, what like late August, early September, early September 2016, >> uh, at Old Trafford and there was, you know, people were I think that was one of the most hyped games I can remember in the last sort of 15 years in the Premier League. But then City won and it the the Mourinho versus It didn't quite catch off, did it? That Miguel? >> No, that's it sort of kind of almost killed it there and then City that was a 2-1, but it was another one of those two-1s where just City felt so superior. Now, the irony being of course City actually after an initial 10 games where Guardiola's team look brilliant, they then faced a wobble and it took them a long time to recover that season. Clearly they were going through the educational process of the Guardiola period and Mourinho actually ended up winning two trophies that season where it was the first of Guardiola's career where he won none. But it was just like it it took the air out of it. I mean you could see City weren't quite as good as expected immediately that came and and United because let's not forget as well this was in the back of um the the Mourinho season as Antonio Conte put it about 1516 at Chelsea. There were there were doubts about Mourinho. Uh there was some commentary like I think I think some people around United at the time were a little bit in denial about the extent of the problems that were specifically related to Mourinho in that Chelsea season and the appointment was actually I think it was driven by the fact that they United were going for Guardiola quite late in to 2015. I think I've got it in the book as well. like by by around October they still felt they had a really really good chance to Guardiola and then suddenly around November the entire mood changes and United have to look elsewhere because it's clear Guardiola is going to city and it's almost feels like given what United were at that point which is only three years after um Ferguson's gone there had this been debate that maybe the moment from Ria to actually come in was 2013 they kind it just felt like yes it was an obvious choice for them, but it was obvious for the wrong reasons. So, they had to go for this big name. They went for this big big rival and as you say, there was that massive buildup to the game. I remember actually missed it because I was at Richard Locom and my friend's uh wedding. We were all watching it that that morning quite hung over with a lot of United fans around obviously Bar Cladio Bravo City just um just destroyed them and yeah, from there it never really got going. In fact, the only time he actually felt I think there was there was one game really at um had that edge which was 1718. City were obviously answering to the title but United had to win that game at Old Trafford to keep close and again it was it was a 2-1 that was again actually pretty much a destruction. City felt much better. John, what about the um if there's the one game in this particular era where the shoe ended up on the other foot was the was when City were two up at Halime at the Etihads and a friend of mine who was there said that described the atmosphere among city and this was a if they'd won this they would have sealed the title against United. Uh a friend of mine said the mood that the Eti had at halftime was it was like 1:00 a.m. at a wedding basically among City fans and then obviously hu collapse second half United win 3-2 but then end up City win the title a week later anyway. How was that a significant game? It was significant in the sense that it was the first time really where and obviously United had been underdogs where United were totally expected to lose heavily. Uh but and in a at a rare point during the the last 12 years of Man United where United fought for the honor of the club and defended it um not by halfime. Uh there was some fairly uh infamous rewrites had to be done during that game that uh it caused a one hell of a crisis uh uh for those that had decided to you know write their their lubous pros about how wonderful City were when they're winning two at half time. Paul Pogba played the best game of his Manchester United or the best 45 minutes of his Manchester United career. Chris Smalling of course was the uh the hero for Manchester United. Um it was a an incredible night and uh there is that footage isn't of Paul Lake City legend ill fated in the terms of an injury but you know a city man through and through. I think in in the Manchester City All or Nothing documentary, he's he's interviewed at Halime and it's we're going to do this against United of all teams and well, it didn't happen, didn't it? And it was one of those kickback of, you know, where the where the rivalry between the clubs superseded the occasion. It was a a delightful occasion as a Manchester United fan. But of course, I think the week week later they messed up against West Brom. to the title goes to City and we see footage of Vincent company out in Ultringham or Hail or wherever it was on the lash and you know it was a um suppose small victory but for a lot of the time United are having to chase small victories aren't they >> just on exactly that as you're speaking there I was thinking about that that is a classic that entire game and I can remember what I was writing at Halime even and all talk about Mourinho even as much as City it's a that is a classic case of uh reading too much into one game because although it was obviously emotionally big for United to win and for City fans to lose, almost everything about that game very quickly ended up utterly irrelevant. It had no City won the league a week later. Mourinho was sacked by uh December that year. Guardiola goes on to create a glory era from that title. Um Paul Pogba, that is probably the peak of his Manchester United career. Um like and then actually United would always almost games they actually or wins they felt like they even relished more under say some some of the big soulshar wins at at Cityown the final one Scott McTominay. >> Yeah. Yeah. just before a great goal and funny you might was that was Ollie cut off in his prime by co or know he he was cut off in his prime by Ronaldo like soulshshire really had pep's number like city didn't win a Manchester derby in the league between April 2019 and November 2021 like soulshshire's >> the way that he went into these games back when he had a really good Martial a really good Rashford um they were so United were like perfectly calibrated to take advant vantage of City's weaknesses and they were often really good in this particular game. But then as soon as Ronaldo showed up, United couldn't play in that way anymore and all and like I remember going to the game the the only time I've ever been to the Old Trafford football ground was in November 2021 where City went there. Ronaldo was was playing for United by by this point and United bet like almost literally didn't touch the ball. It was one of the most one it was one of the most boringly one-sided games I've ever seen. don't think Solshshire lasted too long after that and it was just it was it was kind of embarrassing watching City's dominance. So I do think Soulshshire was unfortunate with Ronaldo situation, right? Like he had he had a pretty good thing going. I'm not saying they would have been as good as City, but they could beat City and >> let the Ronaldo poison not go to City. That was the thing. It was, you know, we got we got the boss to put the call in Ferguson to to to get Ronaldo and he was going to go to City. That was the that was the United got duped to that, didn't they really? I mean, come on. >> But the the striking thing to me about these games basically since Ferguson left, which I think is a really clear cutff point in this fixture, that compared to other big big Premier League rivalries, there's never really been much of a physical or confrontational edge. Miguel mentioned earlier the Man City's 2-1 win in December 2017 at Old Trafford and this is the one which really put them on their way to the 1718 title and there was that infamous kind of Mourinho Edison row in the the tunnel afterwards in the dressing room but I don't really remember any of these games being marked by any kind of physical confrontation or like edge between the players and it's and I think I I I almost feel like this like >> it doesn't really like the sorry I don't feel like the game ranks quite as highly perhaps amongst other big Premier League games because it doesn't have that that edge, right? >> No, it's I mean Arsenal Tottenham is always played with an edge of needle, isn't it? That you you can see on the pitch, but it's not Mike Doyle uh you know trying to chop away George Best or George Best unfortunately ending Glenn Pardo's career with a tackle of I know that was when the game United City when it was you know a city two teams in a city take on each other with, you know, and it really meant everything. That was the last great era in the late 60s and then a spill over to the early 70s, uh, when those two teams were, you know, the two of the biggest teams in football. Um, but no, there isn't that needle that some that Yeah, it's interesting, but that is to do a lot, I think, with the fact that there isn't that local element. You know, there was there was a point where say Ferguson could put the local lad like where's Brown or someone in there and it'd be like you know what you got to do son in this game you know and you got to put it around put the when it's a group of of brilliant Spanish and Argentinian players against you know United's combination of French or you know Swedish strikers or whatever it's not going to have that same edge. Who the ms playing in this game these days? >> Foden. Broden, Rico Lewis if he plays. >> Yeah. And the Manchester United element. >> Mayu if he gets off the bench. >> Kobe Mayu. That's true. I mean could stop Port B. I mean it's it that edge to it where it it matters so much and you know players like Paul in or whatever would buy into it. you know, Paul in taking on, you know, Peter Reed or whatever in those days. It was it the football's changed an awful lot and and the globalization has taken away from these local derbies. I mean, you do have it in Everton Liverpool. Often you would have, you know, basically Tony Hibbert versus Steven Gerard and maybe Leon Osman or whatever. It was that even that which is a very parochial derby had lost that that edge to it. This is also why we made this uh I made a suggestion in a different podcast about PSOR. But this is actually an even better reason possibly why a rule in football should be that every first 11 should have three homegrown players. And this is and because it is important for what a club is supposed to be. I mean these clubs for all we're going to get into now about kind of their international dimension. They are still ultimately anchored to their community. And if you have players who have come true, they will feel that. And that and that gives these games an extra depth while also being better for global football because you're spreading talent. >> Yeah. Because Giggs, goals, Nevilles, Icky B in particular, knew all about what that main game meant. and the the the city lads that came in the late 80s, you know, your Paul Molden, your your Paul Lakes, you know, uh Steve Redmond, all those players, they knew what this game meant to the people in the city, to the fans in the pub after and, you know, old old mans will look at the fact that the club players are all hugging and at the end of the game and and not like it because it's it's moved on. Now maybe that's we have to accept that the game has developed and that's what it is but it has lost that edge as I think maybe you know there's been many TV programs and books written about derbies but are football derbies the same as they used to be? Well, I think this is the really interesting thing about the Manchester Derby and I think this is not not just particular to the Manchester Derby, but I think this is probably the best example of it is what makes a derby a derby is obvious like obviously it's inherently a local event, right? You have to be within those you have to be within the local communities to really understand it. But those that local tension, that local rivalry is then sold around the world. And the Premier League has made a really big show I think in the last well particularly in the last 20 years of taking whether it's Manchester derby or North London or Liverpool being you know the the big ones of taking these to the world and saying you know come and marvel at our ancient tribal hatreds and kind of sending it around the sending it around the world. In doing that and in making in turning this local event into a global event, you are obviously eroding the localess of it. Like that's that's just inevitable. And I think and you know there's a million reasons for this. It could you know the the owners are obviously non-local. The managers are obviously non-local. The players are increasingly increasingly non-local. There might be a few but again and like PSR is part of this too, right? Because obviously PSR in Manchester United should never have had to sell Scott McTominay but they had to sell him because PSR like Cole Palmer actually you know not a City fan as it happens but he came to the City Academy ideally would be playing for City but he's not playing for Chelsea. So PSR is part of this too. And then of course, you know, the the more the more these games are sold to the world, the less they really become the property of the local area. They become the the the property of the entire football fandom across the globe. And I think that means that they can't really retain their localess in the same way, can they? >> There's a slight irony to that as well. I absolutely agree. But in the sense of how actually as this um as they become much more international in so many ways, there's been a strange recent intertwining in terms of the clubs. I think they're kind of they will face similar issues. I mean obviously now there's a lot of look Brian Marwood used to go past Old Trafford. I think that's the level we have to get to. Now United have appointed loads of staff from City Chiefly obviously uh Omar Barada. Um now I mean this has led the growth of the club's led to another dimension where obviously city fans used to mock Old Trafford for its the number of non-local fans and actually one of the the biggest debates now among city fans is you know the fact that what they feel so much of their kind of fervent support is diluted by recent supporters or tourists or day trippers something that's obviously been a kind of discussion at Old Trafford for years. Although in the modern game, not just at City, it does feel like this is going to another dimension. Exactly. Because of what you're talking about, Jack, because the Premier League is packaging itself as something like this is a a tourist event almost. >> I remember um if you spent a lot of time on Blue Moon Forum, as I used to do, you would um how how we would all laugh every time United would reveal, oh, we've got a new, you know, we've got a new windscreen wiper partner in Korea. We've got a new hairbrush partner in in North Africa. All this kind of global commercial stuff. And now obviously city, you know, what is city if not um a place where sponsor sponsors from around the world choose to invest their money like it's um it's so much and and again like or on or the the point that Miguel used to make made a minute ago about ticketing like again you know people used to say oh Man United obviously treat their fans pretty poorly when it comes to ticketing. Like City fans are very rightly and understandably up in arms about ticket ticketing policies and ticketing prices as well in recent years, right? >> Yeah. I I mean the Man United ticketing thing. I was chatting to some United fans after the Fulham game recently and we're talking about the loyalty pot of away fans is shrinks every season. So those that go to every away game think shrunk to say 400 or something when it was you 2,000 or a certain point and City are experiencing those same things and um talk about the um international aspect of it. you know, you've got Big S Jim who came in with this idea of, you know, I'm a boy from Manchester who go grew up near Horny actually as it happened, but uh um in the sort of the East Yorkshire region. Um and but he's taken his business to America because he doesn't like the eco policies of the the UK. So that's this great big British businessman that's coming. And also the way that this game is sold to the world, uh there is enoughness to it, isn't there? Right. Think I'm thinking of the TV direction of it. Right. Let's blue sky this. Okay. So, you have a drone shop that flies from Old Trafford to the Etsy. One, one thing about another thing about those things, those grounds is uh and I visited both over the the summer is that they are in sort of these industrial areas that aren't really related to the communities that were around them because they've become industrial estates. And then on the TV thing you have this it's sold by soft focus imagery some sort of manunian poet people strolling around talking like that or some sort of you know and it's it all makes a mockery of of Manchester as a city you know not everyone speaks like Liam Gallagher in in Manchester it's like a it's really sort of cheapening the idea of the football fan that I find this it's insulting to the people that go to the game I mean, you know, you know, people from all different walks of life that go to football and not everyone swaggers with that sort of monkey walk, but that's how it's sold is that this is the Mount Derby and um Sky has been particularly guilty of it. Several TV companies, ESPN that I used to work for have been. It's there's enough nafness to it that it it doesn't it's supposed to be cool and it you know in those days of the 80s 90s it had that casual look and you know it was a bit more offbeat and yeah it's been commodified is what I'm saying. >> Yeah. Yeah. Commodification was exactly the word I was about to jump in with there. It's been and this is I mean this is just an integral part of the story of English football really isn't it? last in the last 20 years has been taking taking these things which were inherent inherently local inherently communal inherent I don't particularly want to use the word tribal but they were they meant they meant so much to the people who were involved with them and they were kind of uniquely authentic to to the communities involved and suddenly they've realized hold on a second this is actually really sellable it's really really sellable we can sell it around the world and obviously that that is such a big part of where we are today right Mick >> exactly and look we know about United's long relationship the United fans long relationship with the Glazers and what the Glazers want out of the club which is basically to to you know capitalize on what it is and essentially that involved as we saw with the Super League disrupting uh some of what makes the club what it is. Now, City fans have obviously, as we know well, have had a different relationship with their owners where I suppose in some ways it's inevitable. They're seen as saviors because they gave them uh or afforded them victories they never thought they'd have. But now, and it's I suppose it's so specific to this ticket issue. There's almost I think this dawning realization and not a lot of fans were obviously strong core fans are obviously always aware what this is about. But it is interesting to suddenly see this this issue within City fans and the kind of the the response it's provoking because there is this realization now that they don't the owners don't care about Manchester. They don't care about the club what it is. The club it could be any club. just a vehicle for the and this is it's exactly the same with the glazers and all sorts of kind of western capitalist ownership. It's just a vehicle for international popularity and what that brings and then like hence like there's a belief among within the Premier League a lot of ownerships they willingly want to do away with season tickets and also have and this is relevant to actually ongoing issues in football right now bring more games on the road that have truly globalized football and it's one of the most striking things in the USA now where City like a lot of clubs have seen the USA as basically the new gold rush it's it's it's a next frontier this is football's burgeoning market and the amount of projection that city are doing in the USA is striking. We've obviously got the the shop in New York. So much is angled towards states. I mean, this feels a little bit of a triple one, but I think this is absolutely indicative. There's this big kind of glamorous uh food account I follow on Instagram. Her name is Anna Sofia Fen or something like that. Her recipes are really good and she's with a lot of famous people, but she does a lot with City. She's done like their events in New York with Jolian Lecott. And now yesterday I saw she like posted on Instagram. Um, oh, I'm going to the derby this weekend. And look, I'm reading between the lines here, but it does feel like this this is someone thinking if City can use accounts like that to speak to a new audience. Obviously, it kind of just it just introduces the club to own especially as football becomes more popular in the states and obviously like there are all sorts of political aspirations we can see here with maybe the ownership. But this is exactly what we're talking about this constant speaking to a new to new audience that is a very different audience than the fan base that has grown up around the club and its community. What what made this Derby so special if you're around them in in those great days? Even those great days we talk about you know the Fergie versus Manini years. What made them great? It's been co-opted. It's a stereotype. It's cliche to sell and regrettably the Manchester derby is not what it was or should be. And also like people some people will hear this and maybe some international fans wear this and think this is some sort of like reformal aligned view and we don't want foreign fans. Look I'm I'm from Ireland where where family members are are fans of United Liverpool Arsenal all sorts of clubs leads United um and like I'm not saying foreign fans shouldn't support big clubs. I suppose it's more that that that still has to coexist with the reality that the beauty of global football and what makes global football is the the club game is anchored in communities. This is why clubs have their identity and it's obviously like again this is such a a big liberal hot topic but the the accumulation of so much interest in a few clubs is is so bad and and weirdly I think it's it's actually started to erode what a fixture like this actually means. >> Absolutely. I mean, if we can just want to finish with a quick look at a different derby. Listeners may or may not know, but in the summer Tottenham and Arsenal had the first ever North London derby in Hong Kong. We all know why that happened and we all know that all all the big clubs are pulled by the same incentives. It would not be a surprise, I think, if we saw more more Manchester derbies a long way away from Manchester in the future. But this is a topic that we will come back to on a future libero. That's all we've got time for today. Thank you very much to Miguel and John. Thank you to producer Tom. Thank you to everyone who has listened this far. Please leave us some feedback if you've enjoyed the episode. And we'll be back again next week. Powered by Riverside FM.