================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: KdQio62BoYY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdQio62BoYY
TITLE: Paulina Rowińska, "Mapmatics: A Mathematician's Guide to Navigating the World"
CHANNEL: Harvard Science Book Talks and Research Lectures
PUBLISHED: 2025-04-24
DURATION: 51m 11s
VIEWS: 1,096
LIKES: 42
COMMENTS: 0
TAGS: science, harvard, harvard science, maps, math, book talk, harvard science book talk

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Explore the surprising connections between math and maps—and the myriad ways they’ve shaped our world and us.

Why are coastlines and borders so difficult to measure? How does a UPS driver deliver hundreds of packages in a single day? And where do elusive serial killers hide? The answers lie in the crucial connection between maps and math.

In Mapmatics, mathematician Paulina Rowińska leads us on a riveting journey around the globe to discover how maps and math are deeply entwined, and always have been. From a sixteenth-century map, an indispensable navigation tool that exaggerates the size of northern countries, to public transport maps that both guide and confound passengers, to congressional maps that can empower or silence whole communities, she reveals how maps and math have shaped not only our sense of space but our worldview. In her hands, we learn how to read maps like a mathematician—to extract richer information and, just as importantly, to question our conclusions by asking 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 15,960

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
winner of the Austrian science book year winner of the Austrian science book year award and uh she is currently uh award and uh she is currently uh Cambridgebased and uh is an author Cambridgebased and uh is an author that's written on many topics and after that's written on many topics and after years of creating beautiful educational years of creating beautiful educational resources um on for example uh brilliant resources um on for example uh brilliant um she's she's now doing doing some uh um she's she's now doing doing some uh master's work at MIT and uh great uh master's work at MIT and uh great uh writing as we'll hear about and um you writing as we'll hear about and um you know one thing that and looking at the know one thing that and looking at the book I didn't expect is that um math book I didn't expect is that um math could actually make me like pizza better could actually make me like pizza better than more than I do. So um it it also than more than I do. So um it it also taught me how to eat pizza better. So taught me how to eat pizza better. So thank you for thank you for that. It's a thank you for that. It's a wonderful book. Excited to hear more wonderful book. Excited to hear more about that. And then um in conversation about that. And then um in conversation after a short presentation um will be after a short presentation um will be Dr. Dr. Brendan Kelly who is the Dr. Dr. Brendan Kelly who is the director of introductory math here. Um director of introductory math here. Um and um he has uh written a book which is and um he has uh written a book which is intermediate algebra a functional intermediate algebra a functional approach and functions and their rates approach and functions and their rates of change. Um, I have to say, uh, we're of change. Um, I have to say, uh, we're very excited to have Brendan in very excited to have Brendan in conversation today. Uh, because many of conversation today. Uh, because many of us, including me, when we want to talk us, including me, when we want to talk about some interesting idea or math about some interesting idea or math education or math in general, uh, we education or math in general, uh, we come to Brendan. And the problem with come to Brendan. And the problem with talking to Brendan is that you talking to Brendan is that you immediately realize there's something immediately realize there's something more interesting than what you were just more interesting than what you were just doing. And so, uh, so Brendan has doing. And so, uh, so Brendan has revolutionized many of the things that revolutionized many of the things that we do here in teaching math. Um, amazing we do here in teaching math. Um, amazing classes and, um, so we're excited to get classes and, um, so we're excited to get the two of you in conversation, uh, the two of you in conversation, uh, bringing math to the real world, which bringing math to the real world, which you both do so well. Um, and I'll just, you both do so well. Um, and I'll just, uh, I'll just read one quote about the uh, I'll just read one quote about the book. So, uh, Kit Yates says, "It's no book. So, uh, Kit Yates says, "It's no exaggeration to say I learned something exaggeration to say I learned something new on almost every page." Which the new on almost every page." Which the pages I looked at, I completely agree. pages I looked at, I completely agree. Um I'm finishing it soon. I I'm I'm very Um I'm finishing it soon. I I'm I'm very eager. So uh just a couple more uh eager. So uh just a couple more uh housekeeping things. So uh after the housekeeping things. So uh after the presentation and then the conversation, presentation and then the conversation, there will be questions from all of you. there will be questions from all of you. Uh we will come to you with a Uh we will come to you with a microphone. So I just wait for the microphone. So I just wait for the microphone to come over to you and then microphone to come over to you and then after that there will be a book signing after that there will be a book signing in the library along with cookies and in the library along with cookies and cheese and obviously wonderful people. cheese and obviously wonderful people. And uh with that, let me uh give the And uh with that, let me uh give the stage to you stage to you Paulina. Hello everyone. Can you hear Paulina. Hello everyone. Can you hear me? Well, good. Thank you so much for me? Well, good. Thank you so much for the introduction and thank you so much the introduction and thank you so much for coming. I mean there are so many of for coming. I mean there are so many of you. I did not expect that because I'll you. I did not expect that because I'll be talking about math among others and I be talking about math among others and I know some people are skeptical um when know some people are skeptical um when it comes to math but I'll also be it comes to math but I'll also be talking about maps which we all love and talking about maps which we all love and my book mathematics which combines the my book mathematics which combines the two and the whole point of my book was two and the whole point of my book was to show that understanding the to show that understanding the mathematical underpinnings of maps is mathematical underpinnings of maps is really the key to understanding not only really the key to understanding not only maps but the world around us. So in this maps but the world around us. So in this very short talk, I was given like 10 very short talk, I was given like 10 minutes. Uh I'll try to give you a few minutes. Uh I'll try to give you a few examples of how math and maps examples of how math and maps interact. So we're in Massachusetts, interact. So we're in Massachusetts, which is very exciting because it's the which is very exciting because it's the birthplace of the word gerrymander. Uh birthplace of the word gerrymander. Uh so in case you're not familiar with the so in case you're not familiar with the term, well, and then you are very lucky. term, well, and then you are very lucky. Uh so this is gerrymandering is a Uh so this is gerrymandering is a phenomenon when we or politicians redraw phenomenon when we or politicians redraw the electoral maps to impact the results the electoral maps to impact the results of elections. So to benefit one party of elections. So to benefit one party over another. Uh now this term was over another. Uh now this term was coined here in Massachusetts by Boston coined here in Massachusetts by Boston Gazette in 1812 and this was in relation Gazette in 1812 and this was in relation to uh Massachusetts Senate elections um to uh Massachusetts Senate elections um and in particular to Essex County and and in particular to Essex County and the proposal by Elbridge Garry who was the proposal by Elbridge Garry who was from the Democratic Republican party as from the Democratic Republican party as opposed to the Federalist Party and he opposed to the Federalist Party and he proposed this map uh well this map with proposed this map uh well this map with a twist. because this map actually comes a twist. because this map actually comes from the Boston Gazette that accompanied from the Boston Gazette that accompanied this article. So the author of the this article. So the author of the article uh said that look this district article uh said that look this district that Elbridge Gary proposed looks so that Elbridge Gary proposed looks so weird and it looks like a weird and it looks like a salamander. Um for me it's more like a salamander. Um for me it's more like a dragon but what do I know? Well, in any dragon but what do I know? Well, in any case, uh we got Gary and Salamander and case, uh we got Gary and Salamander and today we pronounce it today we pronounce it gerrymander. gerrymander. gerrymander. Now, gerrymandering happens all over the Now, gerrymandering happens all over the world. Uh but unfortunately in the US world. Uh but unfortunately in the US it's very prominent because of the it's very prominent because of the electoral system in the US that really electoral system in the US that really is impacted by how we draw the maps. Um is impacted by how we draw the maps. Um and how does it all work? So let's and how does it all work? So let's imagine a very very small state with imagine a very very small state with only 25 people five seats in the Senate only 25 people five seats in the Senate let's say and we have two parties star let's say and we have two parties star party and circle party. So we have uh 15 party and circle party. So we have uh 15 supporters of star party and 10 supporters of star party and 10 supporters of circle party. We cannot supporters of circle party. We cannot change where they live but what we can change where they live but what we can change we can redraw the districts so change we can redraw the districts so that the we impact the results of the that the we impact the results of the elections. So because there are 60% more elections. So because there are 60% more or less well actually exactly here of or less well actually exactly here of people support star party we would people support star party we would expect that three seats go to star party expect that three seats go to star party and two seats to circle party and this and two seats to circle party and this is what happens in the first two maps. is what happens in the first two maps. It seems fair but we can you know change It seems fair but we can you know change the uh districts a little bit to the uh districts a little bit to completely change the results of the completely change the results of the election. So like in the third map, the election. So like in the third map, the star party gets all the seats. The star party gets all the seats. The circle party stays with nothing. And in circle party stays with nothing. And in the last one, uh it's the opposite. So the last one, uh it's the opposite. So star party gets only two seats and the star party gets only two seats and the circle party gets three seats. And circle party gets three seats. And obviously there are many many more obviously there are many many more combinations. And this is a small combinations. And this is a small example. You already can have many example. You already can have many results of the election. And can you results of the election. And can you imagine like in the real world how many imagine like in the real world how many different combinations you can have and different combinations you can have and this is where math really comes in. So this is where math really comes in. So we have mathematicians all over the we have mathematicians all over the country, all over the world really country, all over the world really researching how to predict uh how researching how to predict uh how to figure out if something is to figure out if something is gerrymandered and how to protect us from gerrymandered and how to protect us from gerrymandering because today politicians gerrymandering because today politicians have access to like really really have access to like really really granular data on where people live, granular data on where people live, where their supporters live and uh it's where their supporters live and uh it's really like a battle between politicians really like a battle between politicians and mathematicians and we are seeing and mathematicians and we are seeing who's going to be faster. who's going to be faster. All right. So, this was a bit bleak, but All right. So, this was a bit bleak, but Massachusetts has also a very beautiful Massachusetts has also a very beautiful coastline, and I know that many people coastline, and I know that many people like to spend their holidays there and like to spend their holidays there and go sunbathing and swimming. And how long go sunbathing and swimming. And how long is this coastline really? Well, so I is this coastline really? Well, so I found that Noah says uh found that Noah says uh 1,519 miles. Um, Congressional uh 1,519 miles. Um, Congressional uh Research Service Research Service Research Service says 192 says 192 says 192 miles. Um, well, which one is miles. Um, well, which one is correct? Well, both actually. And to be correct? Well, both actually. And to be fair, you can probably find many other fair, you can probably find many other values. Uh, and they'll all be values. Uh, and they'll all be correct. Uh, why is that? Well, correct. Uh, why is that? Well, measuring lines, it's very, very measuring lines, it's very, very difficult. By lines I mean coastlines, difficult. By lines I mean coastlines, borders, uh rivers, uh because they are borders, uh rivers, uh because they are all you know this is a really weird all you know this is a really weird shape. It's not like a straight line shape. It's not like a straight line that you can like easily take a ruler that you can like easily take a ruler and just measure. Uh so what you can do and just measure. Uh so what you can do is is is approximate this really weird shape with approximate this really weird shape with straight lines and then add up all these straight lines and then add up all these lines. So the problem is that if you lines. So the problem is that if you take lines of or like yard sticks that take lines of or like yard sticks that you can use to approximate of different you can use to approximate of different lengths, you'll get different results. lengths, you'll get different results. We call We call We call it the coastline paradox. Uh and it was it the coastline paradox. Uh and it was first described on the measuring coast first described on the measuring coast of Britain. So you can see that in the of Britain. So you can see that in the first one we have a pretty long yard first one we have a pretty long yard stick and we just can fit it only a few stick and we just can fit it only a few times. we are missing all these little times. we are missing all these little bays and inlets and peninsulas. So we bays and inlets and peninsulas. So we are going to get a pretty short are going to get a pretty short coastline. But the shorter uh the yard coastline. But the shorter uh the yard stick becomes or alternatively like the stick becomes or alternatively like the larger map scale so more detailed map larger map scale so more detailed map then we can capture all these nooks and then we can capture all these nooks and crannies of the coastline and get much crannies of the coastline and get much much longer coastline. So this actually much longer coastline. So this actually uh these observations started a new area uh these observations started a new area of mathematics called fractal theory and of mathematics called fractal theory and fractalss are really cool uh but they fractalss are really cool uh but they are quite abstract um well they are but are quite abstract um well they are but they also have really important they also have really important applications. So in this case for applications. So in this case for example funding for coastline protect example funding for coastline protect coastline protection often depends on coastline protection often depends on how long the coastline is. So it's quite how long the coastline is. So it's quite important that we agree on which maps important that we agree on which maps which map scale we'll be using and which which map scale we'll be using and which yard stick length we'll be using because yard stick length we'll be using because otherwise you know California might have otherwise you know California might have a shorter coastline than Massachusetts a shorter coastline than Massachusetts and this does not sound right to me. Um and this does not sound right to me. Um well let's zoom in and many of you well let's zoom in and many of you probably even saw this map today maybe probably even saw this map today maybe to get here. So this is obviously a to get here. So this is obviously a transit map of uh transit map of uh Boston and well it shows us all the Boston and well it shows us all the lines and the stations and is very lines and the stations and is very useful uh when you use it for the useful uh when you use it for the purpose it's meant to be used. So let's purpose it's meant to be used. So let's look at just three stations. So we have look at just three stations. So we have Park Street, Downtown Crossing and Park Street, Downtown Crossing and Charles Massachusetts General Hospital Charles Massachusetts General Hospital Station. So when I look at this map on Station. So when I look at this map on the red line, it seems that Parks Street the red line, it seems that Parks Street is basically in the middle between these is basically in the middle between these two other stations. So I would like I I two other stations. So I would like I I can say that you know that if I know how can say that you know that if I know how long it take to it takes to get to long it take to it takes to get to downtown crossing, I know how long it downtown crossing, I know how long it takes to get to the other one. Um well, takes to get to the other one. Um well, not really. So when I look at Google not really. So when I look at Google Maps, it actually takes only two minutes Maps, it actually takes only two minutes to get to Delton Crossing and 16 minutes to get to Delton Crossing and 16 minutes to walk to the other station and well to walk to the other station and well why why did this map lie to us? Uh it why why did this map lie to us? Uh it didn't. We just used it for something didn't. We just used it for something that it's not meant to be used for. So that it's not meant to be used for. So the transit map is an example of the transit map is an example of topological map. And topology is another topological map. And topology is another area of mathematics which is kind of area of mathematics which is kind of weird because it doesn't care about weird because it doesn't care about distances and angles. It only cares distances and angles. It only cares about connections. And this is really about connections. And this is really what we care about when we use public what we care about when we use public transit because we are not driving the transit because we are not driving the tea. We only care about like we get on tea. We only care about like we get on on this station, we take this line, we on this station, we take this line, we get out on that station. So as long as get out on that station. So as long as we are not using this map for walking or we are not using this map for walking or for figuring out how long it's going to for figuring out how long it's going to take us, uh the map is very useful take us, uh the map is very useful because imagine putting all these because imagine putting all these geographical details, all these like geographical details, all these like weird angles and lines on the transit weird angles and lines on the transit map. It would be just too complex to map. It would be just too complex to use. And that's the key both in use. And that's the key both in ctography, in mapmaking and in ctography, in mapmaking and in mathematics because you know we always mathematics because you know we always have to decide which details matter in have to decide which details matter in both of these uh areas and we have to both of these uh areas and we have to get rid of all the other details because get rid of all the other details because our maps will be too cluttered and our maps will be too cluttered and nobody will be able to use them or in nobody will be able to use them or in mathematics like if we try to look at mathematics like if we try to look at every single aspect of the problem we every single aspect of the problem we will not be able to solve it. will not be able to solve it. So, we looked at the city and now let's So, we looked at the city and now let's look at the world. So, I'm from Warso look at the world. So, I'm from Warso and I actually moved here in August last and I actually moved here in August last year and well, I didn't take this flight year and well, I didn't take this flight because there are no direct flights from because there are no direct flights from Warso. Uh, but let's imagine I did. So, Warso. Uh, but let's imagine I did. So, if you asked me like, okay, so what if you asked me like, okay, so what would be more or less the flight path would be more or less the flight path which should be like the shortest route which should be like the shortest route between these two cities? I would draw between these two cities? I would draw the red line. It's like, well, the the red line. It's like, well, the straight line, the shortest path, easy straight line, the shortest path, easy peasy. So, we would go like over peasy. So, we would go like over Germany, then a bit of France, and then Germany, then a bit of France, and then straight to straight to straight to Boston. Well, good. I'm not flying the Boston. Well, good. I'm not flying the planes because the shortest route is planes because the shortest route is actually the purple one, uh, which is an actually the purple one, uh, which is an arc. And why is that? Well, the map is arc. And why is that? Well, the map is flat. The Earth is not flat. So uh flat. The Earth is not flat. So uh actually on the globe the shortest paths actually on the globe the shortest paths are arcs are circles. You can easily are arcs are circles. You can easily check it if you take a globe you can and check it if you take a globe you can and piece of string you can put one end in piece of string you can put one end in warstoneone one end in Boston and when warstoneone one end in Boston and when the string is tied it's going to mimic the string is tied it's going to mimic this purple line and this this purple line and this is this observations what inspired this is this observations what inspired this book actually I was a teenager I was book actually I was a teenager I was flying for the very first time to New flying for the very first time to New York and I remember looking out of the York and I remember looking out of the window it was really sunny day and there window it was really sunny day and there was Greenland and I was like why why why was Greenland and I was like why why why Are we above Greenland? Like, okay, Are we above Greenland? Like, okay, nice. I really appreciated the views. I nice. I really appreciated the views. I took amazing pictures, but why? And then took amazing pictures, but why? And then I realized, oh well, Earth is not flat. I realized, oh well, Earth is not flat. So, um, yeah, that's that's how I So, um, yeah, that's that's how I learned that it's important to learned that it's important to understand math behind maps. And understand math behind maps. And speaking of Greenland, speaking of Greenland, uh, uh, uh, well, Greenland has been on the news well, Greenland has been on the news quite a bit recently. Um, so the US quite a bit recently. Um, so the US wants to buy Greenland. Probably we all wants to buy Greenland. Probably we all know that. Uh, and this makes sense. I know that. Uh, and this makes sense. I mean, there are many, uh, natural mean, there are many, uh, natural resources there. It's really positioned resources there. It's really positioned really well. Uh, it's also beautiful really well. Uh, it's also beautiful there. There's a lot of tourists. Uh, there. There's a lot of tourists. Uh, and it also looks and it also looks massive. Like, it looks bigger than the massive. Like, it looks bigger than the US right now. US right now. Um, Um, Um, well, as you can probably tell, well, as you can probably tell, Greenland is not as big as it seems Greenland is not as big as it seems because what we are looking at is because what we are looking at is Mercer's map. Mercer projection is one Mercer's map. Mercer projection is one of the most popular maps and it's of the most popular maps and it's actually been around since 16th century actually been around since 16th century and it's amazing. I love Mercer's map. and it's amazing. I love Mercer's map. Many people hate it, but I think it's Many people hate it, but I think it's great if we know what it was meant for. great if we know what it was meant for. So, it was made for navigation, So, it was made for navigation, especially at the sea. Now, how did especially at the sea. Now, how did sailors navigate? They used angles. So, sailors navigate? They used angles. So, they needed to know what angle they they needed to know what angle they should um put their the ship towards to should um put their the ship towards to get wherever they needed to go. So, when get wherever they needed to go. So, when you think about the globe and the you think about the globe and the latitude longitude grid, they all cross latitude longitude grid, they all cross all of the lines cross at right angles all of the lines cross at right angles and that's exactly what happens in this and that's exactly what happens in this map. So, it's really easy to translate map. So, it's really easy to translate between the between the between the two. that's useful. Uh but something two. that's useful. Uh but something else gets distorted and what gets else gets distorted and what gets distorted is the relative areas of land distorted is the relative areas of land masses. So in masses. So in particular the further we go from the particular the further we go from the equator the larger the land masses look equator the larger the land masses look and when we move Greenland to the and when we move Greenland to the equator it's still big. Don't get me equator it's still big. Don't get me wrong it's still the largest island in wrong it's still the largest island in the world but it's not the size of the world but it's not the size of Africa anymore. So it's much less Africa anymore. So it's much less impressive. impressive. impressive. Um so yes I think these are like a few Um so yes I think these are like a few examples. We you know we looked at so examples. We you know we looked at so many different areas of mathematics and many different areas of mathematics and we even in this short talk and we also we even in this short talk and we also looked at maps both like city maps but looked at maps both like city maps but also world maps. So as you can see there also world maps. So as you can see there are so many examples of how mathematics are so many examples of how mathematics and ctography interact and how important and ctography interact and how important it is to understand the mathematics it is to understand the mathematics behind maps. Otherwise you know you behind maps. Otherwise you know you might think that Greenland is the size might think that Greenland is the size of Africa or you might be late to your of Africa or you might be late to your meeting because you walked according to meeting because you walked according to the transit map. Um happened to me. Uh the transit map. Um happened to me. Uh so yes and if you liked this talk and so yes and if you liked this talk and there are some books to buy up there I there are some books to buy up there I think and I hope you enjoy it. If you think and I hope you enjoy it. If you don't enjoy it please don't review it don't enjoy it please don't review it and that's all from me. Thank you very and that's all from me. Thank you very much. Um, you really should buy it and I much. Um, you really should buy it and I know you'll review it because you're know you'll review it because you're going to love it. going to love it. Um, the precursor to this is a YouTube Um, the precursor to this is a YouTube video, uh, let's have a maths party and video, uh, let's have a maths party and I wonder if you could tell us like what I wonder if you could tell us like what are we celebrating with a maths party are we celebrating with a maths party and who's invited and yeah, tell us a and who's invited and yeah, tell us a little bit about this idea of a maths little bit about this idea of a maths party. Yes. So uh this is party. Yes. So uh this is uh a TED talk TEDex talk I gave many uh a TED talk TEDex talk I gave many years ago a bit too many and uh this years ago a bit too many and uh this really started my fascination with like really started my fascination with like science communication and communicating science communication and communicating maths um because maths is cool and it's maths um because maths is cool and it's important but often not the maths we important but often not the maths we learn at school. I'm saying maths learn at school. I'm saying maths because it was a talk in the UK here because it was a talk in the UK here it's math. Uh it's math. Uh so I in this talk I talked about so I in this talk I talked about different aspect of mathematics uh different aspect of mathematics uh including like the way to eat pizza uh including like the way to eat pizza uh or like how to brush your hair to or like how to brush your hair to prepare for a party. But I think prepare for a party. But I think everyone should join math party because everyone should join math party because math is really for everyone. And I think math is really for everyone. And I think if I hear one more time someone saying if I hear one more time someone saying that they just can't get math because that they just can't get math because they were not born to get math and like they were not born to get math and like no I I disagree with everyone who says no I I disagree with everyone who says that because uh math is just everything that because uh math is just everything that's around us. I mean it's not just that's around us. I mean it's not just adding numbers and doing integrals and adding numbers and doing integrals and just calculating I don't know u just calculating I don't know u circumference of whatever uh which I've circumference of whatever uh which I've done a bit too much at school. Uh it's done a bit too much at school. Uh it's also like looking at a map or literally also like looking at a map or literally t taking public transit and you are all t taking public transit and you are all every single one of you is doing math every single one of you is doing math every single day even though you might every single day even though you might not realize it. Uh so raise your hand if not realize it. Uh so raise your hand if you want to be at a maths you want to be at a maths party. Okay. So this is the audience of party. Okay. So this is the audience of the people who we'd get there. But there the people who we'd get there. But there are lots of people who aren't in the are lots of people who aren't in the room. How do we reach them? How do we room. How do we reach them? How do we show them that there is something to show them that there is something to celebrate? like what what should we be celebrate? like what what should we be doing as somebody who would like to host doing as somebody who would like to host a maths party? a maths party? I mean it's a question that I think many I mean it's a question that I think many science communicators all over the world science communicators all over the world are trying to answer. many teachers, are trying to answer. many teachers, many educators because it's tough and I many educators because it's tough and I think we get discouraged from the day we think we get discouraged from the day we are you know entering kindergarten are you know entering kindergarten probably at this point and we are told probably at this point and we are told like you are good at math you are not like you are good at math you are not good at math and I think you know the good at math and I think you know the best we can do is really um writing best we can do is really um writing books about math but not only like books about math but not only like talking about it and also I think it talking about it and also I think it starts with kids I I'm so happy to see starts with kids I I'm so happy to see many young people in the room uh because many young people in the room uh because yeah it starts there and I often see yeah it starts there and I often see that when people get discouraged early that when people get discouraged early on they just don't want to look at math on they just don't want to look at math I don't think my mother read this book I don't think my mother read this book uh so uh yeah you know I see this as a a uh so uh yeah you know I see this as a a great invitation to the party it shows great invitation to the party it shows the way that math is wrapped up in our the way that math is wrapped up in our world in a really particular way um you world in a really particular way um you know this interface that mathematics has know this interface that mathematics has with maps maps this ubiquitous tool that with maps maps this ubiquitous tool that you know we all interact with on a daily you know we all interact with on a daily basis that that serves like such an basis that that serves like such an important part of like how we navigate important part of like how we navigate this world. Um, and I'm wondering, you this world. Um, and I'm wondering, you know, you've done a beautiful job know, you've done a beautiful job framing how maps are explained by framing how maps are explained by mathematics and they're they're really mathematics and they're they're really interconnected, something that never interconnected, something that never occurred to me. You said that your occurred to me. You said that your fascination kind of started with this fascination kind of started with this this journey and like understanding arcs this journey and like understanding arcs on the earth, but when did you see kind on the earth, but when did you see kind of this broader story coming together? of this broader story coming together? like what were some of the big elements like what were some of the big elements when you're like, "Oh, I see. Math when you're like, "Oh, I see. Math actually has such a big important role actually has such a big important role in maths and this is a way to tell like in maths and this is a way to tell like an amazing story of the history and the an amazing story of the history and the values of the math community in a very values of the math community in a very tangible way. Yeah. So, uh I actually tangible way. Yeah. So, uh I actually remember exactly the moment. It was late remember exactly the moment. It was late 2020. Uh, I was walking alone outside 2020. Uh, I was walking alone outside because you know what, we were socially because you know what, we were socially distancing and um, I knew I really distancing and um, I knew I really wanted to write a book about math, but I wanted to write a book about math, but I feel like I wanted to add something new feel like I wanted to add something new to the books out there because there are to the books out there because there are so many great books out there and I was so many great books out there and I was thinking about different themes and I thinking about different themes and I was thinking actually about this was thinking actually about this Greenland like flying above Greenland Greenland like flying above Greenland and and I thought, oh, you know, there's and and I thought, oh, you know, there's a story there but definitely not a whole a story there but definitely not a whole book and then I thought about like the book and then I thought about like the topological map of transit system and topological map of transit system and then I started thinking of all these then I started thinking of all these different aspects of mathematics that different aspects of mathematics that come into play in come into play in ctography and I was like okay well ctography and I was like okay well someone wrote this book so I went home someone wrote this book so I went home and I started looking and like what's and I started looking and like what's this book I want to read it well nobody this book I want to read it well nobody wrote this book so I yeah I think this wrote this book so I yeah I think this is this was kind of the story I just is this was kind of the story I just realized that there was so much out realized that there was so much out there obviously in one I didn't come up there obviously in one I didn't come up with all the stories. Then I had to like with all the stories. Then I had to like really sit down and research what's what really sit down and research what's what else is there. And there are many things else is there. And there are many things in this book that are new to me. Um that in this book that are new to me. Um that I had to learn from scratch and I was I had to learn from scratch and I was like, "Wow, that's cool." Um but yeah, like, "Wow, that's cool." Um but yeah, that was that was basically it. I I got that was that was basically it. I I got really excited. Also, I am a bit of a really excited. Also, I am a bit of a geography nerd. Like in high school, I geography nerd. Like in high school, I did um in Poland we had math um did um in Poland we had math um geography olympiad. So I did that and I geography olympiad. So I did that and I I just really loved maps always and um I I just really loved maps always and um I missed it as well. So I was like, "Oh, I missed it as well. So I was like, "Oh, I can combine the two. That's perfect." can combine the two. That's perfect." The the examples in the book are really The the examples in the book are really amazing. They they stretch many amazing. They they stretch many different different different um you know ways and you've highlighted um you know ways and you've highlighted them some tonight. What do you think it them some tonight. What do you think it is about mathematics and maps that is about mathematics and maps that allows for this combination to be like allows for this combination to be like so robust? like it does it just feels so robust? like it does it just feels like that they're interfacing it in so like that they're interfacing it in so many different and unique ways. Is there many different and unique ways. Is there something special about math or something special about math or something special about maps that that something special about maps that that like draws this connection? like draws this connection? I think so. First of all, I think I I think so. First of all, I think I could definitely, you know, write a book could definitely, you know, write a book about maps and history or maps and like about maps and history or maps and like um sociology or so, you know, maps have um sociology or so, you know, maps have so many different aspects. So to so many different aspects. So to understand a map we really need to understand a map we really need to understand when it was made, who made understand when it was made, who made it, why they made it and the it, why they made it and the mathematical tools they used to make it mathematical tools they used to make it which were probably uh informed by all which were probably uh informed by all these other aspects. Uh so that's one these other aspects. Uh so that's one one part of the story that uh you know one part of the story that uh you know maps it's not just math it's many other maps it's not just math it's many other things. The other thing is math is things. The other thing is math is really behind everything we do. Uh really behind everything we do. Uh everything literally everything we are everything literally everything we are doing in the world like I mean this doing in the world like I mean this building wouldn't be built without math. building wouldn't be built without math. Like these microphones are working Like these microphones are working because of math computers math because of math computers math everything is math. So you know uh I everything is math. So you know uh I could again write a book and many great could again write a book and many great people wrote book about I don't know people wrote book about I don't know math of medicine or math of uh math of medicine or math of uh like games and and just math of sports. like games and and just math of sports. Uh so I Uh so I think math is just behind everything. So think math is just behind everything. So the fact that I picked maps, it's not the fact that I picked maps, it's not anything special about maps. uh although anything special about maps. uh although they are great uh but it's just one of they are great uh but it's just one of aspects where math comes in and I think aspects where math comes in and I think you know there's the same things I you know there's the same things I talked about like topology has many talked about like topology has many other applications right uh so like many other applications right uh so like many of the mathematical topics I touch upon of the mathematical topics I touch upon in the book uh definitely are not only in the book uh definitely are not only applied to ctography uh it's just the applied to ctography uh it's just the application I chose application I chose um you know I think there's something um you know I think there's something really to that like math is a way to see really to that like math is a way to see the world and help us, you know, vividly the world and help us, you know, vividly understand the problems before understand the problems before us. But it's so interesting when I talk us. But it's so interesting when I talk to my students, they don't always see it to my students, they don't always see it that way. Um, why do you think there is that way. Um, why do you think there is this disconnect? Like why why is it that this disconnect? Like why why is it that math isn't always seen as a lens to math isn't always seen as a lens to critically view the world, but instead critically view the world, but instead something that's, you know, boring, something that's, you know, boring, obtuse, disconnected from our lived obtuse, disconnected from our lived experience? And like how come you and I experience? And like how come you and I see it one way but like a lot of and see it one way but like a lot of and maybe many of you see it this way but maybe many of you see it this way but like there's a big part of our like there's a big part of our population who's missing out on this population who's missing out on this story. story. story. How many of you at school were shown How many of you at school were shown applications of math that we're not just applications of math that we're not just doing using the tools? doing using the tools? Okay. Okay. A few a few hands up and Okay. Okay. A few a few hands up and that's why they're in the room. Yeah. Uh that's why they're in the room. Yeah. Uh so I did not like math at school. so I did not like math at school. Uh, I just found it, you know, it was Uh, I just found it, you know, it was like repeating the same things over and like repeating the same things over and over again. Don't get me wrong, it's over again. Don't get me wrong, it's important like you need to, you know, important like you need to, you know, learn the tools. It's like learning to learn the tools. It's like learning to write. Um, important. Repetition is write. Um, important. Repetition is important. But I was, nobody ever showed important. But I was, nobody ever showed me at school me at school like how I can actually use it. They like how I can actually use it. They were like, "Oh, you'll use it to, I were like, "Oh, you'll use it to, I don't know, calculate uh how much money don't know, calculate uh how much money you have to spend in the store." Come you have to spend in the store." Come on. Nobody is doing that, right? Uh so on. Nobody is doing that, right? Uh so nobody showed me that like oh when nobody showed me that like oh when you're looking at the map like there's you're looking at the map like there's math behind it, you know, like uh so I math behind it, you know, like uh so I think I was just lucky uh that I was think I was just lucky uh that I was given some books and I you know I grew given some books and I you know I grew up in a big city so I had access to like up in a big city so I had access to like libraries and universities. Also my libraries and universities. Also my father happens to be a mathematician so father happens to be a mathematician so that helped. Um, and so I was simply that helped. Um, and so I was simply lucky uh to to be shown this stuff and I lucky uh to to be shown this stuff and I know some people had have amazing know some people had have amazing teachers and that's like for all the teachers and that's like for all the teachers in the room like that's amazing teachers in the room like that's amazing you're here. Um, but it's it's not you're here. Um, but it's it's not always the case. And I think part of it always the case. And I think part of it is also um the fact that we are so is also um the fact that we are so focused on testing in many countries and focused on testing in many countries and the teachers just simply don't have time the teachers just simply don't have time to do anything but preparing kids to to do anything but preparing kids to pass the exams. Um so I pass the exams. Um so I think there's a big problem in education think there's a big problem in education and it's not just teachers it's it's and it's not just teachers it's it's really the problem of a whole system um really the problem of a whole system um that we just get discouraged and then that we just get discouraged and then it's really hard to go back from there. it's really hard to go back from there. Yeah. You know I I I see when math no Yeah. You know I I I see when math no longer becomes a way to see the world longer becomes a way to see the world but instead a way to measure our but instead a way to measure our students aptitude it shifts the whole students aptitude it shifts the whole conversation. So I think yeah that's conversation. So I think yeah that's something that I think a lot about. Um, something that I think a lot about. Um, you know, another tension that that I you know, another tension that that I think is a perceived tension and not a think is a perceived tension and not a reality is that mathematics is really a reality is that mathematics is really a study in study in study in abstraction. You know, it helps us abstraction. You know, it helps us generalize and really pull something out generalize and really pull something out of the concrete. of the concrete. Um, but I think your book does this Um, but I think your book does this amazing job of showing how that work amazing job of showing how that work actually ends up giving us insights into actually ends up giving us insights into the concrete world. Can you can you the concrete world. Can you can you share some of the examples in in which share some of the examples in in which this happens in the book and and how this happens in the book and and how maybe abstraction is really like one of maybe abstraction is really like one of the best ways that we can solve applied the best ways that we can solve applied problems? problems? problems? Yeah, I think one example that comes to Yeah, I think one example that comes to mind is metric spaces which is a very mind is metric spaces which is a very abstract um idea uh and it has to do abstract um idea uh and it has to do with measuring distances. uh with measuring distances. uh but I was blown away thinking about but I was blown away thinking about different applications of it. So for different applications of it. So for example, error correcting codes uh what example, error correcting codes uh what does it mean? Well, when a computer does it mean? Well, when a computer transfers information, there are some transfers information, there are some errors that happen along the way. uh errors that happen along the way. uh miscommunications and it's actually miscommunications and it's actually really tricky to figure out uh to detect really tricky to figure out uh to detect that something like this happened and that something like this happened and also then correct it uh to kind of also then correct it uh to kind of figure out what was supposed to be there figure out what was supposed to be there in the first place. And there's a very in the first place. And there's a very smart way of doing it is by defining a smart way of doing it is by defining a way of measuring a distance between two way of measuring a distance between two messages. And you know it sounds a bit messages. And you know it sounds a bit crazy like distance between you can crazy like distance between you can measure distance between Harvard and MIT measure distance between Harvard and MIT like buildings but like what about like buildings but like what about distance between words or uh numbers and distance between words or uh numbers and in fact you you can define it and this in fact you you can define it and this all this stuff is because we have these all this stuff is because we have these error correcting codes that are based on error correcting codes that are based on metric spaces which is you know a very metric spaces which is you know a very abstract concept that only abstract concept that only mathematicians care about and probably mathematicians care about and probably every chapter of this book contains a every chapter of this book contains a few examples of abstract thinking that's few examples of abstract thinking that's has applications or sometimes it's the has applications or sometimes it's the other way around. Sometimes we have an other way around. Sometimes we have an application and then we we think about application and then we we think about like it abstraction from there. So I like it abstraction from there. So I think math goes both ways. Yeah. You think math goes both ways. Yeah. You know this idea of measuring distance know this idea of measuring distance seems like a core idea in mapmaking. seems like a core idea in mapmaking. Yeah. And then think about how does that Yeah. And then think about how does that apply to different realms and it gives apply to different realms and it gives us insights in in different ways. Um, I us insights in in different ways. Um, I often when I'm driving I'm thinking often when I'm driving I'm thinking about what metric space am I in? It's about what metric space am I in? It's certainly not a uklitian metric space certainly not a uklitian metric space because there are faster roads that I because there are faster roads that I want to get to and then travel along want to get to and then travel along those and then get back to the surface those and then get back to the surface roads. Um, and I don't know, maybe roads. Um, and I don't know, maybe that's like a framing that's just that's like a framing that's just helpful for me as a mathematician, but helpful for me as a mathematician, but like so many of the things you you bring like so many of the things you you bring up in your book uh showcase this and I up in your book uh showcase this and I love that. love that. love that. Um, right now I'm teaching I don't think Um, right now I'm teaching I don't think any of my are any of my students here? any of my are any of my students here? No. Yeah. Um I wish they were. Right now I'm Um I wish they were. Right now I'm teaching probability to my students and teaching probability to my students and I feel like your book also has this I feel like your book also has this amazing insight in in into Baze theorem. amazing insight in in into Baze theorem. Uh and you say basian search may seem Uh and you say basian search may seem like an application of common sense like an application of common sense rather than a groundbreaking idea but rather than a groundbreaking idea but describing our intuition in mathematical describing our intuition in mathematical language can be surprisingly powerful. I language can be surprisingly powerful. I love that. Like I wish my students love that. Like I wish my students understood this idea like if you can understood this idea like if you can write something down write something down clearly and precisely then you actually clearly and precisely then you actually get a lot of leverage. get a lot of leverage. Um can you say a little more about how Um can you say a little more about how basian search or baze theorem is applied basian search or baze theorem is applied in maps and like like this is seemed in maps and like like this is seemed surprising to me at first and then I surprising to me at first and then I read the chapter I was like oh that read the chapter I was like oh that makes a lot of sense. I mean there's a makes a lot of sense. I mean there's a story behind this sentence. Uh so my story behind this sentence. Uh so my editor editor editor uh was an English lead major. She had no uh was an English lead major. She had no background in math and all the chapters. background in math and all the chapters. She was like, "Oh, this is challenging. She was like, "Oh, this is challenging. Uh you know, let's make this easier. Uh you know, let's make this easier. Let's make this clearer." And then I Let's make this clearer." And then I came with this chapter that used Beijian came with this chapter that used Beijian theorem. And she was like, "But there's theorem. And she was like, "But there's no no math in it." And I said, "What no no math in it." And I said, "What what do you mean?" "No, that's that's what do you mean?" "No, that's that's too easy. Like you need to add math." too easy. Like you need to add math." And I was like, "Do you realize you just And I was like, "Do you realize you just read a whole chapter full of math and read a whole chapter full of math and you just, you know, it was common sense you just, you know, it was common sense for you?" And she was like, "Oh, you for you?" And she was like, "Oh, you should you should add this sentence." should you should add this sentence." And um, which was for me like the best And um, which was for me like the best thing ever because I was like, well, thing ever because I was like, well, math is really everywhere. So basian math is really everywhere. So basian theorem is um very simple theorem that I theorem is um very simple theorem that I don't understand why we are not teaching don't understand why we are not teaching it at schools and maybe in some schools it at schools and maybe in some schools we we are but uh it's the idea we we are but uh it's the idea that uh how we update our knowledge. So that uh how we update our knowledge. So you know I have you told me that three you know I have you told me that three people signed up on Facebook to come people signed up on Facebook to come here today. So I was like okay it's here today. So I was like okay it's going to be a small room like just three going to be a small room like just three maybe five people. Uh well and then maybe five people. Uh well and then people started coming in. And I was people started coming in. And I was like, "Huh, okay. The the the crowd is like, "Huh, okay. The the the crowd is growing." And I was updating my growing." And I was updating my knowledge. Then someone texted me, knowledge. Then someone texted me, "They're coming. I updated my "They're coming. I updated my knowledge." So, uh, and that's just one knowledge." So, uh, and that's just one example. And this is math. This is like example. And this is math. This is like a theorem behind that. So, but it also a theorem behind that. So, but it also feels like common sense. You are getting feels like common sense. You are getting new information and then you are new information and then you are updating your uh in your you know views updating your uh in your you know views on on stuff. So like with maps uh I talk on on stuff. So like with maps uh I talk about uh for example uh well that was about uh for example uh well that was kind of a sad example about uh an kind of a sad example about uh an airplane uh crashes when you might airplane uh crashes when you might remember there were a few like famous remember there were a few like famous crashes and uh they were looking for the crashes and uh they were looking for the wreck in the ocean and they couldn't do wreck in the ocean and they couldn't do it like for years they couldn't find it it like for years they couldn't find it and finally mathematicians were uh and finally mathematicians were uh called for and they approached this called for and they approached this problem really using basian theorem and problem really using basian theorem and like updating their um knowledge. Uh you like updating their um knowledge. Uh you know that we searched this bit of the know that we searched this bit of the ocean. We didn't find anything. So this ocean. We didn't find anything. So this gives us some information. Then we found gives us some information. Then we found some piece of the plane here. This gives some piece of the plane here. This gives us some information and they were us some information and they were updating it. And I was speaking actually updating it. And I was speaking actually to the people behind it and they were to the people behind it and they were like well before the search was we are like well before the search was we are doing we have a plan we are searching doing we have a plan we are searching somewhere and then we get some new somewhere and then we get some new information and we just drop everything information and we just drop everything and we run there because that's how and we run there because that's how humans work right like we get some new humans work right like we get some new information and we just think okay information and we just think okay that's a new thing we are going to do a that's a new thing we are going to do a few times I wanted to like drop a few times I wanted to like drop a chapter and write a new one because it chapter and write a new one because it was too hard uh so uh yeah that that's was too hard uh so uh yeah that that's how we work well we when we have a how we work well we when we have a mathematical ical structured approach, mathematical ical structured approach, we can really be faster and you know we can really be faster and you know there are many studies that actually there are many studies that actually show that this is a better approach even show that this is a better approach even though better more more efficient though better more more efficient approach. Uh even though it sometimes approach. Uh even though it sometimes goes like against our instincts because goes like against our instincts because we just want to follow any new piece of we just want to follow any new piece of information we find. Yeah. And you know, information we find. Yeah. And you know, as an educator, I think this theorem is as an educator, I think this theorem is so important because our students come so important because our students come into our classroom with assumptions into our classroom with assumptions about the world, and it can be so hard about the world, and it can be so hard for them to update those priors for them to update those priors um and make sense of a new situation. um and make sense of a new situation. But if we fail to do that, then I think But if we fail to do that, then I think we're really at risk we're really at risk of, you know, not being able to of, you know, not being able to accomplish what we're set out to do. And accomplish what we're set out to do. And I think your book does a great job I think your book does a great job showing that. And that's why I wish they showing that. And that's why I wish they were here tonight. Um, you know, I guess we talked a little Um, you know, I guess we talked a little bit about this. bit about this. Um, the portrayal of mathematics in our Um, the portrayal of mathematics in our society society society is isn't filled with is isn't filled with joy. Um, and I don't think there's like joy. Um, and I don't think there's like a compelling story of mathematics and a compelling story of mathematics and maybe this is on like our community to maybe this is on like our community to become better communicators about it. um become better communicators about it. um when you were in your PhD, how you know when you were in your PhD, how you know how did you choose this pathway because how did you choose this pathway because this is an exciting pathway but maybe this is an exciting pathway but maybe not one that many mathematicians choose. not one that many mathematicians choose. Um what what brought you to writing this Um what what brought you to writing this book and like taking on this mantle? book and like taking on this mantle? Yeah, I mean there are a few reasons. Yeah, I mean there are a few reasons. One I when I was doing my PhD I was One I when I was doing my PhD I was reading papers and that was painful. um reading papers and that was painful. um that I was I was thinking like this is that I was I was thinking like this is not that complicated. Why are you not that complicated. Why are you writing all these weird sentences using writing all these weird sentences using these words you don't even know the these words you don't even know the meaning of and like what's the point? meaning of and like what's the point? Why are you trying to make it more Why are you trying to make it more complex than it is? So that was one complex than it is? So that was one aspect of it. Another thing is aspect of it. Another thing is uh research for uh research for me was too narrow. At some point I me was too narrow. At some point I realized that to do research really well realized that to do research really well often you have to specialize and spend often you have to specialize and spend basically whole life researching one basically whole life researching one thing which is great that people do thing which is great that people do that. It was not for me. I'm a really I that. It was not for me. I'm a really I really loved researching all these really loved researching all these different aspects for this book and like different aspects for this book and like learning all these new things. Uh so learning all these new things. Uh so that was the second thing. And the third that was the second thing. And the third probably most important is yeah again probably most important is yeah again like I love math and I want people to like I love math and I want people to maybe not love it but appreciate it at maybe not love it but appreciate it at least. And um I think I felt like I can least. And um I think I felt like I can contribute more to the world in this way contribute more to the world in this way than doing uh research that I don't know than doing uh research that I don't know maybe I wasn't that great at. Uh so uh I maybe I wasn't that great at. Uh so uh I think um yeah there were just a few think um yeah there were just a few aspects and you know I was just trying aspects and you know I was just trying to see what I'm enjoying and where my to see what I'm enjoying and where my strengths lie and I think they were more strengths lie and I think they were more in the writing and describing and in the writing and describing and talking about math and not only math talking about math and not only math like today I write about every sciency like today I write about every sciency thing. thing. thing. um than maybe actually doing the um than maybe actually doing the research. Well, you know, I think that research. Well, you know, I think that choice uh owes a big thank you from all choice uh owes a big thank you from all of us because this really does a great of us because this really does a great job showing the joy of mathematics. Um job showing the joy of mathematics. Um and let's open up to questions from the and let's open up to questions from the audience now. Hey, wait. I have a audience now. Hey, wait. I have a question. Oh, yeah. But I'm not question. Oh, yeah. But I'm not technically the audience. I really need technically the audience. I really need to know about the hairbrushing because to know about the hairbrushing because I'm having a I'm having a Watch my talk on YouTube. Watch my talk on YouTube. All right. Does anybody have questions? How do you eat pizza? How do you eat pizza? How do you eat pizza better? Okay. Um, How do you eat pizza better? Okay. Um, so you know how many people are really so you know how many people are really annoyed when people fold the annoyed when people fold the slice? Well, follow the people who fold slice? Well, follow the people who fold the slice. Um, and if you want to know the slice. Um, and if you want to know why, I think read the book. But, uh, why, I think read the book. But, uh, it's the it's literally the same reason it's the it's literally the same reason why the Greenland looks so big. Uh, why the Greenland looks so big. Uh, believe me or not. Believe it or not, believe me or not. Believe it or not, but it's the same reason when we talk but it's the same reason when we talk about different curvatures and how we about different curvatures and how we transfer one uh, shape onto another. transfer one uh, shape onto another. It's the same theorem that's behind It's the same theorem that's behind making maps and eating pizza. So when making maps and eating pizza. So when you fold it, it won't won't flop the the you fold it, it won't won't flop the the uh uh uh slice. Oh no, there are many questions slice. Oh no, there are many questions about about about pizza. Thank you so much uh for being pizza. Thank you so much uh for being with us tonight. I don't know if this is with us tonight. I don't know if this is a math question. Maybe it's a math and a math question. Maybe it's a math and science question. So when one follows science question. So when one follows the the the um voyage of the International Space um voyage of the International Space Station, it says it goes east to west. Station, it says it goes east to west. So, back to your straight line theory, So, back to your straight line theory, but if you look on a different but if you look on a different map, it map, it map, it shows basically a sign shows basically a sign pattern. Is that does that go back to pattern. Is that does that go back to your theory that the Earth is curved? your theory that the Earth is curved? Uh, am I being clear? Maybe not. I mean, Uh, am I being clear? Maybe not. I mean, it's not my theory that they're it's not my theory that they're um I'll give you the credit for it. Take um I'll give you the credit for it. Take the credit. I'm not I'm not familiar the credit. I'm not I'm not familiar with these maps, but I would imagine uh with these maps, but I would imagine uh now I'm I'm I'm probably making it up, now I'm I'm I'm probably making it up, but I would imagine that if you look at but I would imagine that if you look at different maps uh and it shows it from different maps uh and it shows it from different perspectives, you can see different perspectives, you can see different shapes, but I would have to different shapes, but I would have to see the map uh to really understand see the map uh to really understand what's going on. For your next book, what's going on. For your next book, maybe Hi, great lecture. I'm I spent a lot of Hi, great lecture. I'm I spent a lot of time in the outdoors. I'm a hiker. time in the outdoors. I'm a hiker. Immediately recognized under the cover Immediately recognized under the cover that has a topo map and I'm like I can that has a topo map and I'm like I can Where's the peak of the mountains and Where's the peak of the mountains and all that kind of stuff? So, is there a all that kind of stuff? So, is there a reason why the top maps have a special reason why the top maps have a special place in your heart or it just happened place in your heart or it just happened to pick that picture? You I think that's to pick that picture? You I think that's a question to the artist behind this. Uh a question to the artist behind this. Uh so I so I so I unfortunately I think this is an unfortunately I think this is an artistic uh choice but I love it. Uh so artistic uh choice but I love it. Uh so one thing I would add is that um I love one thing I would add is that um I love talking about uh topo maps which are not talking about uh topo maps which are not topological maps uh because people often topological maps uh because people often confuse them uh but I I was not behind confuse them uh but I I was not behind this cover. So um it's not it's not any this cover. So um it's not it's not any any choice I've any choice I've made but it's a great cover. Did uh did you look at Buckminister Did uh did you look at Buckminister Fuller's Dimaxian map? Which which map? Fuller's Dimaxian map? Which which map? Sorry. Buckminister Fuller has a what he Sorry. Buckminister Fuller has a what he calls the Dimaxian map which sort of calls the Dimaxian map which sort of reflects on flat you know on reflects on flat you know on a on the map spread out on a flat thing a on the map spread out on a flat thing which sort of shows all the Yes. the which sort of shows all the Yes. the earth connected uh all the land earth connected uh all the land connected. Yes, I've seen it definitely. connected. Yes, I've seen it definitely. So it's one of the projections. It's not So it's one of the projections. It's not in this book. I had to make my choice. in this book. I had to make my choice. So there are so many different map So there are so many different map projections and as I mentioned with projections and as I mentioned with Merkar it was made for navigation. There Merkar it was made for navigation. There are many different projections made for are many different projections made for other things and some look really weird other things and some look really weird like the one you're mentioning. It looks like the one you're mentioning. It looks kind of like they're right like angles kind of like they're right like angles and uh yeah it's it's a really cool map. Thank you so much Paulina for your talk Thank you so much Paulina for your talk and your scholarship. This is really and your scholarship. This is really enlightening and uh I wanted your advice enlightening and uh I wanted your advice for my team. So we're a early stage for my team. So we're a early stage startup and um we make maps and uh our startup and um we make maps and uh our maps are really centered around cluster maps are really centered around cluster mapping, ecosystem mapping and it's it's mapping, ecosystem mapping and it's it's been exciting because um it's a fairly been exciting because um it's a fairly new industry and it's creating a new way new industry and it's creating a new way for entrepreneurial organizations to for entrepreneurial organizations to classify the startups and founders they classify the startups and founders they serve. And there's only like kind of serve. And there's only like kind of three or so companies that make these three or so companies that make these maps interactive. So there's a dimension maps interactive. So there's a dimension of storytelling and kind of getting of storytelling and kind of getting clients to reimagine their ops with clients to reimagine their ops with mapping. So it it's a little bit of like mapping. So it it's a little bit of like a you know strategy a you know strategy reimagination and experience but also a reimagination and experience but also a technical kind of um ops or delivery. So technical kind of um ops or delivery. So what are your thoughts in you know what are your thoughts in you know making the process fun and getting making the process fun and getting clients to to clients to to to think of the maps within their to think of the maps within their organization? First of all, are you organization? First of all, are you hiring? hiring? hiring? Um second Um second Um second uh huh I mean to combine the technology uh huh I mean to combine the technology with storytelling is always a tricky with storytelling is always a tricky part because you want to communicate the part because you want to communicate the uh you know it correctly and accurately uh you know it correctly and accurately but also I think the key is to know your but also I think the key is to know your audience. Uh so the key is to know who audience. Uh so the key is to know who you're talking to and if they are you're talking to and if they are scientists if they are uh you know scientists if they are uh you know people who have nothing to do with people who have nothing to do with science you'll you'll you need to adjust science you'll you'll you need to adjust what you say and how you say it and I what you say and how you say it and I think that's the best I can say because think that's the best I can say because uh you know it will depend from story to uh you know it will depend from story to story but I think always focus also on story but I think always focus also on the human story and the why behind what the human story and the why behind what you're doing uh because most people you're doing uh because most people don't care about how you're doing it. Uh don't care about how you're doing it. Uh but people care about why. Thank you for your book and for the Thank you for your book and for the great conversation. Uh my question is great conversation. Uh my question is about math education. Do you think math about math education. Do you think math has a PR problem because we refer to has a PR problem because we refer to math class which many of us did not math class which many of us did not enjoy and math that we do outside of enjoy and math that we do outside of that by the same exact word which we that by the same exact word which we don't do with English say we call it don't do with English say we call it literature. literature. literature. Uh yeah I think there is a bit of this Uh yeah I think there is a bit of this there is this big divide between I'm a there is this big divide between I'm a math person I'm a science person and I'm math person I'm a science person and I'm a humanities person and uh it starts a humanities person and uh it starts really early on as I said. So, really early on as I said. So, um I don't know if it's a PR problem, um I don't know if it's a PR problem, but I think there is it's kind of coming but I think there is it's kind of coming back to what I was talking about is uh back to what I was talking about is uh not talking about why the why behind not talking about why the why behind math. Um and kind of in science classes, math. Um and kind of in science classes, I think it's very focused on like the I think it's very focused on like the tools and the skills rather than why we tools and the skills rather than why we do that. There's not much space for the do that. There's not much space for the discussions. I mean, we just talked discussions. I mean, we just talked before today about that sometimes math before today about that sometimes math and philosophy are really like and philosophy are really like intersecting because math it doesn't intersecting because math it doesn't always have a clear answer. So, yes, I always have a clear answer. So, yes, I think there is a bit of the PR problem think there is a bit of the PR problem that we um you know it's it's very okay that we um you know it's it's very okay for people like celebrities, politicians for people like celebrities, politicians to say on the media, oh, I wasn't I to say on the media, oh, I wasn't I don't understand math. I never like don't understand math. I never like math. But if they say like, oh, I've math. But if they say like, oh, I've never read Shakespeare. people look like never read Shakespeare. people look like really or like you know so I think that really or like you know so I think that it's a kind of double standards in some it's a kind of double standards in some ways and this is not helping. Hi um what was your favorite thing you Hi um what was your favorite thing you learned or learned more about when doing learned or learned more about when doing research for this book? Oh there were so research for this book? Oh there were so many things. Uh I think many things. Uh I think one is there's a bit about neuroscience one is there's a bit about neuroscience of neuroscience of navigation. So what of neuroscience of navigation. So what happens in our brain how we think about happens in our brain how we think about spaces? So, do we think in terms of, you spaces? So, do we think in terms of, you know, when we're in a new city, for know, when we're in a new city, for example, do we kind of figure out which example, do we kind of figure out which direction to go to and then take it from direction to go to and then take it from there? Or do we think about like, okay, there? Or do we think about like, okay, I have to turn right and then turn left. I have to turn right and then turn left. Turns out different people think Turns out different people think differently. And there I mean these were differently. And there I mean these were the Nobel Prize winning discoveries like the Nobel Prize winning discoveries like in the brain which cells are responsible in the brain which cells are responsible for navigation and I find it found it for navigation and I find it found it like really fascinating. So neuroscience like really fascinating. So neuroscience was very new to me and I I was like a was very new to me and I I was like a little kid asking all these questions little kid asking all these questions and it's like oh really. and it's like oh really. So I'm a neuroscientist so I wasn't So I'm a neuroscientist so I wasn't going to say anything but uh but now you going to say anything but uh but now you did it. So those parts of the brain did it. So those parts of the brain you're talking about well animals have you're talking about well animals have them. And so did you come across any them. And so did you come across any thinking about animals and maps and thinking about animals and maps and math? math? math? Animals and maps and math. Animals and maps and math. Oh Oh Oh wow. wow. wow. Um I mean yes. So as starting from the Um I mean yes. So as starting from the what I was just talking about as you what I was just talking about as you mentioned most of these studies were mentioned most of these studies were done on rats on bats and so I think a done on rats on bats and so I think a lot of our understanding of how we lot of our understanding of how we navigate uh comes from um animals and navigate uh comes from um animals and their brains. I don't know if this this their brains. I don't know if this this is what you were asking. is what you were asking. Yeah. No, just I know that and I was Yeah. No, just I know that and I was just curious like what kind of maps are just curious like what kind of maps are animals using? Okay. And you know, are animals using? Okay. And you know, are there examples of that kind of thing? there examples of that kind of thing? Huh? I bet they are. I'm I don't know. Huh? I bet they are. I'm I don't know. So I I I need to write a second book. Uh So I I I need to write a second book. Uh um I'll I'll I'll ask one last question um I'll I'll I'll ask one last question if you don't mind. Um so one thing that if you don't mind. Um so one thing that I loved about the book is that you have I loved about the book is that you have all these beautiful images. got bananas all these beautiful images. got bananas and eggs and pizza and it's beautiful. and eggs and pizza and it's beautiful. Um and so also working for Brilliant I Um and so also working for Brilliant I imagine you're working on the the imagine you're working on the the visualizations that are are done there. visualizations that are are done there. So um do you feel um that you know So um do you feel um that you know animations visuals like how do they add animations visuals like how do they add to understanding math or teaching math? to understanding math or teaching math? Yeah, I mean number one bad reviews I Yeah, I mean number one bad reviews I got there are not enough pictures in the got there are not enough pictures in the book. uh book. uh book. uh which I think yeah I mean sometimes which I think yeah I mean sometimes really a picture can say more than a few really a picture can say more than a few pages or even better if we have both a pages or even better if we have both a picture and the description of the picture and the description of the picture especially in a topic like that picture especially in a topic like that when it's all about shapes and you know when it's all about shapes and you know imagine I gave this talk with no visuals imagine I gave this talk with no visuals it would have been much harder right it would have been much harder right like to without seeing it so uh and math like to without seeing it so uh and math is very visual and honestly um sometimes is very visual and honestly um sometimes drawing a drawing a drawing a picture. It's just you know someone can picture. It's just you know someone can talk for hours and then some you see a talk for hours and then some you see a picture and you're like that's it. And I picture and you're like that's it. And I think also it is true think also it is true that again different students some think that again different students some think more visually some think more although I more visually some think more although I I disagree that I don't think it's I disagree that I don't think it's actually proven that they're like people actually proven that they're like people think only visually or only in terms of think only visually or only in terms of numbers only in terms of words but again numbers only in terms of words but again I think people have different um I think people have different um preferences and we should cater for that preferences and we should cater for that whatever works. whatever works. whatever works. Um well maybe with that we should give Um well maybe with that we should give one last thanks to Drs. Drainska and Kelly and while you will be eager to Kelly and while you will be eager to speak to them immediately um please um speak to them immediately um please um catch them in the library. So just go catch them in the library. So just go around to the front uh doors of the around to the front uh doors of the science center, grab a cookie, piece of science center, grab a cookie, piece of cheese and get your book signed and your cheese and get your book signed and your speakers will be over there.