================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: sBuPo-murPw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sBuPo-murPw
TITLE: Operation Sindoor and South Asia’s Uncertain Future
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-14
DURATION: 51m 51s
VIEWS: 5,096
LIKES: 81
COMMENTS: 47
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
On Saturday, India and Pakistan announced a ceasefire, ending—at least for now—the latest bout of armed conflict between the two South Asian rivals. The announcement followed the launch of “Operation Sindoor”—India’s response to the April 22nd terrorist attack in Kashmir, which claimed the lives of 26 innocent civilians.

India’s strike prompted a worrying tit-for-tat standoff which quickly escalated into the worst conflict between the two nuclear-armed nations in a quarter-century. The fighting has stopped for now, leaving policymakers, scholars, and analysts the task of deciphering the longer-term consequences of the recent crisis.

To break things down, Milan is joined on the show this week by Christopher Clary. Chris is an associate professor of political science at the University of Albany. He’s also a non-resident fellow at the Henry L. Stimson Center in Washington, D.C.

Listeners may remember Chris from his 2022 appearance on Grand Tamasha, when he discussed his book, The Diffi
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 7,869

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. Welcome to Grant Tamasha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Hindustan Times. I'm your host Milan Bashnov. On Saturday, India and Pakistan announced a ceasefire ending, at least for now, the latest bout of armed conflict between the two South Asian rivals. The announcement followed the launch of Operation Synindor, India's response to the April 22nd terrorist attack in Kashmir, which claimed the lives of 26 innocent civilians. India strike prompted a worrying tit fortat standoff, which quickly escalated into the worst conflict between the two nuclear armed nations in a quarter century. The fighting has stopped for now, leaving policymakers, scholars, and analysts the task of deciphering the longerterm consequences of the recent crisis. To break things down, I'm joined on the show this week by Christopher Clary. Chris is an associate professor of political science at the University of Albany. He's also a non-resident fellow at the Simpson Center and the rare scholar who has worked India policy from the inside, having done a three-year stint at the Pentagon. Listeners may remember Chris from his 2022 appearance on Grand Theash when we talked about his then new book, The Difficult Politics of Peace: Rivalry in Modern South Asia. I am pleased to welcome Chris back to the show. Chris, thank you so much for taking the time. Thank you for having me. I should mention to our listeners that Chris and I are recording this on Monday, May 12th. It is 10:40 p.m. where we are in Europe, which is as as Chris was saying before, a normal time to be awake in Europe, but not a normal time to be doing something as serious as this. So, um, very grateful that that you could join us, Chris. I know that you've been in in very high demand. I want to start um with a bit of background. I'm pretty sure most of our listeners have been uh you know doing uh as we've been doing which is constantly hitting kind of refresh on social media reading news obsessively but for those who may not have been paying close attention um I want to kind of just ask you to give us a quick overview of the recent conflict you know without getting too bogged down in the details there were a few significant waves of attacks and counterattacks so I'm wondering you know at a kind of macro aggregate level. Could you just kind of lay out for us a quick timeline of the major kind of sequence of events? Sure. You know, everything I'll say today is comes with a caveat that there's a lot we don't know. Um, so we are we are still learning. You know, the governments of India and Pakistan have put out their narrative of the timeline, but there's some disagreement in those narratives. Um, and there's a lot of things that the governments have not weighed in on authoritatively, uh, or they've not offered evidence to to back up their chronology or sequence of events. So, let's rewind. We won't rewind back to the 1500 years ago that the president says the rival began, the US president uh, Trump who has commented often on the crisis in the last week. Uh but let's go back to April 22nd when there was this horrible terrorist attack on tourists visiting Kashmir. Um which not only was uh especially inflammatory because these were people that were there for a celebration, there for honeymoons, there to enjoy themselves amidst the stunning beauty of Kashmir. uh but there appear to have been efforts by the gunman to target Hindus disproportionately and it led to images and anger um when reports came out that 26 people had had died. Uh and since the Modi era began, there has not been an attack that has killed more than about 19 people that has not triggered a serious IndiaPakistan conflict or crisis. And so when that that you know palgum attack occurred all of those of us that have watched Indian Pakistan for a long time were reasonably confident that we would have another serious crisis and the question was only how serious would would get and then we waited and we waited uh India showed some patience in that regard but 15 days later on May 7th India targeted nine sites across Pakistan including notably two in Pakistan Punjab uh focusing on facilities that were associated with anti-India militant and terrorist groups even though many of those sites were not associated directly with the groups that India blames for April 22nd. Uh the sense says India wanted to permanently raise the cost for anti-India terrorism or anti-India militancy to emanate from Pakistani soil. Those air strikes then uh were met by a kind of surprising uh one might even say stunning Pakistani early military success. Just a you know within hours of those initial strikes the Pakistan air force appears. We don't know. India has not revealed the final tally, but it appears to have downed at least one in my view and possibly up to maybe four Indian modern fighter aircraft. And some of these appear to have been quite new Rafale aircraft. If the crisis could have stopped there, we we you know, both sides could have plausibly declared victory and we would have got out of this more dangerous period that came. But it didn't. Uh the next night uh Pakistan appears uh to have started launching these coordinated drone attacks on western India. Those attacks appear to have largely failed. Uh but the next morning, India launched a retaliatory drone attack of its own that did at least cause some uh casualties. By that I mean injuries among the Pakistan military. And then another in one case the Pakistani government says a civilian was killed. Uh but it also terrorized a lot of Pakistanis who saw these drones flying over their cities or heard the anti the the air defense systems responding to them. And those drone attacks in western India occurred again though on the night of the 9th and into the 10th. Uh at which point and the sequence here becomes a little confusing and and the chronology is disputed but we know there was both an escalation in Indian air strikes on Pakistani military targets as well as an escalation of Pakistani strikes in India including the use of short-range ballistic missiles. Uh it appears maybe none of the Pakistani ballistic missiles made it to their target though there are there is obviously some damage on the Indian side but the damage on the Pakistani side appears to be more severe. That last kind of spasm of conflict appears to have scared the United States maybe scared the Pakistanis uh conceivably scared the Indians. So they're putting a good face on it and we got to a ceasefire shortly thereafter. That was that was brilliant Chris. Thank you for for for doing that. There's a lot of different threads I want to pick up, but but let me just kind of step back for a second. I mean, you have studied conflict in this region more than most people I know. You've written an entire book about the rivalry between these two South Asian neighbors. Uh, I think many of our listeners may remember the podcast that we recorded with you a couple years ago. You had a piece a few days ago in the Times of India and we'll link to that in the show notes. uh and the headline of the piece was IndiaPakistan rivalry is old but Pahilgam marked a new chapter. I guess I want to ask you what are the indicators that you're looking at when making the determination that you know we have indeed entered a new phase of the India Pakistan relationship you know when you say it marks a new chapter um explain that for us since the late 1990s India has struggled to figure out a way to punish Pakistan for what it attributes as being terrorism militancy that is more or less caused almost entirely by Pakistan. This is hard by the way for outside scholars to to attribute uh because we do know that Kashmir Muslims uh have very serious political grievances with the government in Delhi. We know those grievances uh by and large caused the insurgency to emerge in the late 1980s without uh an immediate Pakistani hand. even though Pakistan was very quick to provide assistance um once the insurgency got going. But in in India um the sense is that Pakistan is responsible for the vast majority of violence that that occurs in Kashmir. And I think most outside observers would at least agree that Pakistani based groups and the Pakistani state probably had a hand in maybe a majority of the violence in Kashmir for the last several years. Um so why is this a a new chapter? It's because India's tried to figure out how to punish Pakistan but initially it said okay how do we do that? we have this really big army and we can pound Pakistan and so during crises over terrorist attacks uh in 2001 and 2002 uh the Indian army had mobilized but once the Indian army is mobilized and the Pakistani army is countermobilized it's very hard to have a fullscale ground war between two nuclear armed adversaries without things getting dangerous very fast and India opted not to pursue that path for reasons that are uh still debated by historians. Uh and then in 2008, the Man Singh government had another terrorist atrocity with the attack on Mumbai and it decided not to do uh anything militarily about it. Now that is partially because Manmunan Singh wanted to focus on India's uh economic development uh but also his key national security advisers Shiv Shankaran in particular have argued that the Singh government concluded that if they started a military crisis with Pakistan it would take the attention away from Pakistani support for terrorism and instead divert the international community to worry about escalation and restraint. So ship shankarmen argues that India decided not to pursue a military path in order to get more diplomatic pressure on Pakistan. I think we've seen at least some evidence of the logic and how the international community has responded to the events of the last week. But Modi has pursued a different path and in 2016 he authorized what he called or what the media came to call surgical strikes along the line of controlling Kashmir. We don't know how successful those were. And then in 2019, he authorized standoff air strikes on a Jashi Muhammad, an anti-India terrorist group uh facility in uh near a place called Balakot. Uh that strike also it is debated in the open source community whether that strike worked. And so now in this last week, whatever debate there is about the relative balance of pain that both countries have inflicted upon each other, it's clear that India has inflicted meaningful military pain on Pakistan. Uh and that it has the capability to do so again in the future and that it has a variety of technological tools to blow up facilities and military hardware relatively deep into Pakistan. And I think in India's ideal, India would now be shifting into a role much more similar to that that Israel has in the Middle East. So, you know, you gave a quote to Bloomberg News for a story they did in which you said that this particular conflict will be the template for the next crisis. And so when you say it as a template, you know, how so is it that India has calculated that despite the fact that you know you're dealing with the prospects of of you know uh nuclear war um India has confidence that it can kind of raise the threshold for pain you know force Pakistan to incur more significant military costs than most observers had traditionally thought would be kind of acceptable without leading to kind of an escalatory cycle is is is that the template you know it's tough tough to know in these early days how confident India and Indian decision makers I should say more precisely are about how they calibrated in uh escalation of this crisis but there's no doubt that standoff air delivered weapons or missiles launched from the ground that that fly through the air before they reach their destination. Uh and drones, all of those things are more easily calibrated than the use of ground power. Uh and so they India showed and it's military spokesman have have referred to this in recent days that it can choose which rung to reach for on the escalation ladder. And while both countries might wind up one or two rungs above where they desired, they didn't wind up 10 rungs from where they desired. You know, and India hopes that it can secure what sometimes security studies theorists refer to as escalation dominance. That at each step in the ladder, India wants to show that it can win at that level. The problem for India is India does have escalation dominance along most of the rungs of the latter. But it appears that Pakistan has at least as many and possibly more nuclear weapons than India. So at the highest rung of the ladder uh you get parody again and it is unclear how many rungs that parody kind of that shadow of that parody at the very top how far of a shadow that cast on the rungs below. You know, you mentioned and I think we should keep uh insisting on this caveat that it is still early days and and and and and we we know not as much as as we will hopefully come to know in in in the coming weeks and months and years, but you have been um going through uh commercially available satellite imagery. I would refer our listeners to your Twitter uh account which has been absolutely indispensable throughout this conflict. And uh I I want to get your sense of this the your sense of the damage assessment on both sides. You know, what do we know again with the with the caveat of limited information about the losses each side has suffered? Uh you know what what what do you feel confident in saying at this point? Uh early days limited information. You know, you and I have both been university instructors and sometimes uh there is an encouragement for students that have had a tough go at things to frame that around what sometimes instructors refer to as a compliment sandwich. So they they put something unpalatable and unpleasant to eat in between two nice tasty pieces of bread. And in a way the conflict for Pakistan is a sandwich of something unpalatable. Uh where the first day of the crisis Pakistan's success in using these apparently long range air-to-air systems brought down very modern sophisticated Indian aircraft. And Pakistan, you know, didn't have a victory. It lost facilities and civilians, arguably militants and terrorists died on Pakistani soil, but it at least maybe fought into India to a draw on that first night of this near war. And then the next period is quite unpleasant for Pakistan where it is apparently and I again we have to caveat we just don't fully know but apparently trying to do things with drones and perhaps short-range missiles uh to inflict some pain on on India uh on the nights of the 8th and the 9th and the 10th and it's just not working for them. India is able initially with the drone this this drone strike on the on the on the morning uh of I guess the 8th 9th um able to cause some damage uh on Pakistani installations but fairly minor perhaps meaningful if air defense systems were taken offline as India claims again tough to know uh and then though on the 10th when we have this biggest spasm of escalation India shows that it can cause meaningful damage on many Pakistani air bases and air radars and it has done that in subsequent military briefings by showing uh its own satellite imagery and then separately we can kind of check their math because we have an a wide away array of commercially available satellite imagery that shows the same thing. And on the Indian side there is in a few places maybe some limited damage but it is it is much less. Uh so you know one doesn't want to overstate it. Sometimes people are saying that India flattened airfields and devastated airfields. India caused meaningful damage and showed uh that it has uh the ability to do more presumably presumably has not exhausted the weapon systems that allowed it to do that uh raid u you know those raids on the 10th um and Pakistan has not demonstrated that however once we got to a ceasefire the president of the United States came in and took credit for that ceasefire which was contrary to decades of Indian foreign policy of seeking to avoid third-party overt intervention third party crisis management India acquiesces to but third parties talking about negotiations over lots of different issues over Kashmir god forbid uh that is something India wants to avoid and the president has weighed in repeatedly on his desire to reward leaders on both sides for the ceasefire so equating India and Pakistan hyphenating India and Pakistan again and the nightmare for for Indian foreign policym community and the dream of the Pakistani foreign policym community. So I would say the bulk of the military campaign that core period after the first night before the last night through the through the last spasm of fighting that went pretty badly for Pakistan and the question is whether the beginning and the end of that near war is sufficient sufficiently compensatory for Pakistan uh to to you know quote unquote win the crisis. I mean, Chris, what I find so interesting is that uh throughout the events that you so eloquently narrated, you know, the other thing that really came through in the recording is um essentially the the the performance of, you know, foreign provided technologies, right? Right. I mean, we we we we heard a lot about Turkish drones on the Pakistani side, Chinese-made missiles, the the Russian S400 uh uh air defense system on on the Indian side, uh you know, potentially the deployment of the French Rafale fighter aircraft, allegedly one of which may have been downed. Uh perhaps Israeli technology. I mean, you know, this strikes me as kind of a gold mine, right, for for for intelligence and and security operatives and analysts for the years to come because this conflict is going to give us a lot of insight into how well these technologies performed and many of these things were at wildly different price points, right? I mean, so the question is, you know, did lowerend quote unquote technology actually outperform much more expensive kit? This is the aspect of the crisis that's being observed by people that, you know, don't really care about India or Pakistan, may not be able to locate them on a map. uh the in the 1960s and 70s the US and the Soviet Union were not excited about Arab-Israeli conflicts, but they did have this feature that they bashed Soviet and American defense equipment against each other in a way that helped validate certain ideas about how that equipment would work under battlefield conditions. And uh China has undergone this incredible defense modernization in the last 20 years. But a lot of their equipment has not been used in anger thankfully. But this IndiaPakistan crisis near war uh was an occasion for some of that equipment to be used in anger. It was an occasion for Turkish equipment which has actually been used more frequently in Ukraine and elsewhere uh to be used in anger. And you know the preliminary read I have is that the the vast number of apparently Turkish origin drones that Pakistan bought were not uh up to the task of defeating the integrated air defense system that India had put together with Indian, Russian, Israeli spare parts all lying around into something that wound up apparently being successful. Again all of this caveed by the fact that new data may become available. uh and you know it's not a surprise both countries have indigenous defense industries but both countries rely on arms imports for the highest end technology uh and they use that technology to try to win this conflict with an important proviso. One type of technology that did not come up were the mythical F-16s on the Pakistani side. The F-16s only enter into the narrative to the extent we we know in the sense that the Indian Air Force targeted the base uh from which the F-16s um most visibly operate historically. Uh and there was I think a concern on the on the part of some US policy makers that if an American F-16 again downs an Indian aircraft or attempts to do so, it's just another sign that the US is playing kind of a double game um with India as it works to build a durable meaningful strategic partnership to manage the problems of the 21st century. Hey Granamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granthamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform, so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. So Chris, you know, one question that, you know, as a as a kind of amateur who's not a security expert by by by any stretch, uh, one one question that that I've had is, uh, let's assume the worst case scenario that on that first night, India lost as many as four aircraft. Again, that is not a verified fact as as yet, but let's just assume because it's been reported by some international media outlets. In fact, the number five has been used, but let's just stick with four. And then the next day, India successfully takes out according to the Indians um with maybe some verification some of the Pakistani air defenses. Why wouldn't that sequence have been reversed? Why wouldn't you first as India taken out the air defenses to protect your standoff aircraft as opposed to doing it as part of a secondary strike? It it is correct that India went in a reverse order but according to the official Indian statements at the time of the initial air strike uh the reason they did so was to show the incredible restraint that India was operating on that it needed to punish terrorists it needed to show that the situation um couldn't stay the same that costs had to be imposed but India out of uh a desire um to be restrained for its own interest as well as because of the request of the international community was kind of bending over backwards just to to kill bad guys. In reality, you know, there were probably there's always some janitor, right? A metaphorical janitor at these places. And especially when you bomb them in the middle of the night, uh you may not get uh the most senior people. you may just get some some lowly flunky or many you know there's a lot of uh children that appear to have been on the casualty roles of that first night but India did I think avoid military targets despite the normal sequencing that air forces might want to do uh to try to give Pakistan an off-ramp even if that off-ramp was not partic part particularly attractive India could say that it had done its best and in fact those early uh days of the crisis. I mean, I guess the crisis only lasted four days. So, the early hours of the crisis, you know, from an outside perspective, it seemed like there was a lot of maneuvering by Pakistan and India not to be blamed if the next rung on the on the escalation ladder was was grabbed. You know, this kind of gets to the the subject of, you know, what's true, what's fake, uh what's what's real, what's verified. you you commented on this a bit online, but you know this crisis did seem to mark for me anyway this kind of new era and the spread of misinformation and disinformation. I mean I remember just you know kind of you know WhatsAppapping and messaging with friends saying you know someone reports this but you know who knows if this is actually true you know and and there was just a lot of that. Were you surprised by the extent of kind of just pure fake news, right? Like the supposed attack on the Karachi port and so on and so forth. I mean, how do you manage these risks when you're an analyst researcher who is trying to study very fastm moving contemporaneous events? Yeah, I you know I was surprised. I think there's no doubt for those of us that spend time on social media, which is not clear to me it's like a net beneficial activity at the individual or local level, but for those of us that do that spend a lot of time in social media, there's no doubt that the changes that Elon Musk made to X, Twitter, whatever we want to call it, have uh made the misinformation problem worse because X no longer hunger rewards kind of users that have profiles of being a journalist or having some sort of position of importance and instead rewards whoever pays, you know, a couple dollars a month to get a blue check mark next to their name. And it has led to a proliferation of so-called, you know, open-source intelligence, Osent accounts that OSENT defender, alpha defense, all these, not not to call any of the I'm sure any specific handles I say, you know, I don't want to be lielist, but there's a lot of handles out there and they all have names like Warhound. Uh, and these accounts make money on virality. Uh, so long as what they say does not get a little note at the bottom by this Twitter community note police, as long as you can get away without that note, you get money directly proportional to how many eyeballs look at. And so this encourages exaggeration. It encourages apparently falsehoods and it also is co-mingled with a distinct but um amplified problem because of the Twitter environment which is there have always been rumors in war. The problem is that people couldn't easily report on those rumors to the world. They could only report on those rumors to whoever they bumped in on the to on the street. And now reporters who in India and Pakistan are in a very competitive media environment uh they also are rewarded by virality. If you can move first on a big story, that may be the difference between your continued employment and not. And uh so these reporters, these kind of quasi reporters that fancy themselves as journalists but maybe don't get a paycheck from a journalistic uh media firm, uh they're all putting stuff out there. And in many cases, I have no doubt that they got a WhatsApp message or they got a call that said something occurred. um and established reporters contributed to these falsehoods about an attack on the Karachi port or on the Pakistani side and the first night there had been a you know a supposed attack on the Stringer airport that had achieved astounding success right so this spilled over out of social media into the cable newsroom and occasionally it seems like also Pakistani officials sometimes were paring things that they had heard about on social media. Okay. So, you have this kind of perfect bottomup technologydriven storm of misinformation that we're all trying to wade through to figure out what is real and false. And there, you know, as an analyst, what I try to do is not be too confident about anything. And to I have some obviously some framework for how the world works. I have pieces of data. Are they consistent or not? And when a poorly sourced piece of data comes in, I am quite skeptical of it until a better source verifies it. But even then a better source it's better if we can triangulate through multiple sources. Uh it's even more complicated in an era when you can fake imagery and videos. Right? So there are so many things coming together here that really make it difficult and we should be humble and we should change our minds when we have new data and we should be hesitant to leap on new information especially if it reaches us from social media. I want to come to the role of the United States, but I want to do so kind of via um the assumption that has been bandied about that the US got involved because they were really spooked about nuclear dynamics. Uh various media outlets have reported that the US stepped up its intervention um after calls between senior officials in the US and their counterparts in Pakistan and India took place. Um and uh it's been uh kind of implicated or hinted that you know something that took place in those conversations really spooked the Americans. The suggestion being perhaps America became anxious about the safety sanctity of Pakistan's nuclear arsenal. Does does that ring true to you from what you've heard and seen thus far? So another thing we can be humble about is we don't know how near wars and wars between nuclear weapon states are prosecuted safely. We have no data. The US and the Soviet Union opted to only fight via proxies, never directly. And that is still the case on the US side to this day. That's something Biden talked about repeatedly as he considered how to deal with Ukraine. So what do we have? We have a very serious clash between China and the Soviet Union in 1969 that occurred and the Soviets apparently considered nuking China in that clash. So is very serious even though it probably doesn't technically meet the definition of a war that we use as political scientists. probably didn't have a thousand dead on the battlefield, but it was, you know, real stakes. And then we have a conflict near the Indian town of Cargill in 1999, which probably just barely had over a thousand battle dead. Probably meets the definition of a war that we use as political scientists. And the US got real scared in the Cargill war too because we saw indications that the Pakistanis were doing something with their nuclear weapon. U uh this has been written about by Clinton administration officials. Both the Indians and the Pakistanis in their own ways have said those concerns were overblown. Uh but they they were there. Uh the US uh was concerned about nuclear moves during a crisis in 1990 between India and Pakistan before both sides had overt nuclear weapons programs. The US and was worried about nuclear weapons in a crisis between India and Pakistan in 1986 and 1987. Uh and it is par for the course that if you have a serious crisis between nuclear weapons states that they will take steps to prepare their nuclear weapons in case that crisis veers into a horrible direction. And my expectation is it would have not just been verbal communications from the Pakistanis but there would be other intelligence inputs that would corroborate American fears about nuclear moves. The US understandably spends a decent amount of energy trying to keep track of where Pakistan's nuclear weapons are at. Um, in part because we have very real concerns about Pakistani stability and in part because these crises do occur and we see a lot of stuff that happens on the surface of the earth. We hear a lot of communications that happen uh that go through the electromagnetic spectrum. We're very good at that sort of thing. And the Pakistanis, we know from their leaders in the aftermath of prior crisis, sometimes intentionally manipulate that channel. They intentionally move things around to cause concerns for Americans. And as a US policy maker, I would uh you don't want to call a bluff that winds up being real. You know, I tell uh American policy makers when I have a chance to talk to them uh that I view the prevention of an IndiaPakistan nuclear war as a vital US interest and in part because hundreds of a thousands of American citizens are in India all the time and any nuclear war would kill thousand you obviously millions of Indians that's the humanitarian stake but even if you are the most America a first person thousands of American citizens would die in the event of a nuclear war between India and Pakistan and that's setting aside any concerns about nuclear winters or other effects. So, you know, just on this point of kind of the US role, I found it kind of stunning that the Trump administration went in barely 48 hours from basically the vice president saying this is not our problem to solve to then along with the president, Secretary of State Rubio and others kind of claiming credit for essentially brokering the ceasefire. Um, you know, again, hopefully we'll know more in the days and weeks to come, but what's your sense um of how decisive you think the US role was and actually clinching this agreement between the two sides to lay down their arms at at least temporarily. Of course, the prospect of resumption of fighting is is, you know, just around the corner. Um, you know, what's your assessment or your best hunch of of of the role the US played here in the in the endgame? You know, Milan, you you like uh like I have probably been at drinking establishments too late in the evening and sometimes people might want to get into a fight and sometimes their friends hold them back from that fight. And it doesn't mean the holding back is what stopped the fight. It was something that the combatants hoped would occur. And my hunch until there is evidence to the contrary is that the US provided a channel. There were other alternatives, the Iranians, the Saudis, the Amiradis. There's lots of ways they can talk to each other, but the US provided a channel. The US probably had enough authority to get uh um General, you know, Osammener on the phone. Um which not every country on the planet can do. Uh and when both sides or at least one of the sides got sufficiently worried about the path they were on, uh the US may have facilitated a ceasefire that could have occurred through other channels if the US wasn't playing an active role. But since we were there, we have an experience with off-ramp construction. and we set up our little construction crew and we built an off-ramp uh to help out Pakistan andor India. Um and and we got to a ceasefire and we will see how long it endures. I think the announcement of the ceasefire caught a lot of observers offguard. uh uh just reading the Indian press uh reviewing kind of Indian social media accounts at least among some segments of the Indian population you know there there's been a backlash right uh basically with people saying look India uh should have gone further they should have bombed Pakistan into submission they sort of uh gave up the momentum and the upper hand that they had I'm curious what are you seeing from the Pakistani press and Pakistani social media. How how has the ceasefire gone down there? Sometimes lessons can be learned unevenly in these societies. Uh that's especially the case when there's a lot of secrecy and media management. uh there's uh a holiday in Pakistan called defense day which is about you know kind of standing up against India in the 1965 war but the historical record now suggests that Pakistan started that war when you start a war and fight a stalemate you lose the war that's how that's how it works um and it took a long time for the record of what happened in ' 65 to come out uh there's still debates about what Pakistan did 71 in Pakistan. It's still a sensitive topic. Um, as someone that has run through this narrative about the success or the ambiguous success of the 2016 and 2019 crisis on India's side, I can tell you the Indian media also is a little worried about the a narrative that runs against the government's line on this topic. So whenever people are trying to control a conversation, it it's difficult to know what the sincere lessons that are being learned. My sense on the Pakistani side is that at the moment the US involvement and equating India with Pakistan may have been enough for Pakistan to overlook the very serious in my view deficiencies of their military establishment in the days preceding the ceasefire. uh but I think it is clear that several things that Pakistan tried did not work at the level of efficacy they had hoped for and that means Pakistan has to go to the drawing board again and it also means there may be questions about the decision for the for the political military authorities in Pakistan and by that I really just mean the military authorities to push the crisis as deep as it went but it may take a while uh for the reverberations of that to be felt and it could be overtaken by events in the meantime. Chris, I want to just come back to something that you said earlier which I found really striking and it's something that you said uh to a reporter from the Washington Post that we may be entering a situation that is much more similar to crises that Israel has experienced in the Middle East over the last three decades. And I wonder if you could elaborate on that analogy. You know what what does that mean in the context of this uh rivalry between India and Pakistan? You know for decades the stated goal of US policy toward Israel was for Israel to be able to maintain a qualitative military edge over any of its potential rivals. And the question is, how much political and stability and safety benefit can you get out of a military edge? Israel clearly has an overwhelming military edge against its neighbors, but until at least 2023, and we can debate the present, uh, Israel couldn't turn that military edge into safety for its citizens. So India may be in a position where it can go out and cause meaningful harm to Pakistan but it is improbable that India can solve the Pakistan problem. Uh and you know something I think about often is what would Israel do with a nuclear armed Lebanon or a nuclear armed Syria. It could beat up on those states but it can't fundamentally solve the issue and I worry that India's future may be like Israel's present or recent past that it can cause military harm but without a political process to get buy in from Pakistani authorities to fully clamp down on these anti-India militants and terrorists from that are operating in Pakistan. Um, it can't keep its citizens safe and and the the compensation of being able to cause sadness and fear in your neighbor uh isn't adequate to the ability to stop sadness and fear in your own citizenry. Chris, let me uh ask you one final question. Um, you know, you are a scholar of of South Asia. You were a scholar of nuclear dynamics. Uh, I'm wondering, you know, you haven't had a lot of time to reflect, but I'm wondering, are there questions, research questions that this conflict triggers for you, right? I mean, to what extent does this recent spate of violence change or update your your priors? What are the sorts of things that you look forward to digging into um in in the years to come based on what we saw in a relatively short conflict but I think one which had so many interesting elements to it you know I think um there are several aspects uh that I will follow down some on the nuclear side some elsewhere I'm quite interested in this question of the narratives that set hold in Delhi and Islamabad and Indian Pakistan about what happened here who won the crisis. It's not at all clear to me that the same, you know, it's very possible both countries will believe they exited winning the crisis. Um, and what does that mean for the next crisis? You know, I think part of the reason this crisis was so severe is India wanted to show that it could have and did win the 2019 crisis, right? It was sort of playing uh playing this hand with an eye on on on the prior prior round of hostilities and that that may occur. um in the next crisis and I anticipate that there will be a next crisis. I'm hoping it's a few years from now. Uh but I I don't think there is any fundamental strategic stability in the region. You know, I'm going to watch on the more nuclear side. I'm going to watch what Pakistan responds. Like I said, I don't think some of the things they tried uh worked. Um it's probably good that they didn't work at some level because there might have been more casualties on both sides if if they they had worked. Um, but I I think they'll take compensatory moves. I I anticipate they might build more missiles, build more nuclear warheads as a way to ensure that they can inflict pain on India when they need to. Uh, but we will see uh what lessons they learn and what what acquisitions they make. I'm also interested to to kind of, you know, circle back on this question of why the US got concerned. I'm also interested in how worried the Pakistanis were. um during the crisis as you know uh um with our colleague Vipan Narang I'm I'm associated with this idea that India has what we call counterforce temptations that you have two nuclear states how do you deal with one another when there's a stronger state sometimes they want to develop the capability to disarm or limit the damage the other side's nuclear arsenal um you know has inherent in it and so they um we you know Vippen and I argue uh India has has pursued some technologies that give it some options. U some of these we saw standoff conventional munitions um missile defenses that give India options that it might want to use in very deep crisis. Um and so it's reasonable now that Pakistan knows that India can hit its airfields that can you know India claims that it targeted Pakistani air force command and control modes. It's reasonable for Pakistan to have some worries and it might be reasonable for India to think that it could do this on a larger scale if it really needed to. So I'm worried about what that means for arms race stability. And the final thing is how well did India calibrate the nuclear risks it was trying to take. As I mentioned the Indian military in its briefings over the last 48 hours has said that it intentionally targeted command and control nodes associated with the air force. It showed the destruction of an operation center at an Indian air base at a Pakistani air base rather. And was there co-mingling though when when you hit a command and control node for the air force? Is that separate in Pakistan from the command and control nodes it uses to make sure its nuclear weapons are usable in deep crisis? Were was Pakistan very scared or was it only instrumentally scared? I think that will take a while uh for those of us that work on the region to figure out, but it will be an active area of inquiry. My guest on the show this week is Chris Clary. He's an associate professor of political science at the University of Albany. He's also a non-resident fellow at the Simpson Center. He has spent time at some of the most prestigious national security foreign policy institutions in the country, including the Watson Institute at Brown, the Belelfer Center at Harvard. He was a Stanton Nuclear Fellow at the Rand Corporation. Uh he's also served as the director for South Asian affairs in the office of the Secretary of Defense. Um, Chris, uh, it's been really, um, so enriching to to to read your thoughts, to to read your quotes, to follow you on Twitter, to to to see you try and separate the kind of signal from the noise. Um, I think this episode is going to be really useful to our listeners who are trying to step back and say, you know, what have we learned from these fragments of information that we've received so far? I know that you've been in in very high demand. Thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you for having me. I wish we were here to talk about a new peace initiative rather than the other side of the equation. Granda is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Him times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcast. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Grand Theash, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer, Mira Viz is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabel Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart