================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: xs2RbL2Lyt8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xs2RbL2Lyt8
TITLE: Ep 416: Kavitha Rao Chases Chatto and Roy
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-04-28
DURATION: 2h 55m 16s
VIEWS: 1,701
LIKES: 19
COMMENTS: 2

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The most astonishing men lie in the far, forgotten corners of history. Kavitha Rao joins Amit Varma in episode 416 of The Seen and the Unseen to shed light on the life and times of two magnificent failures, Chatto and Roy.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Kavitha Rao on Twitter, Instagram, Amazon and her own website. 2. Spies, Lies and Allies: The Extraordinary Lives of Chatto and Roy -- Kavitha Rao. 3. Lady Doctors : The Untold Stories Of India's First Women In Medicine -- Kavitha Rao. 4. Kavitha Rao and Our Lady Doctors -- Episode 235 of The Seen and the Unseen. 5. Chatto: The Life and Times of an Anti-Imperialist in Europe -- Nirode K Barooah. 6. In Freedom's Quest : A Study of the Life and Works of MN Roy -- Sibnarayan Ray. 7. The collected works of MN Roy. 8. Gods, Guns and Missionaries: The Making of the Modern Hindu Identity — Manu Pillai. 9. The Forces That Shaped Hinduism -- Episode 405 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Manu Pillai). 10. Ira 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 32,178

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
We are what we are because of what used to be. This is obvious. The past shapes the present. But what is the past? The more I read history, the field of history, the more I realize how limiting it can be. The past was once a complex beast clouded by fog, too difficult to understand in the moment. But all of the discipline of history is a simple story about that complex past. And the nature of the simplicity, the narratives we choose to tell or choose to create are often a function of how we see ourselves now or of what is easily visible to us. And this simple retelling of the past can shape the future more than the past itself, which remains too complex to Grock. This can be a good thing or a bad thing, but whether we ascribe a value to it or not, whether it's good or bad, it is an inevitable thing. Anyway, the reason I thought of this is that today's episode is about a book that adds layers to our understanding of our history. When we think back to India's freedom struggle, we think of Gandhi G and A himsa and Satyagraha and so on and so forth. But we didn't fight one battle for independence. We fought many. Some of the strands were violent. Some were led by communists. In the case of this book, by two communist Mavericks who tried to ally with Vladimir Lenin to fight the British. One became pali Stalin. The other was purged by Stalin. Both were complex characters and both have largely been forgotten but not by everyone. Welcome to the scene and the unseen our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral science. Please welcome your host Amit BMA. Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My guest today is Kavita Rao making her second appearance on the show. She was here a few years ago talking about her fantastic book lady doctors and here she is again talking about her new book spies lies and allies her extraordinary lives of Chatau and Roy Virindra Chhatapadhya and Mroy were two remarkable figures who fought for India's independence through a variety of means they were okay with violence they tried to get Germany's help to fight Britain and then Lenin's help they traveled widely met great world leaders failed spectacularly and led colorful lives their paths intersected only briefly and as Kavita puts it there were revolutionaries in the streets but reactionaries in between the sheets fascinating men with fascinating stories I discussed Kavita's personal journey in my previous episode with her so we didn't do much of that in this conversation instead we spoke about her writing practices her experiences with research her thoughts on men and women then and now and of course the men and women who feature in this fabulous book do read spies lies and allies is so gripping you will finish it in a single sitting and do listen to this episode. But first, let's take a quick commercial break. Do you want to read more? I've put in a lot of work in recent years in building a reading habit. This means that I read more books, but I also read more long- form articles and essays. There's a world of knowledge available through the internet. But the problem we all face is how do we navigate this knowledge? How do we know what to read? How do we put the right incentives in place? Well, I discovered one way. A couple of friends of mine run this awesome company called CTQ Compounds at ctmpounds.com which aims to help people uplevel themselves by reading more. A few months ago, I signed up for one of their programs called the daily reader. Every day for 6 months, they sent me a long form article to read. The subjects covered went from machine learning to mythology to mental models and marmalade. This helped me build a habit of reading. At the end of every day, I understood the world a little better than I did before. So, if you want to build your reading habit, head on over to CTQ compounds and check out their daily reader. New batches start every month. They also have a great program called Future Stack, which helps you stay up to date with ideas, skills, and mental models that will help you stay relevant in the future. Future Stack batches start every Saturday. What's more, you get a discount of a whopping 2500 rupees, 2,500 if you use the discount code unseen. So head on over to CTQ compounds at ctqocompounds.com and use the code unseen uplevel yourself. Kavita, welcome once again to the scene in the unseen. Thank you so much for having me again. You know from the last time we spoke four years ago, one of the memorable bits that I really remember was about neither you nor your book. It was something you told me about your mom. You said at the age of 75 she started learning the satar and I have thought about it often and cited that often as an example of how you know we middle-aged people should not give up. There is time for me and for anyone who's listening to you know live a full life up to whatever age. So I want to ask for an update on that. How's your mom doing? How's her sitar doing? Oh my mom we're still you know going on with main character energy. She is yeah she has progressed on the sitar and is giving performances in her neighborhood. She's traveling all over the place. She is 80 this year but still traveling all over the place. She's going to China this year on her own not with me by the way and she's doing all kinds of exciting things and in fact she figures in this book in the first chapter where you know I talk about a family member who asked why why do you want to write a book about failures? So that's my mom because I kind of send all my book ideas to her to kind of you know you know approve. So that's her in the book as well. So so what's been happening in the last four years like you had mentioned uh during that conversation towards the end of that conversation that you know we were just coming out of co so you had mentioned that you want to do more work with people and so on and so forth and instead you seem to have shut yourself up in libraries and you know worked on this book. So what's it been like? How have you been thinking about life since then and what you want to be up to? Yeah, true. I I think I did say I want to work over with people and I did completely the opposite. So basically after Lady Doctors, I got a lot of offers from publishers to write about the first women engineers, the first women lawyers, the first women constitution makers. And I just felt that I do not want to be a woman writing about the first women, you know, in everything for the rest of my life. It it just seemed like a very sort of, you know, stereotypical thing for me to do. It's a like a box. And I was just reading in this space and I was reading about the gad movement which is also, you know, it figures in my book, but you know, not as a main scene. And it's a very interesting revolutionary movement in the US. I was reading about that and I thought maybe I'll write about this but then somebody else came out with a book on that a very good book as it happens and so I thought you know I need to write about something else and I found these two characters Chatau and Roy and you know in my last podcast I wrote about my admiration for David Gran who is my favorite non-fiction writer he's a New Yorker writer and I've always wanted to write a really exciting book something you know it sounds really foolish but something like day of the jackaler you know but in a write non-fiction that reads like fiction it reads like a thriller now obviously all historical characters do not lend themselves to this treatment but when I read about Chatau and Roy I found that they really led such exciting lives I mean and their lives were really you know like they say truth is stranger than fiction their lives were really unbelievable and I couldn't imagine that very few people knew about them. So I felt like I just had to write this book you know and this is why I wrote this book really. So you know that's it in a nutshell. You know while I was reading this book I do this YouTube show with my good friend AJ Sha who's very well read and knowledgeable about history and all of that and I asked him a quiz question and the quiz question of course was about Chatau and 1937 and Stalin's purge and all of that and he had never heard of the guy and I had heard of M and Roy I was vaguely familiar with the name Chatau but I I I didn't know any of this history and I got to thinking that you know the growing up in India in the Indian education system the kind of vision that we have of Indian history is sort of a particular narrative in which the Congress parties at the heart of it. Everything is Gandhi and Neu and Patel and so on and they get all the credit for whatever happened and it's almost as if nobody else was fighting and yeah one Bhagat Singh came but isolated incident but otherwise there was no strain of anything else that we are taught and I'm wondering whether that was a revelation to you as well or whether the fact that as we discussed in our last episode you spent so much of your life outside India means that the history that you got wasn't necessarily as constrained or one-dimensional as a history that someone like me took in you know I have spent a lot of my time outside India but I studied in an Indian school typical CBSC school so you know most of my history was very sort of very dull and very boring and very Gandhi neocentric and also just just written in such a dull way I mean CBSC school I don't know if I mentioned this in my last podcast but everything I've learned every little bit of history that I've learned is entirely through my dad. He's gone now. But like you know he was a man who loved history and he bought me lots of books and he was very very not the typical Indian dad. He didn't care so much about marks and things like that. He was like okay if you pass it's fine here. Read some books. So I owe that entirely to my dad. And now of course being in London I have access to the British library. So that's another factor. I mean coming back to these two characters, you're right that you know they just seem to have been completely hidden and I think I may have picked up some information on Twitter. It is possible that you know there were some threads on these two characters. I honestly can't remember because I think people pick up you know from different sources and there have been things written about both these men and I like I said there are lots of scholarly books but I wanted to write a popular history that everybody can read not just scholars and you know just to sum this you know their lives up for the listener who's listening now both Chatau and Roy had just incredibly exciting lives they were revolutionaries who were pursued all across Europe, Mexico, the US and the Soviet Union by you know the British intelligence and other intelligence officers. Chatau came to a very brutal end because he was executed in 1937 by Joseph Stalin in Stalin's great purge and but before that he had a really exciting life. Lots of romances you know he was immortalized in a sicet mom story he was pursued by the British secret service and escaped you know by the skin of his teeth. And Roy also had a very exciting life. You know, he founded the Mexican Communist Party and then the Indian Communist Party. He was involved in smuggling the Russian crown jewels. He was Lenin's protetéé and young man. He met they they both met all kinds of incredible men of the time you know I don't think there was a you know statesman in that time that they didn't meet. You know they met you know Lenin they met Stalin they met Trosky they met Gandhi Nu Lajay all of these people. So they just had the most exciting lives and just from a storytelling point of view it was like a ripping good yarn which I couldn't ignore really. So yeah, and you know, while it's very comprehensive historically, you get the full narrative, you get all the pieces of the story, it is also very readable. And I'm wondering if that was at the core of your decision to write a book like this, not just your mother's questions of why you writing about quote unquote failures, but also the fact like, as you mentioned in your acknowledgement and at various times during the book, many biographies exist of these guys. You mentioned Nirro Burwa's book on Chatau and Sarah Andre's book on um you know M and Royy's excellent biographies and yet despite there being material on these people you chose to write something was it because you know you felt that everything else was academic or boring or not mainstream enough and you just thought like you know this could easily be a web series I mean I would not be surprised if 3 years later there is some grand production being announced by Netflix on exactly your book and I wonder if that thought not of a Netflix but of something that deserved a popular retelling was you know what motivated you to do a book on people on whom there are other books yeah I think this question has been raised by a few people William Dal Rimple was talking recently about how India doesn't have you know enough popular history and of course that became very controversial but without going into too much of about what he said I completely agree that India needs popular history And I'm trying very hard to find that sort of sweet spot between scholarly history like you know what professor Nod Barua and Saran Ray have written which is great but it's you know it's peer-reviewed it's meant mostly for the historical community and say WhatsApp history and YouTube videos. I'm trying to find this place where I can write a book that can be read by just about everybody. And I don't know if you've seen the structure of the book. Every chapter begins with like an interesting anecdote. It does not begin in the boring way of you know and then Mroy was born in 1880 and you know in this district of West Bengal. I've begun every chapter with as interesting an anecdote as I can find and I have tried my absolute best to make it sort of a page turner. And historians are not supposed to say this because you know people are like no no no history must be well researched and scholarly and I hope that it is enough research to give people an idea. I do say that it's not an exhaustive bio of them. There's much more that can be written much much more and I've left out a lot and you know perhaps some people may feel that you know more should have been kept in but I don't feel in that in this day and time I'm I'm competing with Netflix. I'm competing with podcasts. I'm competing with YouTube videos. So my main aim which took precedence over everything was to make it just a great story that can be read by anybody and not you know taking months over it. So I I am not very I'm quite open about that really. So no and I think it works wonderfully well without compromising anything. Like I did note that every chapter starts with a story. My favorite story is uh 1910 raid on Agorat Chupadya's house and they're hiding the letter from Virindra Nat and I just thought that that was so awesome just those passages would make such a uh you know if I saw that as the opening scene in a again a web series episode I'd just completely be hooked and the the other part of what I think that you have done so beautifully is brought out the human dimension of all of the characters not just your main characters but all the other characters and I was wondering wondering whether you felt some disqu about you know being a woman yourself being a disquite with the way these men suffered so completely from the main character syndrome and were terribly callous towards the women in their lives like two of the really fascinating characters for me in this book were Agnes Medley and Evelyn Tren the the lover and wife respectively of Chatau and Roy and they are such fantastic characters they are eloquent speakers and you've quoted them and you know we hear a little bit of their voices as Well, and I wonder that when you write history which so far by and large has been by men for men, uh, you know, the actions of men as it were, that how does it feel? Do you suddenly feel a distaste for this character that like like a chat or a Royo who you might suddenly have gotten closer to where you look at the way they behave with the women in their lives and you say, "Oh my god, you know, at the end of the day, just another bloody hypocrite." So, how does all that play out? I'm so glad that you say that. You see the human in this book because you know I could really jump for joy because my main purpose in writing this book was to write a book about two very flawed humans. I mean this book is about humanity. It's about what being a human is, which is to try, to fail, to try again, to have terrible toxic relationships, to be a hypocrite, and just generally all that is, you know, wonderful and also terrible about being a human. I really wanted to show that. So, I'm glad that, you know, some readers have seen that humanity. regarding the treatment of women. Yes. To summarize for the listener, Chatau had a long and toxic relationship with a very interesting and incredible woman called Agnes Medley who was a American journalist and activist and he was basically a revolutionary in the streets and you know reactionary in the sheets. He just wasn't able to live with an independent modern woman. While he spoke a lot about being open-minded and you know liberal, he was really upset that she had had several relationships in the past and also they were living in Berlin at the time at the center of what's called the Berlin Indians who were other revolutionaries and Chatau basically used Agnes Smmedley as a domestic drudge. He expected her to cook and clean for all these visitors who were always visiting. They had very little money. So he expected her to give him any money she made. And when she started developing as a writer, he was extremely jealous and said, "I don't want you to write." And eventually it all ended really badly. And she escaped him. And she actually went to China where she had a very interesting career as a foreign correspondent. She covered Mao's long march and she became very close to Mao and the communists there. So he treated her very badly. And Emmen Roy also did exactly the same because he married an American woman called Evelyn Trent. And she was better treated in the nationalist movement than Agnes Medley because she was, you know, his wife and she was a typical Indian wife. She looked after him. She looked after, you know, she helped him write all his articles. She traveled uncomplainingly with him from country to country. And she completely stepped back and completely dimmed her own light so that he could shine. And you're absolutely right. Both of them completely wanted to be the main characters and eventually Emmen and Roy dumped Evelyn Trent and went on to other women and married another woman called Ellen Godch and you know moved with her to India where again she completely subordinated herself to him. So regarding you know my feelings on that I mean I saw this in lady doctors as well right you know so many modern men most memorably Anandai Jooshi's husband they said they wanted educated wives but when their wives actually got an education they weren't able to live with them and you know were abusive and behaved really badly to them so I think it's a thing that we all struggle with. We all think of ourselves as maybe it's more, you know, common in men of that time. People have changed since then. We all see ourselves as saviors and, you know, open-minded and liberal and fantastic. But actually in real life, it's extremely difficult to actually implement these principles. So, I mean, my feelings, I continue to have an admiration for Chatau and Roy, but that admiration is tempered with these facts. I know that they were not they were deeply flawed and that you know in many ways they did not consider women their equals and they expected their well maybe they considered other women their equals but they considered their wives as basically just you know support animals and I do think though that by the end of his life chat had probably learned to do better because his he married a Russian woman called Lydia Karunasia and she speaks of him very fondly so maybe he had learned by then as we all do. So like most things the I don't have any idols in life you know all my idols have feet of clay because in actual practice everybody is flawed. That's that's what history is really. So yeah there are these lovely lines you quote from Smemedley about chatau where she says he is fine in theory a modern man but in practice he is a walking lie. He still judges women by her vagina. In fact, a woman is nothing but a walking vagina to him and he is a sole owner of it. Stop quote. And I wonder about and the thought struck me a couple of times. I wonder about just as there is a hypocrisy when it comes to gender relations that these men display is everything in their lives circumstantial in the sense that early on when you write about chat you speak about how he failed the civil services, how he tried then to be a barristister but could not cut it as a lawyer. It was these multiple failures that then drove him towards India house and the whole revolutionary thing. And almost in contrast, you know, another character who comes up in your narrative is Abdullah Yusf Ali who is in fact a grand success in all of these gets into the civil services and is used by the British Empire as a counterpropagandist to Chatau at a particular point in time. And my thought about chatau there was that to what extent were what he considered true and deeply held beliefs circumstantial that did he turn against the empire to an extent because he was rejected by the empire in terms of not getting through the Indian civil services not being a barristister later on we see the different mixed feelings that chatau and Roy have towards communism where at one point one of them says India's independence is more important and the The other one says no no communism is a whole thing. Independence doesn't matter in that narrative. And then they almost flip and they change as the circumstances change. So to what extent were they shaped by circumstance and where do we get a sense of the core of the person? Like one thing that certainly came out to me as something that is central to Chatau is a characteristic that his father also seems to have had and we can talk more about that later of generosity of just almost in an impractical way giving everything up and not caring about material goods. So what would you say are the qualities that are core to them and what are the qualities that are circumstantial to them especially when it comes to their revolutionary activities? I had the launch for this book in Delhi and Manu Pilai was my moderator and he said you know you should retitle this book messy men and the women who run with them and I honestly think that it's true they were very messy and they didn't have linear paths like possibly you know Gandhi and Nero though even Gandhi and Nu didn't have as linear paths as we think sometimes our textbooks flatten history and when you actually read the original letters and memoirs you realize that a lot of people fighting for the Indian independence had very messy parts and you know had one idea and then they thought okay another idea so basically chatau I don't think that it was because he failed the civil service I think because he was a very intelligent man he was a linguist he spoke something like you know around 10 languages and later in life you know he became quite a successful academic in the Soviet Union so and he was a great writer as well. So I think it was more that you know when chatau came to the UK he had this intention of you know he came from an intellectual very educated family he had this intention of getting an education but the turning point was when he joined India house and well rather he visited India house which is a sort of hostel in London Highgate which was a hotbed of revolutionary activity. So at the time you had Widi Savar, you had Madlal Dhingra, you had Madame Kama, you had all kinds of revolutionaries there and I think then Chhattum understood you know that listening to all these people he thought why should India not have independence and from then on I think he was pretty consistent even when Gandhi and Nu were arguing for dominion status Chatau was arguing for full independence. The issue was that Chatau simply could not make any compromise you know get along with anybody. He was a complete maverick and as I say I don't think we have even mentioned sorry if this has been all completely back to front but chat was Srojani Naidu's brother I don't even know whether people listeners know that chat was Srojini Naidu's brother but while Sarrojani Naidu you know took the Gandhian path right from the beginning Chatau actually was for revolution and then there was a time he sort of got along with Sarrojani but by the 1930s he was actually calling Sir Rojini Naidu a puppet in the hands of Gandhi and Nu and Chatau was Nu's friend initially but then he completely took against Nu because he felt that NU was cowing to Gandhi for the sake of Congress unity and Chatu was very deeply distrustful of Gandhi and this is exactly why they have been completely forgotten and of course Chatu's death was not discovered until many years later because you know Stalin's misdeeds were covered up from the rest of of the world. It was only in 1991 when the KGB archives were sort of thrown open that Chatau's death was discovered. And Roy was I think a little more pragmatic than Chatau. So he started as a revolutionary. He was not as well educated as Chatau. He had quite a spotty education and came from you know a poor family. He started as a bombthrower. Then he realized that and you know he was trying to muster money for India by appealing to the Germans and by appealing to all kinds of people that failed. So then he started moving towards communism because he was influenced by the Russian revolution and by bolsheviks at the time and then he was expelled from the communist party because by that time he decided that you're right they exchanged positions. So by then Chatau was a fervent communist but Roy had realized that you know the communist party in India was tiny and he realized that only Congress could win independence for India Congress under Gandhi. So he decided to support the Congress and for this sin he was expelled from the communist party. See he he just couldn't you know sort of he always backed the wrong horse as his obituary said he always backed doomed causes. Then he returned to India and he was arrested and after he came out from jail he joined the congress. But by then Gandhi had taken against him because Gandhi and Roy were complete opposites. You know Gandhi was a nationalist, a religious person, you know, reactionary in many ways. Roy was a hedonist, an atheist, complete cosmopolitan. So they just could not get along. And Roy could not compromise enough. He was I feel like he was more pragmatic than Chatu but he was still wasn't pragmatic enough. And I think for instance Roy calls Neu a thoughtless vain egocentric popularity hunting demagogue who is popular amongst congressmen with a modern outlook because his demagogy rationalizes Gandhi's irrationalism and supplies a pseudosocialist vineyard to reactionary nationalism. That sort of sums up Royy's views. He thought they were just shallow socialist popularity hunting demagogues, reactionaries and obviously with those views he could never be absorbed within the congress and they were sort of completely marginalized and forgotten. So I don't even know what the question was but I think you're right that they kept sort of they changed a lot of their thinking but I think that was mostly because the world was changing so rapidly for instance in the 1920s everybody thought Lenin was an icon and then later Stalin and it was only later that people realized Stalin's incredible misdeeds so and that communism was just not working the way it was envisaged really you know. Yeah. In in addition to the quote you read out about NU chat also said of Gandhi at one point quote he is unclear socially and knows nothing of economics. He was trained in British constitutional law and that is always a poison that works in the system of Indian leaders causing them to betray our people time and again for the sake of British phrases. Stop quote. And while both of these quotes are kind of really harsh they also contain a germ of truth. And it's it's interesting that they could only possibly have been uttered by people who were outsiders and could you know bring that gaze into you know the way they looked at the system. We we'll come back to each of these two people. I want to talk about both of them in great detail but I want to go back to you for a moment and your journey in writing this book. Sure. You know tell me about what the process was like in terms of how did you do your research? You begin your book within by talking about how libraries have meant so much to you and they have been so hospitable and I think in the acknowledgements you mentioned the British library as well. What is the life of someone writing a book like this like? Because a final product that we get is like a page turner. It's entertaining. There is great fun. There are great stories. But when you are actually collecting all of the material, assembling it in your head, beginning to dream the book, what's going on? Take me through what goes into the making of the sausage. Yeah, like all sausages, it's you know very messy. It's bloody hard work. It's extremely unglamorous because this book like lady doctors was an archival book by which I mean that I was able to trace members of the Chhatupad family and you know the fun fact is that one of the extended members of the family is Ramuluska the Medras snake man but none of them had any letters or any memories or anything that they remembered all they remembered was Uncle Chatau went to the Soviet Union he didn't come back they didn't remember anything else Okay. And many of the people who did remember things had already passed. So it was very difficult with Emmenroy. The challenge was that he had written so much. I mean Emmenroy wrote over 30 books, pamphlets, letters. There was literally I I think you know not like a not even a bird ellighted on the earth without Emanroy dashing off a letter and all painstakingly archived by his wife Ellen Roy. So my challenge was to condense all this into a readable form because for me my reader will not read you know pages and pages of communist philosophy. Okay. And there's tons of that. But I didn't feel like people would read it. And therefore I had to condense it and make it readable. And this was such a difficult task. I mean my daily routine I mean I should point out that like nearly all Londoners I guess I live in a very tiny flat. It's like a th00and square foot flat which has three adults in it and most of whom all the adults now work from home. So you can just imagine that you know my home is not very conducive to work out of. This is why I acknowledge libraries because his entire book was written in libraries not just as a research not just for the research though also that but also as a quiet place to sit in. So mostly in the British library and most of this stuff is found there. I think you can also find it in the National Archives in Delhi. And basically just sitting and going through pages and pages and pages of stuff until you're completely sick of it and you never want to hear about them ever again. And in October 2023, what happened was that the British Library was hacked in a ransomware attack. I don't think it was talked about much in India because worse things happened in October 2023. But they were asked to pay some £800,000 as ransom which they did not pay and as a consequence their entire digital system was down. So it was like working in a library in 1920 as in you go there with a piece of paper with on which you have written something and then they go and after several hours later they find the book and come back. So you have to hang around wait or something. So it was completely and normally the British library is very accessible but it had just regressed to like you know a 1920s Indian library. So it was very difficult and I I feel so grateful to the staff who worked in these things and for nearly 6 months it was not restored. So once again this book had to be written. I had a very tight deadline on this book. By the way, I had a deadline of 15 months from the time the proposal was accepted to the time I was supposed to turn it in. Actually had a dead deadline of of 1 year and I I couldn't meet that deadline. So I took another 3 months more. So 15 months and then 6 months in editing. So really tight deadline. So every day you get up and you do your I I used to get up at 5:00 and you know do some initial reading then and then do all the housework and try to leave the house by 9:30 go to the British library spend all day there feriting out all this material and trying to condense it. It was completely the opposite of the lady doctors in a sense because in lady doctors I didn't have enough material because it was all women and you know their letters and memoirs were not preserved or they barely wrote any. In this case in a way I almost had too much material because chatau not so much but Roy just wrote and wrote and wrote and so much was written about both of these men and so I almost had too much material. And one thing that I want to talk about is the structure of this book. I mean that's a craft question. I always like talking about craft. And I chose a structure where you start with Chatau's death, his very grizzly and untimely death executed by Joseph Stalin. And then I talk about so it's one chapter Roy and no then I talk about why the two are important and then it's one chapter chat one chapter Roy one chapter chat one chapter Roy. even though they're at opposite ends of the earth. While Chhatu is in Europe, Roy is in Mexico, in the US, etc. And I chose this because I wanted to write a book about the two of them because I saw them as rivals. I don't think that other people have seen them as that, but I saw them as rivals and I saw them as interconnected and leading parallel lives, though they never met in agreement. And they knew the same people. They both knew Agnes Medley. Some rumors have it that they were both involved with Agnes Medley. They say they were sort of rivals for that tiny piece of the pie. And I wanted to write the book like that. And that structure, some people have liked it, some people have not liked it. It's it's been one of those things. And that gave me a lot of trouble to keep the timelines consistent. And the other thing is that there's so many characters in this book. I mean so many sort of minor figures, major figures, minor communist figures that nobody's heard of and keeping all these characters and deciding which ones to leave out was very difficult. I don't even know whether I have succeeded. It's I have tried basically. So this was my day and for 15 months this was my day. I I mean even before 15 months because before I started writing the book I sent a very detailed proposal to Westland which took me maybe I don't know nearly 10 months to write and figure out and all a very detailed proposal 10,000word proposal. So once I had that proposal then I could work once it was accepted I could work according to the proposal. So that's it for like you know 15 months and I barely read anything in these 15 months except stuff like this and though I watched a lot of crappy TV so to keep me going crappy TV you know things like Real Housewives of Beverly Hills and things like that. I watch a lot of that TV to just keep going. So and probably very difficult to live with in those 15 to 18 months. family must have been completely sick of me. I just want to say I think the structure really worked for me and the reason it worked for me is that the alternating chapters the juosition of these two men's lives worked really well for me because each individual came into stark relief against what is happening to the other person as well. Yeah. And I think that was great and chronologically also all of it kind of makes sense though obviously you know chat dies a bit before. Sure. What role do you think the deadlines played in actually helping you to write this? And by the way, your publishers are also my publishers per se in the sense have given me many deadlines which I've managed to ignore completely. So, okay, if they're listening to this, they'll be like Amit learn something and kindly don't you know teach Kavita to be as disrespectful of deadlines as you are. But what role did that play? because I'm struck by like I want to know a little bit more about your actual discipline and how hard it was. Were there hours for research? Were there hours for writing? Or did you spend a few months doing the research and then did all the writing in one go? You know, how did all of that come together? So, I mean this sounds very pious and boring. I'm a very disciplined person. I've had to be or I'm just naturally one. I don't know. And if a person gives me a deadline, I meet it. In fact, I'm usually before the deadline. This book was 3 months after deadline, which I felt terrible enough about. Okay? You know, I'm just one of those very boring people. I follow the rules. I eat healthy. I exercise. I do all these boring things. And that frees me up. I don't know how to explain this. I mean I mean I I I feel like all creatives you will know this the creative mind while I don't want to glamorize it but you are always thinking about your project you know everything else happens in a sort of on the sidelines in a way and because of that you have to minimize distractions and one of the best things I have done is cut down completely on social media because there was a time when I was completely addicted to Twitter and you know publicizing my views on Twitter and getting into long discussions with everybody and that is also a function of doing such an isolating job. The reason is because, you know, I'm sitting at home. I don't I don't work in an office. I don't have a water cooler. I don't have, you know, meet people on a day-to-day basis. But I realized that I was just becoming, you know, there is absolutely no point to it. You know, trying to convert people's minds on Twitter. It was completely draining all my creative energy. And there was this thing that I started, that trap that I started falling into that I'm really very important, which I'm not. and that my views are I must have a view on everything. And I realized that I was falling into that view of you know here are my views on Palestine, here are my views on this, here are my views on this small thing that has happened and actually nobody cares and everybody has tons and tons of opinions and I have zero expertise in this. So why not focus on something that I can I do have some expertise and you know try to be an somewhat expert in that. So this is how I sort of did it and regarding the research in order to get the proposal accepted by Westland. I had to do a lot of research. So it was a 10,000word proposal. Okay. For an 80,000word book. So 1/8 of the research was done and I had the structure. I think Westland really loved the structure for you know it works for some people what doesn't work for some but they loved it. And so I did a fair amount of research just for the proposal. I by the time the proposal was accepted, I had the bare bones and then I just had to fill in the all the little bits and come up with some good anecdotes. And for me anecdote is very important. I need good stories. I can't just have he said, she said, he said, she said for the whole thing, you know. So I needed good anecdotes. So then I just sort of filled in all the good anecdotes and all the interesting letters and things that I found and you know things like I knew the for instance that chat was in somicet mom but you know I didn't know like I went and read the original story and I knew that you know I had knew bits about Agnes Medley but then I read her original books and I read the books that people had written about her. So all this sort of secondary research was then sort of filled in but it was mostly a daily project of sitting every day in the British library. You know I I feel quite strongly that a lot of people say writing a book and you know the muse and there's a lot of very woowoo stuff written about this and I am not that kind of writer. I feel quite strongly that the only way to write a book is to write it. There is no other way. And I do find that it's much easier with non-fiction. And I've written one fiction book which didn't do very well. And I've realized that I'm not the fiction person. So I'm not going to be writing probably any more novels because I possibly don't have enough imagination. But if you give me facts, then I can attempt to sort of assemble them in a way that can be read by everybody. So yeah, I do strongly feel that you know there are so many many sort of writing workshops, writing gurus and I find all of them don't stress on discipline. I know it's really boring. It's just really boring to think that writers are just it's just a job like any other. If you tell your boss that you have going to send this in by XM date then just do it because otherwise I don't think that they would they would kind of lose faith in me and I'm not yet at that level like Dal Rumple in Goh that I can possibly take or no actually the better example is Vikram Sait who has taken years over the sequel to a suitable boy I am not yet at that level I am still that jobbing writer who has to do everything and Don't underestimate in the publishing world the value of just not being a diva. I cannot stress this enough to any young writers or beginning writers. Turn in your books. Be nice to everybody. Go through the extremely painful edits where they will, you know, they will say all kinds of things that you don't want to change, but actually you have to change because they know your book better than you do. and just just don't be a diva, you know, just do the work, you know. No, I mean, I teach a writing course and I what I tell my 2,800 students repeatedly is that discipline is the whole damn game. Writing is really like being an accountant. You just put your butt on the chair and you get the job done. I also tell them do as I say, don't do as I do. But you know to get back for a moment to social media brilliant that you managed to kind of get off it especially because in social media there's no space for nuance at all like I was having a conversation with Manupil a few days back there was this big controversy about Sati on Twitter and he's written about Sati with great nuance in his wonderful book where the British were hyping it up too much and the Indians were downplaying it and the truth was somewhere in the middle. It was real. It was there. It wasn't as bad as contemporary accounts held it out to be. But when Twitter took those extreme positions, you know, I I remember WhatsAppapping Manu saying, "I bet you're not going to get into this because no one is going to accept the nuanced view that they're both wrong and and the truth is somewhere in the middle." So my question to you is, how did you do this? How did you manage to get off the Twitter addiction? Because it is something I struggle with. Many people I know struggle with that you just go for the dopamine. You go for the immediate gratification. Like are there hacks that you use like not looking at your phone certain hours of the day or you know how did you find the willpower to be able to do this? Honestly I have just shifted my addiction to another platform which is Insta. I'm on Insta but if you look at my thing on Insta I don't have that many followers. I'm about 1,200 or something which is nothing. On Insta I'm very clear. I only share photos of interesting historical things in London and you know just beautiful things just interesting historical things and beautiful things like you know maybe parks or lovely scenery or whatever I attempt not to say share too many selfies of myself during my book tour I shared some but now I've stopped and just I mean I go to museums every week there's so much to see in London right it's the best city in the world according to me so I put interesting historical things And these are uncontroversial and they don't reward that dopamine hit because it's nobody has that much to say. Maybe about four people like my Insta post which is fine. That's enough. Okay. And it doesn't reward that, you know, kind of short dopamine hit. I mean, I don't know. I just I just stopped tweeting for a while and now I have no engagement. So now I tweet a bit about my book you know just in case anybody reads it or whatever but I don't for a very long time now even when I was in Twitter I have always shied away from talking about political subjects controversial subjects and some people have in fact taken great umbrage to this and I have actually got people emailing me after lady doctor saying I loved your book but why don't you speak out on this and why don't you speak out on that and maybe I can say this in your podcast quite clearly. I'm not in the business of speaking out and calling out people for their terrible opinions and you know quote tweeting quote tweeting this person and say look what this person has said about women. I'm just not in that space. I am a writer. I write his I'm trying attempting to write popular history. I focus on writing popular history. And as you said all social media is so polarized these days and quite often the truth is in the middle. Okay. Not in all things. Okay, there are some things where I'm completely, you know, for or against. But I feel that I'm not really adding anything to this discourse by going on calling out this person and calling out that person. It's also so sanctimonious. My god. I mean, I cannot bear it. It's like in actual normal life when you meet people, most people are quite they are willing to consider points of view. They're willing to forgive you for a perhaps a mistake you made unless like it's a horrible mistake. I'm I'm not talking about really big mistakes like Israel's massacre of Palestinian people. I'm not talking about things like but little things. But on social media, everybody feels the need to kind of grandstand and I'm not into that especially because I've noticed that a lot of the people who are going on grandstanding about, you know, and virtue signaling about women's rights have, you know, later been exposed doing all kinds of nonsense, you know, this thing. So I think it's very easy to talk rubbish on Twitter and not mean it. And on social media, I tend to follow the kind of people who tweet about a particular thing that they have expertise in. For instance, you know, I follow uh Ira Makoti on Twitter and on sorry, on Insta and she only tweets about Muggal history and it's so nice. I mean, I'm just so interested in that subject. She knows about it, you know, she's not deluding me with her 500 opinions on everything else. So, just, you know, just an example really. So, I do feel that as I get older, I'm beginning to prize graciousness and restraint in everything above all else. And this is obviously not what many other people feel. They they want a more sort of outspoken person. But that's fine. If you like gentle content, you can follow me on Insta because it's all very gentle. you know, if if I meet people in person, I quite often speak out about all kinds of things because I feel then it can't be twisted and, you know, arty and that kind of thing. But on social media, I've just decided that I think I'm only going to stick to Insta. I'm not really coming back to X. I do occasionally feel a bit perhaps lonely is the word to because old Twitter was in a way like you know this huge gang of people with whom you had common interests and all that especially you know books Twitter but I don't think that exists anymore everybody is constantly angry and polarized and shouty and you know that kind of thing so I just have tried to find these in real life I mean my resolution for a while has been to find these contacts in real life and in London I do lead quite a isolated life in some ways but in another ways I have joined a number of book clubs I volunteered at a heritage site at a site I am a tour guide so I have joined a choir I do all these kind of things in person to try to cut down on social media because social media is basically filling a void you're basically saying nobody in my life is listening to me therefore I'm on social media for the dopamine hit. So, I'm trying to get my dopamine hits elsewhere really. So, yeah. And I think what enough people don't realize is that what we see more and more of in social media is that people are passing judgment on other people and any act of passing judgment is always and always an act of ego. You are basically saying I'm more knowledgeable than you. I'm more virtuous than you. And therefore uh even though I seem to be passing judgment on the people who pass judgment, I I think it just brings out the our most toxic traits to the four where we are constantly standing above other people. And I often say that and certainly true of social media that those who signal the most virtue possess the least. And I've heard, you know, so many horrifying examples of this about men who are complete woke characters online and have have been in incredibly toxic relationships offline and correct, you can actually assume the worst about someone who is projecting themselves as the best. But leaving that aside, my next question which you've partly answered also was about the very difficult solitary nature of being a writer. Like as you said, when you're writing something, you are in the world of the book for a long time that in your head these characters are going around. You have to necessarily go out a little less, stay at home a lot more. You've, you know, got your butt on the chair. If you manage to get exercise habits together, that's great. Many people don't manage that. They kind of struggle with that. And you mentioned that you've joined a choir and you're a tour guide and all of that. Was all of it an act of intentionality because the solitary nature was getting to you. And how did you think about this? How did you think about the vocation of writing and then what you need to do to keep yourself sane uh during that process? I mean honestly I find it very difficult because unlike many writers I would say many maybe even most writers are solitary creatures and they don't mind being isolated. In fact they enjoy it. They don't mind not meeting people. Unfortunately for me I I think I'm a I mean I don't really like to use these sort of you know very binary categories to put people in but I am mostly an extrovert. I mostly like meeting people. I'm not that much of a misanthrop. I'm not very you know you always see people saying on Twitter I hate people. I don't want to meet anybody ever again in my life. I'm not that sort of person. I think I'm quite optimistic. I think generally most people are fine. You know, you may not want to, you know, spend the rest of your life with them, but most people are fine. They're okay, you know. So, I have done many things to and I think I spoke in my last, you know, I I went over it my last podcast, so I won't go over it again. I have moved around the world a lot thanks to you know my husband's job and also partly me because I also I'm also quite a restless person in my own life I had a very restless childhood so many reasons whatever but without going into it I am where I am and this is where I am so many things I do one is I walk a lot and this is of course a huge privilege because in Indian cities you cannot walk a lot I've just spent one month in India and I found it the thing I found most difficult was not walking. Okay, because you can't really walk as much as you do here in like most Londoners, we don't have a car and I walk everywhere. So walking for me is both a form of transport as well as a hobby or a way of keeping fit. I I think most days I probably walk more than 10 kilometers because that is how life is in London. I walk everywhere, you know. I go for a walk just for exercise and then I also walk to the supermarket and then I walk to the tube and then these days the tube has become so crowded that sometimes I just don't get on the tube or a bus and I just walk everywhere. So and I find that walking really helps with writing. I would recommend it to anybody. I know it's not easy in India but if you can walk you know do it. even if it's just around your, you know, sort of building and stuff like that. And I'm not the first person to say this. I think many writers have written about walking and running and the great effect it has on kickstarting your brain like this entire complicated structure of the book. It came when I was walking and then you know I stop and I quickly write it in my notes on my phone or something. But walking just really helps me in a way that I cannot explain. It really is sort of the the core of my life. And these are solitary walks. So that's when I'm solitary. And then to meet people, I'm a big joiner. Every country that I've ever lived in, I've joined things. So I've joined a choir. We sing not religious songs, popular songs. Okay? It's a no audition choir. So even people who can barely sing can join it. And I'm sort of moderate in my singing ability. I'm not great. I'm not terrible. So I can hold a tune. And we sing popular songs, mostly soul songs from, you know, like people like Stevie Wonder, Franklin. It's great. I mean, singing is another thing that I think is just fantastic for building connections and also taking you out of yourself. And then I'm a volunteer tour guide at a heritage site in London. Okay. And this I'm very proud of because it's not something that you can just walk in and be. You have to pass a test. and it's called the painted hall in London and it's a beautiful 17th century hall with beautiful murals and it's all steeped in British history. So when I walked in and how I got into this was I went for a tour myself and I thought this is so interesting and I would love to do that talk about history to people who want to know and then of course I was thinking well I don't know that much about British history. I went in and asked about it and they said don't worry we will train you. So they trained me, they gave me a script and they made me do many, you know, dummy runs and eventually I passed it and now I do that. It's fallen off a bit, but I I do that about, you know, once every two weeks I go in and, you know, do a tour. And it's really amazing because it's taught me so much about writing. For one, it's taught me that people do not care about dates. They do not care about a lot of names, though sometimes names are inevitable. what they care about is an interesting anecdote to make the person human. It's taught me, you know, I give the the tours are all sort of stuffed with this British history, you know, Henry VII and Mary the first and, you know, William of Orange and all that. And if you just rattle off these names, people get very bored. So I saw how other people were doing it. And then I realized that all the other people who have been doing this for years and have do it really well. They bring in these funny anecdotes, jokes, you know, things like that. Involve the audience, ask them questions, things like that. So that has really helped me I feel in my writing because I thought okay I need to make it interesting. That's the number one thing. If your reader is not reading your book then it doesn't matter what you're saying in it if nobody's reading it. So that has really helped me. And then I'm a proud member of the London Agata Christi club because in my other life I'm a massive crime fiction lover and I'm obsessed with Christie. So it's a group of complete nerds. Okay. I mean we are not ashamed. We discuss every book of Christi to the nth degree. We visit places where you know Christie lived and her grave site. Every year one of the members visits Christiey's grave site which is in Wallingford and lays flowers on her grave. So we do very nerdy things like that. So that's another sort of, you know, place that I really enjoy. And I'm in another book club as well. So you know, this is how I meet people and kind of just get out into the world and see what people are, you know, talking and reading about. So that's it really. And this also explains that one trivia in your book about Agata Krishi and her husband visiting Telhalaf. So now now I know why you randomly mention a guy Christie. Yes. Because he uncovered all those things. You know I'm obsessed with Christie to you know if I had to choose a mastermind topic that would be my topic. I'm obsessed with her. I would love to in a way in another life I would write love to write crime fiction. I'm just not good enough. Let's say you know crime fiction is really hard to write. I also go to the theater a lot and I also because London is full of great plays becoming more expensive these days but there are still bargains to be had and that also helps you know I go to the theater I go to museums all London museums are free so I go to a lot of museums and all these things that help you feel less alone and less isolated I I realize I haven't mentioned any writing groups I do have an writing group but It's the members of the writing group are scattered but I have acknowledged them in the book and I do get a lot of support from them so let me acknowledge them because they help me but that's all what's we are all on WhatsApp so I get a lot of support from them who else yeah and I must acknowledge you know my agent Japavasu Jakarandanda lit because unlike other agents a lot of agents don't do this she provides a lot of feedback and every time I was flagging I was like oh I don't think I can going to meet this deadline oh my god this is so hard she provided that support you know which helps you sort of keep going and that is very important because I think every writer feels when writing the book nobody's going to read this this is going to be a terrible book nobody it's just going to you know sink like a stone and then you need somebody in your corner to keep kind of supporting you and of course I have my family and my agent and even you know my editors at land. So all these people and writing groups I do recommend writing groups but I also feel that some writing groups like I joined a couple in London but they were too you know I don't really get along with the writing groups that are like you know here is a prompt write about a cloud in the sky because then I find that I never get anything written that can be published. So I prefer writing groups where you're actually writing your own book you know and I haven't found any such most of them are very sort of voou and I felt like they would be a distraction for me so I didn't you know use them anyway that's it that's how to uh live in a less isolated way as a writer I guess no let me ask you a larger question which is completely out of syllabus because it is not about you and it's not about your books and so perhaps I shouldn't be asking it at all but it's something I've been thinking about and I feel like you'll have some insight on. I was sort of at a gathering of friends recently and there was this little thing going around where everybody was asking everybody else what don't you like about each of us tell us and one of my friends said something very interesting about me which she didn't like. She said that I feel that you're not interested enough in the lives of other people. Which is very interesting to me because my first thought was, wait a minute, the scene and the unseen is all about me listening and asking questions. But then I kind of thought a little deeper and said that yeah, that's probably true. And I've been thinking about it in the days since that in conversations, how many questions do I really ask? How much do I really want to know about the other person? And maybe it's an issue and maybe it's an issue with men in general because I think it's a problem with many men that I know, some of whom might well be on the autism spectrum. But regardless, whereas and then today I came across a Twitter thread. I'll link from the show notes by a Substack. It's not a Twitter thread. It's a Substack post. I'll link it from the show notes where she talks about this experiment she did where she describes a bunch of dates. She went on and what was common to all of the dates is that she's asking all the questions and the man is not asking any of the questions. It's just that main character syndrome that you know there isn't that natural curiosity and I wondered if it was a male female thing because now thinking about the people in your book what I notice is that if I look at all the men I don't know how much chat deeply deeply deeply really cares about Agnes to the sense of understanding her interior life and ditto with Roy and his first wife all the men seem incredibly selfobsessed and all the women seem incredibly empathetic and making sacrifices and devoting themselves to the man until they reach a point where there is just no point anymore. So, it's really perhaps a larger social observation that I'm asking you to muse on which you know all the characters in your book certainly seem to fit it that men are not interested enough and they don't listen enough and they are in the main character of themselves while women often perhaps aren't enough in that. Maybe women should be more of that so they could take themselves more seriously and not give so much away. What what would your take be? I have many thoughts on this. You have, you know, you have found a question that I have been thinking about for a very long time because I'm seeing this and there are two men in my life. My husband who I've been married to for it's going to be 30 years soon. So as they say, you know, people get less for murder. So kind of thing. So, he's not going to be listening to this. I can say what I want, okay? He's too busy. And I have uh a son, okay? And I and I have male friends, though perhaps not people I know as closely as them. I have noticed that men communicate in a completely different way from women, you know. And I hate to bring up that old book, men are from Mars, women are from Venus. And you know when I read that at the time or did I read it maybe I'll leave to it I was like what garbage what nonsense how sexist and all that but sadly I'm finding that it is true I find that men communicate you can disagree and it's not all men but let's just say we're generalizing men communicate in a way that wants to convey information for instance I am arriving in London at 10:00 a.m. I flight British Airways and a woman would say the exactly the same thing in a completely different way. She'll say she'll say you know I'm coming in and my flight is delayed by 1 hour and you know they my I was overweight and on the flight they didn't give me the right meal but then you know I watched a great movie and I loved this movie and etc. I'm not saying that she's complaining, but there's a lot of additional information. And what I found in communication with my son and her husband, my son is even quieter than, you know, he's like practically mute, you know, like a monk or something. It's because he only communicates the thing that he feels are important to communicate such as I need money or, you know, and whatever, you know, I have passed with, you know, X marks or whatever. I mean he's very busy studying as well and so is my husband. So it is very much like that. Whereas when I talk with my mom or my sister the conversation is all over the place. I mean you know my mom will start by saying I got those laddus that you like and then finish by you know discoursing on I don't know god knows what the quality of milk or something like that and all that is not because she is you know losing her marbles. It is because for women talking is a way to communicate in a way of being seen and you know just like your podcast the seen and the unseen it's it's a way of being seen and also seeing the other person whereas men don't see it that way men are thinking yes I have to communicate some information to you which I will do and then I will stop and I have noticed this quite often I have also noticed that men as they get older become very quiet maybe 40s, 50s, they become quieter and quieter and quieter and women go entirely the other way because due to the nature of the world, it's more likely that women are doing most of the child care. Then suddenly maybe in your 40s or your 50s, you're completely liberated from child care. Your kids have left, they can't even recognize you, whatever. And then you suddenly have this second wind and then you're thinking now I want to get out and find do everything and meet everybody and find out about everything. And I have noticed that I am very interested in people. There are certain subjects that I'm not very interested about. For instance, my mom is always telling me she's saying you're you're terrible at asking about other people's children. You don't know anything about what they do. And I'm like yeah because I'm not very interested in other people's children. Okay. And you know, she's like, "You're terrible at all that." And but I'm very interested in other things like interesting things that people are doing. You know, what books they're reading, what movies they're watching, what podcast they're listening to, and you know, any nice travel they've done. Whereas I've noticed that the men in my life are just not that interested. And you're absolutely right. And I I think it happens as you get older as well. So of course there are also some women who become very reclusive. So maybe we are generalizing too much but I think this is the general trend of thought is that you know men want specific information and women talk as a means of feeling seen and you know just communicating to somebody. So I guess you should have lots of women in your life. I I always find that you know women who give up on their female friendships after they get married or whatever I I find that completely irrepreable. I think female friendship is one of the absolute great things in life and you know you should always have it really. So everything you said strikes a chord and the thing with generalizations is that there will always be exceptions to them but they they are generalizations because they're generally kind of true. the good generalizations which so I I so everything you said kind of resonates with me and you know one more question on the same theme that do you sometimes feel that there is a sort of a fundamental disconnect in modern times and I certainly see it most starkly in India perhaps a fundamental disconnect between what women want and what men want and an inability to communicate and understand this I guess uh I mean I see it here in the UK as well you One in every three marriages you know people are divorcing. You know I think we all change and where the issue comes is possibly when one person is restricting the other person from changing. I think the world is still a very sexist and gendered place. I think in most of India it's men who are still doing all the going to work and it's women who are mostly looking after the children and you know and then later the elders and so many women I know have spent their entire life taking care of other people and when they get to their 50s and they certainly say now I want to do something for myself nobody allows them you know because by that time they're used to having this sort of person and maybe I can relate it to something that I've been talking about which is related to non-fiction and I've been talking about it a bit on my tour. you know worldwide more men write non-fiction than women and I think the statistic is I'll have to check this because I didn't look at stats but I think the statistics is that 90% of non-fiction is written by men and I have seen maybe that's excessive but anyway the vast majority it could be 70% whatever even in India I've noticed that so much of non-fiction is written by men and in the top 10 non-fiction bestsellers are almost always by important men and I have been thinking about this and why that is the case and I have many women writer friends and by and large nearly all of them I might get into trouble saying this so let me be very clear nearly all of them write children's books okay and I have one or young adult and I have wondered why and I want to make it clear that writing children's books is a great thing and you know I'm not trying to kind of throw shade at it or you know kind of you know trying to be disparaging about children's literature because it's brilliant and beautiful and much needed. But I just wonder why it is that so many women are being sort of slowly pushed into children's writing. And there are many reasons for this. When I thought about it, these are the reasons. One is that non-fiction is very expensive and very difficult to write because you need access to a research library and most of India does not have access to a research library because other than the you know the libraries in Delhi the NU memorial where are there any good libraries in the rest of India maybe the Asiatic in Mumbai but not really so women need to take time off to go to a library and you know there's one very famous historical non-fiction writer who you know he wrote and then every year I spend you know 4 months in the Neu memorial researching and I was thinking until recently I couldn't have done that because who would have looked after my children now my children are grown which is why I can do this you know but until recently I could not have left my children for 4 months and gone to another city but he did and he has children too so who's looking after his children wives so here's the thing if you have a wife you can afford to do lots of research you can apply for grants like for instance there's a grant American grant where you can go to the US for 3 months and but which Indian woman can leave her kids for 3 months or if you don't have kids the ones that I know whose kids have grown up they have seamlessly moved on to taking care of in-laws so then you have to take care of in-laws because they can't possibly survive with you know just a man in the house their own son so I have noticed this and therefore non Nonfiction is very expensive because you have to play for the you know the hotel and the you know travel and this and that. So it seems easier to just write fiction or children's books or something easier in quotes and I don't think it's necessarily easier but it's just easier for women to access. The other thing is that women I feel are so diffident about calling them themselves experts you know and so many men in India who have you know corporate you know types and corporate you know CEOs have written books but the women haven't written books and my agent says the same thing you know so many women are expert in what they know but they don't write books about themselves or even write with a ghostriter and why is that I think because women are so diffident didn't about saying oh you know I'm good at this and you know I've done really well and therefore I want to write a book and this is borne out because always I'm always asked this question when I do interviews or book tours or whatever the question is always do you have imposter syndrome and I'm like but why should I have imposter syndrome you know I I have no idea why I should have imposter syndrome no but you know because because you are not a trained historian Well, that's true. I'm not a trained historian, but neither are many top historical writers. They're not trained historians. There are some who are, but many of them are not trained historians. So, why should I be singled out as the person who has to feel imposter syndrome? And I I feel like I must say this to every woman listening to this. I do not have imposter syndrome. And it sounds like a very arrogant thing to say. Yes, I sometimes wonder whether I have done things right. Even in this book, I have wondered whether I have written this properly or whether I have written that properly or whatever. But I do not spend my time thinking, oh my god, you know, I don't deserve to write this. Maybe I should just write a short story or something much easier or something much smaller. And I do want that more women write non-fiction. I don't know how we encourage more women into this. maybe by more grants and by more support and by more funding. You know, we just need more women writing it because I think women can bring a perspective that possibly men lack. You know, we can talk about all the marginal characters like Agnes, you know, Max Medley and Evelyn Roy and you know, Ellen Gothch that possibly might have been ignored. So that's really it. I think we just need more women in non-fiction and we need you know people to sort of make some space for them and consider them as experts in their own fields as well. Huh? No, more power to you for not having the imposter syndrome. Like I'll just share an observation with you and then I'll come to a question. And the observation is that practically every woman I've ever asked on the scene and the unseen with honorable exceptions like yourself will always ask why me? Why are you calling me? You know that imposter syndrome will be there. Not one man has ever asked me that question. You know they're all like yeah I'll come I'll come. Tell me the time. And like just today morning I had a conversation via Twitter DMs with a woman author who's written some seven eight books and she was like I I don't know if I have anything important to say and I was like oh my god and one observation that I've made about criticism from perhaps a low sample size but I speak to a lot of writers in my writing groups about their work and I've seen that when you are critical of something a man has written one instinctive response which you know people learn to fight but one instinctive response is to say that no no I was great there's something wrong with you that you're criticizing me whereas the instinctive response with women is beating themselves up and saying oh my god I'm not good enough I can't do this so whenever I actually give feedback that is something I kind of watch out for that you know who is the person at the other end and how will they take it because men and women often seem to respond in almost diametrically opposite ways and I think um you know Shana Bhachara in her book and her episode with me the loneliness of the Indian women had this great line on how you know the men are full of unwarranted self-confidence and the women are full of unwarranted self-doubt which is why I keep you know telling all the women I work with that you just wake up every morning and tell yourself I am awesome you know just go out there with that attitude and that's what you need to do and your the point that you made about non-fiction and about why women aren't able to write it and all of that and I'm asking this question in all seriousness that is one answer to that is women becoming less open to marriage and children because I think many many people both men and women walk into marriage and children almost because it is a default way you're expected to live your life and I don't think people give a hard enough thought to how it upends everything and changes your life and I think women especially in India bear a far far greater cost for marriage and children than men do it's not even comparable mhm yeah so that's a very such a so many complicated facets to this question. It's really interesting that you talk about you know giving feedback and how it's different and you know I can imagine that this must be the case and let me say to every listener listening I got myself onto this podcast at least this time around my publisher didn't approach Amit nobody approached Amit I just emailed Amit and said I want to be on this podcast and this is something that I have been following in maybe not earlier in my life but in recent years if I want something I just ask for Right? And sometimes people say no and sometimes people say yes. But you know either way I don't lose anything. And I don't want to give this impression because of my last answer that you know I'm like teflon and nothing dents me and I don't have imposter syndrome so therefore I'm better than all of you. It's not like that. I mean thinking about it, there have been times when my children was young and I was doing very little except you know just staring out the window and then all the grunt work because you know my kids have been brought up when they were young mostly away from family and help so it was just the two of us really but I don't want to give the impression that I didn't have huge crisis of confidence then I did but you know like Nemo I just kept swimming you know I just kept going and there were many many years when my children were young where I wrote nothing or I wrote very short things you know I I kept writing but I always kept reading I never stopped reading I just kept reading and reading and I honestly think that's what has enabled me to write the books that I'm writing now because reading is so important for a writer you need to read other people and see how they are doing it you know I read all the stuff written by you know Manupilai Guha Dal Rimpa Lra Mkoti even lesser you know known writers I read them and I tried to see how they were doing things so I was always reading and then I was writing stuff you know I always wrote for foreign papers and my name is not very well known in India but I was constantly writing but I did have huge crisis of confidence back then and you are absolutely right marriage and children is not something to be entered into easily. I will say about the whole having children thing. I mean I I don't talk about these things so much in detail but I will say that it has both been much harder and much easier than I realized. So some things have been very very hard which I never anticipated. And what I didn't anticipate is the world changing so rapidly. you know, it's completely changed from like 15 years ago, right? And I didn't anticipate that. I didn't anticipate this flood of AI. I didn't even, you know, when I had my children, we had not even heard of AI. You know, the internet was just sort of in its infancy. I didn't anticipate AI. I didn't anticipate that climate change would go to such an extent. I didn't anticipate a whole bunch of things that I had never heard of. I thought parenting would be like my how my parents parented. My parents were good parents but they were you know it was very basic in those times. There was no sitting around talking to you about your feelings. They was just go get admitted in whatever school is nearest and then then fine and then okay you don't want to do engineering. All right but all right but you have to do something that brings in an income do this and do it and then I don't you know no long conversations we didn't even have mobile phones so there were no long conversations. So parenting these days is very hard. Having said that, how it has affected my writing. My daughter is my biggest supporter. She's very into reading books. She's very into books, writing etc etc. And she reads all my stuff and she has given me so much in a very how to put this in a very corny way in in it's a very corny way. Let's just say both my kids have made my life much richer, maybe much more difficult, but also richer. And that is not something to be sneezed at because my general life because I've moved around such a lot. I have very few people in my life. I have only one sibling and she lives in the states. So, she's very far away. So simply from that point of view they have made my very sort of solitary life much more people in a way and of course that doesn't mean that anybody else should have children so or uh Russian did you are right that marriage and children takes a lot of time what I do though is I have put in certain boundaries for instance a thing that I have been doing since I was married since I was like 25 years old which I don't think many people every year or even twice a year for years now I've been taking solo trips by myself and I've been doing this for years okay and you know I've gone everywhere literally everywhere I've gone to Cambodia I've gone to Turkey I go alone I don't really have any major considerations about safety you have to live your life and I have been doing this for years way before all these you know women travel group started I love solo travel and I think it's had great effect on my writing because uh even when my kids were small my husband used to look after the kids for like say 4 days and I would just go for like 4 days somewhere and that would give me a space to think about my life and is it going where I wanted to go and where is my writing going even if I'm not doing much writing at least I have a path and I totally recommend this to people but a lot of women can't do this because they have too many responsibilities or perhaps because a lot of Indian men. I know that a lot of Indian men are very insecure and they won't let their wives travel on their own. For what reason? I have no idea because you know if you want to be have an affair or be unfaithful, you can do it sitting in your home. It's not required to you know go anywhere. So I've been doing this for a very long time and it really sort of feeds my brain and I've always tried to get some time and obviously the t the time has increased you know from the time when they were kids were tiny and I only had like you know an hour or something on my own a half an hour and then it slowly slowly increased and I do think it's possible for everyone to put boundaries here we all you know we share the household tasks, you know, somewhat. My son from the age of 18, he's been cooking all his own meals, doing all his own laundry, cleaning his own room, doing all that. So, I hope that these things can change. But yes, I generally agree with you that marriage and children is not something to be entered upon lightly. And perhaps now for instance, I'm honestly advising my children that maybe it's not for you because the way climate change is going, it doesn't seem like a great plan to bring children into this mess and generally with the way AI is taking jobs. So I've told my kids, I don't think it's a good idea. I mean of course they are going to do as they see fit really. So yeah. So before we get to your book, a final question about the general literary scene like before we started recording you were mentioning how excited you are by the state of non-fiction today by the stuff that you read and what's happening there. So tell me a little bit more about this. Why are you excited? What's happening? What have you been reading? So I have to admit that for the last two two and a half years I've read very little except you know all these crappy crime fiction you know psychological thrillers because I just was absorbed doing the research for this book and by the end of the day my brain would be completely broken even now I feel like my brain is sort of just limping back to a thing but one book that really influenced this book I don't think I mentioned it last time I checked the show notes for the last podcast I don't think I mentioned it it's called The patient assassin by Anita Anand. I have been bigging up this book everywhere. She is Anita Anand is a British Indian writer. So I think this book was not very famous in India but it's such a great book. It's historical non-fiction. It's about a man called Udam Singh who was spent 30 years plotting revenge against Reginald Oda who is in the news these days because of K32. He was a lieutenant general in charge uh who ordered the Jalanwala bag massacre right so this book is about him so it's a true story and Anita Anand is actually you know she has family in the Punjab and some of her descendants you know were victims of the Jalan Wala bag massacre and she is not a historian though she is actually the co-host of a very successful podcast empire by Dal Rimple and Anitan together so she's not a trained historian And let's say she's a journalist and she written in this book, you know, in such a thrilling manner. It's like incredibly compelling and I wanted to write that kind of book where like you're just turning the pages to find out what happens to guy and again quite an unknown character Udh Singh. So I think there that book did well in the UK I think and she's writing another book about again about an Indian character who you know who was a social worker in the UK. So I'm always fascinated by all these people who cross borders who you know because I've led such a nomadic life myself. It shapes you. It turns you into a certain kind of person. Not necessarily always good by the way. And because of that I'm always very fascinated by nomadic characters which is why I was fascinated by Chatau and Roy. So this is one book that I really loved. The other book that I'm reading is a completely different book and I've just started reading this book so you know I can't comment too much about it but the first few chapters are great and the concept is great. It's a book by it's called Rama Beimma Soma by a very young writer Shriar and it's just incredible. It's about the Canada writers in the 70s and 80s who were very socially conscious you know uh Shivram Karan Tar Ananta Morti you know people like this Tjasu Gurupa and sorry Punar and Tjasui have confused him with somebody on Twitter which just shows yeah exactly and these are writers that I don't know much about because while I am a Canada I'm a fake Canada you know I I spent most of my life abroad. I can't read Canada and I don't know much about this because I'm very dassinated. I mean that's a term for somebody like myself, you know. I'm like a coconut in many ways. And I read this book and it's it's written in such a beautiful manner and I'm only in the first third chapter or so. I'm reading it very slowly and he's such a young writer but just mark my words he is going to be a gua or a manup someday. I'm just feel like it is so good and I believe he got the NIF foundation for that which is a new India foundation and I'm really glad that such grants exist because you know it's only for postindependent work I applied for that I didn't get it but actually my work is not really postindependent so you know it was a long shot I'm glad that some grants are coming but we need more grants we need more access to libraries we need all these things so these two books books I think and lots of people I know are writing non-fiction and there is so much to write about in India you know there are so many interesting people and events and you know things like that it's just that we don't have the support and the funding to and the material most of the material is in the British library or in foreign libraries so how do you access that it's really difficult for people to come all the way to the UK it's phenomenally expensive these is and you know have the money to access all these things. So but yeah I am still very cheered that such books are being published. I think uh our publisher Westland under the context imprint has published so much great non-fiction and is still publishing you know things that wouldn't have been published a few years ago like biographies of musicians of you know social workers of you know people like that you know who are not you know film stars and who are not celebs and who are not you know hot and sexy and all that kind of thing. So I really feel that it's a golden age for non-fiction in India and I hope it develops that way. I I often use the phrase golden age when I talk about cinema. I think it's a golden age of world cinema. So maybe it's a golden age of many things. One more question before we go into the break which is that on the one hand there is this view that you know the habit of reading is diminishing and books are in danger because people have so many things fighting for their time from Instagram to web series and so on and so forth at the same time books are still selling like they used to lit fest some litfests are you know absolutely standing room only etc etc as someone who's written these books books, gotten a response to them from readers and who's done the standard lit festival circuit and all of that and interacted with readers. What is your sense of the world of reading? Like is it changing? If it's a golden age of non-fiction, is it also a golden age of readers? You know, what is that world out there uh like when it comes to reading and books? I mean, I am afraid reading is declining. I or I do think so. I mean, most people I know don't read. Most people in my family don't read, okay? They just don't have the time or well, maybe that's an excuse. They use the time to do other things, you know, and to be perfectly honest, my own reading has declined very sharply. I in university, I cannot tell you how much I used to read. Like the bulk of my writing reading was done in university. But then I'm so old that we didn't have, you know, the internet and we didn't have Netflix and we didn't have all that then. And therefore there were fewer kind of distractions and I have thought often like every writer who is writing traditional books of starting a YouTube channel starting a podcast starting this and that and I haven't got very far with it and it's it's not for not because I'm a snob because I listen to podcasts YouTube videos not so much but I listen to a lot of podcasts okay and I watch by the way I watch a lot of TV I don't watch film so much but I watch a lot of TV. It's a lot of it is British TV which is fantastic like you know BBC and all that. So I totally understand all that that you know sometimes you after you spending the whole day you know slogging you want to just watch some nice pictures on TV. I understand that I guess maybe writers have to become like you know masters of all mediums like say you know Manu Pilai who's doing all kinds of interesting things I'm not very good at that I'm trying to be better for instance when I went on this like I have this horror of sharing my face and you know just grinning with my book anywhere I just I I used to find it very cringe but then now I've realized that you can't find it cringe I don't have the luxury of finding it cringe because this is what people respond to. They want to know the person. And so for this book tour on Insta, I happily splashed photos for one month. Then I got fed up and I said, "Okay, now no more." Okay. And I think you have to do that. People want to know the person behind the book and you have to master different kinds of mediums. then maybe I need to be stopped being so snobbish because I have a son who doesn't read at all and for me that's like oh my god you know it's like I I felt very attacked for a while but then I realized that he actually knows a lot of and I was like how do you know all this stuff and he said I watched a YouTube video and I was like okay then and you know he we were talking about art we were talking about karavajio and I was then he suddenly you know he suddenly kind of leapt into it and he and blah blah blah Karavajio he committed a murder blah blah this that and etc and I was like how on earth do you know all this I haven't seen you open a book for years and he's like well I watched a YouTube video about karavaji so people are getting knowledge by various ways and who am I to say where they should get the knowledge from so which is of course which is why I'm trying to write my books in as simple and accessible a way as I can and try to reach every reader so I think that's you know going around on my book tour I feel like Indian cities these days are so difficult to navigate many people wanted to come to some of my events but they just couldn't because you know Bangalore traffic on a weekday which is why everybody is now shifting to online so now I think it's going to shift to online I've noticed that the couple of online interviews that I got were seen by some 5,000 people so perhaps less in person. I do think that a very sad thing is happening to Indian cities. I can see it perhaps because I'm not living there right now which is that everything is going online and everything is you know an innovation is getting your groceries in 10 minutes, 9 minutes, 8 minutes, 7 minutes but all the public infrastructure has been destroyed. So people don't want to move beyond their own narrow localities and everything is online and I really find that quite sad because I hate online. I always prefer meeting people in person, but I'm just going to have to get used to it. You know, I'm just going to have to lump it and get used to online platforms. Really, I think all writers are going to have to get used to online platforms. All writers are going to have to learn to podcast and appear on YouTube videos and market. I mean, marketing is a dirty word for many writers because the so many people have told me, well, if your book is good, then why not just why does it need marketing? And I do not I don't know how to answer this because nobody ever says, well, you know, if the iPad is good, why does it need to be marketed? Or if a packet of chips is good, why does it need to be marketed? And I'm not saying my book is like a packet of chips, but everything needs to be marketed. But talking about response, Lady Doctors really did very, very well. And it's still doing well. In fact, when I went to all the bookshops, people were like, will you please sign Lady Doctors? And I'm like, "No, but I have a new book out." And and they're like, "Uh, yeah, yeah, but Lady Doctors, please sign for me." So, I did sign it. Lady Doctors is still selling on Goodreads. There are at least a thousand people who have marked it as something they want to read. It's still selling. It touched some kind of cord that I did not expect it to touch. And I have gotten emails from doctors, from non-d doctors who just were very moved by it. And I you know to all of them I'm going to say please read the new book because it also has many moving themes and it also has women and it also has you know difficult men. So it's not dissimilar in that way. So no no lady doctors moved me a lot as well. You know one story I keep coming back to is Himabati Sain which is such to to begin life in that manner and then to come out of it is just something so unimaginable to me. It's doesn't feel real at all. And and I share your lament about cities. You know earlier you were talking about you know your thousandt apartment in London. So let me tell you I stay in a th00andt apartment in Bombay except that I don't have a library where I can sit and work and I cannot walk outside because the AQI is like whatever a few hundred I'm still doing good. Yeah. Yeah. I'm still doing good except of course you know children adult children. The state of the world these days is so much that I you know I wanted to say most of us are going to end up living with our adult children far longer than we did with our parents you know then we envment game so think about that as well looks like I dodged a bullet so yeah let's take a quick break and on the other side of the break jump into the past okay great thank you Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it everything is everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma amit v a rma. The show is called everything is everything. Please do check it out. Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still chatting with Kavita Ra who has been patient enough to write many books. She is of course patient enough to do a couple of episodes with me as well no matter how long they take. Let's start talking about the two fascinating protagonists of your book and I I I really want to start with Chatau because to begin with I found the family fascinating. You of course mentioned that he's Sarrojani Naidu's brother. She was the eldest of many children. Equally you know Harendra Chhatupadha who artist and poet was another of his brothers. Uh his wife Kamla Chupadha also plays a part in this. In fact, Harendra Nanat you know was mentioned by a previous guest of mine just three episodes ago. Prolat Kakar once shot a commercial where I think he did the voice over. So but the most fascinating person you know in this entire family to me is really the father a gorat about whom Sarrojani Naidu once said my father is a dreamer a great man whose life has been a magnificent failure. I suppose in the whole of India there are few men whose learning is greater than his and I don't think there are many more beloved. Now one doesn't know about the beloved part or the learning part but certainly great dreamer magnificent failure this kind of fits his son also you know but tell me more about Agorat and you know what you how you read up on him what you discovered about him how he became real to you. Yeah. So yes the you know my protagonist Virendra Chhatpaday was Surrojani Naidu's brother and he came from the you know very large and intellectual Chhatada family who all grew up in Hyderabad because Agura Chatbadia while he was a Bengali he actually after studying in the University of Edinburgh he moved to Hyderabad where he became principal of Nisam's college and they all grew up there in what's now called the golden threshold and in fact Just about 2 weeks ago I gave a talk in the golden threshold which still exists. It's now part of Hyderabad University. So again a very intellectual and very gentile upbringing. So because Agonat was very well read, very well educated, he educated all his children and Srojani was the eldest girl. My protagonist Virindra Nachoad was eldest boy and in that you know eight siblings they also had Harendra Chhatupad who became a very famous poet and general you know man about town uh Renaissance man you could almost call him and Suhasini who married Nambi who was rumored to be a spy and was very high up in Indian intelligence and Malini who headed a proper popular girls college. So all of them were very accomplished, highly educated, well read, all that. And also very cosmopolitan. I mean Srojini says something in the book which I think you know really describes who chatau was at all. She says you know my beloved father said be not limited ever to Indians but let it be your pride that you are a citizen of the world. And this is what chat did. you know he became sort of a global nomad in the days before you know they were global nomads and he was a citizen of the world he was an incredible linguist he spoke you know all kinds of Indian languages Bengali Telugu Hindi Udu English he learned French Russian Dutch Italian Swedish everything and he was a true cosmopolitan he did not really believe you know in the communal politics of the time and I can assume it's because he learned it from his father And yes magnificent failure. His father Agora Chhatady started life quite well off and by the end of his life he had fallen upon hard times because he had given away all his money to various good causes and he was always amassing these sort of adas full of intellectuals who would come and talk about ideas and new things and new developments and science and religion and things like that and that is what chat did as well. So in a way he too was a magnificent failure in the sense that by the end of his life he had become completely marginalized. He was living in poverty but he lived with so much passion and conviction and in a way as I say quite often in the book he was one of the first cosmopolitans even before Nero who we think of as a cosmopolitan chat and Roy were cosmopolitans really so and I also you know one theme that I've been wondering about recently and I'm working on a larger project on this on fathers and sons mothers and daughters and so on and so forth and something that I didn't expect to find to the to the extent I found it and that I was very surprised by is that so many men eventually turn into their fathers. They might say otherwise and they might not admit it to themselves but they just do. It just happens. Like there's a beautiful quote here where Agunath you know before he dies he tells Harendraat um one of the other sons remember that I am leaving a great heritage for you not wealth not houses not lands I'm not leaving a penny for any of you but I am leaving you a wonderful thing a life of culture and a life of struggle thank god I have been able to leave you with a brain and intellect knowledge and I hope a really honest and upright heart and this aspect that he doesn't care about money but he does care about culture and learning both of these are you know things that we see in chatau. What we also see in chatau is an almost impractical political will sometimes because what happened with the father in Hyderabad as you point out is that he was in this very cushy post where he's a principal of Nisam college but then he gets involved in some minor political dispute which a sensible person would just say hey don't even bother it's not worth it but he gets kicked out of Hyderabad for that and a few years pass till he can come back because he just can't stop himself and it's a similar thing with chatau also right he goes goes in all kinds of directions because he just can't stop himself. His convictions take him there and he just kind of goes with that flow. So I'm not asking just about these two people but also about these two people specifically about Chatau. In your readings of history, when you look around you, do you see that there is something to this that there is often this kind of part dependence to the family that you're born in? And that so many men often spend their lives trying to chase a dream that in a certain sense was a continuation of their father's dream as it were. Well, I don't know. I mean I have turned into part of me is very much my father. A small part of it is my mother but I think I'm mostly my father. So probably not a good thing for those around me. So yeah you do you know you always you start life saying I will never be like my father. I will do everything differently. I will never be like my mother. And you do exactly the same things. And you always you also conn yourself I'm going to be the best parent there ever was. You know, I'm going to do this and I'm going to do that and I'm not going to say this and I'm not going to say that and etc etc. And then you make a whole bunch of mistakes, maybe different mistakes from what your parents made, but still mistakes. And you know, getting old is very humbling that way. You you just you just sort of realize that you're just exactly like what came before you. And yeah, I don't know about history and people turning into their fathers. I don't know that I'm qualified to speak about that. But yes, Chatau certainly was exactly like his father. He had only one suit. He lived in complete pinuri. He didn't care about, you know, possessions. But what where he went wrong was also you know using Agnes Smidley's resources and taking money from her and you know expecting her to cook and clean behind him but still nevertheless he laid he led a very pre precarious life and he needn't have done that at least initially the later though he didn't have a choice because he was so pursued by the police he was wanted by the police that he did not have the choice to return to India you know and I think Even Harendraat when he writes about him he does say that Chatau was was sometimes quite naive and you know there was an incident where Chatau was promised money by the Germans and he rushes off to Switzerland to meet them and actually it was a trap set by the British secret service and that chapter is called a dagger a revolver and a bottle of chloroform because that's what they had in the car and they were going to assassinate him. The British Secret Service had a contract to assassinate Chatau and he just fell into this trap and escaped because the Swiss police then intercepted the car. So this was very naive on Chat's part. He assumed that just because he supported Indian independence, everybody else would also support it. So he was very naive that way in a way that possibly even Agurat was in which he sort of rushed headlong into things and didn't consider you know the consequences. But then you know that is why that made him what he is and without being that person without being you know willing to take such risks he would not have been chat he would have been just someone else really so there's a a great line in your book about how how I think when Harendra comes to meet him in Berlin he realizes that his brother is wearing a suit which probably hasn't been ironed for a long time and has never known a crease in its life something like that or never known a crease for years which kind of indic indicates how he didn't care about material things or outward appearances and was just in the world of ideas. Tell me about the shaping of the young chatau. Like early on it it's it's not that he's always a rebel and a rebel only. He does after all go to London wanting to join the civil services wanting to be he takes a shot at trying to be a barristister after that. Tell me about the shaping of his and how he gradually moves into the revolutionary direction because on the one hand it would seem that there is a happen stance that while he is in London he fails in doing those things and he stumbles upon India house where he gets under the influence of you know Sawakur and Madame Kama and Shamji Krishna and others which you've detailed so well in the book right but you know so what's happening with him take me through his journey so the young chat arrives in London and he you He visits India House which by the way is not to be confused with the Indian embassy which is also called India House which is in Halburn. This is in Highgate North London. And this was a hostel started by a man called Shamji Krishna Warma who was basically a revolutionary at heart and you know he believed in complete independence from India and of course at that time you know they were the moderates held sway in the Congress. They were pleading only for dominion status. And this man Krishna Mama believed in complete independence for India and just became more and more radical and brought more and more radicals to the house. One of whom was Vidi Sawer. So you know when I spoke about this at a book launch, people got very furious at the mention of Vidi Sawakura who is of course now a very controversial figure. But I should clarify that this sawer in this book is early Sawarker and from what I could tell he is not very hindutwa when he is very young. He is mostly speaking only for about independence for India which in those days was a very radical thing to say right and chat and Sawarker were actually seemed to have been very close friends when Sauarker was used to give fiery speeches calling for you know we must all die for dharma and to you know throw out the English man you know from India and etc. And Sawurker is widely known to have also influenced Manlal Dingra who later killed a British official. And you know behind the scenes everybody knew that Sawurker you know was influential. And then of course Sawurker escaped in a very sort of you know dramatic way because he was arrested and then he was taken in a ship and on the way he escaped from a port hole of the ship and uh you know but uh he ended up in landed on the you know French coast but because he didn't speak French he was again sort of apprehended and Hanendra Chhatady describes this with very sort of you know in a very uh exciting way and a lot of people when I was giving my talk at this in Hyderabad number of people felt that I was you know supporting Sawakar in some way which I'm not because this book just deals with a tiny bit of Sawakar that you know in when he first came to the UK and at that time Chatau despite being a very secular person was very good friends with Sawakar no there's no denying that he visited Sawaka in prison and he was very influenced by him he then decided to quit his legal studies and you know his civil service preparations And he went to Paris where he met Madame Karma who was you know again completely in favor of Indian independence or radical you know as in contrast to the moderates like Motil Nu and Javar Lalu and you know all of those. So this is how Chatau was greatly influenced. And I say in the book that I think it was because so many of these revolutionaries saw how British people had full freedom of speech and they could write what they wanted and they decided that we too want the same thing. And in fact many of their letters were published in the times because in India they might have been persecuted but in the Britain they had a slightly more leeway. Not entirely because once these assassinations happened once again the British police you know tried to arrest them and they had to flee. So I think this is what he was very influenced by that all these you know sort of robust nationalists and radicals and several you know all of whom possibly deserve a book to themselves. So this is why what he was influenced by back then. Yeah, I mean I've I've done an episode on Sawurer with Vinach Chhaturvei who wrote about him and I've read all the books on him and one interesting thing not enough people realiz is that if Sauurkar was to die somehow in 1910 today he would be remembered the same way Bhagat Singh is or the same way a Madin-la is perhaps and nothing else a hindutwa stuff comes much later after years of torture in the jail it comes later so yeah it comes later it it comes later so I'm also wondering about the ideological shaping of chatau in this time because there are a couple of ways in which India house sort of marks an extreme departure in the sense that what is happening in the congress is that yes there is a sort of a battle between the moderates and the extremists but as James Khardi once said the moderates are extreme in their moderation and the extremists are moderate in their extremism they aren't really that far apart whereas the India house folks are really far apart that they are advocating ating violence like in your book you quote Madunal Thingra when he's on the dock he says quote if it is patriotic in an Englishman to fight against the Germans if they were to occupy this country it is much more justifiable and patriotic in my case to fight against the English I hold the English people responsible for the murder of 80 million of Indian people in the last 50 years and they are also responsible for taking away 100 million pounds every year from India to this country it is perfectly justifiable on our part to kill the Englishman who is polluting ing our sacred land and I'm interested in how this affects the discourse and what's happening around this because traditionally now when we hear about those times we see a very gentile discourse happening where on the one hand the moderates in the congress are saying that let us give petitions and let us talk to the British and no one's asking for independence and even the so-called extremists like Bal Gangard the tilak aren't going anywhere near as far as the India house folks are and we we generally in our schools and in our history books We don't learn about this strain of the freedom movement as it were but there was a lot of discourse around this as you point out you know when Madame Kama went to Paris she started a paper called Bandai Matram Chatau started a paper called Talwis uh and at various times papers are coming pamphlets are being written propaganda is happening this is a fairly popular strain of thinking among a certain kind of person so tell me a bit more about this yeah I mean you know in India house they were calling for violent revolution Okay, Krishna Warma was very clear and in fact when there were two women who were killed, two innocent British women who were killed as a result of a bombthrowing, he defended it. He in the pages of the times he says supposing for argument's sake that they were killed deliberately, it would only prove that those who habitually live and associate with wrongdoers or robbers and he means Englishmen by this do so at their peril. And initially chatau is very alarmed by this and he says that a true nationalist believed in peaceful resistance but he changes and Krishna believed that chatau only said was only moderate because he was scared of being arrested by the British. But then once he fled to Paris he becomes increasingly more radical. Okay once he escapes the Britishing he becomes you know increasingly more radical. And in Talvwar he writes very quite strongly that it's it's time to move to anarchy. Okay. He is move beyond peaceful you know resistance and things like that. Okay. So I guess by around this time no well this is still 1911 but by 1914 Jalan Walabag had happened right. So I assume people just became more and more radical and Madame Karma herself was very radical. Plus in Paris, Chatau was meeting all these Egyptian nationalists and you know colonized nationalists all of whom by then were like sick of colonization and we're talking quite bravely and you know clearly that we need violent revolution you know and of course not everybody thought that Chatau had any common sense because British police say of Chatau at this time he's full of imagination like many Bengales and was continually propounding elaborate schemes for revolution which were not of the slightest practical value. As Madame Karma sometimes said of him, he was all talk and no work you know and there was a huge amount of dissension between all these revolutionaries. Everybody had a different view on how things should be done and that of course is the curse of India right we can never sort of pull together. We always have you know a million different opinions. So I think that is where the sort of influence came in from all these other very radical nationalists and also from Italian nationalists because that was a time of Gary Baldi, Misini and also from Egyptian nationalists and other you know nationalists all wandering around in Paris at the time. So you know much later in his life so when his debates with Neu happen between 1927 and 1930 and they kind of fall apart Neu at one point writes this letter which you've reproduced in your book where he essentially accuses Shadow of being out of touch with what's happening in the country like Nu senses look we are the people who are in the country and we are dealing with the government every day and we know the ground reality and these buggers are just sitting outside and giving gan and giving lectures and they don't really know what's going on Now this book is essentially about two guys who for this entire period you know Roy for 16 years and chat for a lot of this time were outside the country and to what extent do you think that that affected the way that they looked at the country because on the one hand the outsider can have a clear gaze because there are certain things they haven't normalized and you can zoom out and you can see things which may not be clear on the ground but at the same time you know you miss the moving current of events which are happening in a particular place and therefore you can actually be hopelessly out of touch and impractical and what you say may cease to have relevance. So what is your sense of the effect that the distance and the travel had across these dimensions? My sense is that chatau was very out of touch. Okay. Because he was so sort of, you know, anti-Gandhandi, anti-NU, anti- any compromise with the British. I think he completely lost touch with the delicate negotiations that were going on for British independence which were one step forward, two steps back, one step forward, two steps back. And he completely lost touch. And in his letters with NU, you know, I am quite sympathetic towards NU because Chatu is basically telling NU just you know move to be president of the Congress. dump Gandhi. He's just using you and you move to be president of the Congress and then you can be properly socialist instead of this sham socialist you know because chat believed that the Congress was basically a party of you know bunyas and big businessmen and zamindars and he wanted it to be more in tune with the common peasant. There is something to be said for that as well. But NU of course you know took completely umbrage at this and after that their relationship never recovered and NU just forgot about Chatau because he didn't want to be lectured by Chatau on what was happening in India and I do believe that Neu was right because the communist party in India at that time was completely fledgling and tiny. It had no power at all and it was only Gandhi before Gandhi you know we were all sort of divided and it was only Gandhi who had the charisma to unite all of India the north the south the east the west I mean if you talk to anybody of that time you know even say you know for instance my mother and and all that who was born just before independence and my father everybody saw Gandhi as the leader He united the country and uh when I talk about this people are going oh why you eulogizing Gandhi Nero I'm not I'm just saying that you know Chatau and Roy were not skilled in party politics they were not skilled in party maneuver they were very impractical and they were not able to carry their message being abroad for so many years to the whole of India so I think in chat that way was very out of touch I feel was slightly more practical because he was a diehard communist until about 1930 when he realized that communism is tiny in India. We cannot possibly fight for independence under the communist banner. So he decided he said that everybody must support NU. In private he had a very poor opinion of NU which I've already read. He thought he was a vain a demagogue etc. But he did realize that the Congress is the party that will take India to independence and he in fact he joined the Congress. He became a lapsed communist. So he was way more practical in terms of what is happening on the ground. But then he eventually had to leave the congress because he wasn't skilled in party politics enough for the congress. He wasn't willing to compromise. And eventually Roy starts the radical humanist movement uh you know which he calls you know royism and that is a very impractical movement in every way. I don't think anyone can disagree. It's very attractive and you know many of us might like to be you know follow royism but it's just impossible in a country like India. So yeah so they were both out of touch I would say one more than the other. You've published a beautiful letter by Kamla Autoadha in the people in 1928 where she talks about champagne socialism and she writes Indians abroad fail to see that these communist friends are usually those who have either no opportunity or becoming capitalists and thus convert a disadvantage into a virtue or bourgeoisi who play the super superficial role of the communists in as a sort of recreation or amusement stop quote and I love the quote and it has so much resonance even with present times and perhaps in a sense there is you know maybe she's snarking at Chatau himself having you know failed to be part of the ruling class as it were by passing the IC or whatever but give me a sense here of how valid do you feel are her criticisms of the champagne socialists as it were because we've spoken earlier about how the directions that the lives of Chatau and Roy took were shaped a lot by circumstance that you change the circumstance a little bit and they land up in completely different places but at the same time as you pointed out there is something essential to their character. They are who they are. So what is your sense when uh you kind of look at them? Are they champagne socialists? Are they impractical dreamers? Are they true believers who are just floundering because of uh the wageries of time? What what is your sense? I think a mix of all these things. I think they were very complicated. I wouldn't go so far as to call them champagne socialists. I think they lived by their principles. They lived in real penury. They really suffered and struggled you know and you know there was a time when Roy could have entered the congress because after he was released from prison Javalu welcomed him and there was an incident where this just shows the way Roy just could not compromise on anything. You know that in itself makes him very communist. you know Gandhi asked him to ask Roy to join him in prayer at the prayer ground and of course every single person every single Indian would just go along yeah let's do one puja but Roy being the complete atheist and you know a rebel that he was said no I cannot come for that prayer and after that again their relationship never recovered because Gandhi is like this man will not bend and in fact he even tells Roy why don't you just observe the independence movement from effort there's no need for you to you know worry a pretty little head about it. I mean, not those words, but you know, and so I feel like Roy could if he could have compromised many times, but he didn't want to because I I do think that they weren't champagne socialists. I think they actually believed that if India, if the Congress takes over, you know, big business, Bunyas, Zindas will take over, the common peasant may be forgotten. And I think perhaps I'm one of those most reviled people on social media. I'm finding myself becoming increasingly centrist as life goes on. Okay. In a way, in a way that I am not, you know, I don't think communism has worked well anywhere in the world. Okay. One could make an argument for Kerala. Okay. But generally and I also don't think unbridled capitalism the way we are living now has worked. Okay. I find myself completely shocked by the inequalities that you have in India these days and all the figures bear me out. Latest figures show that it's 1% of us who are surfing on the other 99%. Right? And in there I think Chatau and Roy had such a valid point because they they believed that the Congress's socialism was a sham socialism and that you know eventually big business would take over and that's what has happened really. I don't know whether some of their more impractical ideas would have worked. Okay. And of course we know that Roy you know was became completely disillusioned by communism after he saw Stalin's excesses and he started believing in complete individualism as opposed to collectivism. So they kept changing their minds and I've been asked this question many times before and somebody asked this question. They said if Chatau and Roy had been you know if Chatau had survived and if Chatau and Roy had been given arms and if he had been given money do you think the independence movement would have taken a different turn and I do not think so. I think we would only have got independence as Roy said with the Congress and under Gandhi. Gandhi with all his faults. Uh that was the only way we could have got independence. But perhaps if they had survived and not been so marginalized. For instance, Roy wrote the a draft of the constitution which Britkar you know used for his own draft of the constitution. He relied on it. So they did have quite a lot of influence. I mean you know talking about some of the influence that they had which was not acknowledged for instance chatau was one of the co-founders of an organization called the league against imperialism with Willie Munzenberg and this was sort of a league of nations for the colonized people because the league of nations was all the colonizing powers like the UN today you know the entire security council is made up of the US the UK France Germany all the you know the colonizing powers and chat felt that the coloniz ized nations, India, African countries, Egypt, all Middle Eastern countries should have a say. So he started this league against impialism and it failed after a few years. But it also served as a blueprint for Neu's non-aligned policy when India finally got independence. In fact, it was acknowledged by I think it was the Indonesian President Sukarno. But NU never acknowledged it in person. But many other people said that the league against imperialism was the precursor for the non-align movement. So that is in itself quite a powerful thing. I especially think of chatau when I look at the state of the UN today and the you know the way you know every country in the world is allowing Israel to flatten Palestine with absolutely nothing to you know say about it including India. So I think about that where is the voice of the little nation of the colonized nation of the nation that is not powerful and with Roy had a great deal of influence. Roy was one of the founders of the Indian Communist Party and he had a great deal of influence on many early communists and trade union leaders including SA Dang, Mani Ben K you know Vibbi Karnik all these early people who started the early trade unions and helped influence and formulate early labor laws you know after India got independence and were united for the mill worker for the peasant for the railway worker And all this he had a lot of influence on. We just don't really remember it today. Maybe in in West Bengal they remember him more but then he became persona non grata for the communists as well. So that part of him was also erased. So they just both had a talent for always pursuing doomed causes you know that was the thing. They always picked the wrong horse. So yeah I I had a guest on my show once who described himself as a patron saint of lost causes. And that sounds exactly like these two guys. And there's a beautiful scene in your book which uh you know if the web series comes out I think it would even make for a best first scene of the whole web series to set the tone which is you know nu at Royy's bedside when Roy is dying in 1953 and he says something to the effect of Roy get up we have a lot of work to do together. And what what you've also eloquent eloquently written about is the way Royy's views changed with time. It wasn't that he was an impractical man who dogmatically held on to prior beliefs, but at one point you write quote he now saw that the individual had been crushed by Stalin's move towards collectivism. So he began to see individual freedom as all important and began to formulate a new philosophy. His basic principle was that man is essentially rational and man is the maker of this world. It went beyond the narrow confines of nationalism, religion and community or at least it hoped to. Roy explained his new philosophy with 22 thesis all based on the fundamental principle that the individual was about society and freedom can only be enjoyed by individuals. He completely rejected Soviet collectivism stop quote and uh in the next page you write Neu was the only other Indian leader who had an international outlook but Royy's philosophy was different from Neu. Neu believed that India's backwardness was due to foreign subjugation. Roy believed that it was India's backwardness that had led to subjugation. Neu believed that the difference between a poor India and a rich Europe was the industrial revolution. Roy laid more emphasis on renaissance and the enlightenment and sought a similar renaissance in India. Stop quote which is when I begin to think what a tragedy it is that he didn't you know live a few more years and get to argue with these ideas and you know the argument could play out in uh the public discourse and all of that never happened. Give me a sense actually since you know one of the things that your book is for me also is that it feels like an extended road movie because both these characters are just on the road all the time. Grand adventures are happening and this is the this is and this road is a 20th century. It's it's crazy. It's such a great you know grand sweep of things that are happening. So I won't ask you to take me through details of your book and all of that but give me a sense of these two different journeys that Chatau and Roy are on that what is it that Chatau is trying to do when he's traveling all across the world and when Roy is out of the country for 16 years etc etc he comes back he goes back what is it that Roy is trying to do what's going on what's the game there so I wish it could become a web series or a road movie because with Lady Doctors you know there was interest in turning it into a series that never happened. Okay, there were some big names and it all just fell through for various reasons. I would love this to be a road movie because it's very cinematic. And I don't know if you noticed this. I noticed this after I had read written the whole book. The opening scene where Chatau is facing a firing squad in, you know, in Moscow, which is during Stalin's great purge, he's facing a firing squad. It actually mirrors the opening of a very famous book which I didn't realize until I had written the whole thing it was published. It mirrors the opening scene of 100 years of solitude by Marquez because the first scene line of that is something like you know when Colonel Orurelio Buendia was taken was facing the firing squad. He remembered the day his father took him to CIS and I open my book the same way with Chatau standing in front of a firing squad that we know happened. And then I have some conjecture as to what he was thinking when he was facing the firing squad. And this is just my, you know, conjecture. I surmise that he must have been thinking about his family, his many lovers and possibly of Emmenroy who had just escaped the Soviet Union then, you know. So, so Chatau's journey started life in this gentile educated intellectual family with his seven siblings in Hyderabad. moved to the UK, moved to England ostensibly to study. Immediately got swept up in the you know happenings in India house became steadily more radical was influenced by Sauurkar, Dingra, Madame Kama, all the other MPT, Acharia, all these revolutionaries. then had to flee to Paris to escape the British secret service where you know he moved around in the Paris Indians who were a bunch of revolutionaries and you know completely took the radical path. Then moved to Berlin where he became the head of a small group of people called the Berlin Indians and once again they were completely radical. During this time he became influenced by communism and he also started working with the Germans for what was called a jihad because the Germans at the time wanted to mobilize the Muslim peoples of the world against the British. And there was all kinds of shenanigans there by a man called Baron Maxon Openenheim who was also an archaeologist and who also dug up you know a lot of things in Iraq and eventually again that came to nothing and once again you know dissension and disorganization within the revolutionaries plus uh I should mention that throughout both Chatau and Roy had the problem that nobody actually believed that Indians could be independent even the Germans While they were willing to aid them in some way by giving, you know, small sums of money and helping them organize, they just did not believe that India could become completely independent. That's where the racism comes in. And they felt like, you know, they would go so far and no further. So they would give a little bit of money and no further. And Chatau at this time also met a number of socialists who were very keen Swedish, Dutch who are very keen that India move to socialism. But when asked well we also want independence then they would say no no no you I mean let's have socialism first then maybe independence if you show yourself qualified so chatau you know he was continually meeting these you know sort of obstacles. Okay then Chatau met Agnes Smmedley in Berlin. They had, you know, for some years they had this very toxic relationship and then she finally left. And then Chatau was in Sweden and where he did put out a lot of propaganda and you know a lot of documents and tried other things and he also started a league against imperialism. And eventually after many many years of this he eventually had no choice but to flee to the Soviet Union because the police were on his tail in every other country and Berlin had been taken over by the Nazis. And by the way, Hitler despite being you know fighting a war against the British also had a very poor opinion of Indian nationalists. Being you know the Arian that he was he did not believe that they India deserved independence and he said I would rather actually you know join cause with Britain than with India with the Indian nationalist. So chat had no choice but to flee to the Soviet Union which is where he became a friend of Kiraov who was you know uh one a confidant of Stalin and there he appears to have given up the revolutionary life and he became an academic he married a Russian woman and possibly for the first time in his life he had peace and quiet for a few years and then suddenly Stalin's great purge started with no warning with no rationale even because it was sort of all in comparing Stalin started to arrest every kind of foreigner. As I say in the book, he arrested people for the flimsiest reasons for being a foreigner, for writing a letter, for dancing, for singing, for anything, you know. And then I think Chatau knew his fate because when his friends started being arrested, he says he says, you know, I'm next. And then all we don't know anything further. All we know is that he was taken to the you know he was executed in 1937 but his true fate was not known until 1991. In fact Stalin's own great purge was exposed only by Nikita Kushchev in 1956 3 years after Stalin had died. So that was Chatau's trajectory and he kind of stuck to one philosophy. First it was revolution then it was communism. He stuck to that. He died a communist which is very ironic that a communist should be executed by Stalin you know but that was what Stalin's great purge was all about if you read further emroy had a different kind of tra trajectory and emanroy died in 1954 so he had 17 more years than chatau chat died in 1937 so Emroy started life as a bombthrower as a revolutionary he was very influenced by all the robust Bengali nationalists like Viveananda Orurabindu Bhaga Jatin Jatindraat Mukharji. So he started life as a revolutionary and as a bombthrower throwing bombs at British officials, British institutions, British things like that. And then he was told by Bhagatin to go to the Far East to gather money and arms for India. And once again he tried. He went to Japan, he went to Java, he went to China, he tried to make alliances but ultimately failed. In fact he calls it in search of the golden fleece. you know after you know the Jason and the Argonaut story where he's forever searching for the golden fleas he failed for many reasons but certainly one reason was that many nations were not willing to support India in their fight for independence they believe that India could never be independent because after all it was a jewel in the crown so the Britain would never give it up then Roy flees the police and is forced to go to the US where he meets many you know people from the gather movement and also Oh, he meets Lala Lajatroy and there is where Roy sort of changes his thinking because he hears Lala Lajproy constantly talk about freedom for India and then he asks Lal Lajay he says okay what if we get freedom won't we just be turning India over to the big zamindas and the big bunyas and big business and the wealthy what happens to the common man and Laala Lajutra did not have a convincing answer he said no we first have to independence but Roy felt that if we if India is liberated only to be turned over to Gandhi and his ilk it's not worth the it's not we're not going to be a fully independent India before this he moved to Mexico again he had to flee the police he moved to Mexico where Roy actually set up the Mexican Communist Party which is very strange like an Indian who did not speak Spanish setting up the Mexican Communist Party and by all accounts it was a tiny party like I think Somebody described it as six men and a calico cat. So like a book club. But nevertheless, it was the only communist party outside the Soviet Union. By this time, Roy had been influenced by, you know, the Russian revolution. And he was determined that, you know, he had moved to communism. That was his philosophy. And he realized that throwing bombs only gets you so far. You need a philosophy to liberate an entire, you know, people. Then he moves to the Soviet Union where he becomes Lenin's protetéé. He is meets Trosky. He meets Stalin. He is given many tasks by the communist party and embarks on some very foolhardy missions. All of which fail for different reasons. One reason could be that he was set up to fail. It could also be that he circumstances were not favorable. And thirdly, it could also be Royy's just natural arrogance because he was quite an arrogant man from reading his memoir. And eventually the Communist Party expels him because you know he doesn't agree with their philosophies anymore. Returns to India. He is imprisoned for 6 years. When he comes out, he joins the Congress. But in the Congress, he can't get along with Gandhi and Neu. So he leaves them and he sets up the radical humanist party. And uh I must read Royy's obituary which will probably enrage his disciples. Okay, but it's more nuanced in the book. And a guardian obituary describes him as having emroi as having the most extraordinary career of a man of his generation in Asia. It was of interest out of proportion to his actual achievements. And in a way that's true because he had such a fascinating life but in many ways it did not come to that much and the reason is he had little skill in party maneuver which is I think an damning indictment in India because the thing that you need most of all is skill in party maneuver. So yeah, absolutely. My god, what a ported history. I would just tell all my readers to go out and buy your book because it's like 800 times uh uh richer than this. But I'm not done yet, you know. U I was just thinking if it was a web series like every episode should have a great scene with which it opens so you can't leave it. And another of the great scenes in your book comes from Bag Jatin, you know, where Bhagatin is fighting with that tiger like he's basically called to a town and he's told there's a tiger, come and kill it. He thinks it's a baby tiger. He goes, it's a full-fledged man-eating burger. The man-eating tiger and Baga Jatin fight handto- hand. Bag Jatin wins, but his limbs are mauled. And then villagers come, they think he's going to die, but he survives. And that's where he gets a name from which is such a fascinating story. Yeah. I mean there were so many fascinating careers in around at that time and uh you know it's just I mean somebody asked me the question the other day. This was in an I gave a talk at Takshila which you know about and they said do all these people you know they have all different views is that something that's lacking in today's society and I think one thing that people of that time had was they met in person and they had so many great conversations as opposed to you know just logging onto social media and getting all your opinions from there and they read so much for instance Emmen and Roy had quite a patchy and poor education because he was busy being a revolutionary in his you know times when he should have been studying and he educated himself by reading in a New York public library and if you read the way Emmenroy writes he's written about some 40 books or whatever and he writes so well with a certain you know little full of himself but nevertheless so much better than we are writing now with all our advantages like you know you talk about the art of clear writing I feel like these guys had so much they were so vastly read and they had so much irredition which I think these days is sort of dying out because everything is a sound bite you know or a tweet. So yeah and you know another thing that you kind of realize when one reads books such as yours is that there are you know all of these little nuggets about places in history where you think that uh you know that oh my god this is uh uh something I never knew about and in the moment to the protagonists it must have seemed absolutely wild like one thing that I didn't know till I read your book was about the provisional government set up in uh Afghanistan in 1915 you know and and it was headed by a guy called Raja Mahindra Prattab of Hatras right yes yes and yeah I mean at least they took him to head it and then you know and then Lenin said we I don't want this you know guy whatever this fake prince or whatever it's it's just wild the things that another really wild thing is the way Mroy was roped in to uh smuggle the Russian crown jewels you know and which were the crown jewels which were taken from the dead bodies of the Romanovs in the you know they were all bayonetated and shot and then you know the Russian crown jewel he was roped in but I couldn't find any trace of what happened to them later I think honestly they have been you know appropriated by somebody or lying somewhere or the other some are in the Russian museums but not all and they they just do such incredible things like even that there's that scene where Emanroy is sent to Tashkin with a wagon full of gold and you know lots of machine guns and this that to start a revolution there by the common turn and it of course it doesn't work out. many things that he did did not work out, you know. So, but still the very fact that he was actually saint is like it's like bizarre the fact that people don't know about this. And I I feel like so much of Emmenroy has been reduced to like dull communist philosophy and everybody's like, "Oh my god, I don't want to read about communist philosophy. I need my iPhone kind of thing." But there is lots of human stuff as well, you No, and there's that Mad China episode also where Emen Roy and Borodin and someone else are sent to China to ferment a revolution over there and then Stalin gives him an order which is completely impractical and impossible but no one can dare to tell Stalin that and everything basically goes to hell and when Emroy gets back he finds that he is persona on Greta. Yeah, I do believe that I feel like Emroy deserves a book on his own and I do believe that there is a book coming. I have heard about it. So everybody should read that book as well because this man deserves a book on his own. I have structured my book this way because you know this is the kind of book I wanted to write. But he deserves a popular history or you know not a scholarly history on his own. He has got an excellent popular history. The it is a book that you have written. And you know in a sense a key part of the book and therefore also the web series which will surely happen is about the these two characters actually being in the same place at the same time actually interacting in the early 1920s where they are fighting for Lennin's favor but Emmanroy is already there first and then Chat lands up with Agnes and Agnes has prior beef with M and Roy and M androy is ranting against Agnes. Agnes is ranting against M androy. Emmanroy is ranting against Chatau. Chatau is renting against M and Roy. Chatau hates Borodin etc etc. Great drama is happening. Tell me about that period because it strikes me that under slightly different circumstance these guys would be chuty buddies. They would be bumchums because you know they would be so good together. Totally. Yes. Like you know like Stasky and Hutch or whatever Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid you know they totally Yeah. actually you know they are they don't meet until 1920 but they hear of each other because it's a small and interconnected world and they are fighting for a very tiny piece of the pie which is by that time both of them had decided that the bolsheiks were you know where where it's at and you know you know we forget so many years later you know perhaps we all know that you know we don't venerate Lenin but at the time Lenin was you know many Indians venerated ated Lenin because he had liberated the country from the aristocrats. He had fought back the British and the Germans and then later they venerated Stalin because Stalin you know fought back the Nazis with the Red Army. So at the both Chatau and Roy were very much impressed by Lenin and they wanted his patronage, his help, his support, his perhaps funds, perhaps soldiers, anything and they were both fighting for this and Roy won. And if you Google E and Roy sadly I could not have any pictures in the book because it drives up the cost of the book. Emmenroy was a very very charismatic good-looking film star good looks he's described as having and very very charismatic man everything that everybody says about it was that when he walked into the room everybody else stopped talking okay he was that kind of man and I feel like this might have played a part okay because but also because Emmenroy was mentored by Mikail Borodin who was a very close friend of Lenin so Emmanroy got to Moscow first and met Lenin and got his orin first and had already you know spoken with Lenin and by the time poor chatau made it from Berlin with Agnes Medley he was sort of completely ignored in fact Lenin just said send me your thesis yeah okay I've read your thesis and the relationship between Agnes the the triangle of Agnes Smemedley Chatau and Roy is fascinating and it's hard to know what exactly it is because Smemedley Agnes Medley had met Emmenroy in New York way before she met Chatau in Berlin and he was married by then. But later Emmen Roy has this almost very strange hatred of her. Hatred is the word I would use because he calls her an evil witch, a temptress and all kinds of things. And he says that if not for her, I could have got along very well with Chatau because after all, we're fighting for the same cause. Now the interesting thing is that Agnes Medley wrote a novel called Daughters of Earth which was a fictionalized version of her life and in that the heroine who is basically Agnes herself is raped by an Indian nationalist and she does not reveal the identity of the nationalist. It's a sort of composite of many characters but one biographer of Agnes certainly has claimed that it could be Amenroy and honestly I couldn't find any evidence as to this. So I don't want to say anything but I think what is fact is that Emmenroy really despised Agnes Medley and this is part of the very macho nationalist culture amongst Indian revolutionaries where Agnes Medley and Chatau were not married so she was seen as his keep or his you know his or whatever and she never got the respect that she deserved. To be fair Agnes Medley also had a lot going on. She had mental issues. She had, you know, and she was quite a neurotic person in many ways. And she also had some issues going on. So, it's very hard to sort of sift through all this to see who was at fault. But what is certain is that Roy despised Agnes Medley and Agnes Medley despised Roy because of their past history or because of whatever reason. and Roy you know very cunningly outmaneuvered Chatau and managed to get the communist support and Chatau and you know Agnes Medley had to return to Berlin. Agnes Medley wasn't even allowed to speak and they had to return to Berlin empty-handed which was actually you know sort of the beginning of the end for chatau and his future plans and Emmenroy you know rose to the top ranks of international communism he you know he was a friend of Stalin he was met with Trosky you know he was sent he was the comment's man in China all these things and of course that didn't work out well for him but it's it's really exciting all those scenes with all these men and one of the men who went was also Swami Viveananda's brother. So he also was trying to get his ore in and also MPT Achara who later you know died very sadly in complete penury in India. There's a book about him as well. He's also a fascinating character. Sir yeah and you know the you you point out in your book that the leader Smemedley was possibly referring to as a rapist was Humbal Gupta and Heramal Gupta later lands up at a communist party meeting and says there's no place for foreigners and women and basically he doesn't want her there and and I'm just imagining her mental state at being around all these toxic men some of whom allegedly committed violence on her and what hell it must have been and I also wonder when you look at history like in today's modern times S we have discussed about how you know on social media is fashionable to pass judgment on everyone and you know retrospectively cancel people but if you think about it everybody's getting cancelled if you start you know picking flaws like at some level you have to separate art and artist and so on and so forth like there's absolutely no man in this book who's not deeply unsaavory and if you really want to pick them out you can look at Gandhi and Neu and so on I mean people contain multitudes and so on and so forth and is this is this what like this is what draws me to history actually the the the human side of it you know and uh is this why you were drawn to history to begin with and is this a sense that you get among your readers as well like is one of the reasons lady doctors worked so well and this book I know will be a bestseller is this and like Manu's books or Ram's books because they people them with actual complex human beings and that's what makes it so worth it oh absolutely I mean nobody in history is black or white I mean the problem is Like I said, our textbooks flattened them into, as we all know, Gandhi was by no means a saint. Neither was Neu. Neither was Tilak. None of these people were saints. They were human and we are also human, which is means that we also have all these flaws. And you know, and yes, it's certainly what drew me to history, which is that every single historical character has so many flaws and messes up and tries again and then messes up again, which is what it is to be human really, you know. So completely yes, true. And I I try to find characters which have, you know, all these facets to them and which are I I attempt at least to not put them on a pedestal. So let's talk about casting now. Who should play these characters in the web series? My goodness, you have given this a lot of thought. No, no, I'm asking you to give it a lot of thought. I have no idea. First name that comes to your head. Who should be chat? I mean if if at if Shamitra Chatter G were alive, he would have made such a good totally okay. I have no idea because for some time now I have like not watched any of these. Chatau, I don't know. You need like a small slight man with a bristling mustache. You you tell me. I mean who who could have who could be cast as Chatau? I mean no idea at all. Yeah. I mean not a leaving aside the small man and the bristling mustache. I looked at a couple of pictures of Chatau online and I thought that that's sort of the complexity of the character requires someone like a Manoj Bajai to do justice to it. Maybe Manoj Baj. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe maybe Manoj Baj I think definitely and I don't know I I I feel like for I feel for Agnes midley I have an person in mind okay and being the dassinated person that I am all these foreign actors are leaping out at me so I'm just going to mention uh for Agnes Medley I would like Carrie she is in she's a character actor who is in a series called the Gilded Age and she's in the white lotus and she's various other things and she just has this chameleonike character where I think she could really kind of you know pull it off. Uh she's American as well. I think for Emmenroy we to find a current actor somebody with like a lot of charisma. I I have a suggestion which will seem odd to people because this particular actor hasn't done roles with this range yet but I feel he's capable of it. I would go for Anir Singh. you know the good looks, the charisma uh and he's a tremendous actor and to you know give him a challenge like this that you age over 40 years and all of that would be very interesting you know yeah I guess but first I mean first let it become a series then we'll talk about casting lady doctors almost made it it made it to the signing of contract stage and then it all fell through so I don't want to say anything about this ever becoming a series and I don't know it might be a mixed blessing because that queser 2 is uh getting some savage reviews as well as praise and I don't know whether it's accurate to the book. I haven't to be honest read the book though actually it's on my list because I do want to read the book. I think the book came out in 2020 or 2019 possibly. I don't know. So the book is quite it's not recent. So adaptations can also can also be a mixed blessing I guess. No no no no. But what can go wrong? What can go wrong is if if it's not a good series, people will say the book was much better which is good for you. And if it's a good series, people will say ah we must go and read the book which is good for you. We must manifest. So my Okay, let's manifest. My third to last question since I've taken a lot of your time. Tell me about the role one important protagonist played in the writing of the book which you haven't spoken about so far but you mentioned in your book which is Fleetwood Mac. Yes. Yeah. It's acknowledgments. Okay. I think this may be the first book that I have not acknowledged to my father because all my other books I acknowledge to my father. This book I felt like I really needed to acknowledge the libraries and librarians because they're really being sort of decimated and of course in India no libraries at all but my library here in under Tori Britain well previously Tori Britain now it's not it is converted into a visa center half of it has been converted into a visa center my local library here. So yeah, Freightwood Mac. So yeah, when you're writing books, you need music, but you not music that disturbs you too much or makes you, you know, stressed. So I think the rumors album free to Mac is the best album ever. And uh I'm also very fascinated by the dynamics in that group. So that's why it's dedicated to Fleetwood Mag because I listened to that album some I don't know thousand times while writing this book. So yeah and the relationships in that band were plenty complicated as well. So very plenty complicated and yeah I find myself fascinated by them as well. Not just the music everything about the band is very interesting to me. All my writing students are just face palming because two writers just use the phrase very plenty complicated but it's okay. You can sometimes you got to be authentic to your feelings. Oh god. I I think I have said far worse things on this podcast and very complicated. It's like it's whatever comes out, you know. Yeah. So my penultimate question and and I'm so impressed that you wrote this book in 15 months and of course a few months before that to do the design for it. I'm I'm curious about how you look at your life now in terms of life design. Like I was chatting with a friend of mine who's in his 40s who finished his first book. He said that he's realized that it takes him six seven years to write a book. So he's really got to choose carefully and he's getting he already into panic mode because hey he's got to choose carefully and time is running out. H how do you you know do you think in terms of how much time there is or do you just say that I love writing I'll keep on writing I won't look too far into the future I'll just do what I do. So when you look at your life design how do you think about it and and what are you working on now? uh my life design my life has not been very designed. I started life trying to design it in my 20ies and then everything went completely unplanned for many reasons. Okay, those those who people who know me personally will know what I mean and then I tried to kind of yank it back on course and a lot of thing has just been complete serendipity. Nothing that I planned. For instance, I moved to London in 2020 and it is only because of the British library and access to British Library that I started writing these books. And this was not planned. It just happened out of the blue. And moving to a different country in the pandemic is probably not something that many would have done, but we did it. And I'm now in my 50s. So, you know, more of my life has gone than is ahead of me. I do feel a sense of rushing time and that time is running out to do all the things that I want to do and therefore I try to do everything pretty fast. You know I don't know you know it's great to spend six or seven years on a book but I don't know whether having started quite late. I wrote my first book when I was 42 so I'm not I'm a very late bloomer. I think I've said that in the last previous podcast as well. I'm a very late bloomer. I have bloomed very late and therefore I need to rush a bit because I do not know what's going to happen in my future and for because of that I tried to pack a lot into my life and I I have the time and the space and very you know luckily I have I have some financial backing that I can pack a lot into my life. So I'm trying to pack as much into my life as possible. And I know that a lot of people in their 50s have gone the other way. They were like want to slow down and you know that kind of thing. They become more sort of but I have gone the other way. I'm like there is so much of life to grab. That sounds very pompous and influencer type things but it is true though. I mean there just so many things that I want to do, so many things I want to see, so many people I want to meet. And so I've gone the other way actually I have instead of becoming reclusive and inwardlooking I've kind of gone the other way in my 50s and I but having said that every book I write this is my fourth book people think it's my second book but I did write two books before I feel like I don't want to write any more books I feel very sort of fed up and I'm like oh my god the rewards the monetary rewards are tiny and then who will read and etc etc. I keep thinking that but then I find a story and then I think about another book and on this book tour people were asking me what's your next book and I said I don't know I don't know but then halfway through the book tour I got an idea for a book because I was reading and I got an idea and who knows I may or may not pursue it I think the next thing that I want to do since I'm in the UK I want to write a book that British people will want to read and that It's incredibly incredibly difficult for an Indian writer who is not a British Indian. And Lady Doctors was published in the UK and some British people read it. It was in the bookshops which is a huge achievement but it didn't get any reviews in the papers and not many people have read it because it's so hard to explain Indian context to anybody. For instance, I was I mean this is this is just an example of how difficult it is to break that wall like the fourth wall or whatever. I was talking to a British Indian about my book and she said what's it about and I said it's about Sarroji Naidu's brother and then after a while she said did you know that I am named after Srojani Naidu and I said no and then she said yeah my name is Jinnie I knew her as Jinny but it's actually a short form for Surrojini and she said but I don't know who Sarroji Naidu is I have never known nobody ever told me they just called me Surrojini and you know the minute I was born I shortened it to gini because nobody could pronounce sujini. So this is how hard it is to get a book published and to appeal to the British audience because they don't know the context. They only know Gandhi and NU and even that you have to explain that Mahatma Gandhi is not related to Indra Gandhi and they don't know anything else and that I find very frustrating because we read so much western history. We read so much American history and we read all about you know American states you know we we know where Pukypsy is we know where Massachusetts is but they do not know anything. The flow of knowledge is only one way and this is the kind of wall that every Indian writer has to fight in the west which is to get people to read your book and if you don't know anything you know you can read you can google what is Maharashtra or Karnataka why do I need to explain you know these things to you but you know people don't see it that way and this is why I would really like my next book to be read in the UK and reviewed food in the UK. So that's my next goal, but it's going to be hard. However, the character that I have found is a character that lives in the UK. So maybe lived in the UK, so maybe it'll be easier. We'll see how it goes. Still very early days. More power to you. I mean, I'd be optimistic. I think a great story is a great story anywhere, even if the names are unfamiliar and so on and so forth. So I I totally get what you're saying in the sense that I wish the publishing world was a little more open to new ideas and not just playing it too safe all the time which is what I hear from so many of my writer friends abroad. Yeah. My final sort of question for me and my listeners uh you know recommend books, films, music, any kind of art at all which means a lot to you and which you love so much that you want to share with all the world. Okay. I my only thing is that I don't know whether they are all available in don't worry about it we we'll find a way to get it the jugu we'll figure it out to jugaru through VPNs or something so the two books that I wanted to talk about were I said the patient assassin Anita anan rama bhima soma by shrier I've forgotten his second name I think that's shria's first name sorry shrier if you're listening okay and also I read I still haven't finished this book but I have read parts of it which are fantastic and I'm going to read more. I stopped reading non-fiction while I was writing this book because it was getting in my way. The third non-fiction book I would really love to recommend is uh the day I became a runner by Shini Chhatraaya which is fantastic about India's you know early women runners and it's beautifully written so lyrically and beautifully written. Then I think about fiction on this subject that you said about Indian or Asian writers writing in the west. I'd like to recommend this book, this novel that I read recently. It's by it's called brotherless night by Vi Ganesh Nantan who is a Sri Lankan writer of very of Sri Lankan origin. It's about the Sri Lankan civil war. And honestly when I you know picked it up I was like oh my god there's enough war in the world. I don't want to read something depressing and you know I didn't want to read it but it's so beautifully written and one thing that Vi Ganesh Nantan does is she does not explain the Tamil terms so it's scattered with Tamil terms which are actually quite understandable to any Indian person like rasam long pongal and all that but I read it in my you know in my very white book club and they're like what the hell are these you know all these terms and why do they have these complicated names the names are not at all complicated. You know there are names like you know Shashi Dharan and Niranjan which are very you know identifiable but it just gave me an idea of how it is so hard to make a western reader read about a person called Shashidharan or Shashikala and yet we are expected to read about western characters called Alexander and Katherine and Bartholomew and God knows what else. So I think this this book is just amazing. It's it's written in a way that is not manipulative and of course terrible sad things happen and it's probably very identifiable to 80s kids or people who grew up in the 80s because it's all the events you know of the LTT prabakaran and you know all those events that led to where we are today. So that's a great book brother Night Vi Ganesh Nantel. In TV I have really liked something called Miss Austin which is about the letters of Jane Austin which is on the BBC. I don't know whether people can easily watch it but it starts very slow but it's very beautiful and memorable about Jane Austin and her sister. And I also really loved Wolf Hall, which is obviously the adaptation of Hillary Mantel's novel series 2. And a lot of people find will find both these very slow and very dull. So, but I find them fascinating. But for, you know, more fun content, I am completely addicted to this TV show called The Traitors. And they have the British version, American version, New Zealand version. It's like mafia. It's a reality game show where people sort of, you know, try to find the identity of the traitor. So that got me through the whole winter watching British, US, New Zealand versions and all of those. It's like a really fun game show to watch and it just teaches you about psychology and people because generally the first person to be voted out, it's like a voting out game is always a South Asian man. Always. They always think like, "Oh, he's too knowit all. He's too clever. He's a doctor. Oh my god, he's too clever. He's a lawyer, engineer." They vote him out. Music-wise, I think I'm extremely stuck in the 70s or 80s. So, nobody wants my music recommendations. I just keep listening to the same music from the 70s and the 80s, you know, Freightwood Mac type of music again and again and again. Sadly, I haven't moved beyond that really. So that's it. Yep. Thank you so much. You've uh thank you so much for writing the book. Firstly, I mean when I learned a new book of yours had come out, I knew it would rock and roll because Lady Doctors was so good and this did not disappoint me at all. It was fantastic. I shall wait for the web series to come out and then we will all party and celebrate across continents. So Kavita, thanks. Oh yeah, sure. Thank you very much for having me. Uh I really wanted to come on because like I said every single person I met on my book tour said I heard about lady doctors on the scene and the unseen and you know that's how I knew I had to kind of get back on this. So I sort of brazenly emailed you and said please may have me on you know and uh I'm I'm glad you like the book because there was a certain amount of pressure to make this book as good as lady doctors and it's a different book but I feel like it has some of the things that made Lady Doctor successful basically the humanity in people you know that's what it is really. Absolutely. It's it's a fantastic book and you will hear from many people about how much they love it. Thank you. H I hope so. Thank you. Bye-bye. If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. You can follow Kavita on Twitter at kavita. That's one word. You can follow me on Twitter at amitwarma amitivvma. You can browse past episodes of the scene and the unseen at seen unseen. And any podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of The Scene and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You can go over to seen ununseene.in/support and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you.