================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: 3c7O8ahZSHE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3c7O8ahZSHE
TITLE: Trade Wars: Trump Targets India
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-12
DURATION: 1h 3m 15s
VIEWS: 3,116
LIKES: 42
COMMENTS: 20
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Last week, U.S. President Donald Trump issued an executive order slapping India with a 25 percent special tariff due to its purchases of Russian oil. This surprise measure raised the total tariff on Indian exports to the United States to 50 percent—among the highest rates imposed by the United States on any country in the world.

But India is not just “any country.” Over the last quarter-century, it has emerged as one of America’s most valuable strategic partners. Trump’s tariff move has plunged the bilateral relationship into crisis, raising difficult questions about the future of both U.S. and Indian foreign policy.

Grand Tamasha emerged from its summer hiatus for an emergency episode to make sense of these developments and their global ramifications. For this special episode, Milan is joined by Grand Tamasha regulars, Sadanand Dhume of the American Enterprise Institute and the Wall Street Journal and Tanvi Madan of the Brookings Institution.

The trio discuss the drivers behind Tru
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 11,829

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. [Music] Welcome to a special episode of Grant the Masha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hindustan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bashnov. Last week, US President Donald Trump issued an executive order slapping India with a 25% special tariff due to its purchases of Russian oil. This surprise measure raised the total tariff on Indian imports to the United States to 50% among the highest rates imposed by the United States on any country in the world. But India is not just any country. Over the last quarter century, it's emerged as one of America's most valuable strategic partners. Trump's tariff move has plunged the bilateral relationship into crisis, raising difficult questions about the future of both US and Indian foreign policy. To make sense of these developments and their global ramifications, I'm joined today by Grant Tamasha regular Saddan and Dume of the American Enterprise Institute and the Wall Street Journal and Tamil Madan of the Brookings Institutions. Guys, thanks for coming on. Good to be back. Good to be back as well. So, we are breaking our summer hiatus um at the request I should say of several Grand Thea listeners to do a special emergency pod on Trump's tariff tantrum. And Saddana and I want to start with you with a just kind of broad question about, you know, really the the question we've all been discussing privately over the last several days about how we got here. What to you is the most convincing explanation for Trump's decision to slap this kind of unprecedented 50% tariff on Indian exports to the United States? Well, great question. And you know I'm going to start by just pointing out that we're all speculating to a certain extent. Uh but the way I see it there, you know, three broad strands. Uh the most important is what happened in the actual negotiations between the US and India. Now it appeared as though they were going very well. uh as your listeners are obviously aware. Modi had visited the US in February and uh the idea was that the that India would move very quickly to lock in at least some kind of preliminary trade agreement uh you know to avoid the looming threat of tariffs even on so-called liberation day uh when Trump announced these tariffs on many countries. The mood in India was generally fairly optimistic and upbeat because they felt that that India had the inside track. it had an early early mover advantage and things were moving towards a deal. They were also optimistic in India because I think there was a there was a sense that India was willing to put more on the table than before uh make concessions that it had not been willing to make before and so on. Now why didn't it work out? I think a few things happened. uh one of course is that what India characterized as a particularly generous deal may not have looked like a particularly generous deal from a US perspective especially when compared to other countries for example Indonesia went down to 0% the Japanese made significant concessions the Europeans made significant concessions so what appeared from an Indian perspective to be unprecedented may still have appeared kind of meager from an American perspective I think that's that's that's the the gist of it Um I also think there are you know few other things going on where which in in the background. Uh one is that I think you know Trump tends to look at the world through this historical lens and he has long viewed India as particularly problematic. You know going back to the first term or even going back you know before that he sees India not without reason as a country that has particularly high tariffs. He's referred to India as a tariff king. Um both of you would remember the incident in the first term over Harley-Davidsons where he was you know kind of just focused very intensely on the idea that why why was India charging such high tariffs on Harley-Davidsons. So he already had this idea of India as a problematic player. And then the third strand which not entirely sure has something to do with this but may have something to do with this. But I think things have gone south in terms of uh the India Pakistan dynamic where you know and we can get into this more later where there was this short sharp 4-day conflict in May and uh immediately after that Trump took credit the Pakistanis were more than willing to give him credit and in fact nominated him for a Nobel Peace Prize and the Indians have I think from a Trumpian perspective uh been quite uh churish about not giving him any credit obviously from from an Indian perspective they think that this is obviously this is the right thing to do and how dare he take credit and so on but I think all that would probably you know I imagine it probably would have you know added to a kind of souring and by all accounts uh right now he's quite sour on India you have the 50% you have the 25% which was added on because of Russia I don't think that has to do with India directly I think that he was perhaps frustrated that the killing had not stopped in the war and I think India is just a weaker target than say China that that imports more oil. So I don't think that that part was directly related to India. Then again India which was already in in disfavor with Trump ended up bearing the brunt of that too and that's how we get to 50%. Tanvi anything you want to add on on Saddan's kind of three strands. I think the one thing I would add uh we have seen many of these issues that are kind of source of differences whether it is Pakistan whether it is Russia whether it is trade or kind of economic differences more broadly been an issue before whether in the Trump administration or other US administrations uh even since US India relations have been on kind of an upward trajectory to me there are two things that make this uh moment somewhat trickier. Um not not kind of irretrievable but trickier. Uh one is an element that is uh an addition or kind of the new thing in the mix which Saddanand um uh mentioned which is the fact that this is personal uh for Trump. Uh this seems you know there seems to be a personal peak at India. um and given his style this actually matters um in terms of his the the relationship. Uh and the second aspect is an element that is missing which is uh convergence on China which had incentivized both sides I think to uh cooperate over the last 20 25 years but also had incentivized the two countries to um to manage differences like the ones we've mentioned. uh those that element is missing uh for both the reasons that uh we don't seem to have a uh a singular sense uh of where Trump himself stands on China. You know on the one hand he seems to want to deal with China which would be even worse from India's perspective and the US India relationship uh would would would be impacted accordingly or would be affected accordingly. Uh but also the fact that you know if if this element is missing um it it doesn't give people that sense of what is going to what's that structural factor that Trump cares about enough or what personal factor that's going to get people uh over the yes line um so to speak. So I think both this element of this being personal but also the missing element of Trump either wants a deal with China or doesn't really care that much about China competition compared to these other issues and particularly that personal or trade aspect uh where he's willing to put that aside. So Tani let me just stick with you for a second. You're our our resident historian. People have been asking me, I'm sure you've gotten the same questions and you too Saddan and about, you know, whether this moment of kind of August 2025 is reminiscent of 1971 and Nixon's treatment of India and Mrs. Gandhi during the Bangladesh crisis. Some have said this is akin to 1998 and Clinton's slapping of sanctions on India after India's nuclear tests. you know, how do you put this in a kind of proper historical context having kind of studied every administration post independence uh until until the present? I think, you know, you could say it's too soon to tell because, you know, it depends on if we see this downward spiral continue or the two countries find uh a path out. uh partly because as we would have seen from the previous Trump term now there are a lot of differences but you can see from the previous Trump term there were some pretty bad circumstances too people have forgotten for some reason but there was a there were there were kind of Venezuela Iran sanctions that affected India there were Gatsa sanctions if you remember these were these uh sanctions that would have affected uh India uh because of its defense purchases uh from Russia um there was uh prime minister uh uh Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan visiting the US a few months after an IndiaPakistan crisis with President Trump saying you know he was going to mediate Kashmir. There was a US Taliban deal um and there were even attempts of US China a UF or a US China deal and these are just some of the few there were personal insults against Prime Minister Modi. There were uh there were also kind of insults about India about its its what it was doing in Afghanistan or calling India filthy. So it's not that this these moments uh have not existed. Um uh and so you know I think uh on the one hand we can see that India might find a India and the US might find a way out. So I think it's too soon to tell. Having said that, I do think you know the those the kind of 1971 and 1998 uh you could also answer that your question by saying those are just very different. Um mostly because I think the US India relationship before then wasn't exactly in a place that was in an upward trajectory or there were these structural factors driving the relationship forward. So while they were both a shock to the system particularly because India was in a very different situation economically strategically uh um you know uh in those in those both those moments uh in a way that con constrains its options I actually do think India has more options more cards today uh but also that the US India relationship uh has some structural realities that are being put on the line uh in this moment and you know you think that that would drive both sides to kind find a pathway out but I think the jury's out on that at least as we record as we know in these days things change by the hour if not the day so s you know there's there's been a lot of secondg guessing going on amongst the kind of commentarat uh and I guess the question I wanted to ask you is you know do you think Modi could have avoided this fate or or was this a decision that would have been hard for the Indian side to have predicted I I I want to go you into maybe uh dredging up I think it was a tweet of yours on May the 10th was it not where were were you was rather preient in hindsight. Yeah. So like you know you you can't do anything you know coming back to my three strands you can't do anything about the fact that you know Trump has long viewed India as particularly problematic on trade. I can't go back and re rewire that. But on the other two parts right on on on how India approached the IndiaPakistan uh issue and and the and the and the role that the US played in that conflict and on the part of trade I think that you you could certainly speculate right it's possible for for example just sticking to trade first it's possible to imagine an offer that India made that would have been acceptable maybe it wouldn't have been you know 0% like Indonesia but maybe it was possible to have some sort of you know more leeway for example on agriculture maybe something like soybean who knows maybe it was possible to toss in some kind of and I think all of these are still possible by the way uh maybe it was uh possible to toss in uh promises of investment of the type that we've seen the other countries make right maybe you get a group of Indian businessmen to pledge that they're going to invest whatever billions of dollars of the American economy I think there was there was perhaps room to be created ative and to offer Trump uh what looked like a win uh without you know necessarily committing political hierarchy for Modi. I I do think that's sort of possible. I still think that's that that's that's a possibility. Uh I also think that you know coming back to the to my tweet on May 10th for which I've got a lot of flak I think that India could have very quickly after the ceasefire um thank Trump thanked Vice President Banked Rubio because it was very clear from the first day that India's objective was limited right India's messaging right from the very start was that it wanted to retaliate for the awful massacre at Bal Balgam but it was not interested in a wider conflict and the conflict did end in four is India I think did uh inflict more damage. I think it came out uh I think most neutral observers agree that it came out ahead in case if you're just sort of doing the if you're doing the math both in terms of sort of military damage inflicted but also in terms of you know the political messaging of um you know striking targets in the Punjab heartland of Pakistan and so on and I think India could easily have sort of said that well you know we've achieved our objectives and we thank our friends for helping us achieve those objectives or kind of you know it depends on I mean you can find many different ways to phrase it. So I think if you would sort of put these together, it was certainly certainly possible uh to imagine another outcome and and just on that you know we we've been discussing uh and you alluded to this in your answer that it's still not late too late for India to announce pledges of investment or to make steeper cuts and agricultural tariffs. But do you think it's too late on the Indopac ceasefire front because now Modi is a bit painted into a corner? Yes, I do. I think that moment passed and I think it was already the it was it was made difficult to begin with by Trump. You know if Trump had held his horses for a few hours and allowed India to thank him first before he jumped in you know the moment he tweeted about it before the Indians had had a chance to tell their own people he already made it difficult for Modi. So I think in that you know that's that's clearly an example of diplomatic malpractice by Trump. Um now of course it would become be out of the question because it would be viewed as the most graven kind of cowtowing and there's no way that any Indian leader could be expected to do that. So I think that you know the the there there was a moment that moment has passed. You know Dunby you've been following probably more closely than anyone the government of India's response going through and and reading very carefully with the benefit of having read thousands of these MEA statements. How do you assess official governmental response on the Indian side and and do you think there's scope for fruitful negotiations you know in the coming days and weeks? I think you know what we've seen is in some ways almost a uh three threetrack response. Um we've seen a response at the leader level where the prime minister has not has in fact held fire. He has not targeted um Trump himself. In fact, I mean it's uh it is notable. I don't know how long it lasts but it's notable that as of this recording Trump has criticized India. He has not criticized Modi personally. Now he does seem to actually h you know have fond feelings for the prime minister. It might be why he's actually feeling more grieved about not being uh you know thanked. Um but nonetheless he hasn't done that. Having said that, you know, I think you've seen the prime minister also not respond in a way that some on social media would like him to write go on a tyrant or that some on social media have uh which is you know call the relationship into question target the US target uh President Trump himself. So you've seen that he has held fire for now. Um he has however you know made statements alluded to uh the fact that he's not going to give up on some core interests in terms of on the agriculture and dairy side. um while still I think leaving some space if they wanted and and needed to make adjustments there. I think um then you see a kind of that's the leader level side. I think you the you then see kind of a bureaucratic response which is both on the lines of you know statements from MEA uh gent you know again not directly not like a frontal assault uh but kind of alluding to or subtweeting uh expressing opposition to the stance the US has taken without uh without necessarily you know attacking u the US saying that it disagrees trying to point out certain hypocrisies uh but not beyond under point you know crossing lines that would be harder to walk back from uh and then also on the bureaucratic side you have seen kind of India keep open and say we're going to continue to try to negotiate um on um uh on the trade side leaving that door open some of this might be to see you know where the uh Russia talks so president uh Trump's meeting with Putin where that goes it might be to actually sus out you know is there a deal even possible here uh see if Trump actually moves on to something else. So I think they they've left some space in the bureaucratic side and I think then you've seen kind of a political response which is uh understanding and I think this is particularly because the people who seem the most agrieved about this in some way are uh members of you know there's the people who are already always been America's skeptics uh in India and I would say that is a dominant view in the strategic elite this relationship has moved forward not because of them but almost despite them. So I'd set that aside. Yes, I think what the US needs to worry about is there are people who have been supportive of the India relationship including within government whose uh hands have been weakened considerably or case has been weakened considerably. But I would say the otherwise the most agreed people have seemed to be from the prime minister's own base who seem to have thought uh that uh President Trump would be you know uh uh uh very good for India or at least you know much much better because they had a view that the Biden administration wasn't that you'd be much much better. They seem particularly agreved you've heard some of them use the word betrayal etc. And so for that political almost to create some political space you've seen on that political level both kind of as you know as I said the statement to say okay we're not going to give up interest but also then you know putting out uh you know sources being told also you know reporting things like oh the uh prime minister is going to do more with China or Putin's going to come to India now Putin was always going to go to India because this is his turn to for the annual summit uh or you know portraying uh National Security Adviser Doville's visit to Russia as part of the response to the US and you hear a lot of you know oh this will show the US honestly I don't know that anybody in the US is paying that much attention and particularly I don't know if President Trump has the risk is of course with the political I you know it's you can tell that it's the government's need to create some space for itself plus creating space for some potential deal if they if they want to take that pathway. Uh the challenge here is needing to calibrate. So some of that political messaging like somebody seemed to be putting out there the US is going to or India is going to cancel all defense deals and do this and that that it has the potential to actually create a backlash with Trumpy. So you know he will double down on this because he doesn't like for instance India doing things like Brexits etc. Even as he reserves the right in his mind to parlay with Russia, China. Uh very quickly on is there scope for negotiations? I do think there is. I think you know um for the reasons uh for for on the lines that Saddan talked about also I think amongst you know the the the the more pragmatic people who understand that this relationship has a lot of emotions uh involved sometimes but it has never been about emotional drivers. This has been a pragmatic relationship and that this relationship at the end of the day for strategic and economic reasons has mattered uh to India. And so you're not going to see, you know, you you will see that India will continue to kind of find these spaces with other countries. Yes, but that was always going to be the case. India was always going to continue to deal with Russia, always continue to find diversify through other partners and uh the moment you saw a Trump uh election that India was going to continue to move forward to stabilize uh uh the situation with China. So I think you'll see all that but I think there is scope because rationally even with the China and Russia India has more space when it has a good working relationship uh with the US. I think one thing though there has to be an understanding in Delhi of is and for some reason I think this has almost been a forgotten lesson of the first Trump term but I do think this term is somewhat different. I think people need to uh rethink engaging with the US and this is not just India. Every country uh this administration is functioning much more like a royal court or a derbar than it is a normal US government. Trump 1.0 functions somewhere in between. Uh but I think given that there needs to be an understanding that the president's instincts matter far far more and his sentiments matter far far more uh than they did in the first term and there are not that many uh kind of uh pushes and pulls from others as they were in in the in the first term and so I think those the constituencies around are different and I would say more limited uh and you need to understand that is thinking about that derbar and you have to understand court politics ics and who the characters that actually matter are. Saddan, let me take this to the kind of opposite end and ask you about the kind of domestic political considerations in India. Um, I mean, you're in touch with friends, with family, with contacts there on a regular basis. How would you describe um to a sort of lay person what the sentiment of the quote unquote street is in India? you know what's the mood back home amongst those who are following along and at least paying some minimal amount of attention to this tariff affair you know it shouldn't come as any surprise to anyone that India is a very nationalistic country and I think that the general mood of nationalism in the country has only grown over the last 11 years since prime minister Modi became since since Modi became prime minister so you know there's a the so the the dominant view is is one of defiance dominant idea is that well India will never bend the knee and India will never bow and everybody else is some you know and nobody else has any self-respect but India has loads of self-respect and you know it's it's a sort of it's it's the usual and so I'd say that's you know that that that that defines the mood uh on the question of tariffs and on some of the you know and and some of the things that Trump has some of the language Trump has used for example describing India the Indian economy as dead and so So that's sort of, you know, that that that that that that there's a lot of um hyper nationalism going on. Um I'd say if you step back a little bit, uh what's more interesting in a way was the mood after the end of the conflict on May 10th. And there I think that there is a kind of souring on the government even among its own most hardened supporters because I think what they expected was you know in boxing terms what they expected and what they were led to expect by India's half grace jingoistic media uh was uh a knockout right like m Mike Mike Mike Mike Tyson going up against some scrawny eighth grader and what they got instead was a decision on points And it's a decision on points where I happen to think that India did prevail. But there are many people in particular in Pakistan who think Pakistan came ahead out ahead on points. But either way, I think that the the the the conflict itself that would did the the way it ended up being resolved was certainly something that hurt Prime Minister Modi much more than it helped him. And I think that has also served to tie his hands both in terms of you know what we talked about earlier in terms of being you know uh more uh openly sort of gracious about the role that the US played in all of this um but also in terms of how much you know how much he can he can give because he's already in a sense on the back foot because of the way things banned out there. So let me just ask you one followup to that which is you know how vulnerable is Modi at home? We've seen the opposition hammering the government day in day out deploying this tagline nurender surrender. There are many people as you mentioned in the BJ BJP ecosystem unhappy with the government for agreeing to a ceasefire with Pakistan. Now there's a sense that further concessions to Trump could you know add more fuel to the fire. I mean is there a legitimate political threat given the state of the BJP and frankly the state of the opposition and the makeup or lack of makeup of the India alliance. So it depends on your baseline, right? I you know I I think that if if you start with the baseline that last year Modi came down from 303 seats to 240, that says something, right? So obviously the government is and and the ruling party and the prime minister are not as popular as they were 5 years ago. I think we can all agree about that. Uh we can also I think all agree that anti-incumbency really is a thing in India. And you know what what I've sort of the point that I've made in the past is that you know typically any government any at least since the 1960s um typically if you if a government serves 10 years by year 8 uh people are pretty unhappy with it. You saw that with you know Indra Gandhi with Navir Man in the 19 in in the starting around 1974 and so on. You saw that with Manm Singh where by year 8 the wheels were really coming off with all the corruption scandals and so on. And it's to Modi's credit and it kind of points to the fact that he's this remarkably gifted politician that he managed to sort of he's managed to push that off and so he has not save you know he did not face the kind of anti-inccumb towards the end of his second term that previous governments have but I don't think that even Modi can ward it off forever. So, I think that he goes into this because he's a third-term prime minister, he goes into this uh uh weaker than before. And so, obviously given that that's given that background that that that's part of the problem. Part of the problem is that elements of his own base are upset with how this has how this has turned out. And the third thing which and if I was in his position I would worry about the most uh is that the you know the potential economic costs that would be paid uh should these tariffs go into place would be would would would certainly be high and they would be felt on the ground and I don't think that there'd be a way to to you know to to to disguise that or pretend that it hadn't happened. Now something you alluded to in your question which I think is true is that on the other side of the ledger um you do have a you know an opposition that is you know is the kind of opposition that every political party in the world only hope for. So he's you know that that that he has going for him that's that's seems to be a permanent future. But I think that even you know given all the deficiencies of the Indian opposition uh it it's still a a somewhat drying situation for the BJP. Hey Grandmasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granthamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. [Music] Let me zoom out back to foreign policy. I'm wondering about kind of where India goes from here. Uh this week we saw the national security adviser Ajit Dovo land up in Moscow to meet the Russian leadership including Vladimir Putin. uh Modi will soon be going to China for the uh Shanghai Cooperation Organization Summit uh and meeting Xiinping. You know what what does this turn of events mean for Indian foreign policy? I mean is it essentially a huge uh victory for the proponents of multi-alignment? You know I see a lot of or hear a lot of folks saying oh this is going to mean India is going to return to strategic autonomy or return to multi-alignment. it never went anywhere from away from that. You know, it the contours and I think the the emphasis within might be different and I think that could be affected and I'll come to that in a second. But I you know I think we have to kind of think about this uh from what things are versus you know what the headlines were that you you always had India want to keep that diversified portfolio of partners and nothing about what Modi had done with the US um had changed that India had continued to make that maintain that relationship with the with Russia uh and that you know uh uh even with China um you didn't need the US doing anything for Prime Minister Modi to try uh once, twice, one could argue even three times now this third ongoing effort to try to stabilize ties if not do more. I think where you will see the biggest impact is one thing the prime minister had done uh is uh be much more forwardleaning with the US. Um that was partly because of his own instinct. I think he he you know postindependence prime minister spent time in the US uh uh himself had nothing person you know in terms of ideologically as such against the US and so he'd said I think yes where others might have said no in certain instances there was also pushed along by obviously a a China threat which is far larger for India contrary to what social media might say than anything in terms of the challenges the US poses to India. Um but I think what has happened is you know the longer this continues and if the downward spiral continues what this would have done is weakened the hands of those uh within government who had been advocating for a closer relationship with the US even if not an alliance uh which has never been on offer really or not any time uh in recent years but to those who say you know you will have a group of people who will say that look we shouldn't deepen ties um And uh uh you know we should buy our uh defense equipment from elsewhere not from the US. Um and uh we should do much more on our own and in fact try to actually keep the US out in certain spaces. Um now others would argue well India was doing that anyway which is you know building at home defense capabilities buying from Europe etc. But I think you know you will see a more diffident India if this goes sour uh from a US interest perspective uh uh where India will just be much more difficult. I don't think recent generations know how difficult when USIdia relations are difficult how difficult a regional situation or even in global forums to the extent they matter uh how how diffident India could be uh to the detriment of US interests. So I I think there could be an impact. And the other thing is you know Modi had done things with the US said yes because the streets seem to be as as the Indian external affairs ministers have pointed out uh whatever the strategic elite thought the streets seem to be USfriendly. If that continues to change and become more sour if the street turns on India uh I don't mean social media I mean the genuine street uh and this could mean way worse if you see actions on H-1Bs and things like that. I think the the high skill worker visas that some people have called for an end to or severe restrictions on in the US I think then you see them having much more an impact in the US India relationship. Uh but I think people who think there are silver bullets in terms of India moving towards Russia and China even more than it has or somehow bricks is going to be the answer. Um I think you know they need to be a little more pragmatic about this. uh Russia does not offer beyond a certain few things. Uh Russia does not offer uh uh is not relevant to a number of economic and uh technological uh questions for India where the US has proved to be the answer or the west has proved to be the answer. It is still limited and as long as it is obsessed with you know uh uh Putin's own kind of war uh it's not going to that's not going to change anytime soon. and and China at the end of the day this is a country that didn't just say something in a tweet about a ceasefire it actively helped Pakistan with arms with intelligence with diplomatic uh backing and uh with disinformation during this recent India Pakistan crisis moreover in the last few months it has been actively uh forget tariffs it's actually actively been cutting off supplies of things like fertilizers and rare uh earth magnets and stuff to India so you know this idea that somehow Yes, India will stabilize ties with China. That's what it's been doing. But to think that somehow China is going to give India a better deal. China is more likely to give India a good deal uh when India has a good US partnership because then India has that card to play. Uh the US relationship amongst other things gives India negotiating leverage and diplomatic space. It's not that India can't or won't necessarily do more with China open up certain things but they will be on worse terms than they would have been uh if there had been a better US India relationship. So I think it's going to it's I don't think you see going to see fundamental changes but I think you will see potentially the space that Modi has to do certain things with the US change uh even as the space to do things with Russia and China I don't think are that much more than they were before. So I just want to add to that you know very quickly Milan like so you know I agree with Tani's sort of two main points right that um first of all that the Indian strategy has always involved a large element of diversification so you know the media can make much of doval going to Moscow or whatever but India was never even in in 2022 India was never willing to completely cut off its relations with Russia uh it was not willing to condemn the invasion of Ukraine for example which came as a shock talked to many people in the system in the US. So that diversification has always been a part of India's foreign policy. That's not nothing new. Um the second thing I want to agree on is that the US India relationship the gains that we've seen have been incremental. Um but I do want to point out that it's kind of ironic that the that the Trump administration has done this because if you were to sort of at least from my perspective looking at it um the gains have been incremental but they have been real. For example, on technology, India is very very clearly in one camp, much more so in fact than other countries like Indonesia, right? In in terms of shutting out China and embracing the US for example. Uh the fact that India under Modi had signed the so-called foundational agreements for deepening defense cooperation. So the incremental gains were not trivial. They they were they were real. And this administration, I would argue, came into office uh with an opportunity to speed up those incremental gains that was greater than any previous administration in this century has had. And so it's quite ironic that the administration that had a chance to really cement and accelerate progress on the US India could end up actually, you know, reversing that. And again, you know, things aren't going to going to be be be black and white. there could be you know significant damage if if if if you have things moving incrementally in the direction of deepening cooperation and you start having some kind of reversal it's not as though US India cooperation goes to zero but if the direction changes I think that is really significant so let me just kind of follow up in one thing you know which is that we have these lines that we trot out and I think probably all of us have used them at some time about talking about how for the past 25 years, quarter century, there has been a bipartisan consensus about needing to deepen and broaden the relationship both uh on in in the United States as well as in India. So it really doesn't matter who's in power, Democrats, Republicans, BJP, Congress have broadly speaking kind of endorse that compact. Um but what's surprising in a way right is like there's been very little push back in the US political context on Trump's targeting of India. So if ties were really that robust and kind of deeply shared from the left to the right, everyone in between. Um wouldn't we see opposition? I mean, I'm not saying they would change Trump's mind, but I mean, do you feel that there's a sense of people agitating and speaking out or or is it just drowned out with amongst all the noise and the tweets and the everything else? No, I think that's a really good question, right? And I guess my you know, my explanation would be that a few things. One is that uh it's certainly true that if you were, you know, to talk to Democrats and talk to Republicans and say, do you think you should have a a strong US India relationship is is is in Washington's interest. they would all most of them would say yes of course um I think India greatly overestimated just how much mind space India occupies in Washington it's not that much so that's the first part that's important that it's it of course people agree in theory but India has not been and is not top of mind so it may be important in theory but not important enough for this to become something that's you know that that that rises to the top in terms of urgency I think that's one part of Right. Uh the second part of it is that you know in in many ways India has been losing friends over the last 10 or years and particularly on this question of Russia. You could have you know many people who would be uh you know who would in who would like to see a closer US India relationship but were deeply upset by the by Putin's invasion of Ukraine and how what they saw as India's a a moral stance. I'm not saying I'm not getting into whether this was right or wrong. I'm just saying that is a very power that that's a very powerfully felt t felt view um in Washington. And then finally on the Republican side, um I'm quite sure that there are, you know, many serious people who would not like to see uh Trump take a wrecking ball to a relationship that Republican presidents have has, you know, has have had as much of a role in building as Democratic presidents, right? I mean, let's not forget the nuclear deal and and under under the Bush administration and so on. Um, but it's just the nature of the Republican party at this moment. You know, to come back to something that we talked about earlier, right? This is an imperial presidency and nobody wants to cross the king. And if the king is upset, uh, then they're just going to, you know, hold their council. So, at least it seems like that. Whereas, if it had been a more normal administration, I I imagine that we would probably be hearing more, for example, from Republican senators and Republican members of the House than we have so far. I think the you know the other kind of missing element here is what you see sometimes in the in the China context is uh American business is going to bat for a relationship and at least publicly we haven't really seen that this time and you know it's still I think not exactly clear to me whether that is because they might be saying things privately and they think it's better to you know uh uh take these things up privately they think they'll have it it'll have more of an effect whether they have too many other interests with the Trump administration that they don't want to uh call into question by taking him on or or you know uh um kind of opposing um his uh uh his view whether they think that it'll be a vulnerability if they go to bat for India because essentially you know he's actually trying to get them to come back here and do more business here not in India um or if as you know to Zan's point just like the mine space in Washington um that at the end of the Today India also doesn't necessarily uh have the kind of mind space or constituencies in on Wall Street that China does in the sense that while India matters as a market to many of these uh companies it has not it is not kind of uh that important to them or another another factor which is that somehow these companies don't understand that if things go south there will be no part of the relationship that will be insulated from this from the fallout that they need to understand that this is the time to speak up and try to be uh helpful uh rather than uh stay. uh that could be behind closed doors. Uh but that if they think that you know the commercial interests in uh India are important or India is a source of talent or India um as somewhere they want to actually sell their products. Um um I think this is the time they you know they might actually want to think about how they are uh engaging on this on this relationship because uh this will not stay insulated if things go uh further or go become uh worse. But you know I mean that if if it comes to the question of there have been a lot of comparisons about why did chi why did Trump back down when it came to China and I still think he may back down when it comes to India too. Right. I've been as I've been emphasizing from the start and I think what you hear most often is that because you know China had the ability to inflict real pain on the American economy right magnets railroads various various things um and it's not clear whether India has the ability to inflict pain on the US economy without inflicting equal or greater pain on itself. Right? So I've seen some of these sort of you know hotheads on Indian social media say that well India should retaliate by going after global capability centers in India and I'm like yeah right so you want to you know retaliate by blowing your own head off right so that I I think that that in a in a way that's kind of also contributed to this you know mood of anger and and mood of confusion which is that there's a sort of realization that even though the media tomtoms this idea that you India is going to be the fourth largest economy very soon and the third largest also quite soon. Um that in many ways it doesn't have the same kind of economic or or geopolitical leverage that China does. I think you know this goes back to a point that and you know we've all of us have talked about uh on on on the pod but we get yelled at for saying it that this idea that many seem people seem to believe in uh kind of at least the Indian Twitter sphere but sometimes in in real life too right that India is more important to the US than the US is to India when when you actually say that no that's not case you just had to look at the metrics of the relationship forget anything else forget the fields look at just facts and figures. Um this is something this moment where you know that reality I think and by the way I don't think the government necessarily has had this view or at least the key people I do think this is more kind of something that's discussed in in public. I think the government has been more realistic which is why you've seen in the past that it's not just been Washington who has tried to kind of manage differences or others make compromises India has too. And so I think you know this idea uh uh uh that you know you are going to you're going to just naturally uh be important uh is is being called into question. I think you know on the on the other one that you know people are like let's boycott McDonald's and KFC and support local businesses and farmers without thinking about the fact that those companies source from uh Indian farmers and are run by local businesses. There's also the fact that the reality that for both those companies I suspect if you look up the numbers their revenues from India is probably a very very small percentage. Yeah. So I think you know but I I still think you know if you're thinking about uh uh for uh it's it it has been the case that the the corporate sector has been a helped been a driver in US India ties. Uh I just think it is something that is uh you know it's it's it's as an option as a diversification option as an option. This is something I don't know that they're going to go and take on Trump on this but I just hope they're not making uh uh making judgments on the basis of uh that that their part of the relationship will stay isolated. So before we wrap up I I want to ask you both about kind of this head spinning turn on on Pakistan, right? Uh we saw the Pakistani army chief back in the United States this most recent weekend. He's reported to have given quite an inflammatory speech in Florida. This was at a closed dooror off thereord event but it was recounted to Pvin Swami at the print and I just want to read out one quote that General Mourer made which was uh um quite shocking uh and somewhat incoherent also. It was uh as follows. I am going to use a crude analogy to explain the situation. India is a shining Mercedes coming on a highway like a Ferrari. But we are a dump truck. We Pakistan are a dump truck full of gravel. If the truck hits the car, who is going to be the loser? Um I mean Saddan, let me just start with you. Help me make sense of what is going on with Pakistan. I mean I certainly would not have predicted this. I'm still gobsmacked. There was a big story today in the FT detailing kind of what was happening behind the scenes between the Trump administration and people close to the regime if not inside the regime. How do you explain this to you know a lay person? Well, I mean first of all I think we should start by saying that Indians should be very pleased that thinks that India is a shining Mercedes turning into a Ferrari. It's not something that we hear very often. So they should start by thanking him for that. Um secondly, you know, on a more serious note, I think it's, you know, it's completely preposterous that a country's de facto leader can be uh this irresponsible when it comes to threats of using nuclear weapons. Uh and that too, not even in his own country on American soils. That that really is, you know, that sort of goes to the problem of Pakistan as this rogue state and the Pakistani army really being central to to that. But, you know, this this mystery, right? Why? I mean, who would have predicted that Pakistan of all countries is going to, you know, end up figuring out how to work work the Trump administration just better than just about anybody? I mean, there are a few things, right? First of all, I think historically the Pakistanis to their credit um they have done they they they they have a record of playing a weak hand deafly and they do that by by focusing on very real short-term tangible objectives and by figuring out how to make themselves useful to the administration in power in the US. And this sort of thing, it sort of sounds very simple when I put it that way, but it's just something that that the that Indian administrations maybe are getting better at, but have just never really had the handle of India has been too slow, too ponderous, too l too lumbering, too preachy, too full of itself and so on. And Pakistan just doesn't have any of that package, right? That's one part of it. The second is I think that there's a particular problem in the Trump administration with uh shall we how do we put it, you know, delicately? let's just say a a a lack a a lack of uh historical depth and understanding. Now if anyone who has studied Pakistan and sort of you know for examp and and and spent any time you know looking at US Pakistan relations would would would would laugh in the face of a Pakistani who told you that look hey guess what uh we've got this great you know we're going to we're going to make you rich on crit with critical me minerals or you know this promise of non-existent oil that we're going to hey guess what you can come invest in our oil. I mean I just think that India should have done the same thing. I think it should have sort of claimed that it's sitting on the world's largest reserves of natural gas and oil and the US can. So I mean some of it is just you know it's it's almost funny and I don't think that an administration which had people who had spent time working on Pakistan seriously would have been taken in. Um the third element and this is something that's been reported by the Wall Street Journal is that there could be some kind of you know familial angle with the cryptocurrency and uh companies that have you know that that started by the president's children and so on. Again uh I'm not an expert on cryptocurrency but I do know a thing or two about Pakistan. on the face of it, it's a scam. But it's a scam that works for Pakistan. And I think in the time that it takes the, you know, the president and the people around him to figure out that it's some kind of scam, uh, will be sort of three years later. And in the meantime, the Pakistanis are going to be in a good position. So, um, that that's what I think is happening. I think that then the other thing is of course something I alluded to earlier was that you know they they are willing to they're willing to be charming and they don't think being charming is a sign of weakness. So they were sort of you know they they they recommended that the president be nominated for Nobel Peace Prize and so on. Whereas I think that the sort of you know the the Indian system kind of hobbles itself because they're always sort of there's a kind of worry that if we're too thankful will will we will that be interpreted as us being weak and the Pakistanis have no such qualms. Obviously it means that people on you know Indian social media will go on about how Trump how Pakistan is horrible and has no self-respect and so on. But I think they can live with that as long as it gets give them real concrete gains with the US administration. I think you know it's one just on the General Monourir speech uh forget like admitting that India is like a shining Mercedes turning into a Ferrari. Can you imagine any leader uh from India from China or others going and referring to their own country as a dump truck full of gravel at least you didn't say it was filled with garbage. uh uh but the bar is so low but it also you know tells you here's and you know in the speech he also allegedly reportedly said that we'll take the whole world down with us if people right half the work done you know Steve Cohen who I worked for and and many now have now rediscovered him because of Steve's quote um from I think it was his idea of Pakistan book I should know I helped work on it um that you know Pakistan negotiates with the guns to its own head. it, you know, if you're if you're if you're saying that, okay, look, that's the focus, it tells you all you need to know about the Pakistani military that there your you're kind of entire focus has been not on, you know, uh uh thinking about the future or thinking about positives, but thinking about how the negative aspects of you, your kind of threats of either, you know, these terrorist uh uh groups based in Pakistan or uh kind of nuclear weapons, how the the focus on is taking constantly focusing on challenges and threats and obsessions with you know India rather than actually thinking about you know to use Trumpian terms how to make Pakistan great um and you know in the meantime you've seen not just India but Bangladesh surpass Pakistan economically and otherwise and so you know if this is what uh Munir seems to be it's he's not a departure uh from his predecessors or many of his predecessors uh in that sense it's not that surprising but I do think you know to to to some of the points on I going that Saddan made I think Pakistan has the reason they've succeeded uh for now is that they understood the nature I think of this imperial presidency and they didn't like they have in the past they didn't try to understand necessarily America's priorities but I do think they have done some of that they I think understood somehow figured out um the both the the the priorities that matters are the presidents uh and to understand how you get enough of a constituency around so people who care about particular issues that are going to go uh uh to batch for you as well and so I think it's it's crypto yes it's also you know promising critical minerals but there are other things you know on counterterrorism um they might be very unhelpful if not the actual problem when it comes to India but it's back to the early thousands playbook, right? Every time things are bad, you just pick up a new number three of al-Qaeda and look who we found in our backyard. And they found him or found him in inverted commas or quotation marks uh just before the State of the Union address, right? So that Trump has a win to present. Um there's also a couple of other things. One, the Nobel Peace Prize. I think they understood that Trump was quite serious about this and he really wants this and they are wanting to say that look we are the ones who will give this to you. Uh I think another aspect which we don't know the contours of yet but it's clear that they have offered to play a role or have played some role in diplomatic negotiations with Iran. they've offered on China. Uh and I think the third uh potential element uh uh you know we don't know have they would they play a role with the Azeris in this Armenia Zarbajan thing. Uh and then you know the thing that they might have hinted at though I don't know how they deliver that without some it's the one place there might be political costs in Pakistan is if they have promised that if the Saudis and others normalize relations with Israel that they will too. So I think they have figured this out. uh now let's see how long it lasts because I I think the other thing is Pak the Pakistani military doesn't necessarily care about delivering they have been promising things to the US which they have either not promised or not delivered or actively worked against US interest so let's wait and see so let me ask you one final question and just ask you both to to kind of speculate a bit here you know we're interrupting our hiatus to do an emergency pod um and obviously the question on everyone's mind is you know where where is this going sadden let me start with you I mean what's your sense do you think by the end of the summer we will have some kind of resolution that both sides can live with or do you think that this could really drag out and spiral further obviously there's no way of knowing but um given everything you've seen so far and your knowledge uh of of US India relations going back some time what's your gut telling you well my gut is telling me that the extreme pessimists are going to be proven wrong. Uh I think that you can still find you can find a way out of this. It's going to require a certain amount of creativity, but I think that you can find a way out of this that makes sense for the for both of the countries, but also makes sense for both of the for the political leadership in both countries. Uh there's a way where this can be presented as a great win for President Trump and a win for Prime Minister Modi while at the same time uh deepening the relationship. I'm not saying we'll necessarily get to that and I think the fact that things have sort of reached this point where interrupting your vacation to have this conversation shows that obviously everything is not hunky dory. Um but I uh I I I'm I'm certainly not as pessimistic um as the dominant mood is in India. Well, could I just kind of one clarification question? How much stock do you put into the daily op-eds about how this could be the 1991 moment redux for India? I mean there's one so there's a difference between making a deal and actually doing significant reform and the two aren't necessarily connected. Yeah. So I'm I'm unfortunately I'd love to be optimistic there. I'm not optimistic. Coming back to the point I made earlier that I think that Modi already you know he enters his third term facing headwinds. He has proven time and time again over the last 11 years that even where his instincts have been in the right place on economic reform that those that he has been very very sensitive to political uh push back. We've seen we saw that on land, we saw that on labor, we saw that on the farm laws. Uh I just don't see the him as a political leader who has stomach for sweeping reforms. Um obviously I'm cheering all those people who want to see a 1991 moment and I you know and as you know as the saying goes from from their lips to gods here but if you ask me for my assessment uh I don't think it's particularly realistic. Uh Tunvi I know as a historian you hate to be put in this position of having to predict the future but nevertheless I'm going to ask you what's your sense about you know where this thing goes in the next few months. The history of Trump has told me that the only constant is volatility and the only predictable thing is unpredictability. So we shall see. Um and I think I I do think this will come down to uh the calculations and the and and and the thinking of both the principles involved. uh because I think you know that's going to both in terms of uh is is is President Trump willing to take wins if he's given them or or he does he just see a win sometimes you know he changes his mind we saw that you know in the first term or he decides that no this is not something that uh you know he wants that thank you which I do not think he's going to you know he might get a roundabout thank you of some sort but you're not he's not going to get if he really wants and we don't know that he wants you a photo op with Indian and Pakistani officials or leaders uh together. Um so I I think it depends on you know also whether Prime Minister Modi decides that uh for India's own growth and security he is he needs to be and and will be uh willing to to to expend some capital to try to keep this ship steady. He's done it before uh in times of tensions and frankly you know people have made this political in India. I understand why the opposition is doing this to some extent. Um but you know they are not both sides have made foreign policy political and and one would say the the BJP started this in some ways in in 2014 after the uh um you know or I think it might have been in in 2017 during the one of the India China crisis. But I do think the opposition is being is being somewhat for forgetful that they too have kept the US India relationship uh steady and made uh you know stepped back uh and made some compromises uh when necessary because they understand fundamentally this relationship isn't India's just like the I don't think the US has been altruistic I don't think this has been a dispensable relationship for India either. So I think stepping back and trying to keep the focus but I I think you know it's going to for India it's actually going to be f needing to focus on and think about whe what what what the value proposition of the US is that's going to be the calculation but I think on the on the you know US side I don't think this is the India US relationship is why Trump's going to change his mind I don't know that he cares about these things like a normal president I think it has to be whether he thinks this is a winning relationship or a winning he gets something that shows a win. As for just I'll end with saying your 1991 moment. I think listeners might have heard me say this on the pod before. I said this in fact when things look good between Trump and India that I think for India's own reasons whether it's 1991 or anything you know at the end of the day autonomy comes from capabilities. uh partnerships have helped India build those capabilities but at the end of the day if you want to take full advantage of those partnerships whether they're the US whether with others uh it it you have to create that environment and so to me the best thing India could do is a 1991 moment we have seen these moments the window of opportunity for that has been open for a while um and we haven't seen that moment so if the prime minister as he said is willing to take some political risk and be uh uh uh you know negatively affected. I would say take the risk on some of those reforms that will really I think set the ground for India having much more leverage and space with all its partners uh not just the US. Okay, we will leave it there. Tani Madan at the Brookkins Institution, Sadan D of AI and the Wall Street Journal. Thank you guys for coming out of your summer hibernation to join us on the podcast. We will be back with our new season, our 14th season on September 2nd. Um, thanks so much for joining us. Thanks, Moon. Thank you. Grandm is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hin Sun Times. This podcast is an HT Smarcast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Granthamasha, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mera Viz is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD SmartCast. HD smart glass.