================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: xaVeIo7FlMY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xaVeIo7FlMY
TITLE: Spurs win at City again, five-star Arsenal & the rest of the Premier League weekend
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-24
DURATION: 1h 15m 2s
VIEWS: 13,657
LIKES: 296
COMMENTS: 37

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Two wins out of two for Tottenham and Arsenal, with Spurs claiming yet another win at the Etihad.

Elsewhere, Chelsea won big at West Ham, Everton were victorious in their first fixture at their new stadium and Man United failed to win at Fulham.

Listen to the audio version of the Totally Football Show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or by following this link: https://podfollow.com/totallyfootballshow

Get in touch with the show:

Email: totally@theathletic.com
X: @thetotallyshow
Instagram: @totallyfootballshow
TikTok: @thetotallyshow
BlueSky: ‪@totallyshow.bsky.social‬

The Totally Football Show is with you four times a week this season, giving you all the football news you need to know - and plenty that you don't. We've got views, stats and analysis from the very best football writers around. It's smart, it's funny, and it's totally free – so listen to us on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.

#premierleague #manchesterunited #arsenal

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 14,683

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Tony football show Premier League match day two lads it's Man City Spurs win again at the Etihad Arsenal span leads Man United stumble at Fulham at Bramley Moore dock Everton sea off the sea goals while Graeme Potter is also in the dock after hammer drummer against Chelsea. We get the score on Nottingham Forest bitterest new rivalry. That's Nuno against Angelos and all the rest of the weekend's action in this totally football show. Everything working there? Everything working there. Excellent. This slight little echo on I think that was cuz uh I had my mic uh the speaker up on the laptop. Hello YouTube V uh uh viewer. Thank you so much for joining us for a live stream of our recording of what will be very much Monday morning's totally football show. But you'll get everything from that show and more by following us live on YouTube on a Sunday night. Criy people have just exited the uh production booth. That's a good sign. Anyway, let's let's start the bit that you know the rest of the f the podcast listeners will hear. All right then. Hm. Charlie, everything good in there? Okay. Sunday, 24th of August. Hello listener and welcome to this Totally Football Show. We've got Mark Kerry in the studio. Welcome back, Mark. Thank you. Yeah, thanks for having me back. Well, have you been well? I've been very well. Excellent. Also in the studio. Oo, Daniel Story. Yeah. You go on to YouTube and suddenly I turn up. There you are. That's all it took. Magnificent. No, it's so nice to have you physically present. Lovely to be here. And Adrian Clark not present. Adrian is also with us but from where Adrian Rolls Reverse isn't it today. Yes. I mean uh sunny Leicester as we speak. Yeah but yeah good to be along. It's always good to have you with us agent. I know you'll have thoughts on what the Arsenal got up to this weekend. Uh plenty of storylines in their 5-nil victory over Leeds. Daniel, meanwhile, you come uh straight from Sus Park where you saw the game that's now entered football law as El Casico Crystal Palace against Nottingham Forest. First off, Nuno saluting the fans at the end after days of intrigue. What can you tell us? It's not over as a story yet. Um Nuno spoke after the game and said, "It's out of my control whether I'll still be here." He he wanted to talk more about what Forest need, which he said all summer he wants backup fullbacks because Forest haven't got any. And I think part of the issue is that for all the signs they haven't made, none of them have been fullbacks. So he reiterated again he wants those. It was really interesting at full time he went over to the fans and got a big standing ovation, the Nuno chance. Morgan Gibbs White kind of pushed him forward and said to the fans, you know, louder, louder, louder, give it to Nuno. Um he's clearly very popular with the players. He's clearly very popular with the fans. If he has fallen out with Edu then the sporting director, then none of what I've just said may matter. Okay. But for anyone who's thought Forest had a good start to the season and is a bit mystified at why this whole I am having a bit of a split with Marian story broke, what is it? Is it Nun no angling to put pressure on for more signings? Is it some personal issue as Daniel Taylor was reporting in Athletic between Nuno and Edu? what what's what is it about and what's the end game? Yeah, that I mean that that seems to be the most well sourced and uh detailed um exact report we've had on the situation from from Daniel Taylor and um that would make sense. Um when Edu came into the club, there was always a question about whether Forest would be persuaded or advised to lean towards players that he knows, players that maybe his his agent Karpian knows. Forest have signed two of those players in Amari Hutcherson and and Douglas Luiz this summer. Hutcherson was the final youth substitute today. Douglas Luiz didn't come off the bench. Um it sounds like that relationship has never really got going and they you know Nuno is pretty unhappy with that situation. But is this a kind of like Jets against sharks kind of Mendes against Gerabchin? I I don't think so. I think that is even for Forest I think that is a little bit too much drama. Um, as a supporter, the hope is that there's a there's an obvious route here whereby everybody just calls it for a week. The transfer window ends. Forester are able to keep Edu in his position, but maybe move him slightly away from day-to-day Forest for a while, which would allow Nuno to maybe make his relationship with Evangelos Marinakis closer, would certainly allow him to concentrate on um the relationships that are good, he feels are good at the club. He did say after the game, all we want is harmony and that's what we need to get to. That's why that's why it's been briefing. Yeah, it is it is it is kind of it does kind of as a supporter it kind of makes you want to go and bang everyone's heads together and say not everybody gets on with everyone they work with. Maybe just sort it out. Uh and it's annoying or upsetting that it's happening in the public eye. Um Forest have got a better squad since Nuno first said he wanted more players. Uh they had a far deeper squad than Crystal Palace who they play today. They could easily have won the game. They play West Ham at home next weekend and they could feasibly have seven points from nine after a European draw on Friday. And I hope that's what we're co kind of focusing on more than psycho drama off the pitch. Okay, one last bit of psycho drama. If Nuno were to depart, have they already spoken to other Premier League managers about coming in? Uh they they will have is there a Portuguese one that you want? Well, every every club I think every club now has it's not about being in the ears of managers necessarily, but they will have a short list, a dynamic, fluid short list. They will sound people out for a job that I don't think that in in itself is unusual. As a as a betting man, I would say there are three obvious candidates. One I think is Marco Silva because he's worked with Nuno before at Olympia and I think that relationship is pretty good. He has also been making noises about the lack of ambition this summer. The other is another is anogloo which I think you know we those two are quite close. I don't know about if it's any more than that. And then the third name which keeps getting mentioned is Jose Mourinho which I mean if you want a managers not to fall out with everybody and you know to get on and it will be sweetness and roses then I don't know maybe like if you focus the end of 18 different magnets in in opposite ways. Maybe they do all just come together in a weird freak of chemistry. I don't think it works like that. I don't think that would be a good appointment. I don't think that would happen. You mentioned the kind of Mendes, Jerabchian, uh, you know, Jets versus Sharks. Nuno is a Mendes client. Jose Marino is Mendes is um, yeah, his his most famous managerial client. It just seems a bit off. All right. Hopefully, somebody bangs their heads together or stages a danceoff. Either way, a little bit of harmony. In the meantime, as you mentioned, it was a one-1 draw for Forest away at Crystal Palace in that uh bitter bitter clash down at Sirus Park. That was Sunday lunchtime. At the same time, Everson were winning their first league game at their New Digs 2-0 against Brighton. Well, a little bit later on on Sunday afternoon at Craven Cottage 1-1 between Fulham and Manchester United. Elsewhere this weekend, there were big victories for Chelsea at West Ham on Friday, 51. Arsenal 5-nil with leads. the next day and Spurs 2-0 at Manchester City. It was 2-0 for Burnley as well against their fellow promoted side Sunderland. And also on Saturday, there were 1-0il victories for Bournemouth against Wolves and Brenford Aston Villa. Is that everyone from the weekend? Believe so with with Liverpool, Newcastle to come. Still to come. All right, with that in mind, let's begin with Sunday's action. Do we start with Fulham Man United because it's just happened and Man United? We start with Fulham Man United because it's just happened. listener as we record this and it's Man United. So having said that actually Fulham Fulham two 1-1s to start their season. They were behind in both. Marco Silva reaching to his uh bench and with immediate results in both. Yeah. Well, you look at their record as well since the start of last season. I think it's 19 goals from substitutes which is comfortably more than than anyone else. So 19 goals out of 66. So it's an extraordinary high proportion. Don't you have a stat about subs and Fulham D? Yeah. So, it's not just that they get lots of goals. They also generally happens quite quickly. So, from the last the last six fastest goals by substitutes in the Premier League, Fulham account for four of them. Wow. I I I kind of feel like it makes sense, right? Maybe it's becomes cyclical in that you bring off certain players off the bench and they do really well and then they become your automatic subs and they're also used to doing well off the bench. I can see almost like with Arsenal and corners, I can see how once it starts happening, it just carries on happening. But that's still a really high proportion of six fastest goals by substitutes. Four of them are by Fulham. Adrian, you were off recording a I'm guessing a handbreak off special, were you? Uh, so you missed the last 20 minutes of this game and and Fulham's equalizer. Can anyone explain to Adrian how that came about? how a game that started with Man United looking pretty lively and like things were maybe beginning to come together ended up with them hanging on so grimly. Yeah. Well, I think the tide started to turn as well when Harry Harry Wilson and Anthony Robinson came on after about an hour and it was then Emil Smith Row and Ral Gimenez who came on after 70ish minutes as well. So, it was starting to kind of turn from then on in. Did it actually start to turn when Man United were awarded a first half penalty about half an hour in and Bruno Fernandez had issues? Yeah, that was odd. I I don't know what the exact fallout has been from from pundits, but he's using the fact that he bumped into the referee as a reason for for putting him off. And it still continued into the start of the second half as well, where I think that the referee sort of apologized, which I don't think there was an apology needed necessarily. So, Bruno Fernandez had placed the ball on the spot and was backing away. At the same time, the referee, neither of them looking at each other, is trying to walk behind him and they brush each other and Fernandez felt that I guess his preparations were disrupted by this. He then skyed violently his penalty attempt and from then on in it felt like it was all Fulham. Yeah, it was. And I think we saw the the issue with Bruno is one of those two central midfielders. Uh I was egged on by Adrian and Mark before the show. We were talking about Bruno and I I think they should have sold him this summer already. I just I don't get why if you if what you know you need to do is rebuild a midfield and the pieces you have are Casemiro Ugate Miner who doesn't even seem to be anywhere near the frame, why you wouldn't then sell someone whose best best position is higher up the pitch and you're not really using anymore because you're using those two dynamic number 10s who will offer a lot more kind of versatility and changing places and Bruno's not going to do that. It would have been a bold call, but Manchester United need bold calls. They need to kind of rip things up and go again. And I can't see how he would never come out and say, but I cannot see how Ruben Amarin wouldn't have been in a better situation that squad. If they'd sold Bruno to Saudi Arabia and gone all out in July on a Kof Ble or whoever it is to rebuild that central midfield, I don't think they could look less they could look more in balance than they do now with Bruno and Casemiro. It looks really good for about 20 minutes and then the opposition realized that if it doesn't if if Manchester United haven't scored they can just pass through them. You know there's Bruno for the goal. Emil Smith row is five yards behind him and Bruno just watches Emil Smith row go past him and then scores and Bruno looks around as if to like point at someone is to say what's going on? How has that happened? You're like that's your job now. Like when you were playing number 10 you could probably get away with someone running past you and it wouldn't be a problem. Now, if that happens 30 yards from your own goal, that that player will get a big chance to score. Well, I feel like I don't want to justify it too much, but I think that Fernandez, the fact that he's playing in a pair as well, like even if you're playing in a midfield three, it's difficult enough because Fernandez isn't naturally defensive minded, but the fact that the system sort of dictates it as well, the way that Amram likes to play a 3 421, it's it's often a midfield pair. And all you need to do really is be a team with the greatest of respect to Fulham, a fairly good team who can just overload those central areas. Just sheer number alone will mean that you then start to get some joy in those midfield areas. You open up against an elite side and those gaps between the midfield pair between Casemir and Fernandez are just far too big. And that's to be honest, that's why I think that Amarim likes Mount because Mount in possession is really good at stitching things together and and working the ball. But he actually often will plug gaps and try and at least block passing lanes and and maybe help Fernandez a little bit before it then even reaches him maybe being a bit out of position. So I can see why also because Cesco hasn't had enough time to really be fully integrated with the squad and get up to match fitness, etc. But I can see why Mount is playing as one of those sort of three forwards and will probably continue to do so because it's also helping the players behind him. And then when he went off it was also things started to fall apart a little bit more then as well. Amber who was pictured throughout the game staring at the floor and shaking his head while mouthing things took off Kazmi for uh Chesco. Yeah. In the second half, United did get which was I guess a possibly a curious approach. I'm not I'm not sure what what your take on that would be. United did take the lead through a full moon goal. I think it was eventually given to Rodrigo Munes who had been uh well essentially leapt up with his back to the ball and it glanced off him past Burnt Leno. Um beyond that positive, anything else that you would draw on for United fans? Not not hugely. As I say, I do think that Mount did at least allow United to stitch things together a little bit. I think I don't know whether Cesco when he came on granted you know he didn't have a load of time but I don't think he had a shot from when he came on and that was shortly after Mount had come off as well. So I think the thing that I always think would I often say in terms of your your best 11 and your 11 best. I'm sure that Manchester United fans would want to see Kuna and Burma and Cesco being that trio but you do have to think of the the team dynamic and the team cohesion. Then you've got Fernandez who's going to be like quite in inclined to go forward not very defensively minded. Casemiro, we know this from the start of the season. Casemiro, whose legs are not as fit as they used to be, should we say, a diplomatic way of saying it, then instantly you're then sort of onto the the back five and bearing down on on the United Defense. So, I think that it's it is all about the balance. It doesn't have to necessarily be your best players. It has to be your your most cohesive team. Okay. Adrian has things to say. Yeah. Well, look, I watched most of this game. Um, and obviously there was a lot of positives against Arsenal. They looked more aggressive and and they look sharper. There's no doubt about that. But the what the conversation points that you guys are having are absolutely bang on. I just want to reinforce it. I just think that until Amarim revamps that central midfield, United can't make progress. They can't uh reach the targets that they aspire to with the personnel that they've got within that system. If he rips up the system and he goes, you know, 42-31 and, you know, plays Bruno at 10, Kuna to the left of him, Burma to the right, unless he does that, it I just don't see it working. So, and and look, this is, you know, this is a manager that's now managed more more matches than he's accured points. You know, 29 Premier League matches, 28 points. That is absolutely dreadful. So, I think that Amarim has to make some big decisions um with his team moving forwards personnel wise. Um I think one of those players has to drop out and and become an impact player if he's not going to change the setup. It's just Bruno can't be trusted when when players run off him. He just can't be. So, he does a lot of brilliant things. And this is the quandry. Bren Fernand is a hero. He scores massive goals for them. He makes things happen. Yeah, in that position he can't be trusted. Yeah. Or referees walk past him. It's an issue. That was embarrassing on on that. Can I just say that's embarrassing. It's absolutely embarrassing for Bruno to make such a big issue of such a light thing. And and he talked himself out of missing that penalty. That was that was ridiculous. All right. United briefly, Daniel, any sign that they are going to sign those defensive reinforcements that could make all the difference? I I don't think there is because they're not getting the money in that they clearly now need. If they if they could have afforded 100 million pounds on a center midfielder, I think they would have done that by now. I don't think they can. I think they need to sell now. I think we they probably will sign a goalkeeper and there were moments again on corners where particularly in the first half Bander really he was kind of he had this approach of if I don't stop moving at any point then no one can get hold of me or keep me out of the game. He sort of break dancing almost on his own goal line but then still was in the wrong position whenever the corner came in. That is an issue. It sounds like Antworp's goalkeeper Lammons is is being lined up, but it's a again it's 70 million euros. It's a kind of, you know, hope this works out, hope it develops sort of signing. That's what they seem to be doing. They seem to be buying the stop gap signings in positions they really need and the flagship signings in positions that are to me luxury. They are to supplement what they have rather than rather than to build it. So, yeah, we will see. All right, Mark, just just very quickly on Fulham just to kind of bring it back full circle because you could you could talk about Fernandez's, you know, letting uh Smith row run off the back of him, but Fulham are known to do this. They've they averaged the most open play crosses in the Premier League last season. We know that they like to get it wide cross it. It was a really welltimed run, a really good first time finish as well, and it's what Fulham do well. So, as well as scoring from from the the substitutes bench, they they know how they play um and they do it to great effect. So credit to Fulham as well, not just beating down a Manchester United and and and Silva made a big decision, guys, in regards to not starting the season with Emil Smith Row, a big signing, someone they spent a lot of money on. And Joshua King, a teenager, has played at number 10 ahead of him. He's made a difficult call for what he sees as the good of the team and it's, you know, it's had the effect I guess today of geing up in Mil Smith. It's come on and delivered. So, um, yeah, that's that's what managers have to do. Certainly is Adrian. Next up for Manchester United, what they have to do is a trip to Grimby for the second round of the Carabal Cup. That's on Wednesday. Fulham will be up against Bristol City that same night. Who Forest got in the Carab Cup? A pleasure for you asking because they haven't got anybody because they're playing in Europe this season. So they don't go into the next round. I panic. Do you know what? I panicked for about two seconds though. I thought I don't know who Forest is playing. I thought I know exactly who Forest aren't playing. All right. So you were at Sus Park today. I was. I was indeed. Yes, with added security. Uh, no, it was there was added security. There were more met office police deployed. Some police went down from Nottingham. Um, there were a lot of police around the kind of doing the perimeter of Forest Team Bus, right? Uh, to stop any nonsense there. Other than that uh and a banner which I thought was inappropriate there all of the idea of the pantoime there was a few chance which there was always going to be and there wasn't actually a lot else there was no fierceness or kind of over spice to the occasion it was just a yeah it was a kind of bubbling along but no there was no silliness thankfully. Okay. And the game kind of bubbled along as well. Yeah I mean a draw very quickly. A draw was sort of fair in that Palace scored once, Forest scored once, Palace hit the post once, Forest hit the post once. Both sets of supporters sang about Forest owner and everybody will go home and say that was probably what we thought would happen at the start of the game. Forest will be more disappointed, I think, because Palace had Thursday night football and Forest have a far deeper bench now. I think in three or four weeks Forest probably win that that game but four players came on to make their debut and it just felt a bit bitty at the end although forest created the better chances in the last five six minutes. Eagle Jesus almost snatching it at the death palace indeed last Thursday began their conference league campaign with the playoff first leg and it was a 1-0il win against the Norwegian side Frederick Stat that was at home. Yeah, it was a bad result. It was a bad result because I watched the thinking at that time that Forest could still be playing one of those two teams. I watched Frederick Stad against Micheland the round before and they got battered by Micheland who a decent side in Denmark but Palace should have way too much. So I thought it would this would be done by 60 minutes of the first leg and and it wasn't. It's a it's a tricky little I think it's a plastic, you know, astrourf pitch out there. So I Yeah, I don't like I'm I think they'll go through, but that's to not win that game by two or three and give themselves breathing room is a actually think really poor result because they had a full team out. Is it because they're the dominant side? They I know they had the the majority of the possession. If they're the ones who have to take the game to the opposition, there's less space. They're the ones maybe pinning them back and they thrive in in space and that directness and versatility. They did miss they did miss a few chances as well. The Mateta hit a post. Yeah, I do think the one thing I found really interesting today was Forest having to dominate possession again. 58% possession away from home just never happens for Forest. So that change in style is there. Uh the other thing to say about Palace is Glasnner all week has been glum to the point that I thought he might walk this week if Gahhee was sold because he was talking about you know I'll I'll play center back if Gay if we sell Gahi because that's what we'll have to do. I used to be a center back in all this stuff. After the game he said look I trust the club to find a solution. I'm sure they'll find one this week. I'm not saying anything they don't know. We're on the same page etc etc. So, it's not only Nuno who is having to maybe just um try and avoid fanning flames of criticizing owners and sporting directors cuz Palace do need some depth. Their bench today was, you know, two teenage academy kids, two goalkeepers, points being made about not much on the bench. Okay. The other game that happened at 2:00 on Sunday was Everton's two-nil victory over Brighton. The first league game to take place at the Topy's New Ground Hill, Dickinson. Tom Williams went along for the French uh TV station Kelu and we spoke to him after the game and first of I asked him what he liked most about Everton's new ground. I think just like this the spaciousness like a new stadium kind of almost like a surfit of space like you have just so much room. Press box is right at the back of the let me think south west stand so it's quite a climb to get up there. Uh but great view and the noise when the teams walked out at kickoff was incredible. Um you know you had the Zed cars theme blaring out, blue fireworks going off uh off the top of the the roof of the stadium and you could you could really hear what a cauldron it could potentially become. That said, once the game started, it was pretty dead for about 20 minutes. The fact that Brighton dominated those early exchanges, Danny Wellbeck misses a sitter. uh Mtoma hits the crossbar. You kind of felt a bit of that that old Goodison nervousness creep in. So good to know that that hasn't been lost in the move to the new stadium. Indeed. Indeed. Brighton with the uh very positive early start hitting the post a couple of times. Everton though with a two nil win. An emphatic score line which owed a lot to the goal scorers and Garner, but above all to the man who set up both, Jack Greish. Yeah, Jack Greish who started for the first time in an Everton shirt on the left wing. Um, and it it felt a little bit like, you know, the old Jack Greish. Not saying he's back to his best yet, but, you know, he was getting on the ball an awful lot. It felt like Everton's players had been given the instruction to look for him as much as possible. Lots of big sweeping diagonals from the right side of the fence. And, you know, he was just running at his his man time and time again. First assist was a proper assist, you know, proper winger assist. Kind of drops his shoulder, gets the cross in, and Di slides in to to tuck it away. Second one was more more James Garner's work than anyone else's but yeah he was a thorn in Brighton side throughout. Greish I believe had only had one assist in his last two seasons at Manchester City getting two in the course of this one game. So Brighton a little bit unlucky not to get anything from this game. They also had Danny Wellbeck's penalty late on save by Jordan Pigford but a brilliant start then. Oh by the way you were doing this for Canal Plus. Yes I was. Yes. And what were the French was good fun actually. Yeah. What were the French most interested in about this? Well, we were kind of crossing our fingers in the hope that Imani would score the first goal in the new stadium because not only did he score the last goal at Goodison Park, but when he signed for Everton, um he'd said in one of his first interviews, "Oh, it's my dream uh to score the first goal in the new stadium." So, he's now ticked off both of those things. I've just interviewed him in the mix and asked him about that. Apparently, it was his daughter who suggested that that should be his uh his ambition, that he should be the guy who, you know, uh puts his name into Everton folklore by scoring the first goal in the new stadium. And now he's done it. So, he was uh he was a very happy bunny indeed. How How did you say that in French, happy bunny? I didn't use the expression happy bunny in French because I'm not entirely sure I would know how to say it. Um I don't think you could. I mean, that would be the literal translation. Do you know what? Next time I interview a French person, I'm just going to drop in lap and we'll see. We'll see what kind of reaction it gets. You know, go full John Toshak with it. Absolutely. Magnificent. Tom, enjoy your trip back and we look forward to having you soon again on the Totally Football Show. Thank you, James. See you soon. There you go. That was Tom Williams of Kennel PL. Very informative. Mark, is there something you want to add to this? Yeah, I mean I just heard Elish had a fantastic game. I think there was I mean Tom mentioned there was two sides to the way that he sort of created both goals. If you sort of step off him he can go to to the by line and and cross it in which he did for the first. If you try and double up on him then you're attracting other players out of position and then it opens up space for for a teammate to score which is what happened for the second one. I don't want to spin too much of a negative because it was an overwhelmingly positive day for Everton. I'm just thinking ahead of the the whole season. So looked at the numbers in this and across the attacking half of the pitch, if you go across each third, 51% of Everton's attacking touches were on the left third. You you start to think, okay, because Jack Greish is so potent, will teams just then start to try and nullify him? Well, they will try to nullify him over time and do they need more of an attacking balance on the other side? Would would that be where the move for Tyler Dibbling comes in? Exactly. So then that does then feed into a bit more attacking balance because Indai was he had a really good game overall but it was quite obvious because when a right footer is on the right the same side they are often looking to to come inside but often backwards as well onto their stronger foot. So it it was it was just a bit unbalanced in that regard but obviously you know effective um today but then I do think having Dibling doing something similar means that they'll at least be a double threat and they'll be a bit more a balance to their side. They have got a lot of attacking potency now considering how much they had such a strong defensive foundation even though they were you know not not overly strong last season they did okay obviously had a change in manager I think their defensive numbers if we're thinking about expected goals my domain the quality of chances that they give up I think it was either the fourth or the fifth in the whole of the league last season really quite strong in a positive sense yeah pretty pretty strong so it just meant that you need to add a bit more attacking firepower and of course they they have Um but also you need that unpredictability and when it's just so skewed to one side with Green just maybe think they need they do need that that more balance but Dibbling's arrival imminent arrival um should help with that. Very very exciting times these four for Everton supporters. Excellent. After all of that we'll get on to very shortly what the likes of Chelsea and Arsenal and Spurs of Manchester City got up to this weekend. Hurrah. This weekend in La Liga, Marcus Rashford has his had his first start for Barcelona in a game which saw them go 2-0 down him then get subbed off and then they without him roll back to win 3-2 against Levente. In Germany, Bayern's opening game of their season against RB Lipick, their league season that is saw them get a 6-nil victory with another hurricane hat-tick. Two goals for Michael Elise and another one for Lewis Diaz. Elsewhere, Eric Tenhog lost his first game in charge of Leverus at home to Hoffenheim. In Italy, Scott Mctomin and Kevin De Bru were both on the score sheet as Napoli began their title defense with a two-nil win at Sasual. And in France, amongst other things, teammates Jonathan Row and Adrian Rabio of Marseilles both got fired from the club for fighting each other. Where can you find out more about all these stories and others? Well, the Totally Football Show European edition, which will be out slightly later this week, probably Tuesday evening or early Wednesday. Totally Football Show European edition. And if it's football and totally football podcast you're after, we've of course got a fourth one this uh this season every week for a week. The fourth one's called Totally Extra. So far we've done two. The first one was a chat about loads of stuff including Mario Balotelli. And then this week we got together with Rafael Honikstein and talked about loads of things and Jurgen Klinsman. Uh, I believe we're going to be doing our next totally extra on Tuesday about Nicholas and Elka. Nicholas, is this something you've always been dying to ask about Nicholas and Elka? I would say with Nicholas and Elka, he is the player who I forget at least one of his Premier League clubs every time I have to write them down. I think there was that very weird Quinnel thing that went on. Absolutely. Uh, he's a very I think we would describe him as a complex character, wouldn't we? Yeah. There's a lot of there's a lot of story to tell. I I think I I totally forgot one of a very major club that he he was at, which I know it being me, it's not that surprising, but no, no, that one. No, but we we'll we'll we'll we'll we'll see how much our guests who I believe are Duncan and Julian Lance uh will Anyway, that's all coming up on Tuesday. Uh yeah, that's all coming up on Tuesday. Right now, what's coming up, listener, is me remembering that we're going to talk about the title contenders. Title contenders like Chelsea, who hit the Hammers 5-1 on Friday night, like Arsenal who were 5-0 winners at home to lead. And like, can we include Spurs in this conversation after their two-nil victory over Man City after this extraordinary start that they're having under Thomas Frank? I know that an got a 4-nil win at the uh at the Etihad last season, but is there something special building there with Thomas? Who knows? Yeah, I mean they're they're certainly a different looking team, aren't they? They're going to be infinitely better without the ball than they were last season. So, yeah, he's already made a really really big impact. He's he's worked ever so hard on on sort of the basics, hasn't he? in terms of the resilience of the team, the way that they work out of possession. I think that the signature of this win was the tenacity, the sort of determination that the midfield were really good. The high press on Trafford really en I mean enjoyed Papsar's performance. I mean he was the one, wasn't he, that that that produced that turnover with the press inside the box. But I looked at Papsar's touch map in this game and he's playing center midfield and that guy had touches in all four corners of the pitch. Um and and down the middle of course he he literally was everywhere. I think he covered 11.8 kilometers which is definitely on the higher end uh of Premier League sort of um runs dur during the course of a game. So So yeah, he was terrific. Obviously Pellini was great. Bentura. It's it it's a it's a it's an industrious engine room, isn't it? Rather than one that's going to be silky. But but yeah, that was the platform for the win. They exposed the high line as well, didn't they? City exposed again with with runners in beyond for that first goal. So yeah, I think this was just a little bit of a wake up call for City and and and and Spurs will will take great heart from it. Very quickly on City, I think a theme really of the season so far. Well, we just talked about Man United. The balance of central midfield not right. Liverpool on the opening night against Bournemouth. Balance of the midfield wasn't right. That's why I think they conceded so many chances on the counter. And I think in this game the balance of City's midfield wasn't quite right with with Shery and Rinders with with Nico Gonzalez. It was far, you know, it was more attack-minded. Um, and it left a lot for Nico Gonzalez to to deal with. So yeah, I think that's something well something that Roger will will help to fix. Okay. For sure. What whatever their lineup is and whoever the Spurs is that they face, whatever fellow it is giving them their tactical instructions on the bench, City still have City always seem to have problems against Spurs. Just one win in their last five meetings with Tottenham. Why is that, Mark? Why is it that whatever iteration of Tottenham turns up, they still cause some problems? I don't know. I don't want to pour too much water on the fire because it is an interesting stat, but I never massively buy into the whole kind of record against it unless the managers get overly spooked. It's sometimes a different manager in the case of of Spurs, but often so many different players as well. I don't know how much an element of serendipity about it, but then I suppose the way that Manchester City play and at times Spurs have been able to to go a little bit more direct against them. I think the high line that that Adrian mentioned, I think there was a few occasions in times gone by that that Tottenham have have exposed City's high line as well. So there's maybe something in that as well rather than necessarily going toe-to-toe with City and trying to sort of out football them if you like. But um but no, I think they did try and what they did with the first goal really did expose the Highline. I completely agree with Adrian and there was there was uh signs from the the first game against Wolves even though it was largely a convincing win for Manchester City. I if if I'm remembering correctly, was there an offside goal for Wolves where they moved the the high line and it was very intelligent one and it's just one of those that there's just it's it's a bit of a tight rope at times. It always works until it doesn't. I was going to say and then it looks bad. Last week last weekend Gary Ne quite rightly on Sky was praising the defensive line stepping up rightly and that's exactly what happens with the offside line. It when it's it's it's like when the linesman gets criticized for just getting a decision right. It's like it's it's brilliant to the point to exactly the point that it stops being brilliant and then he looks awful. And John Stones wasn't that far behind that defensive line when he tries to step out. But if you are a foot behind and you don't get it perfectly right and you are playing that high line, then Thomas Frank is probably the well one of the best managers in the Premier League at identifying weaknesses and opponents and it's a really obvious potential weakness at the moment for City. Yeah. And and the goalkeeper I think a big change there. Big change. No, no, not with Trafford. Just very quickly on Vicario. Okay, we saw we saw against PSG he boomed it over and over again often into the wide areas for Rashard or Cudas and it worked and in this game they did the same and and you know come from a long ball in that opening goal. So you know that's that that's probably a goal that they may not have scored last season under Ash Postgogu. So yeah, very visible change in tactics there from Tottenham Hotspur. As for City, a penny for his thoughts was the commentary line as we got a shot of Edison on the in the in the kind of seats watching on. It's one of those as well. again kind of like the off sideline. The process was correct and and no doubt Guardiola will continue to encourage Trafford or any of his goalkeepers to play that way because that is kind of what's defined Manchester City under Pep Guardiola in their strong buildup play their neat passing combinations but it was just the execution and there was a really good reverse angle from behind the goal where if you watch it as a fan that ball was never on it was the pass wasn't it? Yeah, it was. Yeah, more towards the left. It was tricky. I agree. And I don't know if it's sometimes, you know, these automatisms to to make sure that you this is what we should do, even if it's not maybe necessarily the best option to take, but um we'll continue to see that that that won't be a problem. Will we continue to see Trafford, I guess, is one of the questions with rumors still swirling about other goalkeepers who might be on their way. Spurs, though, in terms of points and goal difference, their best start to a season since Mauricio Pochettino 11 years ago. small sample size with just Burnley and Man City so far, but if you had in the PSG game in in Udin, this is three games in a row they've taken a a twogoal lead in. Admittedly, they didn't hang on to that away to the European Champions. The the thing is I think how how Tottenham will improve under Thomas Frank is is very quickly as the defensive organization comes in is the antithesis of what they were last season and then there will be a plateau and it's where the fans a where Tottenham are when that plateau starts in the table and b maybe how the club and how fans deal with that plateau for a while but then over time we saw at Brenford he is then able to kind of make things gradually better and better with we presume more money to spend than he ever did at Brenford. So this first se I mean I'm obviously incredibly impressed by the start. We need to see 10 games of it but then because I think after 10 games there will be a sense of to an extent when you think you're playing Tottenham you still think of that mad high line and you still think of Tottenham as quite weak. They're not now. They are as organized as Brenford but with better players. So they will be hard to beat and eventually within two or three months managers will say right we need to change how we focus and look at Spurs as a team. And then they will have a plateau and I want to know what happens when that happens. Okay. As a forest fan, are you filled with terror at the notion that Angelo sorry that Angeloskogu might actually be taking over there or or can you see some reason why Marianus might feel that's a good idea? Uh I I think it would be exciting. You're shaking your head. Is it? It's just the antithesis and you mentioned that word before, but it's the antithesis of the way that Nuno plays. Look, there is it wouldn't be my choice. I I like the guy. It would be incredible to see him try and win two Europa Leagues in successive seasons with Spurs and Nottingham Forest. Um, yeah, I I I don't really Yeah, I don't think it would be a great idea. Uh, but the the attraction of it is is that I don't think Forest, famous last words, this is me saying this in public, are a relegation candidate this season. So therefore, maybe you do try and go more expensive. Maybe you do, yeah, you don't have the pressure of being expected to finish in the top six, but you do get to have a little fun. But I'm having plenty enough fun with Nuno. Thanks. Don't think Spurs fans thought they were a relegation candidate. Sasi is neither. But it's very true. Anyway, we we'll see. We'll see. Hopefully Nuno's still at the city ground for a long time to come. Adrian, you were at the Emirates, were you on Saturday tea time for the game against Leeds? I was. Yeah. Excellent. Fun. So there I mean there's a lot to unpack as they say from this game. On one hand it was a huge victory. You had Ez presented to the fans, broad grin on his face as they saluted him. You had goes with his first goals for the Gunners. Max Dman with a brilliant first league appearance. On the other, he had those injuries following on from Kai Havitz last week to Sacka and Urgard this time around and a fixture against Liverpool a week away. What What's your What's your overall feeling about all this? Yeah, you've kind of wrapped it all up there. Um, in terms of this the story lines, um, first up with Eza that it was a great moment. You could see how much it meant to him and and the the fan base are completely united in in sort of joy at at the prospect of seeing him. So So that was a really nice moment. Um, Yokarez's goal, we've seen him score that exact same goal for for Sporting dozens of times. It feels like charging down the left, chopping back in, and then smashing it into the near post. So, so that it was just great for him to get that confidence booster that he needed because there was a chance in the first half where Zuba Mendy turns it over on the edge of the box and he's got time to take a touch and just tap it in and he completely panicked and and tried to play it one touch and and it was a horrible effort and I must admit at Halime you know the talk in the press room was Yokarez looks like he's under pressure already just needs to relax and of course that goal relaxed him perfectly and and obviously end up getting a penalty as well. So that was great. Dalman was tremendously exciting and incredible innovation for him. Outside the ground and inside the ground, I saw so many 56 Dman shirts. You know, this was a kid. He's 15. He's not 16 until December, but already there's so many fans wearing his shirt and there's so much expectation around him. And let me tell you, the hype is is warranted. He's a phenomenal talent. Absolutely phenomenal. Um the world is his oyster. He's he's ridiculously good for his age. And he is in the squad not as a piece of tokenism from Mel Arteta, but he's in the squad because he deserves to be in the squad and he's and he he got the game time that he got, which was half an hour because his performances this summer have absolutely warranted that. So, and then when he comes on, he he takes on his man over and over again, makes things happen, wins a penalty. Um, we're gonna see a lot of him and uh and it's it's it's yes, tremendously exciting. But in the end of that game, you know, Arsenal had had Dalman Waneri, Miles Lewis, Skellyy on the pitch together. Obviously earlier in the game, Saka was there too. So, yeah, the Hail End, they are doing some phenomenal scouting and the coaches are doing phenomenal work in in terms of their development of players. So, um, yeah, it was a really good day and and Arsenal didn't play amazingly, but they scored with all five of their shots on target. Um, and there were lots of lots of pluses. So, yeah. Yeah, it was a good day. Pair Mercer in charge of the academy. So, yeah. Yeah. And he's doing a great job. He's he's a very um thoughtful person. He's very big on shaping uh people as well as players. And I I don't think it's a coincidence that Sacka comes through. He's a very he's just a great per he's just a great great guy. Mars Lewis Skellyy is is is is the same. Intelligent, thoughtful. Dalman, completely mentally ready for Premier League football, which just sounds nuts when he's he hasn't even started year 11 at school. He hasn't started it yet. Like it how can you be mentally ready for Premier League football? But he is. So, uh, yeah, they're doing amazing amazing work at Haland and yeah, let's keep keep these prospects coming. That's why it's also really important, right? Because at some point Nikol Arteta and Arsenal are going to have to have their second age, which is when they start having to sell players to reinvest because Arsenal typically have not been great at that. If you look at the record sales of pre by Premier League clubs, it's only Burnley and Sunderland. They've got a lower record sale than Arsenal, which is Oxlay, Chamberlain at 35 million. So while all the other clubs are really good at you, Liverpool, Chelsea, we've seen Manchester City really good at selling those players, Arsenal haven't either either haven't been very good at that yet or have chosen not to. And the reason they could have chosen not to is because Heland is being so prolific that it means they can almost, you know, they can almost sub in. They are spending quite a lot of money and that second age does have to happen at some point, I think. But it it almost just buys you time when you can say well yes ideally we would need this this and this but we have got these players pushing through and they are also as Adrian knows they are also become like shoulders for the other kids to stand on they like each time you get one in the team it makes you more likely to get another one in the team. Yeah. If you're if you're a young player at the moment one of one of the most gifted young players in in in the country which academy would you want to go to? I mean, you know, Arsenal have a real pull at the moment. They've got a play on that, haven't they? Moving moving forwards. And and they've got a manager that that will give you a chance. He he doesn't actually care what is on your birth certificate. There have been three 15y olds played in the Premier League and and and two of them finished the game yesterday in one area in Dowman. The other one Jeremy Monga at Leicester City. you know, this isn't normal, but but Arteta if he's happy to use these kids if he feels that they're ready and the fact that they are ready at this age is a testament to perac's work and all of the coaches and all of the scouts that put in so much hard work behind the scenes because you know they've identified these kids at a very young age. City have Harland Arsenal have hailand you you might say ahead of the game at at Anfield next Sunday. How worried are you about Saka Udigard with the abundance of alternatives that Arteta now has? Well, that's the difference between last season and this season is that it feels as if the drop off from first choice to second choice is quite negligible whereas last season the drop off from first choice to second choice was pretty big and it and it definitely impacted Arsenal's um performance level. So yeah, no, I mean no Arsenal fan wants Saka or Urgard to miss Liverpool away, but if they do, and I would say looking at their body language, the likelihood is both will miss that game. I I think there's less fear among Arsenal fans that that that we can still go there and put on a decent showing. And and one last thing, if I may, Adrian, on on Arsenal, you were talking about the dominant theme being that midfield balance for a lot of the the big teams this year. Our ass are one of the better placed with that fellow Zuba Mendia had an excellent game would you say against leads? Glad you asked that question. Yeah because no because it was a point I was going to raise independently because what we've seen is a shift. Dean Rice last season played as a left side eight but quite high and he didn't get that many touches but he he impacted games but he was in a different role. It's now a two with Zuba Mendy and Declinos playing as a pair and they both had a lot lot of the ball in this game. The balance was beautiful. Um they they didn't play well at Old Trafford. We saw that last week, but this was more like it and they they they both had good games and Zubame Mendy is is going to be a hit and pretty confident of that. Um very nimble player, moves the ball quickly and he and he mops up things defensively as well. So yeah, I think with that back four, which we already know about in place and those two sat in front, the front four in my mind can go and just have a bit of fun and cause more chaos this season. That is the plan for Arsenal. They've got the defensive platform now with Eza and Saka and Erdigan, all these guys, Yokarez, go and go and torment the opposition and go and have some fun. And that's what I think hopefully we'll see. All right. Even on score nights. Brilliant. Uh Daniel, one last thing before we move on. Say on leads. Um who like Yes, lost 5-nil. I think the the my main takeaway from watching the game was that and I think this applies to all the promoted clubs is that the biggest difference between the championship and the Premier League I think is the amount of time you get on the ball in center midfield without someoneounding you down and pressing you and there were two or three times on Saturday evening where a lead's player received a midfielder received the ball not facing towards the opposition's goals either facing sidewards or to our own goal and just couldn't deal with that pressure like it it doesn't matter losing to Arsenal. It doesn't really matter losing to Arsenal 5-nil, but lots of teams are pretty good at doing that in the Premier League and kind ofounding you. I saw Crystal Palace doing it with Will Hughes today and he might not be seen as an elite Premier League midfielder, but he will snap at your heels if you take too long on the ball. And I I think Sunland did it a little bit against too much even against Burnley on Saturday. I just slightly worry about those midfields getting not getting quite the time they want on the ball. Everton didn't try and do it against Leads on Monday night, so they look really good, but I think other teams will probably take note. We've got some good news coming up for uh promoted sides like Leads, and that's West Ham. We'll be talking about them next. Hey, here's some bad news for Jay Harris and his plan for a funfilled long read from the top of a water slide overlooking Pathos FC. Top tip side puff FC listener Matt gets in touch. Say please can you tell your uh Okay, so it wasn't actually a listener. You'll have to edit this bit. Okay, so please can you have I confused it with too many names here? Possibly. Uh we'll go again on this bit. Bad news for Jay Harris and anyone who was excited to hear his announced plan to sit at top a water slide in Cyprus and write about Puffosf because Matt had written to say that Posf Sea is one of the I think the only grounds in the world in which you can sit on top of a water slide the Aphrodite water slide and see into the ground. Listen, Matt says please tell Mike he's given air quotes as well. The pathos FC do not play next to the Aphrodite water park, but they actually train next to it. So, I don't know if that will work for Is this way too long? Should I just do a correction? They actually train next to the Aphrodia water park, which um yeah, still nice though, isn't it? I mean, I think it still counts as an experience to watch them train from the top of a water slide. The water slide is the non-negotiable in the story. Whether it's a training or a match is Do you even need to watch a team train or play? I think you just go to the top of the water slide. Yeah. Yeah. There's your story. Boom. Possly. Can we go that far? Be in the Champions League this this season. The league format. They are 3-0 up if memory serves from the first leg of their of their playoff. The second legs of that are all coming up this this midweek. So that's uh that's going to be interesting. Is that correct? That score line down. Let me just check it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let me just We'll just check that. I I was going to say something very briefly about Champions League, but uh Okay. 2-1 up. Two one up. That's not 3-0, is it? It's not 3-0, is it? Should I do the whole thing again factually correct? Um otherwise if you're excited by listener if you're excited about PAOS FC and the prospect of them being in the Champions League phase this season. If indeed your name is Jay Harris and you're looking forward to going to the top of a water slide at the Aphrodite Water Park to look down into their stadium, then I'm afraid listener Matt gets in touch to say, "Please tell Mike who told you that PAFC play next to the Aphrodia waterfight that they don't actually train next to the Aphrodi water park. Their stadium is in a rather more mundane part of Cyprus. That sounds like for Matt, that sounds like something someone would say if they wanted to be the only one that had watched a game from the top of water slide. could be he's keeping it to himself. Absolutely. We might be seeing Papathos FC in the league phase which will be exciting of the Champions League because they're two on up Daniel. Is that right? From the first of their playoffs. One away at Red Star. So they got to bring Red Star to the water park to the Aphrodite. Yeah. To Right. Okay. So yeah, that Well, that'll be fun. And that's this midweek I'm guessing the second leg. Yeah. The first leg was Tuesday, so I expect to be Wednesday night. Makes sense. What else is happening Champions League playoff and second leg wise? Well, British football-wise, a massive, massive night for Celtic. I mean, huge night for Celtic. Brendan Rogers all week has been talking about or all month has been talking about the need for investment in the squad that it needs more. They need to get to the Champions League phase this season and they drew the home game against uh Kyat Alati nil nil at home. So, they face a tricky old game away from home. I'm actually going to the old firm game next Sunday which should be nice. Um and yeah, Scottish football is in a funny old place at the moment from the Cassico to the Old Firm game. Quite the itinerary you have. It's also a big midweek for their opponent in that fixture. Rangers who I think that's done. I mean they lost three. Yeah, they lost 3-1 at home. They looked really poor. They drew 1-1 with St. Mirren today. It's a really weird thing whereby the Scottish FA or the Scottish Premiership allowed get the teams to cancel games they wanted to. Rangers chose not to do so. They chose to play their game presumably because they didn't particularly want to go into the old film game potentially seven points behind and losing that and 10 and maybe the tight race is already done. That that's a lovely idea until you draw 1-1 with St. Mirren in the game that you choose to play. So yeah, it's not looking good for Russell Martin. Okay. with a trip to Bruge coming up for for Rangers. Adrian in the championship. Are you doing a what the EFL in the next? Absolutely. Yeah. Be be a what the EFL? Yeah, for sure. So, there's loads there's loads to talk about. Mark Robinson Stoke on top of the championship. Three wins out of three. They beat Will Stills Saints. He did. Yeah, that was a big win. Really big win. Um it's been a disappointing start for for Ipsswitch as well. They're they're languishing towards the the bottom end of the table. Sheffield United so close to the Premier League last season a rock bottom haven't got any points yet. Middlesbrough who got dumbed out of the Carabal Cup 4-0il at home to Doncaster have got a perfect record at the top of the Championship. So it's it's been a really weird start to to the new season in the second tier which bodess well because it's become a bit predictable hasn't it with the teams that go down almost always coming straight back up. The early sign suggests it could be quite competitive, but Coventry are the big headline makers. All right, smashed absolutely obliterated QPR 71. This comes off the back of beating Derby 53. So, Cov are are banging the goals in left, right, and center. Also a shout out to Coventry who on Saturday morning it was revealed that um owner Doug King uh had agreed a deal to buy back the CVS Arena from Mike Ashley's Fraser's group which is I mean promotion would be bigger than that this season I'm sure but that is the only thing that would be bigger than Coventry having a permanent home. This is a fan base who you know they've been to Birmingham they've been to Northampton they've they were worried about losing their stadium and losing the club at one point. So I as soon as that news came in, I thought I fancy them to really put on a show against QPR today and it sounds like QPR obliged themselves. But yeah, just a really happy place to be at the moment, which is lovely. It would also be remiss of me not to say that the expected goals for this game 7-1 was 1.27, which points to some unbelievable finishing. Oh, they are they are I was going to say you could question some goalkeeping, but no, I think it's maybe put it down to some great finishing top binsesque. Can you question XG itself? So, this is a really interesting question and it's one that that my colleague Connor O'Neal has covered in relation to this specific game. It's the title being does Coventry 71 win prove that expected goals is broken. What's the answer? The answer is it's complex. Um the the idea basically being that expected goals comes into its own over a long period. If you look at a single game basis or a shot basis, it's very much. So, we shouldn't look at XG for single games. The sample size is just too small. Correct. Yeah. It's really good at identifying trends over a long period and the differences between it, but at a single game level, it's um very much not useful, but it's still fun to do what Connor did and analyze the the single game to show that difference. So, commentary, it just goes to show that they're not going to be winning by seven goals each or six goals in this case every week. So many different kinds of fun out there. Uh Daniel, you went to Morham last week to watch them not play football. Yes. And then this week they did play football. Yes. And they the the takeover was confirmed on Tuesday. So a week ago when you went there was a real prospect that they might not play any more football. They'd had the news that a deal was being agreed and they were very confident that it would go through. They actually at the time the the head of the support trust and the local MP who was I spent the most time with last weekend. Uh they actually did you find any water slides while you were there? No. No. It's it's it's pretty near the sea but it's not okay. It's not water slide adjacent. uh the Mazuma mobile stadium. Um but yeah, they they kind of wanted a delay because Morham were had eight first team players and had a a game in six days felt like an impossible situation. They they were told that the game would be on. They then signed six sort of seven players last week. Um host hosted their first game of the season, first game since relegation and first game since the ownership change. went one nil up, conceded a goal, looked absolutely knackered, and then scored the winner in the 98th minute. Q. I mean, go out there, you don't need me to describe it. Go to Morham FC's Twitter/Xfeed and find the commentary of the winning goal and just the celebrations. And I just got there's a guy Tom who I met I have met before and I met again last weekend and he just sort of I I went to message him at the end of the game and I already had a message from him saying, "I'm in tears." And I was like, "This is the good stuff. This is what we're here for." So, brilliant, brilliant for Morham. Excellent. Excellent. Uh, now back in the Premier League and way back on Friday, West Ham hosted Chelsea and took the lead and looked like they might make a real game of it, even when Chelsea then equalized. West Ham thought they'd once more taken the lead, but that's where things began to get very, very bad for them indeed. ended up being 5-1 to Enza's side. West Ham fans leaving in droves. How good were Chelsea? How bad were the Hammers? How worried should Graeme Potter be after this display against his old side? It wasn't good. Yeah, there's some terrible goals conceded. Three from corners. Two of which you can absolutely blame the goalkeeper Mad Hamman who made a really bad first impression among the Iron supporters. So, so I feel for him a little bit. It's from Shoddy defending. Wasaka switching off at the far post for one. It really stands out as well. So, yeah, I mean an amazing goal from Pakatar. Absolute rasper of a left foot shot into the top corner, but that was it in terms of positives for West Ham. Potter tried to change it in the second half, switches formation, went to a back four. But a little bit like Manchester United, I ju I just feel that until he sorts out his midfield that they they're going to struggle because I just don't think Soek and Walprow is going to work. Just not enough athleticism in there at all. And you know, up against one of the best central midfielders, central midfield units around. Oh, we just lost JJ there. Let me pick up on the point about the goalkeeper um Madsam Manson who as last week we were hinting is as scary looking as Marilyn Manson. Uh and the ironic cheers from the home fans as he made you're not here for that kind of thing, are you? Well, just it's completely counterproductive. I mean, you paid your ticket money, you can do whatever you want, but it's it's not helpful. And and also these things feed into each other, right? If the defense looks uncertain, then the goalkeeper feels like he doesn't know whether to come for crosses or whether it's open play or not. And if the goalkeeper isn't the weather to come, the defense is more uncertain. And those things counteract it. What you need is your um senior players to step up. And West Ham's senior players are basically the three center backs. Those three center backs cost £ 105 million to buy. Like there's a lot of money for West Ham and they just look Yeah, they don't they can deal with crosses and so embarrassing really. Is there a regime change in store at the London Stadium? Would it make any difference if they were to decide to move on from Grandpot? No, I I think it is a a top-down problem at West Ham. I think the club has been starved of investment for too long. I think it's been allowed to drift for too long. I think the move to the London Stadium was assumed by those in charge that it would be this kind of idil, this paradise in which lots of revenue would flow into the club and they could become bigger and better. And actually, you know, you look at it 10 years later or however many years later and it's just it's just bad football in athletic stadium. Uh and nobody's enjoying themselves. So, it needs some care and attention. It needs some love. And if you don't, you know, football clubs are need nurturing. You can't just leave them be and hope that it'll all sort its way itself out. And I understand why West Ham fans are deeply angry about what's happening. Right. Chelsea have had two billion or so of of nurturing from Tobolley and company. And in this game, I think the effects were quite quite visible. Is that fair, Mark? Even with Cole Palmer out. Yeah. Yeah. Estal came in um very good young prospect. I actually saw a bit of him before he moved to Chelsea. I was at the Club World Cup in the States this summer and he looked very impressive, albeit a bit lightweight at times. Um especially against Chelsea. I know he scored against Chelsea in the Club World Cup. Um that was my main question mark over him because it's a big move to come from Brazil to the Premier League in terms of the physicality, not least being a teenager. But he looked pretty strong against an old assisted one of the Was it the fifth goal in this one for Enzo Fernandez? Um yes uh I can't remember what number that was. That was actually number three looking at my score sheet. But uh but no Chelsea good. I mean again having watched some of the the Club World Cup. I think the main thing that I I see as such a positive I'm not going to be wanting to predict. I think there's been quite a few predictions being made about whether or not they are title challenges etc. What I will say irrespective of that conversation is that they do look versatile. um more so than than ever and they did from the from the summer as well. They were trying out some new things in that whatever opposition they may come up against. They've got different personnel and broadly the same system but kind of tweaks on variations on that system depending on the opponent which I think is going to stand them in goodstead. Okay. So as you mentioned it's oral Natalie Jedra was coaching us uh on Tuesday. Esta coming in on on the right and Jeia Jean Pedro dropping into a number 10 role I guess where to fill in for Cole Palmer but looking great there. Yeah. Yeah. Coming really deep at times collecting off the the defense at times as well which he's comfortable doing. I think that ideally you would have Palmer as a number 10. And I think the Xiao Pedro well I know from from listening to Moresco in the press conferences this summer that he he knows that Xiao Pedro is really good at coming towards the ball and we all kind of know that as well but especially being good in those tight spaces. So in if it's tight spaces in a congested area and he is the number nine against a deep block where they're trying to frustrate Chelsea at Stamford Bridge sometimes you well I suppose we did see it as a nil nil draw against Crystal Palace on the first game of the season but those sort of games have been quite common and having Pedro as that option to to try and just flick a ball around the corner play a little um so wall pass or a one-touch pass whatever it is that that's his strength. If the opposition are maybe going to give Chelsea a bit of space, then you've got the the channel runs and a bit of a battering ram in in um in Dilap as well. So, I think that they have got the within reason. Obviously, it depends on the performances on the day, but they've got the solutions in personnel and the skill sets to be able to deal with different things as I come back to, but I don't think it would be uh too common to see Dilap and Jedro play at the same time if Mesa had his way. But even that shows that there's an element of versatility. Still winning 5-1 without Cole Palmer um shows that they are able to to be a more of a cohesive team and and less sort of a bunch of individuals. This is how we've described Chelsea in in recent years because we obviously just focus on signings. But I think Moresque has said again in the states this summer that he's really liking the fact that we're talking about football and on pitch things and not all of the Ferrari around Chelsea um and and the off pitch things as well, which is good. We're talking about good performances. Excellent performances with an ext 2.74 if you're curious. Thank you. Yeah. For five goals. Overperformance. Overperforming. Here's another stat. Only Ara Grant has a worse points per game record than Potter of all West Ham managers in Premier League history ever. Grant of course who took the Hammers down. Yeah. I mean, it's only two games, Daniel. But well, the problem is is that if you think West Ham are in trouble, then you have to appoint a firefighter to sort it, which and if you you appoint a firefighter in September, it's a long old season for supporters. If what you want to do is give supporters some excitement because that's what they're craving bigger. Yeah. Well, then yeah. Then then you you take a chance on your Premier League survival because if the if the entertainer doesn't get it right, you know, Anostoloo took Spurs to 17th last season. West Ham have a poor squad. If they don't sort it out, they might go down. So what do you do? You do you go you you can't go for another fight. You can't sell another firefighter to supporters having twice got rid of David Morris having had Sam Alladise. You cannot go down. And those managers don't you know Sha Dish at West Ham like is it can you really sell that Dishy and you know we're all going to battle to West Ham fans now? I don't think you can. And I think they want something different and and I think that they probably want something different at the top of the club rather than just the manager. Well, from Gre Potter's point of view, I hope he gets the chance to turn it around. We're only two games into this season. They have a trip to Wolves in the Carabal Cup. Second round on Tuesday and then they're going to be at the City Ground against Forest. Yes. On Sunday. I'm going to the Wolves game for the kind of early season misery derby. Nice. Wolves who lost again of course this weekend. They were at Bournemouth. Anton Smen had that excellent game at Anfield added an assist uh with to TV's goal in Bournemouth's 1 nil win. Also this weekend Burnley beat Sunderland which feels significant. The two promoted sides. Sunderland had a great start. Burnley not so much but a two-nil win for the Clarets in that one. And also Mark Brenford beat Aston Villa 1 nil. A lot of people have been fingering Brenford as a team likely to fall apart this season. You're not so sure. No, I just Yeah. Again, the narrative before a ball was kicked ahead of the season is that they lost Thomas Frank, they've lost in Burma, they've lost Norard, their captain, they look imminently like they're going to to lose Vissa as well. Are they? I I'm not I'm the data guy. I don't know about the news too much. It seems like that is the direction of travel, but please do not quote me on it because I'll just run the numbers, okay? um and steer clear of that. But still training with them but not featuring this game which suggests that he's not being reintegrated at the moment. Yeah. And it would be great if he did today. Do do not get me wrong, but I I think that as much as anything Brenford have again you can reverse engineer your narrative accordingly. If Brenford do okay, which I believe they will, then you can say that there's a there was a good succession plan in having Keith Andrews and having that consistency is a is a good idea rather than necessarily making wholesale changes and being a well-run club. I do believe that that is a wise decision to to do it in that way obviously being promoted from the coaching staff but they have had some good players come come into the the building as well with you know losing Norard but having Jordan Henderson yes not prime Jordan Henderson but having someone who's a leader watching even watching the highlights of Brenford you could hear Jordan Henderson he is just constantly coaching on the pitch he's known to do that so he's a good addition from a leadership level whether it's on the pitch or off the pitch Kellaher coming in in goal fantastic goalkeeper as Well, I think that obviously Watara coming in as well, great position. He was the one who who scored the goal. He can play off both feet. Can play anywhere across the forward line as well. Eigot Thiago came in last season for a then record fee. Didn't play much at all. I think it was a knee injury, but a long-term injury. He's now starting up front as well. Mikuel Damsgard has been coming to to form since last season and performed excellently yesterday. I think there's so many positives to to see in Brenford and I feel like not, you know, they're not going to have an outrageously positive season, but I just don't think they're going to have a negative season that a lot of people have predicted. So, I just wanted to just say my piece on Brenford just to give them a fighting chance. A lot of people uh myself included, I think, had uh had heard those predictions and then last weekend's results suggested that Yeah. But good to have a little bit of a ray of sunshine for those bees. Adrian's back with us, although we can't see him. I believe though, Adrian, we can hear you. So what did you want to say and was it about Brenford's win against Villa? Yeah, absolutely. Um Brenford went pretty direct in the game only 23.9% of possession. Kella the goalie made more passes than any other beast player. So so they've you know they've got they had a clear identity in the game. That said a couple of their players did finish the match with 100% pass accuracy. Yolak in midfield and Kyode who had a good game at right back but Damsguard was the star. I just wanted to mention Villa to be honest and and and talk about balance again. I think it's kind of a theme of the show. The balance of their team is just not right at the moment. They need a winger. They need two wingers. You know, they they really do. Uh McGee Daniel needs to go soon. Can do a job but he hasn't he's not the guy moving forwards. Morgan Rogers, we saw how devastating he is in central areas last season as well, and he's been pushed out to the left. So, I think that Unoy desperately, desperately needs a left and a right winger for the close of this transfer window. Otherwise, this could be an unexpectedly challenging season for Villa. Righty. All right. So much drama in store then. So many unexpected twists and uh potential dangers and joys. Always joys. Always joys. Excellent. But uh I think uh that's where we're going to wrap up today's Totally Football show. I know we probably haven't talked enough about your team listener, but there'll be plenty of chance for that in the weeks to come. Many many thanks to Adrian for being with us. Look forward to hearing you on both the Handbreak Off podcast and also what the EFL going a little bit more in depth on those football league stories. Mark or your work on the athletic any article we should look out for this week? Uh well I've got one that's recently come out which I loved doing about the Laval Piana builder. Ah Laval Piana love talking about it and it's been it's always been a feature of the game but it was just on show a lot in the first weekend. So I use that as a springboard to just bring a bit of history to the Right. If you're curious about what Lovevel Piana is Mark Kerry on the athletics the is the person to tell you. Uh Daniel just before you hop on a train home what can we read from you in the eye tomorrow? Uh I've got on the road this week is Tuesday is on Crystal Palace and their kind of lingering sense of annoyance at every everything this summer including I think Steve Parish and on Thursday uh I've got a piece out probably from Molyneu on Tuesday night the misery derby probably focusing on wolves who about this time every year fans seem to wonder whether the owners really care enough right on the slide like Jay Harris and a citriphites all around Nice look. Very good. All right. Well, enjoy your trip where possible to the Misery Derby. And uh listener, thank you all viewer. Uh thank you so much for being with us. Hope you enjoy yourself until we're next with you Tuesday. It's a Euro show. Do hope you join us for that. Uh for now though from all of us here it's goodbye.