================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: _1QJkAsAuKg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_1QJkAsAuKg
TITLE: The 25 Best Movies of the Century: No. 23 - ‘Something’s Gotta Give’ | The Big Picture
CHANNEL: Ringer Movies
PUBLISHED: 2025-04-09
DURATION: 43m 10s
VIEWS: 12,391
LIKES: 241
COMMENTS: 217
TAGS: Movies, Film, Cinema, The Ringer, Ringer, Rewatchables, The Rewatchables, Big Pic, Big Picture, Bill Simmons

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Sean and Amanda return to continue their yearlong project of listing the 25 best movies of the 21st century so far. They discuss Nancy Meyers’s ‘Something’s Gotta Give,’ the 2003 romantic comedy starring Diane Keaton and Jack Nicholson, which featured some of the most realized and developed characters of the century. They highlight and celebrate Meyers’s auteurist vision, argue why it’s the last great studio romantic comedy, and remember one of Jack Nicholson’s final performances that featured an incredible balance of his powerful charisma and uglier, stranger side.

Hosts: Sean Fennessey and Amanda Dobbins
Producer: Jack Sanders

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR RINGER CHANNELS
The Ringer-Verse YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@ringerverse
The Bill Simmons YouTube channel: youtube.com/billsimmons

CONNECT
Shop: https://theringer.com/shop
Website: http://theringer.com
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ringer
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ringer
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ringer

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 15,959

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobbins. I'm Sean Fennessy. I'm Amanda Dobbins. And this is 25 for 25, a big picture And this is 25 for 25, a big picture special conversation show about a little special conversation show about a little diddy about Jack and Diane. That's diddy about Jack and Diane. That's right. It's Nancy Meyers time. And our right. It's Nancy Meyers time. And our pick is what, Amanda? Something's got to pick is what, Amanda? Something's got to give. Okay. I give. Something's got to give. Okay. I uh I had a very high usage rate on uh I had a very high usage rate on Monday's episode of this podcast and so Monday's episode of this podcast and so it it is it is time for for Jesus to it it is it is time for for Jesus to take the wheel. Jesus Amanda. Yeah. This take the wheel. Jesus Amanda. Yeah. This is a huge moment here for you. We're is a huge moment here for you. We're citing 25 perfect movies from this citing 25 perfect movies from this century. This is the Nancy Myers choice. century. This is the Nancy Myers choice. And I This is the Nancy Myers choice. And I think this is also the romantic comedy think this is also the romantic comedy choice. I Well, it's a bit of a spoiler choice. I Well, it's a bit of a spoiler alert, but yes. Well, for the list, you alert, but yes. Well, for the list, you I mean, you never know. Mhm. I've been I mean, you never know. Mhm. I've been wondering if we should be citing like wondering if we should be citing like this is the last time you'll see this this is the last time you'll see this person or this kind of movie as we go person or this kind of movie as we go down the list. That would require like down the list. That would require like doing a lot of um spreadsheet work I doing a lot of um spreadsheet work I suppose and that would also require suppose and that would also require being fixed to our picks which ladies being fixed to our picks which ladies and gentlemen we've gone off script for and gentlemen we've gone off script for the first time. We have. We weren't the first time. We have. We weren't sure. We weren't sure sure. We weren't sure. We weren't sure about what was originally in 20 in the about what was originally in 20 in the 23 spot. We were sure about Something's 23 spot. We were sure about Something's Got to Give. Yes. So this was never not Got to Give. Yes. So this was never not going to be on the list, right? It did going to be on the list, right? It did get bumped down a spot, but that's okay. get bumped down a spot, but that's okay. Not really a qualitative choice. Yeah, Not really a qualitative choice. Yeah, I'm not really I'm not that worried I'm not really I'm not that worried about the difference between 23 and 22. about the difference between 23 and 22. So, this is the Nancy Meyers movie. This So, this is the Nancy Meyers movie. This to me is the only Nancy Meyers movie to me is the only Nancy Meyers movie that would be eligible for the list. I that would be eligible for the list. I personally have a very strong affection personally have a very strong affection for the intern that I know you like it for the intern that I know you like it but don't love it in the same way that I but don't love it in the same way that I do. I I think I think this is ultimately do. I I think I think this is ultimately better. This I mean this is better. This better. This I mean this is better. This I mean and this is also in the Nancy I mean and this is also in the Nancy Meyers arc. This is the movie that Meyers arc. This is the movie that catapults her that kind of solidifies catapults her that kind of solidifies what it means to be an Nancy Myers what it means to be an Nancy Myers movie. The intern's very good. Obviously movie. The intern's very good. Obviously stars an Hathway your your beloved stars an Hathway your your beloved beloved Anne Hathaway in my Robert beloved Anne Hathaway in my Robert Dairo. Um my beloved beloved who's just Dairo. Um my beloved beloved who's just like bumbling around and is like I'm an like bumbling around and is like I'm an intern and then like you've just summed intern and then like you've just summed up the film falls in love with the up the film falls in love with the masseuse. Yeah. Played by Renee Russo. masseuse. Yeah. Played by Renee Russo. No, which among us. Yeah. Rude to Renee No, which among us. Yeah. Rude to Renee Russo. Respectfully, Russo. Respectfully, Russo. Respectfully, it's good. I do also like that The it's good. I do also like that The Intern is basically like a sequel to Intern is basically like a sequel to Baby Boom, which is a 80s uh movie Baby Boom, which is a 80s uh movie written by Nancy Myers, directed by her written by Nancy Myers, directed by her then husband Charles Shire, also then husband Charles Shire, also starring Diane Keaton. I like it, but starring Diane Keaton. I like it, but it's it this is a self-contained it's it this is a self-contained masterpiece. So this movie, like Baby masterpiece. So this movie, like Baby Boom, like the intern does circle this Boom, like the intern does circle this idea that we make a lot of hay of on the idea that we make a lot of hay of on the show, which is can women have it all? show, which is can women have it all? Yeah. you know, not just what do women Yeah. you know, not just what do women want, which is a question that she asked want, which is a question that she asked a few friends prior to this, but can a few friends prior to this, but can women women women have a career, have a career, personal and private personal and private success, success, success, wealth, a family? Mhm. wealth, a family? Mhm. And love and and life experience. Can And love and and life experience. Can they be over 50 years old? they be Can they be over 50 years old? And sex. And sex. Yeah. All of those And sex. And sex. Yeah. All of those things. This maybe this movie maybe most things. This maybe this movie maybe most acutely zeros in on life after 50 for a acutely zeros in on life after 50 for a woman. Now I will make the case perhaps woman. Now I will make the case perhaps unsurprisingly that this is one of the unsurprisingly that this is one of the most sophisticated movies about life most sophisticated movies about life after 50 for a man and I'd like to after 50 for a man and I'd like to explore with you but I don't want that explore with you but I don't want that to be the primary driver of the to be the primary driver of the conversation. That's true. And that is conversation. That's true. And that is what is why this movie makes the list what is why this movie makes the list and the others don't is because all of and the others don't is because all of the the the characters, well at least the main two, characters, well at least the main two, Diane Keaton and Jack Nicholson Diane Keaton and Jack Nicholson are fully realized. They're also played are fully realized. They're also played by Diane Keaton and Jack Nicholson and by Diane Keaton and Jack Nicholson and just two lights out performances. You just two lights out performances. You have Hollywood icons in their later have Hollywood icons in their later stages of life just really getting to be stages of life just really getting to be those people. So I agree with you. Then those people. So I agree with you. Then you have Keanu Reeves in a supporting you have Keanu Reeves in a supporting role which just takes my breath away role which just takes my breath away every single time. Yes. I have some every single time. Yes. I have some thoughts about his character who I will thoughts about his character who I will call Keanu Exmachina for the remainder call Keanu Exmachina for the remainder of this podcast. Yeah, of course. But of this podcast. Yeah, of course. But that's that's important. You know, it that's that's important. You know, it is. Um and and and the is. Um and and and the classic who's she going to choose, who's classic who's she going to choose, who's better for her, the Ralph Bellamy of the better for her, the Ralph Bellamy of the the Yeah, exactly. Or the Aiden, if you the Yeah, exactly. Or the Aiden, if you will. Sure. Um yeah, a contemporaneous will. Sure. Um yeah, a contemporaneous reference. Got it. Got it. reference. Got it. Got it. So I I agree. It's really good about So I I agree. It's really good about Jack Nicholson's character. It's Keanu Jack Nicholson's character. It's Keanu and Amanda Pete's character Marin and and Amanda Pete's character Marin and Francis McDorman's character are less Francis McDorman's character are less baked, but they it is also Keanu Reeves, baked, but they it is also Keanu Reeves, Amanda Pete and Francis McDorman. Amanda Pete and Francis McDorman. Absolutely. Three times Oscar winner. Absolutely. Three times Oscar winner. Tremendous screen presences. All three Tremendous screen presences. All three of them just there to give, you know, of them just there to give, you know, like vague academic dissertations about like vague academic dissertations about the woman's experience. Special stuff. the woman's experience. Special stuff. Um, yeah. I think this movie is so Um, yeah. I think this movie is so successful because it feels so closely successful because it feels so closely modeled on a strong personal point of modeled on a strong personal point of view. Yeah. Was this movie made after view. Yeah. Was this movie made after she and Shy broke up? I believe so. So, she and Shy broke up? I believe so. So, I mean, it feels like a real post-deorce I mean, it feels like a real post-deorce movie, a real kind of second half of my movie, a real kind of second half of my life, who am I? And what was my life life, who am I? And what was my life about? Um, I think also, you know, you about? Um, I think also, you know, you mentioned Katon and Nicholson's mentioned Katon and Nicholson's performances. I think it's that perfect performances. I think it's that perfect meeting of performance and persona that meeting of performance and persona that they both have these incredibly strong they both have these incredibly strong screen screen screen personas. Jack has this kind of loose, personas. Jack has this kind of loose, you know, philandering, you know, you know, philandering, you know, eternally eternally eternally young manchild, you know, like that's young manchild, you know, like that's something that we think of when we see something that we think of when we see him kind of making mischief at the him kind of making mischief at the Academy Awards or, you know, being a Academy Awards or, you know, being a maniac in movies. And Dian Katon, of maniac in movies. And Dian Katon, of course, is this kind of course, is this kind of like anxious, brilliant kind of like anxious, brilliant kind of eccentric pop fizz, pop personality who eccentric pop fizz, pop personality who like could break at any moment, but also like could break at any moment, but also could like sweep you off your feet at could like sweep you off your feet at any moment, you know, kind of riffing on any moment, you know, kind of riffing on Annie Hall and and everything that she Annie Hall and and everything that she embodied in that movie. And they're not embodied in that movie. And they're not like changing it, they're embracing it, like changing it, they're embracing it, making it work at a different phase of making it work at a different phase of their life. It's also notable that um their life. It's also notable that um you know for Nicholson this is his first you know for Nicholson this is his first movie after about Schmidt which was kind movie after about Schmidt which was kind of like his rejection of the Jack of like his rejection of the Jack persona right and you can feel him like persona right and you can feel him like jacking very hard in this. Yeah. Yeah. jacking very hard in this. Yeah. Yeah. And Diane Keaton you know in the two she And Diane Keaton you know in the two she has first wives club which is this huge has first wives club which is this huge success in the mid 90s and then what was success in the mid 90s and then what was her career really like in the late 90s her career really like in the late 90s and early 2000s. She works with Shy and and early 2000s. She works with Shy and Meyers in Father of the Bride and Father Meyers in Father of the Bride and Father of the Bride 2, right? And playing the of the Bride 2, right? And playing the number two though, really to Steve number two though, really to Steve Martin. Yes, absolutely. But well, Martin. Yes, absolutely. But well, that's not fair. She's one of the two that's not fair. She's one of the two pregnant people in Father of the Bride pregnant people in Father of the Bride part two. That's true. You're right. She part two. That's true. You're right. She has a bigger role. And she does the has a bigger role. And she does the iconic workout scene with Martin Short, iconic workout scene with Martin Short, which is all I could think about which is all I could think about throughout two pregnancies. That's true. throughout two pregnancies. That's true. Okay. That was all you could think Okay. That was all you could think about? Anytime I tried to do a workout, about? Anytime I tried to do a workout, I was just like I I and I didn't didn't I was just like I I and I didn't didn't look as good as those people. Speaking look as good as those people. Speaking of, you know, pregnant women and of, you know, pregnant women and non-pregant women just wearing bumps. non-pregant women just wearing bumps. Did we explore on our Nancy Myers Did we explore on our Nancy Myers episode how old she was when she was episode how old she was when she was pregnant with that child? Do we know? Uh pregnant with that child? Do we know? Uh so I think she's she's probably like so I think she's she's probably like mid4s because there's a crucial part of mid4s because there's a crucial part of Father of the Bride, the original when Father of the Bride, the original when you know when he's having the he's you know when he's having the he's imagining that it's the tiny little imagining that it's the tiny little Annie telling him he's getting married. Annie telling him he's getting married. you know, dad, I'm getting married. you know, dad, I'm getting married. And it's like Diane Katon says that she And it's like Diane Katon says that she was this old. She was 22 when she had was this old. She was 22 when she had the um Right. Yeah. Right. that made her the um Right. Yeah. Right. that made her much younger. Exactly. So, she could be much younger. Exactly. So, she could be like 45, 46. It's possible. I mean, in like 45, 46. It's possible. I mean, in the late 90s at this stage of her career the late 90s at this stage of her career is really interesting because you Father is really interesting because you Father of the Bride part two is is 95. That's a of the Bride part two is is 95. That's a big hit. Obviously, the Father of Bride big hit. Obviously, the Father of Bride movie was a big hit, right? First Wives movie was a big hit, right? First Wives Club is massive. Then she's in Marvin's Club is massive. Then she's in Marvin's Room, which is kind of like an Oscar bid Room, which is kind of like an Oscar bid with Leo and Dairo and really uh a with Leo and Dairo and really uh a hallowed cast, but not really a big hallowed cast, but not really a big success. Um Meryill Streep's in that success. Um Meryill Streep's in that too, right? Marvin's room, I believe she too, right? Marvin's room, I believe she is. I think so. Um is. I think so. Um yeah, she is on the poster. Merryill yeah, she is on the poster. Merryill Streep and Diane Keaton, right? Streep and Diane Keaton, right? Basically hugging Leo. Uh in 1987, she's Basically hugging Leo. Uh in 1987, she's in a movie called The Only Thrill, which in a movie called The Only Thrill, which is directed by Peter Masterson. um and is directed by Peter Masterson. um and then doesn't make a movie for 3 years, then doesn't make a movie for 3 years, makes the other sister and then she makes the other sister and then she directs Hanging Up, which is written by directs Hanging Up, which is written by uh Norah and Dillia Efron, right? Then uh Norah and Dillia Efron, right? Then Town and Country Town and Country in 2001, Famous Bomb. And I'll come back in 2001, Famous Bomb. And I'll come back to the importance of Town and Country to the importance of Town and Country momentarily. Saw both of those in the momentarily. Saw both of those in the theaters, by the way. Town and Country theaters, by the way. Town and Country should have been amazing. Um Warren should have been amazing. Um Warren Batty, Diane Keaton, Andy McDow, and Batty, Diane Keaton, Andy McDow, and Gary Shanling from a script by Buck Gary Shanling from a script by Buck Henry. It's terrible movie. um workout, Henry. It's terrible movie. um workout, but and then a few years go by until but and then a few years go by until something's got to give. She's had a something's got to give. She's had a huge down period in her career. Probably huge down period in her career. Probably the the downest that her career has ever the the downest that her career has ever been on this like basically seven-year been on this like basically seven-year stretch since First Wives Club. Um not stretch since First Wives Club. Um not that she's not making interesting that she's not making interesting movies, but not a box office star, movies, but not a box office star, right? right? right? This movie is huge, though. Like, how This movie is huge, though. Like, how big was how successful was Something's big was how successful was Something's Got to Give? It made $124 million Got to Give? It made $124 million domestic, which is for a romantic comedy domestic, which is for a romantic comedy starring two people over 50 where like starring two people over 50 where like menopause is a punchline. Like not not menopause is a punchline. Like not not like we're not making fun of menopause. like we're not making fun of menopause. They're making fun of birth control They're making fun of birth control and in in 2003 and this movie makes $124 and in in 2003 and this movie makes $124 million domestically, million domestically, million domestically, even more. So it's I think it's 265 even more. So it's I think it's 265 worldwide. Crazy. It's like a classic worldwide. Crazy. It's like a classic December holiday release. Like go take December holiday release. Like go take your whole family to go see the movie your whole family to go see the movie written and directed by a woman about a written and directed by a woman about a neurotic over 50s playwright wearing neurotic over 50s playwright wearing turtlenecks and people just ate it up. turtlenecks and people just ate it up. What a time. What a time. So we always ask a couple of questions So we always ask a couple of questions when we're doing this. So, why did when we're doing this. So, why did Something's Got to Give make the list, Something's Got to Give make the list, aside from there needing to be a Nancy aside from there needing to be a Nancy Myers movie on the list because of how Myers movie on the list because of how much we appreciate her on the show, much we appreciate her on the show, right? Well, it of the Nancy Myers right? Well, it of the Nancy Myers movies, I think it's the most important. movies, I think it's the most important. As we just mentioned, it was absolutely As we just mentioned, it was absolutely like a phenomenon. And What Women Want, like a phenomenon. And What Women Want, which was released in 2000, also made a which was released in 2000, also made a lot of money, over 100 million domestic. lot of money, over 100 million domestic. But this kind of sets up the rest of the But this kind of sets up the rest of the Nancy Meyers trajectory. This is why Nancy Meyers trajectory. This is why like all you degenerates have the like all you degenerates have the holiday. This is why we have It's holiday. This is why we have It's Complicated, which is basically this Complicated, which is basically this movie made with different Oscar winning movie made with different Oscar winning actors. Um, I love It's Complicated. We actors. Um, I love It's Complicated. We We talked about it, too. Yeah. Yeah. We talked about it, too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But it's Yeah. But it's This is The Breakthrough. This I think This is The Breakthrough. This I think is also so influential in terms of I is also so influential in terms of I guess romantic comedies or frankly guess romantic comedies or frankly garbage women of movies about women of a garbage women of movies about women of a certain age uh trying to have it all in certain age uh trying to have it all in life both thematically and just visually life both thematically and just visually the actual the the language of the the actual the the language of the kitchens and the over stuffed couches kitchens and the over stuffed couches and the hydrangeas that are usually blue and the hydrangeas that are usually blue and the like expensive prepared food and the like expensive prepared food stores and Everything that we now do and stores and Everything that we now do and I think much to Nancy Myers's chagrin I think much to Nancy Myers's chagrin identify as like Nancy Meyers core identify as like Nancy Meyers core is like is genuinely like an aurourist is like is genuinely like an aurourist cinematic vision. I I it is it is so cinematic vision. I I it is it is so specific and so many people have failed specific and so many people have failed to recreate it or tried to make a lot of to recreate it or tried to make a lot of money off of it. I'm like looking at you money off of it. I'm like looking at you barrel like it is truly influential. barrel like it is truly influential. Uhhuh. I I completely agree. I mean it Uhhuh. I I completely agree. I mean it it is visually thematically recurring. it is visually thematically recurring. That is a that is a key part of the That is a that is a key part of the ottor theory is that you are telling a ottor theory is that you are telling a certain kind of story with a certain certain kind of story with a certain kind of visual approach with a strong kind of visual approach with a strong authorship on your stories and the story authorship on your stories and the story types and she does it. I mean you wrote types and she does it. I mean you wrote here something very dramatic. Okay, here something very dramatic. Okay, which is the that this is the last great which is the that this is the last great studio romantic comedy. Well, this is a studio romantic comedy. Well, this is a very strong statement. It's been 22 very strong statement. It's been 22 years since but so and I wrote with years since but so and I wrote with apologies too and this is some real 25 apologies too and this is some real 25 for 25 spoilers here. Okay, so here are for 25 spoilers here. Okay, so here are some movies that didn't make our list. some movies that didn't make our list. Bridget Jones's Diary. Yes, it hurts me Bridget Jones's Diary. Yes, it hurts me too. How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days, 13 too. How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days, 13 Going on 30, 27 Dresses, The Wedding Going on 30, 27 Dresses, The Wedding Planner, The Proposal, Forgetting Sarah Planner, The Proposal, Forgetting Sarah Marshall, and the four other Nancy Myers Marshall, and the four other Nancy Myers movies released in the last 25 years. I movies released in the last 25 years. I think that something's Got Again think that something's Got Again transcends all give transcends all of transcends all give transcends all of those. those. those. I I think that you're right. Okay. I do. I I think that you're right. Okay. I do. I think the thing that when I watch this I think the thing that when I watch this movie, it is very clearly born of the movie, it is very clearly born of the 30s and 40s screw ball style. It's just 30s and 40s screw ball style. It's just shifting the cast to people in their 50s shifting the cast to people in their 50s and 60s and not in their late 20s and and 60s and not in their late 20s and early 30s. Um it it uses a lot of the early 30s. Um it it uses a lot of the similar framework that you would find in similar framework that you would find in Philadelphia Story or um in Bringing a Philadelphia Story or um in Bringing a Baby or in His Girl Friday or in all of Baby or in His Girl Friday or in all of those classics. We know Nancy Myers has those classics. We know Nancy Myers has a huge admiration for those movies and a huge admiration for those movies and is kind of like echoing them throughout is kind of like echoing them throughout her career. her career. her career. I think because of that it works really I think because of that it works really well as homage and really well as also a well as homage and really well as also a contemporary story. Jack Nicholson's contemporary story. Jack Nicholson's character is a hip-hop label owner. Um character is a hip-hop label owner. Um Diane Keaton is a an aging playwright um Diane Keaton is a an aging playwright um of some renown. of some renown. You know the Hampton's home or is it the You know the Hampton's home or is it the Hampton's? The Hamptons. The Hampton's Hampton's? The Hamptons. The Hampton's home feels very early as to me. It's home feels very early as to me. It's sort of like before the Hampton's got sort of like before the Hampton's got completely out of control and is was completely out of control and is was still like a wealthy person's enclave. still like a wealthy person's enclave. The address is given as Saga Panek. The The address is given as Saga Panek. The exteriors were shot in a home in exteriors were shot in a home in Southampton. The interiors were all Southampton. The interiors were all designed. designed. designed. They're they're all sets by her. Well, They're they're all sets by her. Well, yes, by who's the set decorator, but yes, by who's the set decorator, but Nancy, you know, oversees everything. Nancy, you know, oversees everything. She guesses every fabric. Okay. Okay. She guesses every fabric. Okay. Okay. So, one of the things that I like about So, one of the things that I like about this movie is it is I don't even know if it's a it is it is I don't even know if it's a it is clearly a witting, but I don't know is clearly a witting, but I don't know if it's a communicated love if it's a communicated love letter of Warren Batty. Yeah, Dian Keen letter of Warren Batty. Yeah, Dian Keen worked with Warren Batty two years prior worked with Warren Batty two years prior in Town and Country. Nancy Meyers of in Town and Country. Nancy Meyers of course is familiar with Warren Batty and course is familiar with Warren Batty and admires his work. And the Jack Nicholson admires his work. And the Jack Nicholson character seems like Jack. Yeah. but is character seems like Jack. Yeah. but is in fact in fact in fact Warren. Almost literally Warren. The Warren. Almost literally Warren. The women that are cited as the the famous women that are cited as the the famous people that the Jack Nicholson character people that the Jack Nicholson character dated or may have dated in the past, dated or may have dated in the past, Joan Collins, Diane Sawyer, former Joan Collins, Diane Sawyer, former paramors of Warren Batty, right? the paramors of Warren Batty, right? the lifelong bachelor, the escape artist as lifelong bachelor, the escape artist as he's called in the movie is very clearly he's called in the movie is very clearly modeled on and the story is clearly modeled on and the story is clearly modeled on Ned Benning kind of like you modeled on Ned Benning kind of like you know a successful artist in her own know a successful artist in her own right taming right right taming right taming the Warren Batty figure in the taming the Warren Batty figure in the world. The fun part about this is that world. The fun part about this is that Jack Nicholson and Warren Batty are like Jack Nicholson and Warren Batty are like best friends. So this is like if I made best friends. So this is like if I made a movie about Chris Yeah. where I played a movie about Chris Yeah. where I played Chris, which would obviously we all know Chris, which would obviously we all know would be impossible, but if that were to would be impossible, but if that were to happen and I was exploring all the happen and I was exploring all the criticisms and how Chris became Chris criticisms and how Chris became Chris and how Chris was tamed. Mhm. Would you and how Chris was tamed. Mhm. Would you want to see that movie? Yeah, of course. want to see that movie? Yeah, of course. They She does this. She does this a lot. They She does this. She does this a lot. Like she loves old Hollywood. Like she loves old Hollywood. irreconcilable differences, which is the irreconcilable differences, which is the hardest to see of the Nancy Myers movie, hardest to see of the Nancy Myers movie, is just the Peter Bdonovich PolylPlatt is just the Peter Bdonovich PolylPlatt breakup, but with um ridiculous breakup, but with um ridiculous performances and also Drew Perry Moore performances and also Drew Perry Moore as a child suing for divorce, which then as a child suing for divorce, which then happened later for like what's it happened later for like what's it called? Emancipation. Emancipation, called? Emancipation. Emancipation, right? Child divorce from your parents, right? Child divorce from your parents, which in real life. Yeah. So there, you which in real life. Yeah. So there, you know, Nancy Myers has a spidey sense. know, Nancy Myers has a spidey sense. She knows what's going on in the world She knows what's going on in the world and she likes to put it into her movies, and she likes to put it into her movies, including also, by the way, the Erica including also, by the way, the Erica Barry character, which is just uh Nancy Barry character, which is just uh Nancy Myers written uh Myers written uh into she's a playwright instead of a into she's a playwright instead of a filmmaker. Do you think this movie is filmmaker. Do you think this movie is saying that Nancy Myers wants to marry saying that Nancy Myers wants to marry Warren Batty? Warren Batty? Warren Batty? No, I don't. I think I think this movie No, I don't. I think I think this movie is saying that Nancy Myers did a lot of is saying that Nancy Myers did a lot of work after divorcing her uh husband and work after divorcing her uh husband and coowwriter and director and uh really coowwriter and director and uh really likes, you know, nice over stuffed likes, you know, nice over stuffed couches and is trying to figure out how couches and is trying to figure out how to be less uptight and open herself up to be less uptight and open herself up to life. Um to life. Um the I feel like this is a movie that the I feel like this is a movie that could only happen in this specific could only happen in this specific period of time, which is one thing that period of time, which is one thing that I like about it. I think that the figure I like about it. I think that the figure of like the old man dating the young of like the old man dating the young woman woman woman uh is culturally uh is culturally now would be perceived as more of a now would be perceived as more of a creepfest and in this movie the idea creepfest and in this movie the idea like oh yeah you dated my daughter and like oh yeah you dated my daughter and oh you didn't sleep with her but it's oh you didn't sleep with her but it's okay even though she's like literally a okay even though she's like literally a stride him in the first 10 minutes of stride him in the first 10 minutes of the movie uh it it's just one of those the movie uh it it's just one of those like could not have happened at any time like could not have happened at any time after it and so it's in a way kind of after it and so it's in a way kind of like a last remnant of this era of like a last remnant of this era of Hollywood right you you know, where Hollywood right you you know, where like, wasn't it cool that Warren Batty like, wasn't it cool that Warren Batty was bagging every chick in Hollywood was bagging every chick in Hollywood until 1998 or whatever and he decided to until 1998 or whatever and he decided to settle down and have children? Um, yeah. settle down and have children? Um, yeah. I mean, I think it's still happening. I I mean, I think it's still happening. I guess we just definitely still happen. guess we just definitely still happen. Yeah. You wouldn't get the same New York Yeah. You wouldn't get the same New York magazine piece called The Escape Artist. magazine piece called The Escape Artist. You wouldn't be like, "Isn't this cute You wouldn't be like, "Isn't this cute how he decided to date a woman who's how he decided to date a woman who's within 12 years of his age?" You do, within 12 years of his age?" You do, however, get plenty of uh Erica Barry's however, get plenty of uh Erica Barry's dating the local Hampton's doctor. So dating the local Hampton's doctor. So this, you know, the the the woman of a this, you know, the the the woman of a certain age dating a handsome younger certain age dating a handsome younger man who is just like really really hot man who is just like really really hot for her and she doesn't understand it is for her and she doesn't understand it is now very very common and perhaps now very very common and perhaps overdone in You think she invented this overdone in You think she invented this trick? I don't think she invented it. trick? I don't think she invented it. It's close, but it's it is you see it It's close, but it's it is you see it everywhere. Yeah, it's a major major everywhere. Yeah, it's a major major part of the garbage women cannon and it part of the garbage women cannon and it this is a really powerful one because this is a really powerful one because like every time I watch it I'm like oh like every time I watch it I'm like oh should she choose Keanu? I I want to get should she choose Keanu? I I want to get to that. That's something I'd like to to that. That's something I'd like to explore with you. I think that this explore with you. I think that this movie movie movie um forgive me for this but kind of um forgive me for this but kind of preages like uh it's a twist on the mil preages like uh it's a twist on the mil thing which really took off post thing which really took off post American Pie which is 1999 but the like American Pie which is 1999 but the like young man hot for older woman who's young man hot for older woman who's still a babe and still looks like Diane still a babe and still looks like Diane Keaton you know Diane Katon famously has Keaton you know Diane Katon famously has a a nude scene in this movie as does a a nude scene in this movie as does kind of sort of Jack Nicholson who shows kind of sort of Jack Nicholson who shows his ass. Well I think it's a double but his ass. Well I think it's a double but that's okay. You think Jack is a double that's okay. You think Jack is a double or No, I think Diana is, but that's or No, I think Diana is, but that's okay. There's some cutting when I was okay. There's some cutting when I was watching at this time, but listen, no watching at this time, but listen, no judgment. Were you freeze framing? No, I judgment. Were you freeze framing? No, I was just I was watching the camera work was just I was watching the camera work as I do. I see. As you do. You're well as I do. I see. As you do. You're well known to watch the camera work. Uh Oh, known to watch the camera work. Uh Oh, that's interesting. I didn't know that. that's interesting. I didn't know that. I thought that that was I could be I thought that that was I could be wrong. I mean that you definitely see wrong. I mean that you definitely see her in a like in bra and underwear like her in a like in bra and underwear like undressed, but I think like the that undressed, but I think like the that moment it seems like there's a little moment it seems like there's a little bit of of cutting and someone with a bit of of cutting and someone with a wig. I could be wrong. The movie has a wig. I could be wrong. The movie has a just a great relationship to sex. Like just a great relationship to sex. Like it's very uh I've seen the movie get it's very uh I've seen the movie get derided as sitcomy at times, but I feel derided as sitcomy at times, but I feel like sitcoms are not can't get into this like sitcoms are not can't get into this area. Can't get into the lane of like um area. Can't get into the lane of like um this epanic physical experience that an this epanic physical experience that an older woman is having. You never see older woman is having. You never see stuff like that on TV. Um, and also that stuff like that on TV. Um, and also that it is like it is like um unusually physical for a movie like um unusually physical for a movie like this. It's the one thing that all those this. It's the one thing that all those 30s and 40s movies are all illusions to, 30s and 40s movies are all illusions to, right, these kinds of acts. But like right, these kinds of acts. But like he's literally going down on her. he's literally going down on her. They're literally in bed together, They're literally in bed together, right? And it is it is way more right? And it is it is way more normalized then than it it would be now. normalized then than it it would be now. Like I'm trying to think of is has there Like I'm trying to think of is has there been a movie with like two 50somes in been a movie with like two 50somes in bed together in recent years? Even we bed together in recent years? Even we were just talking about Black Bag were just talking about Black Bag recently on the show. There's something recently on the show. There's something kind of like steamy but chased about the kind of like steamy but chased about the relationship in Black. Right. Right. relationship in Black. Right. Right. Right. I'm trying to think even in even Right. I'm trying to think even in even in Something's Got to Give they are in Something's Got to Give they are playing it for comedy. You know, there playing it for comedy. You know, there is there is the great moment where they is there is the great moment where they have to stop at the beginning of the sex have to stop at the beginning of the sex scene in order to check his blood scene in order to check his blood pressure and then instead of like a bra pressure and then instead of like a bra being thrown in the air, you get the being thrown in the air, you get the shot of like the what's it? What is the shot of like the what's it? What is the thing? The strap. Yeah, the strap from thing? The strap. Yeah, the strap from the blood pressure strap like being the blood pressure strap like being thrown. So, they are they're making hay thrown. So, they are they're making hay of it. And there is something about the of it. And there is something about the fact like oh like winking oh ho ho like fact like oh like winking oh ho ho like we're watching two 50-year-olds have sex we're watching two 50-year-olds have sex that tips it towards comedy rather than that tips it towards comedy rather than steaminess. steaminess. steaminess. Um you know but they do make a joke Um you know but they do make a joke about menopause. They do about menopause. They do um you know it's they are undressed for um you know it's they are undressed for a lot of the movie. Where are you at on a lot of the movie. Where are you at on menopause these days? I'm not there, menopause these days? I'm not there, which I'm really happy to to share with which I'm really happy to to share with everyone. Great. So, in general, what do everyone. Great. So, in general, what do you make of it? Um, you know, it seems you make of it? Um, you know, it seems like with everything that happens to like with everything that happens to women, there's not enough, you know, women, there's not enough, you know, medical research and support directed medical research and support directed that way. But maybe by the time I get that way. But maybe by the time I get there, you know, how do you feel about there, you know, how do you feel about the uh meta aspect of the story where the uh meta aspect of the story where Erica Barry, who is a thinly veiled Erica Barry, who is a thinly veiled version of a Nancy Meyers figure, is version of a Nancy Meyers figure, is literally thinly veiling her life and literally thinly veiling her life and her experiences in a play in the movie her experiences in a play in the movie that she's making. Now, normally I find that she's making. Now, normally I find when I see things like this in movies when I see things like this in movies and I like them, you're like, why are and I like them, you're like, why are you such a Oh, no. I like bro. No, no, you such a Oh, no. I like bro. No, no, of course that it's she's commenting on of course that it's she's commenting on who she is. I like I I like this who she is. I like I I like this as autobiography and I think some of as autobiography and I think some of what elevates it from a sitcom and also what elevates it from a sitcom and also from your from your from your classic, you know, like goofy romcom is classic, you know, like goofy romcom is this very experienced and also um very this very experienced and also um very anxious person. Mh. anxious person. Mh. investigating her life and how she is in investigating her life and how she is in the world and what she does and the the world and what she does and the consequences of of what she does in real consequences of of what she does in real time with like a multi-million dollar time with like a multi-million dollar budget. And I I budget. And I I like that it still has a sense of humor like that it still has a sense of humor about it. You know, there this movie about it. You know, there this movie does have like a lot of speeches and as does have like a lot of speeches and as you said, characters realizing things. you said, characters realizing things. It's not therapy speak like we haven't It's not therapy speak like we haven't gotten there in in the world where gotten there in in the world where everyone just has to be like talking to everyone just has to be like talking to each other about like their trauma and each other about like their trauma and whatever boundaries and healing. They whatever boundaries and healing. They they speak like people intelligent they speak like people intelligent people who are trying to figure things people who are trying to figure things out about themselves. Yeah. But still out about themselves. Yeah. But still sort of almost in that like sort of almost in that like playwriting human mo like it's like it's playwriting human mo like it's like it's a human way of communicating. So I like a human way of communicating. So I like that. But I like that you can also tell that. But I like that you can also tell she's really thought about it and she's she's really thought about it and she's thought thought thought about, you know, her relationship to her about, you know, her relationship to her work and she's thought about why she work and she's thought about why she dresses the way she does. Like the dresses the way she does. Like the turtlenecks as a motif is and it's in turtlenecks as a motif is and it's in the text like they explain it for you, the text like they explain it for you, but it still is very clever. I There's but it still is very clever. I There's that throwaway line when they're in the that throwaway line when they're in the kitchen and she's talking about how kitchen and she's talking about how she's always wanted to write a play that she's always wanted to write a play that ends in Paris. She's like because people ends in Paris. She's like because people need romance and if I don't write it need romance and if I don't write it where are they going to get it real life where are they going to get it real life and that's obviously like Nancy Meyers and that's obviously like Nancy Meyers communicating as well but it's true and communicating as well but it's true and it's nice and then the movie does end in it's nice and then the movie does end in Paris and also because it's 20 2003 it Paris and also because it's 20 2003 it actually ends in Paris so that's also actually ends in Paris so that's also wonderful and remnant of a time where wonderful and remnant of a time where they just sent movie stars to Paris to they just sent movie stars to Paris to film on the streets at night. film on the streets at night. Okay, let's talk about the film's Okay, let's talk about the film's legacy. You've already mentioned that legacy. You've already mentioned that the movie has uh is the movie has uh is is has earned a great debt from Kraton is has earned a great debt from Kraton Barrel and J Crew J Crew Coastal Grandma Barrel and J Crew J Crew Coastal Grandma Chic. I mean that was a Tik Tok thing. Chic. I mean that was a Tik Tok thing. Were you familiar with that? I was not. Were you familiar with that? I was not. I'm not on Tik Tok as you know. I'm not I'm not on Tik Tok as you know. I'm not either, but then they posted it to reals either, but then they posted it to reals for all the old people. So we appreciate for all the old people. So we appreciate you. Yeah. So, you know, people, young you. Yeah. So, you know, people, young women wearing just the the cream colored women wearing just the the cream colored sweaters, the bucket hats, but like a sweaters, the bucket hats, but like a direct visual reference to those beach. direct visual reference to those beach. Do you think you'll age into that chic? Do you think you'll age into that chic? Um, I mean, I definitely already wear a Um, I mean, I definitely already wear a lot of white jeans, you know, or or like lot of white jeans, you know, or or like cream colored pants. cream colored pants. I do have a bucket hat, but I don't know I do have a bucket hat, but I don't know if I'm going to go monochrome cream with if I'm going to go monochrome cream with the bucket hat. That's probably not the bucket hat. That's probably not where I am. Bucket hat. Mhm. It's It's where I am. Bucket hat. Mhm. It's It's pink like Tony Yo and Yeah. And my son pink like Tony Yo and Yeah. And my son has a matching one and we wear it at the has a matching one and we wear it at the beach. Also known to wear a bucket hat. beach. Also known to wear a bucket hat. Yeah. So I only know rappers who wear Yeah. So I only know rappers who wear bucket hats. Okay. Uh well, they had a bucket hats. Okay. Uh well, they had a moment like a few years moment like a few years ago. I I don't I don't think that I'll ago. I I don't I don't think that I'll be going this way. I'm more of a navy be going this way. I'm more of a navy than than cream. Diane wears a bucket than than cream. Diane wears a bucket hat in this film. I honestly think she hat in this film. I honestly think she wears more than one. I think that there wears more than one. I think that there are distinct bucket hats, but yes, she are distinct bucket hats, but yes, she does. I'll tell you something. Um, yeah. does. I'll tell you something. Um, yeah. The other 2003 thing about this movie The other 2003 thing about this movie that is related to Bucket Hats is the that is related to Bucket Hats is the use of Crazy Town's butterfly. The movie use of Crazy Town's butterfly. The movie opens with Crazy Town Butterfly and then opens with Crazy Town Butterfly and then like a lot a just a like a lot a just a montage of very 2003 looking women like montage of very 2003 looking women like striding into clubs, bars, restaurants, striding into clubs, bars, restaurants, hailing cabs, looking like very just off hailing cabs, looking like very just off frame in that montage is me in before frame in that montage is me in before them. Little known fact. them. Little known fact. Uh, did she know what she was doing when Uh, did she know what she was doing when she dropped Crazy Town in this movie? she dropped Crazy Town in this movie? No, absolutely not. She didn't know that No, absolutely not. She didn't know that this would be an incredible meme? Um, this would be an incredible meme? Um, no. I don't think so. And I like wonder no. I don't think so. And I like wonder if she still does. I have some concerns if she still does. I have some concerns about her relationship to hiphop in about her relationship to hiphop in general. Yeah, it's not great. I would general. Yeah, it's not great. I would not say that the the parties portrayed, not say that the the parties portrayed, even fleetingly, are uh culturally even fleetingly, are uh culturally sensitive. sensitive. sensitive. Um, and you know, Diane Keaton gives Um, and you know, Diane Keaton gives that speech in the the fake Barefoot that speech in the the fake Barefoot Contessa store. Do you know also that Contessa store. Do you know also that that's like it's not the Barefoot that's like it's not the Barefoot Contesta store, but you know that the Contesta store, but you know that the Barefoot Contessa started as a prepared Barefoot Contessa started as a prepared foods store in the Hamptons and then she foods store in the Hamptons and then she started writing cookbooks. That's a started writing cookbooks. That's a garden. Yes. Uh I did not know it garden. Yes. Uh I did not know it started as a store. Yes. So I think that started as a store. Yes. So I think that store still exists or No, I think she store still exists or No, I think she sold it at some point. I see. Okay. Or sold it at some point. I see. Okay. Or it No, I don't know. It was inspired by it No, I don't know. It was inspired by Yeah. That's that's the vibe that we're Yeah. That's that's the vibe that we're going for. And Ina Garden also an icon going for. And Ina Garden also an icon in your life. Yes. And a Hampton's icon in your life. Yes. And a Hampton's icon just to just to keep you on the level just to just to keep you on the level here. Uh anyway, she gives a speech here. Uh anyway, she gives a speech there about how she's not really into there about how she's not really into rap music. Um that is not uh how many rap music. Um that is not uh how many words can you rhyme with I words can you rhyme with I believe is the line of dialogue. I would believe is the line of dialogue. I would not say it's the most enlightened. Not not say it's the most enlightened. Not my favorite part of the movie. Um I my favorite part of the movie. Um I think think think that she has a knack that she has a knack for characterization that looks easy but for characterization that looks easy but is really hard. Yeah. is really hard. Yeah. Um, setting aside the the hip-hop line Um, setting aside the the hip-hop line in general, the Erica Barry character is in general, the Erica Barry character is like presents as like pretty modern. I like presents as like pretty modern. I think when the movie starts and Jack is think when the movie starts and Jack is the in the kitchen in the refrigerator the in the kitchen in the refrigerator and Francis McDorman and Dian Keaton and Francis McDorman and Dian Keaton come home and we see his feet underneath come home and we see his feet underneath the refrigerator and she re she thinks the refrigerator and she re she thinks that there's an intruder in the house that there's an intruder in the house and then we quickly learn that it's her and then we quickly learn that it's her daughter's boyfriend. Mhm. You think daughter's boyfriend. Mhm. You think that the engine of the movie is going to that the engine of the movie is going to be how unacceptable it is that her crazy be how unacceptable it is that her crazy daughter keeps dating older men, right? daughter keeps dating older men, right? And she's kind of cool with it. Yeah. And she's kind of cool with it. Yeah. She's like, "Not my first choice, but She's like, "Not my first choice, but it's okay." Yeah. It's like a It's a 911 it's okay." Yeah. It's like a It's a 911 punch line. It's like a She's like, punch line. It's like a She's like, "It's worse. She's dating my He's dating "It's worse. She's dating my He's dating my daughter." And then the hang up. my daughter." And then the hang up. Yeah. Uh which I find to be refreshing. Yeah. Uh which I find to be refreshing. Like it doesn't like lean on the obvious Like it doesn't like lean on the obvious ticks of the structure. I mean, maybe ticks of the structure. I mean, maybe she just had some experience in this she just had some experience in this mold. I don't know. No, it ultimately mold. I don't know. No, it ultimately just becomes a problem about the It's a just becomes a problem about the It's a the Erica Barry character makes it about the Erica Barry character makes it about her, which is fine because like the her, which is fine because like the movie is about her. Um, but it's it is a movie is about her. Um, but it's it is a little bit narcissistic also from a little bit narcissistic also from a different vantage point. It's like, different vantage point. It's like, well, she doesn't really seem that well, she doesn't really seem that worried about her daughter. She's just worried about her daughter. She's just kind of like, well, this is what does it kind of like, well, this is what does it say about me that I'm home at night? You say about me that I'm home at night? You know, I hadn't thought about that, but know, I hadn't thought about that, but that's a really good point. I don't that's a really good point. I don't know. Oh, sometimes when you're a know. Oh, sometimes when you're a filmmaker, a writer, you got to you got filmmaker, a writer, you got to write what you know. You got to bring to write what you know. You got to bring it back to you. But that's okay. I like it back to you. But that's okay. I like that. Um, I think that the other tricky that. Um, I think that the other tricky legacy of this movie is that what you legacy of this movie is that what you what you cited earlier, which is that a what you cited earlier, which is that a lot of people thought they could do lot of people thought they could do this. Yeah. And so there is like a kind this. Yeah. And so there is like a kind of high-grade imitation that a lot of a of high-grade imitation that a lot of great filmmakers this century lot of great filmmakers this century have that, you know, like Michael Bay have that, you know, like Michael Bay has the Michael Bay imitators in the has the Michael Bay imitators in the 2000s where you've got a lot of guys who 2000s where you've got a lot of guys who are trying to make action movies that are trying to make action movies that look like Michael Bay movies. All look like Michael Bay movies. All Michael Bay movies are stupid, but Michael Bay movies are stupid, but they're wonderfully stupid, right? Most they're wonderfully stupid, right? Most of the other movies are just stupid. of the other movies are just stupid. What is the like legacy in that respect What is the like legacy in that respect of the Nancy Myers ripoff? I mean, as of the Nancy Myers ripoff? I mean, as with all other things, it's frustrating with all other things, it's frustrating because everyone thinks that they can do because everyone thinks that they can do it and they also think they can do it it and they also think they can do it for less money and with less with less for less money and with less with less talent. And so then you get imitators talent. And so then you get imitators and you get things that are not as well and you get things that are not as well written or not as thoughtful or not as written or not as thoughtful or not as idiosyncratic for like I mean this is idiosyncratic for like I mean this is both you know like a a very broad comedy both you know like a a very broad comedy with like a great p punch line about the with like a great p punch line about the back of a hotel uh of a hospital gown back of a hotel uh of a hospital gown you know and Jack Nicholson's butt you know and Jack Nicholson's butt hanging out which I thought about every hanging out which I thought about every single time I have had to wear those in single time I have had to wear those in the last 10 years and and not a butt the last 10 years and and not a butt double for Jack you don't double for Jack you don't No, but then they have all of the the No, but then they have all of the the fake butts. The fake butts, the dancing fake butts. The fake butts, the dancing jacks, the dance, which is just really jacks, the dance, which is just really funny. It's a great bit. And again, like funny. It's a great bit. And again, like the movie is filled with those little the movie is filled with those little moments, whether it's like you're a moments, whether it's like you're a woman to love and the dancing Henry's or woman to love and the dancing Henry's or the performances that are just like they the performances that are just like they have Francis McDorman has won three have Francis McDorman has won three Oscars, you know, and she's just like at Oscars, you know, and she's just like at the farmers market like ogling Keanu Ree the farmers market like ogling Keanu Ree cuz it's funny. So there is there's a cuz it's funny. So there is there's a quality here in the writing in the film quality here in the writing in the film making certainly in the production making certainly in the production design and the and the visuals aspect of design and the and the visuals aspect of a film that I often think gets taken for a film that I often think gets taken for granted granted granted that then people are just like well that then people are just like well we'll just like get a white couch and we'll just like get a white couch and you know hire some like people we saw on you know hire some like people we saw on TV once and that like they can fall in TV once and that like they can fall in love and like think you can compete with love and like think you can compete with Something's got to give. And so you just Something's got to give. And so you just get the lesser versions and they're get the lesser versions and they're lesser in quality. They're lesser in lesser in quality. They're lesser in writing. They are definitely the budgets writing. They are definitely the budgets just get much smaller to the point that just get much smaller to the point that Nancy Meyers did not get to make her Nancy Meyers did not get to make her most recent movie because these things most recent movie because these things do actually cost money. Yes. And just do actually cost money. Yes. And just the budgets have been totally shifted. the budgets have been totally shifted. So that's a real shame. I can tell the So that's a real shame. I can tell the difference and most people can and I'll difference and most people can and I'll still watch the garbage stuff, but I still watch the garbage stuff, but I don't like we have garbage women. That's don't like we have garbage women. That's because people are trying to do this. because people are trying to do this. This is not garbage women. This is This is not garbage women. This is excellence. excellence. excellence. This is one of the very last Jack This is one of the very last Jack Nicholson performances. Yeah. He after Nicholson performances. Yeah. He after this film, a few years go by and he this film, a few years go by and he makes The Departed in makes The Departed in 2006. Legendary movie in many ways. The 2006. Legendary movie in many ways. The bucket list in bucket list in 2007 and How Do You Know in 2010. Mhm. I 2007 and How Do You Know in 2010. Mhm. I would I would argue that's a James L. would I would argue that's a James L. Brooks film, the most recent James L. Brooks film, the most recent James L. Brooks film until this fall when Ellen Brooks film until this fall when Ellen McKay comes out. Um, and I believe Ellen McKay comes out. Um, and I believe Ellen McKay is the first movie, first James L. McKay is the first movie, first James L. Brooks movie not to star Jack Nicholson Brooks movie not to star Jack Nicholson in some time because he appeared in How in some time because he appeared in How Do You Know? He appeared in As Good As Do You Know? He appeared in As Good As It Gets. He appeared in broadcast news. It Gets. He appeared in broadcast news. He appeared in terms of Endearment. What He appeared in terms of Endearment. What am I forgetting? What's the one with am I forgetting? What's the one with Julie Kavner? That's the one I'm Julie Kavner? That's the one I'm forgetting that he's not in. Anyway, forgetting that he's not in. Anyway, um this is a fascinating use of his um this is a fascinating use of his screen persona. You forgot Spanglish. screen persona. You forgot Spanglish. Spanglish. Is he in Spanglish? He's not Spanglish. Is he in Spanglish? He's not in Spanglish. No, he's not in Spanglish. in Spanglish. No, he's not in Spanglish. I forgot Spanglish because I really I forgot Spanglish because I really really don't like Spanglish and I love really don't like Spanglish and I love James Elbrook. So, it pains me and I James Elbrook. So, it pains me and I love Adam Sandler and it really pains me love Adam Sandler and it really pains me that I don't like Spanglish. Anyway, um that I don't like Spanglish. Anyway, um he's at the end of his career here. he's at the end of his career here. Yeah. You know, this is not and he's Yeah. You know, this is not and he's this is really also a movie about his this is really also a movie about his mortality. He has multiple heart attacks mortality. He has multiple heart attacks in this movie. He's literally on a in this movie. He's literally on a gurnie like four times. Um he at near gurnie like four times. Um he at near the end of the movie needs to leave the the end of the movie needs to leave the country and go find a way to get free country and go find a way to get free from his own anxieties so that he can from his own anxieties so that he can get in better health. get in better health. Multiple Viagra jokes. He's trying very Multiple Viagra jokes. He's trying very hard to stay sexually active into his hard to stay sexually active into his 60s. Seems challenging, at least for 60s. Seems challenging, at least for this character. I'll report back in 20 this character. I'll report back in 20 years. And it's a really fascinating use years. And it's a really fascinating use of him and his like I think his of him and his like I think his willingness to be a buffoon who's still willingness to be a buffoon who's still like a representation of greatness. You like a representation of greatness. You know what I He has this ability to be so know what I He has this ability to be so ugly and strange and silly and ugly and strange and silly and disgusting and still maintain this like disgusting and still maintain this like essential Jack essential Jack essential Jack power that the reason that the movie power that the reason that the movie ultimately works is it's beautifully ultimately works is it's beautifully written and the production design is written and the production design is great and all the things you're saying great and all the things you're saying are all true, right? But it's leveraging are all true, right? But it's leveraging 35 years of movie history in the two 35 years of movie history in the two stars against each other to to elevate stars against each other to to elevate it to raise it. And so if you keep it to raise it. And so if you keep copying movies like this, but you don't copying movies like this, but you don't use people who have this, right, you use people who have this, right, you don't have this great movie. I mean, don't have this great movie. I mean, even Nancy Myers tries with It's even Nancy Myers tries with It's Complicated, which is uh Maril Stre, Complicated, which is uh Maril Stre, three-time Academy Award winner Merryill three-time Academy Award winner Merryill Streep. She's won three, right? Yes. Streep. She's won three, right? Yes. Yeah. Um, and this time she lives in Yeah. Um, and this time she lives in Santa Barbara and she instead of being a Santa Barbara and she instead of being a playwright, she like she runs the playwright, she like she runs the prepared food store. She's basically she prepared food store. She's basically she owns Dean and Duca and then she's trying owns Dean and Duca and then she's trying to decide between her ex-husband and to decide between her ex-husband and Steve Martin the architect. Mh. And Steve Martin the architect. Mh. And but there you have Meyer Street and you but there you have Meyer Street and you have two well Steve Martin one of the have two well Steve Martin one of the greatest comedic performers and Alec greatest comedic performers and Alec Baldwin who's like a really good third Baldwin who's like a really good third guy in movies. I mean he's great. We guy in movies. I mean he's great. We love Alec Baldwin, but it's he's not I love Alec Baldwin, but it's he's not I think he's among the best parts of the think he's among the best parts of the movie. It's weird though, but he's movie. It's weird though, but he's playing the jack part. The thing one of playing the jack part. The thing one of the things with that's complicated, the things with that's complicated, which I think is really good, and I'm a which I think is really good, and I'm a huge Steve Martin fan. It's he's just huge Steve Martin fan. It's he's just not that sexy. You know what I mean? not that sexy. You know what I mean? Like there's not it doesn't have the Like there's not it doesn't have the same heat. This movie like has a same heat. This movie like has a legitimate heat between these two legitimate heat between these two characters. You you really want to see characters. You you really want to see them end up together. You know, my one them end up together. You know, my one like gentle demerit on the movie is like like gentle demerit on the movie is like Keanu is incredibly handsome. I don't do Keanu is incredibly handsome. I don't do it, but the character is like, but it's it, but the character is like, but it's funny. That's the point. Okay. funny. That's the point. Okay. This guy goes all the way to Paris. He's This guy goes all the way to Paris. He's got the ring. Yeah. He's like ready to got the ring. Yeah. He's like ready to open it in front of Yeah. But he's like open it in front of Yeah. But he's like ready to turn his life over to this lady ready to turn his life over to this lady who he's infatuated with. Turn his life who he's infatuated with. Turn his life over several times. Like she stands him over several times. Like she stands him up. She stands him up because Amanda P up. She stands him up because Amanda P just does not have her together. just does not have her together. That's a That's But that is a funny That's a That's But that is a funny character. Um but that seems real. Yeah, character. Um but that seems real. Yeah, that seems real. I would hate to be NY's that seems real. I would hate to be NY's daughter in that situation. daughter in that situation. And then he's just gone until Francis And then he's just gone until Francis McDorman spots him at the farm stand McDorman spots him at the farm stand like you do. Yeah. And he brings the like you do. Yeah. And he brings the flowers back and he says, "These are for flowers back and he says, "These are for you to give to me to apologize." Great you to give to me to apologize." Great line. Really good. And then she writes a line. Really good. And then she writes a whole play, like probably a Tony winning whole play, like probably a Tony winning play about how Jack's character broke play about how Jack's character broke her heart. Uhhuh. And he's sitting there her heart. Uhhuh. And he's sitting there on the couch being like, "This is the on the couch being like, "This is the best thing you've ever written." So he best thing you've ever written." So he clearly knows what's going on. And then clearly knows what's going on. And then after being like, I this is the best after being like, I this is the best thing you've ever written. Is like, thing you've ever written. Is like, okay, now let's have sex again. Mhm. So okay, now let's have sex again. Mhm. So he just he he has no value system he just he he has no value system besides thinking she's the hottest besides thinking she's the hottest person in the world. And also like being person in the world. And also like being a single doctor in the Hamptons. Uhhuh. a single doctor in the Hamptons. Uhhuh. He's not a real person. Totally. Yeah. He's not a real person. Totally. Yeah. Of course. Of course. Of course. He's a single He's John Wick is a He's a single He's John Wick is a wonderful doctor in the Hamptons with no wonderful doctor in the Hamptons with no reconstructive knee surgery or bullet reconstructive knee surgery or bullet holes to speak of. And he's obsessed holes to speak of. And he's obsessed with a woman who's 15 to 20 years older with a woman who's 15 to 20 years older than him. And when they get to Paris and than him. And when they get to Paris and he's getting ready to close the deal for he's getting ready to close the deal for good forever, right? Eternal happiness good forever, right? Eternal happiness for him until she dies. for him until she dies. He gets one look at a flirty He gets one look at a flirty conversation with a sad old guy who flew conversation with a sad old guy who flew to Paris alone and he's like, "You know to Paris alone and he's like, "You know what? I got to throw in the towel. It what? I got to throw in the towel. It actually It's not about me. This isn't actually It's not about me. This isn't about me." I I agree that it's about me." I I agree that it's offcreen you decided that. I mean, I offcreen you decided that. I mean, I agree. I agree that he gives up too soon agree. I agree that he gives up too soon and it's put up a fight. It's so and it's put up a fight. It's so powerful every time he shows up that I'm powerful every time he shows up that I'm like, "Oh, are we sure she shouldn't like, "Oh, are we sure she shouldn't just pick him?" And like Jack is so just pick him?" And like Jack is so powerful. But but that scene with the powerful. But but that scene with the three of them in the like in the waiting three of them in the like in the waiting room. No, no, no. In the waiting room room. No, no, no. In the waiting room when you first meet Keano and it's like when you first meet Keano and it's like Amanda Pete to Francis McDorman to Dian Amanda Pete to Francis McDorman to Dian Katon and they're all just like making Katon and they're all just like making the that that's purposeful that he is the that that's purposeful that he is like too good to be true. Like he's just like too good to be true. Like he's just a madeup and the and the reaction shots a madeup and the and the reaction shots and how into him they all are is very and how into him they all are is very funny. I love him as a screen presence funny. I love him as a screen presence throughout the movie. I think his throughout the movie. I think his performance is really good. Kanu has performance is really good. Kanu has gotten a hard time over the years for gotten a hard time over the years for not being a good actor. I think he's not being a good actor. I think he's really good at this kind of light really good at this kind of light comedy. Really, really funny. Um I just comedy. Really, really funny. Um I just the character offscreen being like, "My the character offscreen being like, "My bad, you guys should figure this out." bad, you guys should figure this out." is like a lot. That's a lot to accept at is like a lot. That's a lot to accept at the end of the movie. Um this is this is the end of the movie. Um this is this is a wonderful movie. Uh I really wish that a wonderful movie. Uh I really wish that there were more movies like this. I wish there were more movies like this. I wish that like movie stardom was more about that like movie stardom was more about this. I think that's something that we this. I think that's something that we obsess over a little bit on the show, obsess over a little bit on the show, which is like using your powers for which is like using your powers for good. using your powers to make like good. using your powers to make like entertainments that are high level but entertainments that are high level but not um defined by what it is that not um defined by what it is that they're adapting or eventization that they're adapting or eventization that it's very this is a movie about writer it's very this is a movie about writer director and the two movie stars right director and the two movie stars right and their ability to connect on screen and their ability to connect on screen and how much you love them. Also, we and how much you love them. Also, we neglected to cite that um you know, neglected to cite that um you know, while Town and Country was the Diane while Town and Country was the Diane Keaton uh reunion with Warren Batty, Keaton uh reunion with Warren Batty, this is the first time I think that Jack this is the first time I think that Jack and Diane Keaton are on screen together and Diane Keaton are on screen together since Reds. If people haven't seen Reds, since Reds. If people haven't seen Reds, one of my single favorite scenes in one of my single favorite scenes in movie history is between Diane Keaton movie history is between Diane Keaton and Jack Nicholson, who plays Eugene and Jack Nicholson, who plays Eugene O'Neal in the film when they are sort of O'Neal in the film when they are sort of breaking up, when they are realizing breaking up, when they are realizing that they're not going to be able to be that they're not going to be able to be together and that John Reed is actually together and that John Reed is actually the man that she is meant to be with. the man that she is meant to be with. And it's this, you know, really like And it's this, you know, really like emotionally complicated sequence about emotionally complicated sequence about why two people can't be together, which why two people can't be together, which is sort of what this movie is about is sort of what this movie is about until it isn't. And so the tone of Reds until it isn't. And so the tone of Reds is completely different from Something's is completely different from Something's Got to Give, but just like the arc of a Got to Give, but just like the arc of a career and people really knowing each career and people really knowing each other and being able to be on screen other and being able to be on screen together and have that thing that these together and have that thing that these two people have. It starts all the way two people have. It starts all the way back in 1980, well before Nancy Myers is back in 1980, well before Nancy Myers is even a filmmaker at that point really. even a filmmaker at that point really. She's still just a writer at that stage She's still just a writer at that stage of her career. So just a pocket of her career. So just a pocket recommendation for whatever whatever we recommendation for whatever whatever we got to do to get you on board. If it's got to do to get you on board. If it's if it's Reds, so something's got to get if it's Reds, so something's got to get I always like this movie. I saw this I always like this movie. I saw this movie in theaters. I always liked it. I movie in theaters. I always liked it. I think this was what we ranked number one think this was what we ranked number one when we did Did we do a rankings for her when we did Did we do a rankings for her when we did the Nancy Myers episode? I when we did the Nancy Myers episode? I think so. Yes. Or did we do Hall of think so. Yes. Or did we do Hall of Fame? I don't know. This This is it. Fame? I don't know. This This is it. This is over Parent Trap. You think? I This is over Parent Trap. You think? I do. And absolutely over the holiday, do. And absolutely over the holiday, which like if you are mad because this which like if you are mad because this made it in instead of the holiday, like made it in instead of the holiday, like go get a life and go learn something. go get a life and go learn something. The holiday is the best extended 14- The holiday is the best extended 14- hour miniseries of that year. Yeah. It's hour miniseries of that year. Yeah. It's the longest movie ever made. It's uh the longest movie ever made. It's uh it's the it's Kislowski's the decalogue. it's the it's Kislowski's the decalogue. It's fine. It is It's fine. It is nowhere near the quality of this of this nowhere near the quality of this of this movie. Uh what would you recommend if movie. Uh what would you recommend if you like this movie? Annie Hall. Yeah, you like this movie? Annie Hall. Yeah, obviously. Um Heartburn. Mhm. For some obviously. Um Heartburn. Mhm. For some some dastardly Jack. Yes. But also, you some dastardly Jack. Yes. But also, you know, that that movie is written by know, that that movie is written by Norah Efron. The next movie on my list Norah Efron. The next movie on my list is You've Got Mail, which was also uh is You've Got Mail, which was also uh written and directed by Nora Efron. I written and directed by Nora Efron. I had forgotten how much email was a part had forgotten how much email was a part of this story. Exactly. But like well of this story. Exactly. But like well excuse me aim instant messenger. Yes. excuse me aim instant messenger. Yes. Which is also an important part of Which is also an important part of you've got mail and even the sort of you've got mail and even the sort of like the way you're thinking like the way you're thinking before you type the response. It's all before you type the response. It's all been replaced by texting in in films and been replaced by texting in in films and the ellipses. But I do also think you the ellipses. But I do also think you know we don't have a Norah Efron movie know we don't have a Norah Efron movie on this list. I'm really sorry because on this list. I'm really sorry because all the great ones uh came out before all the great ones uh came out before 2000. This is Lucky Numbers a Nora Efron 2000. This is Lucky Numbers a Nora Efron movie. I think Julia and Julia, Julia movie. I think Julia and Julia, Julia and Julia was eligible, but only half of and Julia was eligible, but only half of that movie really works for me. So, that movie really works for me. So, okay. But there is, you know, kind of okay. But there is, you know, kind of like a there was a time when Norah Efron like a there was a time when Norah Efron and Nancy Meyers were writing and and Nancy Meyers were writing and directing actually like great big directing actually like great big budget studio romantic comedies. budget studio romantic comedies. And so, if you like the Norah Efron And so, if you like the Norah Efron entrance, like this this will speak to entrance, like this this will speak to you as well. Um, broadcast news we you as well. Um, broadcast news we already mentioned, but you know, there's already mentioned, but you know, there's the James El Brooks overlap and the Jack the James El Brooks overlap and the Jack Nicholson overlap. And then if if you Nicholson overlap. And then if if you are one of those people that's like, are one of those people that's like, "Oh, I love the holidays so much." And "Oh, I love the holidays so much." And you've never seen this movie somehow, you've never seen this movie somehow, please check it out. Okay. Is there are please check it out. Okay. Is there are there any other classics that you would there any other classics that you would recommend because I do feel like I recommend because I do feel like I thought about Philadelphia story for the thought about Philadelphia story for the the same reason of the of the three and the same reason of the of the three and the Yeah. and and a nice house, you the Yeah. and and a nice house, you know. Does that mean that Keanu is the know. Does that mean that Keanu is the Carrie Grant in the movie? Carrie Grant in the movie? Um, I don't think so. Keanu is the Jimmy Um, I don't think so. Keanu is the Jimmy Stewart. I That's what I would think. I Stewart. I That's what I would think. I guess he's the man who comes to town. guess he's the man who comes to town. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. All right. It's a Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. All right. It's a wonderful movie. Yeah. Great pick. You wonderful movie. Yeah. Great pick. You feel like it's too low. No, I think it's feel like it's too low. No, I think it's good. Okay. I feel like, you know, you good. Okay. I feel like, you know, you you were very stressed out about like you were very stressed out about like four versus 6 versus 7 versus 12. And I four versus 6 versus 7 versus 12. And I think that this is in the when we were think that this is in the when we were making the list, like the number by making the list, like the number by number seemed very stressed to you. And number seemed very stressed to you. And I'm kind of like this is the 20 to 25 I'm kind of like this is the 20 to 25 bucket. I also, you know, we're bringing bucket. I also, you know, we're bringing people in. Um at 25 through 20, we want people in. Um at 25 through 20, we want to surprise people. We want to get as to surprise people. We want to get as wide a range an audience. Chalk. No, I wide a range an audience. Chalk. No, I just, you know, it's important to really just, you know, it's important to really get people's attention with the first get people's attention with the first few picks and this will get people's few picks and this will get people's attention because people like it. and attention because people like it. and maybe people who have not been that maybe people who have not been that interested in the project thus far, you interested in the project thus far, you know, maybe we'll find a new audience. know, maybe we'll find a new audience. Um, sure. Okay. The best thing about Um, sure. Okay. The best thing about this project is that is that it's this project is that is that it's evergreen. Yeah. So many of the shows evergreen. Yeah. So many of the shows that we make are like, "Oh my god, a that we make are like, "Oh my god, a Minecraft movie made a $300 million and Minecraft movie made a $300 million and then that is the dumbest podcast of all then that is the dumbest podcast of all time like eight days later." This is time like eight days later." This is something you can return to if you want something you can return to if you want to watch Something's Got a Give. Uh, to watch Something's Got a Give. Uh, thanks to our producer Jack Sanders. thanks to our producer Jack Sanders. Later this week, we'll be previewing the Later this week, we'll be previewing the Can Film Festival and the lineup there, Can Film Festival and the lineup there, which Amanda will not be attending which Amanda will not be attending because she's a coward. Um, and Chris because she's a coward. Um, and Chris Ryan and I will discuss Warfare, which Ryan and I will discuss Warfare, which is a deeply upsetting combat film. We'll is a deeply upsetting combat film. We'll see you then.