================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: UWdApyohqK0
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UWdApyohqK0
TITLE: Will Sesko be another expensive Man Utd flop?
CHANNEL: Total Soccer Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-07
DURATION: 44m 10s
VIEWS: 617
LIKES: 11
COMMENTS: 1

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Ryan Bailey, Graham Ruthven, and Joe Lowery dive into the latest from the transfer market! Is Benjamin Sesko headed to Manchester United? 

Does that move make sense? Why are Liverpool looking to sign yet another striker in Alexander Isak? What’s going wrong for Newcastle this summer? Are Everton going to land Jack Grealish? 

And are we about to see this summer window go from “Hot Striker Summer”to “Hot Winger Summer”? All that — and more — on the show.

Thumbnail photo by Stuart Franklin/Getty Images.

TRANSFER UPDATE CHAPTERS

0:00 - Intro
01:19 - The race for Sesko
12:09 - Baleba to Man Utd?
15:51 - Where is Isak?
23:52 - Newcastle's summer struggles
26:04 - Nunez leaving Liverpool
30:30 - Grealish to Everton
36:25 - Rodrygo on the move

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 20,019

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and our Welcome to the Total Soccer Show and our latest transfer update. There's a race latest transfer update. There's a race for Benjamin Cesco happening. Who's in for Benjamin Cesco happening. Who's in pole position? Alexander Isaac is still pole position? Alexander Isaac is still the subject of a summer saga. And might the subject of a summer saga. And might Jack Greish end up on Murzy side this Jack Greish end up on Murzy side this season? All these questions will be season? All these questions will be discussed and possibly answered on this discussed and possibly answered on this episode. My name's Ryan Bailey. Joining episode. My name's Ryan Bailey. Joining me today, Mr. Joseph Lowry is here. me today, Mr. Joseph Lowry is here. Hello, Joe. Hello, Joe. Hello, Joe. &gt;&gt; Yeah, Ryan, do we ever fully answer &gt;&gt; Yeah, Ryan, do we ever fully answer questions? I feel like we do discuss. We questions? I feel like we do discuss. We think um we we maybe ponder aloud. Do we think um we we maybe ponder aloud. Do we answer them? Rarely. So I would expect answer them? Rarely. So I would expect more discussion than than pure hard more discussion than than pure hard answers today. answers today. answers today. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we we ruminate. Joe, I would &gt;&gt; Yeah, we we ruminate. Joe, I would actually suggest we change our name to actually suggest we change our name to TRS, a total rumination show. That was TRS, a total rumination show. That was that was a that was a &gt;&gt; I'm in. Taylor's not here. Um I think as &gt;&gt; I'm in. Taylor's not here. Um I think as long as we have quorum amongst us, we're long as we have quorum amongst us, we're good to go. good to go. &gt;&gt; Agreed. Grad in TRS. &gt;&gt; Agreed. Grad in TRS. &gt;&gt; I mean, I'm here with hard answers. &gt;&gt; I mean, I'm here with hard answers. Benjamin Cesco flop ESAC 150 million two Benjamin Cesco flop ESAC 150 million two days before the end of the window. I've days before the end of the window. I've got the answers. got the answers. &gt;&gt; Oh, wow. You've really cliffnotes this &gt;&gt; Oh, wow. You've really cliffnotes this episode in advance, Graeme. Thank you episode in advance, Graeme. Thank you very much. That's good. Excellent stuff. very much. That's good. Excellent stuff. Uh yes, obviously the uh there's a few Uh yes, obviously the uh there's a few um transfer stories which are developing um transfer stories which are developing into sagas, but which is the saguriest into sagas, but which is the saguriest of the sagas? We shall find out on this of the sagas? We shall find out on this episode possibly. Or maybe we'll just episode possibly. Or maybe we'll just discuss it or ruminate on it. discuss it or ruminate on it. patreon.com/total Soccer Show is the patreon.com/total Soccer Show is the best way to support Total Rumination best way to support Total Rumination Show. By the way, uh you could uh get Show. By the way, uh you could uh get bonus episodes, bonus video, and access bonus episodes, bonus video, and access to our Discord server where all the cool to our Discord server where all the cool kids are hanging out. patreon.com/total kids are hanging out. patreon.com/total Soccer Show. Uh please, and a thank you. Soccer Show. Uh please, and a thank you. All right, let's say we get straight to All right, let's say we get straight to it with the race for Benjamin Cesco, it with the race for Benjamin Cesco, which makes it sound very dramatic, which makes it sound very dramatic, Graeme. Uh the last I'm seeing is an Graeme. Uh the last I'm seeing is an amount of around 74 million pounds. amount of around 74 million pounds. Manchester United might be uh interested Manchester United might be uh interested in outlaying, adding to the 130 million in outlaying, adding to the 130 million they've already spent on Mattes Kuna and they've already spent on Mattes Kuna and Brian and Bumo. Um, I hate to be a tea Brian and Bumo. Um, I hate to be a tea lady at Carrington Training Ground right lady at Carrington Training Ground right now because cuts are coming. But, uh, now because cuts are coming. But, uh, here we go. Graeme, what do we think? here we go. Graeme, what do we think? &gt;&gt; See, the thing is, Cesco's so fast that &gt;&gt; See, the thing is, Cesco's so fast that he can he can do it all. He can one he can he can do it all. He can one moment he can be serving the tea, the moment he can be serving the tea, the other moment he'll be scoring goals and other moment he'll be scoring goals and on the pitch. So, they're just going to on the pitch. So, they're just going to employ him to do everything all at once. employ him to do everything all at once. And they're paying a pretty penny for And they're paying a pretty penny for him to do that. £75 million or euros I him to do that. £75 million or euros I should say plus um5 million euros was should say plus um5 million euros was where this the the bidding started where this the the bidding started earlier in the week with Newcastle earlier in the week with Newcastle making that offer that seemed to be an making that offer that seemed to be an attempt to steal a march on Manchester attempt to steal a march on Manchester United aids um who are also interested United aids um who are also interested as we as we know now but over the next as we as we know now but over the next couple days the reporting was that couple days the reporting was that Manchester United were using this time Manchester United were using this time to gauge where Cesco truly wanted to go to gauge where Cesco truly wanted to go and the answer not for the first time and the answer not for the first time this summer seems to be Old Trafford this summer seems to be Old Trafford where they are making a habit of eating where they are making a habit of eating Newcastle's lunch served by Benjamin Newcastle's lunch served by Benjamin Cesco after he's poured the tea. Um, and Cesco after he's poured the tea. Um, and yesterday David Ornstein reported yesterday David Ornstein reported Manchester United are closing in on a on Manchester United are closing in on a on a deal for Cesco. Just before we started a deal for Cesco. Just before we started recording, like literally minutes before recording, like literally minutes before we started recording, um, David Ornstein we started recording, um, David Ornstein reported that uh, an agreement in reported that uh, an agreement in principle has been has been reached um, principle has been has been reached um, with Leipzig for for that transfer. And with Leipzig for for that transfer. And first of all, 85 million euros if that's first of all, 85 million euros if that's what the deal kind of amounts to. I what the deal kind of amounts to. I think it might be 82 million um euros. think it might be 82 million um euros. Either way, feels like a lot for a Either way, feels like a lot for a player who is still pure potential at at player who is still pure potential at at this point. And I want to make clear this point. And I want to make clear that Cesco does have potential. There is that Cesco does have potential. There is a world where he grows into a tier one a world where he grows into a tier one center forward. He's got all the center forward. He's got all the physical attributes. He is lightning physical attributes. He is lightning quick as a kind of reference. He's quick as a kind of reference. He's physically imposing. I think he's uh physically imposing. I think he's uh Joe, what did you say before we started Joe, what did you say before we started recording? 6'5. recording? 6'5. recording? 6'5. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Which is tall. Um, so for someone &gt;&gt; Yeah. Which is tall. Um, so for someone to to move as quickly as he does and be to to move as quickly as he does and be as tall as he is is is pretty as tall as he is is is pretty formidable. He can shoot from anywhere. formidable. He can shoot from anywhere. That is sometimes part of the problem That is sometimes part of the problem with Benjamin Cesco. Yeah. But he's he's with Benjamin Cesco. Yeah. But he's he's got an absolute cracker. He's got a got an absolute cracker. He's got a cracker of a shot on him. You you see cracker of a shot on him. You you see him scoring goals from close range him scoring goals from close range inside the box, but every so often he'll inside the box, but every so often he'll bang one in from distance as well. The bang one in from distance as well. The problem for Cesco is while he has all problem for Cesco is while he has all those qualities and attributes, things those qualities and attributes, things have yet to all come together at once. have yet to all come together at once. and his numbers aren't actually that and his numbers aren't actually that impressive. He scored 13 Bundesliga impressive. He scored 13 Bundesliga goals last season. He was also ranked goals last season. He was also ranked 29th and 30th in Europe for things like 29th and 30th in Europe for things like shots per 90 and xG uh per 90 as well. shots per 90 and xG uh per 90 as well. So this kind of reminds me a bit of and So this kind of reminds me a bit of and this is not what Manchester United fans this is not what Manchester United fans will want to hear. reminds me a bit of will want to hear. reminds me a bit of the Hland deal in that they are buying the Hland deal in that they are buying the player Cesco could become rather the player Cesco could become rather than the one he is now which is fine to than the one he is now which is fine to an extent but also this Manchester an extent but also this Manchester United team needs a starting number nine United team needs a starting number nine who delivers at least on some who delivers at least on some semi-regular basis they don't really semi-regular basis they don't really need another Rasmus Hiland so I think I need another Rasmus Hiland so I think I I think Cesco has to recap he's got I think Cesco has to recap he's got potential he could end up being that potential he could end up being that player from Manchester United but player from Manchester United but there's a big leap for him to go from there's a big leap for him to go from where he is now to where my United need where he is now to where my United need him to be. Hm. Yeah. And it seems like him to be. Hm. Yeah. And it seems like the jump that Manchester United have the jump that Manchester United have reportedly gone on from close to the reportedly gone on from close to the beginning of the summer where they were beginning of the summer where they were wanting to trigger Liam Dilap's 30 wanting to trigger Liam Dilap's 30 million pound release clause to dropping million pound release clause to dropping this much on Chesco is there's a lot of this much on Chesco is there's a lot of distance between those two things. I'll distance between those two things. I'll put it that way. Can I do because put it that way. Can I do because Graham, I think you've laid out your Graham, I think you've laid out your your case for why you are a bit wary of your case for why you are a bit wary of this move, right? I think it's it's this move, right? I think it's it's completely understandable. I don't even completely understandable. I don't even disagree with anything you said except disagree with anything you said except for maybe that he's all potential. He's for maybe that he's all potential. He's not all potential. like 13 goals last not all potential. like 13 goals last season in the Bundesliga, 2,400 minutes. season in the Bundesliga, 2,400 minutes. I know that's not elite production, but I know that's not elite production, but as a 21-year-old, there's there's some as a 21-year-old, there's there's some juice in there, but he is a lot juice in there, but he is a lot potential. That's the only thing I would potential. That's the only thing I would I would minorly quibble with. I want to I would minorly quibble with. I want to lay out the case. I'm doing a lot of lay out the case. I'm doing a lot of making cases this week. I did this with making cases this week. I did this with Jeff on Tuesday. I'm having a lot of fun Jeff on Tuesday. I'm having a lot of fun with it. Um maybe maybe I'll make it a with it. Um maybe maybe I'll make it a thing. I want to lay out the case for thing. I want to lay out the case for why you you do this and why Shesho's why you you do this and why Shesho's numbers from last year actually should numbers from last year actually should be viewed a whole lot differently than be viewed a whole lot differently than maybe they are are or would be viewed on maybe they are are or would be viewed on the surface. So, first of all, the the surface. So, first of all, the potential side is obvious and Graham, potential side is obvious and Graham, you already laid out the case for that. you already laid out the case for that. But he is whatever however athletic But he is whatever however athletic you're thinking, he is more than that. you're thinking, he is more than that. Like he is he is in the very very top Like he is he is in the very very top tier globally of athletes in this game. tier globally of athletes in this game. I think about he him being basically a a I think about he him being basically a a Holland Dbappe like you know that that Holland Dbappe like you know that that sort of tier of athlete. I don't know if sort of tier of athlete. I don't know if he has Holland's quick acceleration in he has Holland's quick acceleration in that same way, but with his size, with that same way, but with his size, with his speed, his strength, he has all the his speed, his strength, he has all the physical tools. Like he is an insane physical tools. Like he is an insane athlete. aerial ability, set pieces. I athlete. aerial ability, set pieces. I mean, that's that's massive, right? Um, mean, that's that's massive, right? Um, can dribble one v one. He does a lot of can dribble one v one. He does a lot of the technical stuff, too, even if there the technical stuff, too, even if there is some refinement to do in his is link is some refinement to do in his is link up play at times and his up play at times and his decision-making. Graham, you brought decision-making. Graham, you brought that out really well. But I want to that out really well. But I want to borrow from Billy Carpenter here, uh, borrow from Billy Carpenter here, uh, who does a a fantastic um Arsenal blog, who does a a fantastic um Arsenal blog, Substack, um, called Edu's BBcue. It's Substack, um, called Edu's BBcue. It's really, really good. Uh this is a line really, really good. Uh this is a line from a report that he did on Chesco from a report that he did on Chesco about uh maybe him going to Arsenal and about uh maybe him going to Arsenal and he did a deep scouting report last year. he did a deep scouting report last year. We talked about the numbers already for We talked about the numbers already for Cheshko. 13 goals, 2,400 Bundesliga Cheshko. 13 goals, 2,400 Bundesliga minutes, 21 years old last year. Un minutes, 21 years old last year. Un Berlin who scored 35 goals in the Berlin who scored 35 goals in the Bundesliga took more shots than RB Bundesliga took more shots than RB Leipig. So did West Ham. So did Leipig. So did West Ham. So did Manchester United. He RB Lipick were not Manchester United. He RB Lipick were not a good attacking team last year. They a good attacking team last year. They did not move the ball well until the did not move the ball well until the final third. They have talent like we final third. They have talent like we know about Shavei Simmons and the links know about Shavei Simmons and the links to Chelsea and we know about Appenda and to Chelsea and we know about Appenda and we know about Chesco. They had talent up we know about Chesco. They had talent up in the final third. They did not have in the final third. They did not have reliable ball progression to generate reliable ball progression to generate shots and to create chances outside of shots and to create chances outside of Simmons for their other attacking Simmons for their other attacking players. So Shesho created 13 goals out players. So Shesho created 13 goals out of a team that took fewer that that uh of a team that took fewer that that uh took fewer shots than Uno Berlin who are took fewer shots than Uno Berlin who are not a good attacking team. We know that. not a good attacking team. We know that. We've known that for quite some time We've known that for quite some time now. That is telling to me if you want now. That is telling to me if you want to think about potential as well and and to think about potential as well and and the fact that the production hasn't the fact that the production hasn't fully been there. I know these are like fully been there. I know these are like the best of the best examples. Robert the best of the best examples. Robert Leandowski was a rotation player at at Leandowski was a rotation player at at Cheshko's age. Like he was not anywhere Cheshko's age. Like he was not anywhere near the Levandowski we know him to be near the Levandowski we know him to be today. Julian Alvarez was still at today. Julian Alvarez was still at Riverplate over in Argentina. Maybe a Riverplate over in Argentina. Maybe a more relevant example for this summer. more relevant example for this summer. Victor Yokesh was in the two Bundesliga, Victor Yokesh was in the two Bundesliga, second Bundesliga with St. Paulie. Like second Bundesliga with St. Paulie. Like this is this is a position with a this is this is a position with a history of later bloomers. Not that 21 history of later bloomers. Not that 21 is a late bloomer and Leipzig were bad is a late bloomer and Leipzig were bad enough last year. I know we think about enough last year. I know we think about them being as this Champions League them being as this Champions League level club. They were poor straight up level club. They were poor straight up last season in the attack. That Chesco last season in the attack. That Chesco pulled that much out of this team at his pulled that much out of this team at his age, I think, is a pretty impressive age, I think, is a pretty impressive sign. Whether it's worth this much sign. Whether it's worth this much money, I don't know. But if you're money, I don't know. But if you're making the case, I think there is a way making the case, I think there is a way to see this as wow. There are not to see this as wow. There are not there's not just one world that this there's not just one world that this goes well for Manchester United. There goes well for Manchester United. There are many. Also, there's a lot of world are many. Also, there's a lot of world where this is not going to end up where this is not going to end up pretty. pretty. pretty. &gt;&gt; Yeah. and and and the fact of the matter &gt;&gt; Yeah. and and and the fact of the matter is over the last 10 years or in the the is over the last 10 years or in the the sort of post RF era, when was the last sort of post RF era, when was the last time Manchester United had actually time Manchester United had actually developed a player? They've developed a developed a player? They've developed a couple of homegrown players. I would say couple of homegrown players. I would say it got to a point where Marcus Rashford it got to a point where Marcus Rashford had been developed into a kind of elite had been developed into a kind of elite level attacking piece for that team. level attacking piece for that team. Obviously things have changed since Obviously things have changed since then, but in terms of bringing someone then, but in terms of bringing someone in to then develop and have like a solid in to then develop and have like a solid progression season on season for them to progression season on season for them to then be a tier one player. When was the then be a tier one player. When was the last time Manchester United did that? I last time Manchester United did that? I mean, Bruno Fernandez has been their mean, Bruno Fernandez has been their tier one player for the last few years, tier one player for the last few years, but he was a plug-andplay. He came in but he was a plug-andplay. He came in and immediately was like a difference and immediately was like a difference maker for them. They haven't done it in maker for them. They haven't done it in years and years. And so I know this is a years and years. And so I know this is a new era for Manchester United with new era for Manchester United with Ratcliffe and Enos and Amaran putting Ratcliffe and Enos and Amaran putting his stamp on this team. But that is that his stamp on this team. But that is that is part of why I am wary about is part of why I am wary about this this transfer. I've just seen it so this this transfer. I've just seen it so many times with Manchester United. There many times with Manchester United. There was a time when I thought Rasmus Hland I was a time when I thought Rasmus Hland I thought of Rasmus Hland and I think thought of Rasmus Hland and I think Cesco's ceiling is higher than Cesco's ceiling is higher than Handland's ceiling ever was. But there Handland's ceiling ever was. But there was a time when he comes into Manchester was a time when he comes into Manchester United and I looked at his raw United and I looked at his raw attributes and I thought yeah this guy attributes and I thought yeah this guy could actually succeed at Old Trafford. could actually succeed at Old Trafford. and the way that they've just broken him and the way that they've just broken him down where at the end of last season down where at the end of last season it's barely worth having him on a it's barely worth having him on a football pitch like Manchester football pitch like Manchester continually do this and and I will say I continually do this and and I will say I think there might be less pressure on think there might be less pressure on Cesco now that they've brought in proven Cesco now that they've brought in proven attackers like Kuna and Emuo I think attackers like Kuna and Emuo I think Hyland might be a little bit jealous Hyland might be a little bit jealous that Cesco's being dropped into that that Cesco's being dropped into that attack rather than the one he was attack rather than the one he was dropped into two years ago whether it dropped into two years ago whether it was Fernandez and nothing else but and was Fernandez and nothing else but and and I do think it's a super interesting and I do think it's a super interesting signing I'm just not totally convinced signing I'm just not totally convinced it's like the slam dunk number that a it's like the slam dunk number that a lot of Manchester United fans were lot of Manchester United fans were wanting where if they'd gone and got wanting where if they'd gone and got Victor Osman in then maybe that you Victor Osman in then maybe that you think okay he's the plug-and-play center think okay he's the plug-and-play center forward for this team there's he's going forward for this team there's he's going to have to progress his game Cesco to be to have to progress his game Cesco to be that that player. that that player. &gt;&gt; So Joe I appreciated the case you made &gt;&gt; So Joe I appreciated the case you made there and if I might cross-examine a there and if I might cross-examine a little a little bit um if you were a big little a little bit um if you were a big six club and you were in need of a six club and you were in need of a striker at the start of this summer and striker at the start of this summer and you could go for Cesco or Joarez who you could go for Cesco or Joarez who would you take? would you take? Oh man, I I I it might depend on which Oh man, I I I it might depend on which big six club I am, right? So I'm I'm big six club I am, right? So I'm I'm kind of waffling here and sitting on the kind of waffling here and sitting on the hedge. If I'm a team that that thinks hedge. If I'm a team that that thinks I'm like ready to push for titles and my I'm like ready to push for titles and my trophy window is is now, although trophy trophy window is is now, although trophy windows work differently, right, in in windows work differently, right, in in these these top flight European leagues these these top flight European leagues because they're always open basically because they're always open basically for the big teams because you have all for the big teams because you have all the money. But if I think I am really the money. But if I think I am really close, Yokesh is probably the one that close, Yokesh is probably the one that I'm more tempted by. If I'm Manchester I'm more tempted by. If I'm Manchester United, man, like does does signing United, man, like does does signing Victor Jokerish really do what what you Victor Jokerish really do what what you want him to do for you? Like yes, it want him to do for you? Like yes, it helps you stabilize maybe and he bolos helps you stabilize maybe and he bolos his teams and you get the reunion with his teams and you get the reunion with MRM and you expect production there MRM and you expect production there because there's a lot of continuity because there's a lot of continuity there. But is that what I need? I don't there. But is that what I need? I don't know. And and that's part of the reason know. And and that's part of the reason why I find myself being attracted to why I find myself being attracted to this deal in some ways for Manchester this deal in some ways for Manchester United while still conceding that United while still conceding that everything Graham said is completely everything Graham said is completely fair. You know, Manchester United are fair. You know, Manchester United are not a great club to develop at not a great club to develop at historically in recent history. And I historically in recent history. And I don't necessarily see that changing don't necessarily see that changing overnight. It's going to take time. overnight. It's going to take time. There's a lot of other stuff that needs There's a lot of other stuff that needs to happen. Forget all the like, you to happen. Forget all the like, you know, organizational rot. There's also know, organizational rot. There's also just the fact that this soccer team is just the fact that this soccer team is still not going to be very good relative still not going to be very good relative to the best teams in England. Like to the best teams in England. Like they're not going to be as functional in they're not going to be as functional in midfield. They're not going to have midfield. They're not going to have ideal conditions for any of their ideal conditions for any of their attackers of any age to thrive. At the attackers of any age to thrive. At the same time, I think I think Chesco is so same time, I think I think Chesco is so talented. I think his ceiling is so talented. I think his ceiling is so absurdly high, like higher than than any absurdly high, like higher than than any nine on the planet right now. that is nine on the planet right now. that is not Holland, right? I mean, like like not Holland, right? I mean, like like Kane and Leandowski are still the old Kane and Leandowski are still the old guard, but when you're looking to that guard, but when you're looking to that next generation, I think Shesho is is in next generation, I think Shesho is is in that tier of men, this is what he could that tier of men, this is what he could be. For Manchester United, I don't blame be. For Manchester United, I don't blame them for for going out there and making them for for going out there and making a move like that. Like, I don't blame a move like that. Like, I don't blame them for there identifying a player that them for there identifying a player that they think can grow with them rather they think can grow with them rather than somebody who's kind of already than somebody who's kind of already there is is closer to 30 than he is to there is is closer to 30 than he is to 20 and and going on at it from that 20 and and going on at it from that perspective. But if I'm somebody else, perspective. But if I'm somebody else, like if I'm if I'm Arsenal, I don't like if I'm if I'm Arsenal, I don't blame them for going out there and blame them for going out there and adding a joker type to their team rather adding a joker type to their team rather than aesco. than aesco. than aesco. &gt;&gt; Graeme, do we like what Man United are &gt;&gt; Graeme, do we like what Man United are building this summer with Kuno and maybe building this summer with Kuno and maybe even Carlos BV from Brighton coming in even Carlos BV from Brighton coming in as well after this as well. as well after this as well. &gt;&gt; It's it's in recent years it's been hard &gt;&gt; It's it's in recent years it's been hard to be bullish and positive as a Man to be bullish and positive as a Man United fan. Do you feel like this could United fan. Do you feel like this could be the summer where it's actually got be the summer where it's actually got some foundation to it? So that latter some foundation to it? So that latter potential deal as it is at this stage potential deal as it is at this stage for Carlos Baliba is when I read that on for Carlos Baliba is when I read that on Wednesday night David Orstein reporting Wednesday night David Orstein reporting a few others reporting that um including a few others reporting that um including uh Indie Kalia did anyone see that David uh Indie Kalia did anyone see that David Orstein Orstein Orstein &gt;&gt; can you can you explain that to me cuz I &gt;&gt; can you can you explain that to me cuz I don't understand I think I was on don't understand I think I was on vacation when this happened and I please vacation when this happened and I please make it make sense and maybe give make it make sense and maybe give context for the listener if they don't context for the listener if they don't know. So the context with Indie Kalia is know. So the context with Indie Kalia is going back like 10 years. He was this um going back like 10 years. He was this um this Twitter account who would steal this Twitter account who would steal stories and make stuff up and became stories and make stuff up and became inexplicably huge on Twitter. But it was inexplicably huge on Twitter. But it was just the story was I don't know if this just the story was I don't know if this was true that it was a guy working in was true that it was a guy working in KFC who basically built up this KFC who basically built up this following on Twitter, right? And didn't following on Twitter, right? And didn't have any sources and just tweeted have any sources and just tweeted nonsense out. Something has happened nonsense out. Something has happened this this this summer. Um, and people this this this summer. Um, and people are speculating maybe it's been bought are speculating maybe it's been bought by a company or a person that does have by a company or a person that does have contacts or maybe he has just like crap contacts or maybe he has just like crap posted his way into having contacts posted his way into having contacts around soccer because he's got scoops around soccer because he's got scoops and and David Ornstein last night um and and David Ornstein last night um credited or didn't credit. He basically credited or didn't credit. He basically said, you know how journalists when said, you know how journalists when they're they're maybe beaten to a scoop, they're they're maybe beaten to a scoop, they'll say someone first. Well, David they'll say someone first. Well, David Ornstein, the king of transfer scoops, Ornstein, the king of transfer scoops, did that with Indie Kalia last night in did that with Indie Kalia last night in this uh in this Carlos Biba story. So I this uh in this Carlos Biba story. So I don't know what's going on there and don't know what's going on there and frankly I don't know what's going on frankly I don't know what's going on with Manchester United potentially with Manchester United potentially getting into the race for a 100 million getting into the race for a 100 million euro plus midfielder when they've euro plus midfielder when they've already spent as much as they have this already spent as much as they have this summer but if they are able to do that summer but if they are able to do that deal that is a deal that I think maybe deal that is a deal that I think maybe moves the needle for them in terms of moves the needle for them in terms of judging their whole window. I do have judging their whole window. I do have questions about how much they spent on questions about how much they spent on Matteskuna. Um, as I've kind of Matteskuna. Um, as I've kind of outlined, I have questions about whether outlined, I have questions about whether Cesco is going to be the right fit for Cesco is going to be the right fit for this team. But as a whole, if you have a this team. But as a whole, if you have a window where you add Kuna and Bumo and window where you add Kuna and Bumo and Cesco to an attack that badly struggled Cesco to an attack that badly struggled last year and you add Carlos Biba to a last year and you add Carlos Biba to a midfield that is desperate for any kind midfield that is desperate for any kind of physicality and a two-way midfielder of physicality and a two-way midfielder in there. I've watched a couple of in there. I've watched a couple of Manchester United's game games this Manchester United's game games this summer and they've looked decent, but summer and they've looked decent, but that midfield is still a concern. You that midfield is still a concern. You add Biba to that, he makes a huge add Biba to that, he makes a huge difference. But it seems like there's a difference. But it seems like there's a long way to go and they're going to have long way to go and they're going to have to find a lot of money to to to find a lot of money to to get him. get him. get him. &gt;&gt; Yeah, Bibba is awesome. Like I I mean I &gt;&gt; Yeah, Bibba is awesome. Like I I mean I am joining the chorus on that front. am joining the chorus on that front. Yeah, I am very much so. I'm absolutely Yeah, I am very much so. I'm absolutely a BIBA in Biba. He is um so effective a BIBA in Biba. He is um so effective defensively. Like that is the best part defensively. Like that is the best part of his game, but he's not just a one-way of his game, but he's not just a one-way player. He is a ball progressor on the player. He is a ball progressor on the dribble. I think he is I think he's able dribble. I think he is I think he's able to do even more progressive passing than to do even more progressive passing than he did in in Brighton's system last he did in in Brighton's system last year. So, I think there's there's more year. So, I think there's there's more to his game and he's so young with so to his game and he's so young with so little experience and to be playing at little experience and to be playing at this level already is so incredibly this level already is so incredibly impressive. If Manchester United and it impressive. If Manchester United and it doesn't sound like this is going to doesn't sound like this is going to happen, but everybody's got their price, happen, but everybody's got their price, right? Um if this deal gets over the right? Um if this deal gets over the line, it will cost a lot of money for line, it will cost a lot of money for Manchester United, but it will make them Manchester United, but it will make them better overnight. And this is clearly at better overnight. And this is clearly at the base of midfield. We saw this over the base of midfield. We saw this over and over and over again last year with and over and over again last year with the at times Casemiro and Bruno double the at times Casemiro and Bruno double pivot that is wildly open in transition pivot that is wildly open in transition that provides very little in terms of that provides very little in terms of rest defense and and just like not a lot rest defense and and just like not a lot on that part of the ball ever. There's a on that part of the ball ever. There's a a need there and this would transform a need there and this would transform that part of the field very very that part of the field very very quickly. There are other needs still for quickly. There are other needs still for Manchester United but it is it's Manchester United but it is it's encouraging to see them clearly encouraging to see them clearly identifying players that fit in problem identifying players that fit in problem areas like that is it's a low bar. It is areas like that is it's a low bar. It is it is the lowest of low bars, but to see it is the lowest of low bars, but to see them actually, you know, meet that bar, them actually, you know, meet that bar, it's it's nice for a change. it's it's nice for a change. &gt;&gt; Very encouraging. I'm sure we'll all &gt;&gt; Very encouraging. I'm sure we'll all have the same attitude when United lose have the same attitude when United lose their first three games of the season. their first three games of the season. We shall see. Let's take a quick break. We shall see. Let's take a quick break. When we come back, Alexander Isac, where When we come back, Alexander Isac, where is he? We'll find out. Join us then. is he? We'll find out. Join us then. &gt;&gt; Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our &gt;&gt; Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our transfer update. Alexander Isac, is he transfer update. Alexander Isac, is he still uh somewhere in the northern still uh somewhere in the northern Spain? We don't know. Maybe maybe Graham Spain? We don't know. Maybe maybe Graham does know. We'll find out in a second. does know. We'll find out in a second. But uh Graeme, the the number Newcastle But uh Graeme, the the number Newcastle are touting or the number they'd like to are touting or the number they'd like to receive for Isak is reported 150 million receive for Isak is reported 150 million pounds. I think I saw Jamie Carrager pounds. I think I saw Jamie Carrager saying you should be getting Mbappe for saying you should be getting Mbappe for that kind of money. I don't know if that kind of money. I don't know if that's true, but the point being um that's true, but the point being um that's a lot of money for Ezek is it that's a lot of money for Ezek is it not? It is a lot of money. I think in not? It is a lot of money. I think in this market 150 is fair value for this market 150 is fair value for Alexander Isac. We've just spoken about Alexander Isac. We've just spoken about Benjamin Cesco, the guy who scored 13 Benjamin Cesco, the guy who scored 13 goals in the Bundesliga last season. goals in the Bundesliga last season. Isach has scored what 44 in the last two Isach has scored what 44 in the last two Premier League seasons. Much stronger Premier League seasons. Much stronger league. Um so I think Isach is worth league. Um so I think Isach is worth that amount in this market and he's no that amount in this market and he's no longer in northern Spain or the last I longer in northern Spain or the last I heard. Um not that I'm in close personal heard. Um not that I'm in close personal contact with him just on the basis of contact with him just on the basis of &gt;&gt; breaking news. Graham is now employed at &gt;&gt; breaking news. Graham is now employed at KFC by the way. Herbs and spices and KFC by the way. Herbs and spices and sources for grandfia sources for grandfia so I thought I better get on that gravy so I thought I better get on that gravy train quite literally at KFC. Um yeah, train quite literally at KFC. Um yeah, so he is no longer training with Real so he is no longer training with Real Socad. He is at Newcastle's training Socad. He is at Newcastle's training ground or has been um this week, but he ground or has been um this week, but he is training on his own, which is never is training on his own, which is never the sign of a happy player at a football the sign of a happy player at a football club. And it just feels like Newcastle club. And it just feels like Newcastle are bracing themselves for Liverpool to are bracing themselves for Liverpool to come back with a a a follow-up offer. I come back with a a a follow-up offer. I read in the the Liverpool Echo that the read in the the Liverpool Echo that the 110 amount that Liverpool had bid last 110 amount that Liverpool had bid last week, which was rejected by Newcastle, week, which was rejected by Newcastle, that was the amount that Liverpool were that was the amount that Liverpool were comfortable bidding for before they have comfortable bidding for before they have any money from the Darwin Nunez or any money from the Darwin Nunez or Harvey Elliot sales coming in for their Harvey Elliot sales coming in for their PSR position. And the Darwin Nunez one PSR position. And the Darwin Nunez one now is close to happening. That could now is close to happening. That could happen in the next few days. So that happen in the next few days. So that could be the cork in the bottle that could be the cork in the bottle that then facilitates Liverpool to go back to then facilitates Liverpool to go back to Newcastle with a bigger offer. And look, Newcastle with a bigger offer. And look, I'm never surprised by anything in I'm never surprised by anything in football, but the way this one is football, but the way this one is trending, I I would be shocked if by the trending, I I would be shocked if by the end of this window, Alexander Isach end of this window, Alexander Isach isn't a Liverpool player. It just seems isn't a Liverpool player. It just seems to be nailed on that, but that's the way to be nailed on that, but that's the way it's going. it's going. it's going. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Does that Does that sound good to &gt;&gt; Yeah. Does that Does that sound good to you, Joe? Is that right? you, Joe? Is that right? &gt;&gt; Um I mean, yeah, it it makes Liverpool &gt;&gt; Um I mean, yeah, it it makes Liverpool better. I I am I'm going to pull a better. I I am I'm going to pull a Taylor here, I guess. I'm confused by Taylor here, I guess. I'm confused by this move, right? Um I I don't this move, right? Um I I don't understand how this is Liverpooly. like understand how this is Liverpooly. like this this whole thing feels very strange this this whole thing feels very strange that they've gone out and dropped what that they've gone out and dropped what they dropped on Ekit who is who is a they dropped on Ekit who is who is a number nine, right? Like we talk about number nine, right? Like we talk about him playing on the wing and of course he him playing on the wing and of course he can play wider, but he is he's made his can play wider, but he is he's made his money so far in at his best in central money so far in at his best in central areas and then going out and dropping a areas and then going out and dropping a club record amount of money, a club record amount of money, a historically large amount of money on historically large amount of money on Isak, who I agree, we don't have to Isak, who I agree, we don't have to quibble. He's a phenomenal player. Like quibble. He's a phenomenal player. Like he is the best striker that's available he is the best striker that's available on the market this summer. We all on the market this summer. We all understand that. Grim, can you make this understand that. Grim, can you make this make sense to me? like what what am I make sense to me? like what what am I missing here and what what has changed? missing here and what what has changed? Yeah, I I saw Grace Robertson posting Yeah, I I saw Grace Robertson posting about this yesterday and her point was about this yesterday and her point was basically are we going to talk about how basically are we going to talk about how this doesn't really make a whole lot of this doesn't really make a whole lot of sense for for Liverpool where they have sense for for Liverpool where they have um Lewis Diaz has come out of that um Lewis Diaz has come out of that forward line obviously as as as a forward line obviously as as as a leftsided I know he played to the middle leftsided I know he played to the middle but largely he he's he's a left winger but largely he he's he's a left winger &gt;&gt; so that kind of leaves the left spot &gt;&gt; so that kind of leaves the left spot clear for Cody Gako who did start more clear for Cody Gako who did start more games than any other player on on that games than any other player on on that side of the pitch but there's a sense side of the pitch but there's a sense that maybe Liverpool could upgrades on that maybe Liverpool could upgrades on Cody Gako and they've brought in well Cody Gako and they've brought in well they've brought in one center forward they've brought in one center forward words who who can play as maybe a bit words who who can play as maybe a bit more of a mobile center forward but more of a mobile center forward but often as part of a front two like Ekiti often as part of a front two like Ekiti played with Marmush for Frankfurt in the played with Marmush for Frankfurt in the first half of last season before Marmush first half of last season before Marmush goes to to to Man City. He's not a he's goes to to to Man City. He's not a he's not a left winger echatiki like maybe he not a left winger echatiki like maybe he can play there but it doesn't feel like can play there but it doesn't feel like that's where you're going to get the that's where you're going to get the best out of him. It just feels like best out of him. It just feels like Liverpool have seen a market opportunity Liverpool have seen a market opportunity with Isach and they have the money, with Isach and they have the money, they've got the PSR headroom, they've they've got the PSR headroom, they've got this new Adidas deal, they've got an got this new Adidas deal, they've got an expanded Anfield. didn't spend anything expanded Anfield. didn't spend anything last summer. They spotted a market last summer. They spotted a market opportunity with ESAC. They're maybe opportunity with ESAC. They're maybe anticipating I mean Salah did sign a new anticipating I mean Salah did sign a new contract, but it's only it's only a contract, but it's only it's only a two-year two-year deal. And obviously, two-year two-year deal. And obviously, Isak and Salah are very very different Isak and Salah are very very different players. But if you're just looking at players. But if you're just looking at it in kind of the the Billy Bean style it in kind of the the Billy Bean style of getting players on base and like of getting players on base and like replacing goals in a team, then Isak replacing goals in a team, then Isak helps you helps you do that. And they've helps you helps you do that. And they've kind of done similar with like they kind of done similar with like they brought in Jeremy Friong. He's not brought in Jeremy Friong. He's not really the same player as Alexander really the same player as Alexander Isac, but they'll maybe make the Isac, but they'll maybe make the creativity up by bringing in Florian creativity up by bringing in Florian Verz. So, there's maybe a scenario where Verz. So, there's maybe a scenario where further down the line Liverpool are further down the line Liverpool are planning for how this attack is going to planning for how this attack is going to look in one to two years. But yeah, I'm look in one to two years. But yeah, I'm just really interested to see how it all just really interested to see how it all pieces together in the in the immediate pieces together in the in the immediate term. It's a lot more term. It's a lot more &gt;&gt; rebuilding than I was anticipating from &gt;&gt; rebuilding than I was anticipating from Liverpool coming out of last season. I Liverpool coming out of last season. I thought they maybe make one or two big thought they maybe make one or two big signings, but not not this um not this signings, but not not this um not this kind of wholesale rebuild of their kind of wholesale rebuild of their attack. Well, and and the weird thing to attack. Well, and and the weird thing to me with Liverpool is if you're planning me with Liverpool is if you're planning for your attack in two years time, and I for your attack in two years time, and I I know that if you don't go out and get I know that if you don't go out and get the player now, you have to sort of the player now, you have to sort of reset on some of the negotiation stuff, reset on some of the negotiation stuff, and things change, right? There is and things change, right? There is obviously a literal transfer window. obviously a literal transfer window. There's a window of time now for There's a window of time now for Liverpool to go out there and get this Liverpool to go out there and get this done. And maybe that won't be true in done. And maybe that won't be true in the future, but the price will only go the future, but the price will only go down the closer Is gets to the end of down the closer Is gets to the end of his contract, barring a an absurd Erling his contract, barring a an absurd Erling Hollandesque goalc scoring season where Hollandesque goalc scoring season where he scores 35 goals, right? I mean that he scores 35 goals, right? I mean that that is possible but super unlikely that is possible but super unlikely right for Newcastle who I think will be right for Newcastle who I think will be good this year very good maybe not great good this year very good maybe not great probably in the Premier League as far as probably in the Premier League as far as things are trending now like I don't things are trending now like I don't understand what the rush is for understand what the rush is for Liverpool unless they view it as more Liverpool unless they view it as more than just succession planning for what than just succession planning for what what the attack looks like and where the what the attack looks like and where the numbers are coming from after Salah numbers are coming from after Salah leaves it it feels like this is there's leaves it it feels like this is there's I don't know there's something more here I don't know there's something more here that just doesn't seem to click for me that just doesn't seem to click for me based off of what we know of Liverpool based off of what we know of Liverpool in the past in the past &gt;&gt; is is the rush the lack of competition &gt;&gt; is is the rush the lack of competition for Isak or they may be envisaging a for Isak or they may be envisaging a year from now Barcelona need to replace year from now Barcelona need to replace Leandowski and all of a sudden he's got Leandowski and all of a sudden he's got another option cuz right now at this another option cuz right now at this point of the window like who else if point of the window like who else if it's not Liverpool um Saudi Arabia have it's not Liverpool um Saudi Arabia have been linked but it seems like Isak been linked but it seems like Isak doesn't want to go there at this point doesn't want to go there at this point of his career like the other options of his career like the other options Chelsea for once don't seem to be in Chelsea for once don't seem to be in that race they've already signed a that race they've already signed a couple attackers next summer knowing couple attackers next summer knowing Chelsea maybe they are in the race so Chelsea maybe they are in the race so like maybe that's maybe that's the rush like maybe that's maybe that's the rush they feel like they're they've got a they feel like they're they've got a &gt;&gt; a free hit or and if that's the case &gt;&gt; a free hit or and if that's the case I'll leave it here Right? Because I I I'll leave it here Right? Because I I just still don't think it really makes just still don't think it really makes sense to me. If that's the case, why do sense to me. If that's the case, why do you go and and rush to get Ekitake you go and and rush to get Ekitake first, right? I understand you want a first, right? I understand you want a player to be ready for the start of the player to be ready for the start of the season, right? And Isach, you know, it season, right? And Isach, you know, it seems like Newcastle are certainly not seems like Newcastle are certainly not in a rush to part with him. And maybe in a rush to part with him. And maybe Ekit would have gone to Newcastle though Ekit would have gone to Newcastle though in this other reality and they would in this other reality and they would have been more willing to sell Isach for have been more willing to sell Isach for 110 million pounds. like just this it 110 million pounds. like just this it feels like I'm missing something in this feels like I'm missing something in this puzzle and maybe maybe we're all as a puzzle and maybe maybe we're all as a public missing something that's just not public missing something that's just not not out there or Liverpool are just not out there or Liverpool are just changing strategy a little bit this changing strategy a little bit this summer. They've spent a lot of money. summer. They've spent a lot of money. We've talked about that already. But I We've talked about that already. But I don't think that's fully out of don't think that's fully out of character. They've spent money before character. They've spent money before and they've been very cautious about and they've been very cautious about their spending. Like if these moves have their spending. Like if these moves have been spread out over the last three been spread out over the last three windows or three seasons, it wouldn't be windows or three seasons, it wouldn't be as noteworthy. So it is really just this as noteworthy. So it is really just this move of Liverpool summer or this this move of Liverpool summer or this this desired move that smacks of something is desired move that smacks of something is different. Not the Vertz move, not the different. Not the Vertz move, not the FPOM move, not the like this is the one FPOM move, not the like this is the one for me that is odd on top of all the for me that is odd on top of all the rest. rest. rest. &gt;&gt; Well, I mean the Echitik transfer has &gt;&gt; Well, I mean the Echitik transfer has made it harder for them to sign made it harder for them to sign Alexander Isach. So if you're judgment Alexander Isach. So if you're judgment is that Isach's the player you really is that Isach's the player you really want, that's the player you're going to want, that's the player you're going to you're willing to spend 150 million. I you're willing to spend 150 million. I know they haven't got there in the know they haven't got there in the bidding yet, but they're going to have bidding yet, but they're going to have to get to that level to get him out of to get to that level to get him out of Newcastle. Then why would you rush Newcastle. Then why would you rush through the the signing of a player that through the the signing of a player that Newcastle have identified as as as a Newcastle have identified as as as a potential replacement for for for Isak. potential replacement for for for Isak. Yeah, it doesn't feel very Liverpooly. Yeah, it doesn't feel very Liverpooly. What I would say there is um there's a What I would say there is um there's a new sporting director at Liverpool this new sporting director at Liverpool this year. I know he's been in place since year. I know he's been in place since last summer, but he basically arrived last summer, but he basically arrived and the transfer window was open. So, and the transfer window was open. So, Richard Hughes didn't really have any Richard Hughes didn't really have any chance to put his impression on this chance to put his impression on this club. This is the first time that club. This is the first time that Liverpool are having a Richard Hughes Liverpool are having a Richard Hughes summer. So, maybe this is the kind of summer. So, maybe this is the kind of thing that they should uh learn to thing that they should uh learn to expect from him. expect from him. &gt;&gt; It's a hot Richard Hugh summer. That's &gt;&gt; It's a hot Richard Hugh summer. That's what all the kids are saying at the what all the kids are saying at the moment. We shall. moment. We shall. &gt;&gt; He's a handsome guy &gt;&gt; He's a handsome guy &gt;&gt; indeed. Graeme, what what what what to &gt;&gt; indeed. Graeme, what what what what to make of Newcastle in all this situation? make of Newcastle in all this situation? Because if Cesco's off the table, what Because if Cesco's off the table, what have we still got the idea that have we still got the idea that Newcastle don't have as much clout or Newcastle don't have as much clout or they're not as desirable for the tier they're not as desirable for the tier one players at this point? one players at this point? &gt;&gt; I mean, you I think you have to come to &gt;&gt; I mean, you I think you have to come to some sort of conclusion like that on the some sort of conclusion like that on the basis of how they've struck out on so basis of how they've struck out on so many players this summer. I mean, I many players this summer. I mean, I didn't I really didn't see this sort of didn't I really didn't see this sort of summer coming for them because I thought summer coming for them because I thought they're they're you know, being back in they're they're you know, being back in the Champions League, heading in the the Champions League, heading in the right direction. They won a trophy last right direction. They won a trophy last season. I just thought they would be season. I just thought they would be much more attractive to players. And much more attractive to players. And obviously PSR is a factor, but clearly obviously PSR is a factor, but clearly their project is stalling this summer. their project is stalling this summer. Nicholas Jackson seems to be the the Nicholas Jackson seems to be the the chat now over a player that they could chat now over a player that they could they could target, which by by the way, they could target, which by by the way, they could do a lot worse. I'm I'm a they could do a lot worse. I'm I'm a relative fan of of of Nicholas Jackson, relative fan of of of Nicholas Jackson, so he would potentially slot into that so he would potentially slot into that team relatively well. But they are now team relatively well. But they are now on to their sixth attacking target this on to their sixth attacking target this summer. I believe Liam Dilap, Matis summer. I believe Liam Dilap, Matis Kuna, Brian Bumo, Hugo Eatik, Benjamin Kuna, Brian Bumo, Hugo Eatik, Benjamin Cesco, Nicholas Jackson would make it Cesco, Nicholas Jackson would make it six. And there are other players that six. And there are other players that have rejected him as well like Dean have rejected him as well like Dean Hoyson rejected them to go to to to Real Hoyson rejected them to go to to to Real Madrid and they have they failed over Madrid and they have they failed over the last couple windows to get Mark Ge. the last couple windows to get Mark Ge. He's holding out for a better offer. He's holding out for a better offer. James Trafford, of course, they thought James Trafford, of course, they thought they had a deal done for him and he's they had a deal done for him and he's gone to Manchester City instead. So gone to Manchester City instead. So yeah, real struggle of a window for for yeah, real struggle of a window for for Newcastle that could set them back quite Newcastle that could set them back quite significantly. significantly. significantly. &gt;&gt; Feel it feels like there's a pattern &gt;&gt; Feel it feels like there's a pattern here that something's off. I don't know. here that something's off. I don't know. It's hard to on that. It's hard to on that. &gt;&gt; I mentioned the the Richard Hughes &gt;&gt; I mentioned the the Richard Hughes factor at Liverpool. That could be a factor at Liverpool. That could be a factor for for Newcastle as well. Um factor for for Newcastle as well. Um where they've gone through uh I've where they've gone through uh I've forgotten his Dan Ashworth, couldn't forgotten his Dan Ashworth, couldn't remember his name there for a second. remember his name there for a second. Dan Ashworth came and went and then Paul Dan Ashworth came and went and then Paul Mitchell came and went very quickly. Mitchell came and went very quickly. Darren Eels is um he he's uh Darren Eels is um he he's uh unfortunately been diagnosed with uh unfortunately been diagnosed with uh with cancer I believe. So he's filling with cancer I believe. So he's filling in a CEO until they can find a in a CEO until they can find a replacement. So they're essentially they replacement. So they're essentially they essentially don't have a CEO at the essentially don't have a CEO at the moment. Newcastle I believe they've only moment. Newcastle I believe they've only just hired a head of recruitment, Jack just hired a head of recruitment, Jack Ross. They don't have a technical Ross. They don't have a technical director. So perhaps that sort of director. So perhaps that sort of absence of leadership is a factor in why absence of leadership is a factor in why they're finding this summer so they're finding this summer so difficult. difficult. difficult. &gt;&gt; Yeah, maybe so. Maybe so. Joe. Um, &gt;&gt; Yeah, maybe so. Maybe so. Joe. Um, Liverpool's agent of chaos, the OG, Liverpool's agent of chaos, the OG, Darwin Nunez, off to Alhal. A 46 million Darwin Nunez, off to Alhal. A 46 million pound deal is being agreed there. Um, pound deal is being agreed there. Um, that he signed a few season 2022 he that he signed a few season 2022 he signed for for 64 million. Are we sad to signed for for 64 million. Are we sad to see Darwin depart Mury side? see Darwin depart Mury side? &gt;&gt; I mean, the content that Darwin Nunez &gt;&gt; I mean, the content that Darwin Nunez and his fans generated is something of and his fans generated is something of legend coming from Benfica to play for legend coming from Benfica to play for the big reds. Never forget. So much the big reds. Never forget. So much goodness there. Um, I mean, this is a goodness there. Um, I mean, this is a great I think this is a great deal for great I think this is a great deal for Liverpool if I'm being honest. Him Liverpool if I'm being honest. Him heading to Alala for 53 million euros heading to Alala for 53 million euros plus add-ons according to David Orstein. plus add-ons according to David Orstein. I mean, I think it's time in a lot of I mean, I think it's time in a lot of ways. Darn is a fan favorite, a favorite ways. Darn is a fan favorite, a favorite of mine. I think a favorite of of of mine. I think a favorite of of anybody, right? He is a delightful agent anybody, right? He is a delightful agent of chaos, but there is there's room to of chaos, but there is there's room to upgrade there and that's pretty good upgrade there and that's pretty good value all things considered. I I know it value all things considered. I I know it is not none of this has gone how is not none of this has gone how Liverpool hoped it would, right? I mean, Liverpool hoped it would, right? I mean, remember Nunez and Holland moved in the remember Nunez and Holland moved in the same window, right? And that was back same window, right? And that was back when Liverpool and City were sort of two when Liverpool and City were sort of two horses in a in a two- horse race. And I horses in a in a two- horse race. And I think there were reasons to think, man, think there were reasons to think, man, Nunez with how Liverpool play could be a Nunez with how Liverpool play could be a better stylistic fit than Holland with better stylistic fit than Holland with City. And there's a way in which you can City. And there's a way in which you can still kind of make that argument, but it still kind of make that argument, but it it hasn't really blossomed that way at it hasn't really blossomed that way at all. Right? Holland has has been the all. Right? Holland has has been the Velociraptor strapped on the I don't Velociraptor strapped on the I don't know top of some much more finely know top of some much more finely regarded, you know, Rolls-Royce or regarded, you know, Rolls-Royce or something much more much more classy. something much more much more classy. And Nunez just kind of never fully And Nunez just kind of never fully clicked with with Liverpool. So, I think clicked with with Liverpool. So, I think it is time for that to move on. I will it is time for that to move on. I will miss it. I will think about it often, miss it. I will think about it often, but it's okay that it's over. but it's okay that it's over. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm sad about this. The Chaos King &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm sad about this. The Chaos King is one of my favorite players, but I is one of my favorite players, but I agree with Joe. There's an opport agree with Joe. There's an opport opportunity here to to upgrades on him. opportunity here to to upgrades on him. Um, he just the dude just misses too Um, he just the dude just misses too many chances. Like there's there's many chances. Like there's there's compilations of how many setters he has compilations of how many setters he has missed just over the course of what missed just over the course of what three seasons at Liverpool. I've never three seasons at Liverpool. I've never seen someone hit the post so many times seen someone hit the post so many times from about five yards out as as as from about five yards out as as as Darwin is. And then there's still Darwin is. And then there's still there's still occasions when um you know there's still occasions when um you know how we talk about Patrick Aiman being how we talk about Patrick Aiman being like the snow gold player for the for like the snow gold player for the for the for the US MTN. I think of Darwin the for the US MTN. I think of Darwin Nunes for Liverpool or laterally that's Nunes for Liverpool or laterally that's how I sort of thought of him when things how I sort of thought of him when things weren't working for Liverpool. He was a weren't working for Liverpool. He was a good player to throw on and just like good player to throw on and just like shake things up. But ultimately Isac if shake things up. But ultimately Isac if that's the plan to replace him with ESAC that's the plan to replace him with ESAC is just a a far more accomp accomplished is just a a far more accomp accomplished player and Liverpool despite the fact player and Liverpool despite the fact they turned down I believe 75 million they turned down I believe 75 million euros for Nunes in in in January. So euros for Nunes in in in January. So that maybe wasn't the wisest of that maybe wasn't the wisest of decisions, but despite despite that decisions, but despite despite that fact, I still think 50 plus million for fact, I still think 50 plus million for him is is a fair value. him is is a fair value. &gt;&gt; Graham, if you were to guess, how much &gt;&gt; Graham, if you were to guess, how much did Nunez underperform his expected did Nunez underperform his expected goals last year, right? So if if he had goals last year, right? So if if he had like I'm just giving an example. Let's like I'm just giving an example. Let's say he had 30 expected goals and only say he had 30 expected goals and only scored 20 goals. That would be scored 20 goals. That would be underperforming it by by 10 goals for underperforming it by by 10 goals for the for the listener. the for the listener. &gt;&gt; One of these things, isn't it? This is &gt;&gt; One of these things, isn't it? This is going to be one of these things where going to be one of these things where perception is challenged and he actually perception is challenged and he actually overperformed. overperformed. overperformed. &gt;&gt; No, maybe it's huge. Maybe it's a huge &gt;&gt; No, maybe it's huge. Maybe it's a huge difference. difference. difference. I mean, he didn't play a whole lot of I mean, he didn't play a whole lot of football, right? But I'd say he football, right? But I'd say he underperformed by maybe four four goals underperformed by maybe four four goals or something like that. or something like that. &gt;&gt; 0.8. Uh, but the year before, uh, it was &gt;&gt; 0.8. Uh, but the year before, uh, it was five and the year before that it was five and the year before that it was three and two years before that it was three and two years before that it was four. So, that mark. four. So, that mark. &gt;&gt; Yeah, he had one season with Benfica &gt;&gt; Yeah, he had one season with Benfica where he over overperformed, easier for where he over overperformed, easier for me to say, by eight goals and was on an me to say, by eight goals and was on an absolute heater. And in spite of that, absolute heater. And in spite of that, he is still a net negative uh, finisher he is still a net negative uh, finisher in the last really since he moved to in the last really since he moved to Portugal from uh, Al Maria in Spain. Portugal from uh, Al Maria in Spain. He's he's at neg5 overall. So yeah, He's he's at neg5 overall. So yeah, there's there's a a decent pile of, man, there's there's a a decent pile of, man, this guy misses sitters edits. Even if this guy misses sitters edits. Even if he didn't all come last year, he didn't all come last year, &gt;&gt; every so often he would produce a finish &gt;&gt; every so often he would produce a finish that would that would make you think, that would that would make you think, man, this guy has the potential to be man, this guy has the potential to be the coolest one-on-one. You remember the the coolest one-on-one. You remember the one he like scooped over the goalkeeper. one he like scooped over the goalkeeper. It was like the the most perfect It was like the the most perfect one-on-one scoop you've ever seen in one-on-one scoop you've ever seen in your life. But unfortunately, that your life. But unfortunately, that happens like one out of 20 times than he happens like one out of 20 times than he threw in goal. threw in goal. &gt;&gt; That that underperforming joke last &gt;&gt; That that underperforming joke last season though, that's got to be because season though, that's got to be because of a smaller sample size, right? there's of a smaller sample size, right? there's there there there &gt;&gt; I mean there was a smaller sample size &gt;&gt; I mean there was a smaller sample size but the dude scored five goals on 5.8 but the dude scored five goals on 5.8 expected goals like I mean he he has expected goals like I mean he he has missed a lot of chances but for all of missed a lot of chances but for all of the missed chances those are the ones the missed chances those are the ones that stick in the mind the go the simple that stick in the mind the go the simple goals or the you know the other high goals or the you know the other high quality looks excuse me the lowquality quality looks excuse me the lowquality looks that he converts don't don't stand looks that he converts don't don't stand out in the same way. So yeah I mean dude out in the same way. So yeah I mean dude dude was not a bad finisher last year dude was not a bad finisher last year technically speaking but has has a technically speaking but has has a pretty big pile of evidence that says pretty big pile of evidence that says he's not the best at that sort of thing. he's not the best at that sort of thing. &gt;&gt; There you go. Oh no no don't be sad that &gt;&gt; There you go. Oh no no don't be sad that it's over. be happy that it happened in it's over. be happy that it happened in the first place. All right, let's take a the first place. All right, let's take a quick break. When we come back, Jack quick break. When we come back, Jack Greish might be on his travels. Let's Greish might be on his travels. Let's find out where. Join us then. Total find out where. Join us then. Total Soccer Show. Welcome back to our Soccer Show. Welcome back to our transfer update. Jack Greish, Graeme, uh transfer update. Jack Greish, Graeme, uh might be on a loan deal move to a might be on a loan deal move to a Premier League team. What are we Premier League team. What are we thinking? thinking? thinking? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so David Ornstein reported &gt;&gt; Yeah, so David Ornstein reported yesterday on on on Wednesday that yesterday on on on Wednesday that Everton have opened talks with Man City Everton have opened talks with Man City over a deal for Jack Greish. This is a over a deal for Jack Greish. This is a story that has kind of bubbled away all story that has kind of bubbled away all summer. Initially, it was a permanent summer. Initially, it was a permanent deal that was that was reported, but Man deal that was that was reported, but Man City wanted something like £50 million City wanted something like £50 million for him, which Everton either aren't for him, which Everton either aren't able to pay or are unwilling to pay for able to pay or are unwilling to pay for Jack Greish. Now, the chat, as you say, Jack Greish. Now, the chat, as you say, Ryan, is that this would be a seasonl Ryan, is that this would be a seasonl long loan. Orstein says the deal would long loan. Orstein says the deal would be complicated, I presume, because of be complicated, I presume, because of the fact that Jack Greish is on £300,000 the fact that Jack Greish is on £300,000 a week at Manchester City. So, I don't a week at Manchester City. So, I don't think Everton are in a position to pay think Everton are in a position to pay all of that. So maybe a scenario where all of that. So maybe a scenario where Man City have to pick up some of that Man City have to pick up some of that tab. But this is more like some of that tab. But this is more like the sort of ambition I thought we would the sort of ambition I thought we would see from Everton in this window. What see from Everton in this window. What with it being uh the Fredens first with it being uh the Fredens first proper window as as as owners, they're proper window as as as owners, they're moving into the new stadium. I just moving into the new stadium. I just thought they would, you know, you know thought they would, you know, you know how it is. New new stadium, new how it is. New new stadium, new ambition, new era, just bring in a few ambition, new era, just bring in a few more kind of names for for um fans to more kind of names for for um fans to get behind. It's been really get behind. It's been really underwhelming so far. They are starting underwhelming so far. They are starting to get a bit busier now. They signed to get a bit busier now. They signed Kieran Jbury Hall a few days ago. They Kieran Jbury Hall a few days ago. They brought in Tiero Barry from Villa Royale brought in Tiero Barry from Villa Royale who's a who's a player that I um I who's a who's a player that I um I really like Tobo Barry, but it's quite really like Tobo Barry, but it's quite similar to Beto, so I'm not entirely similar to Beto, so I'm not entirely sure how he rounds out that attack. And sure how he rounds out that attack. And then Adam, who's a who's a player I then Adam, who's a who's a player I don't know as much about. He's been don't know as much about. He's been signed from Bayern to presumably be the signed from Bayern to presumably be the starting left back. But this is a team starting left back. But this is a team that lost nine players at the end of that lost nine players at the end of last season. And some of those players last season. And some of those players they needed to lose. some of those they needed to lose. some of those players, a lot of those players, it was players, a lot of those players, it was it was Everton's decision to allow them it was Everton's decision to allow them to leave. But nonetheless, they have so to leave. But nonetheless, they have so much work to do to build out that squad. much work to do to build out that squad. And David Moyes has been very public in And David Moyes has been very public in his concern. He said something like two his concern. He said something like two weeks ago, he said something to the weeks ago, he said something to the effect of they need six or seven players effect of they need six or seven players before the start of the season. Well, before the start of the season. Well, the Premier League season starts a week the Premier League season starts a week on Saturday and Everton have not signed on Saturday and Everton have not signed six or seven players. They've signed one six or seven players. They've signed one player, I believe, in that time. Maybe player, I believe, in that time. Maybe it's a second one if they get the Greish it's a second one if they get the Greish deal over the line. But um yeah, I think deal over the line. But um yeah, I think there's a world where this is a good there's a world where this is a good addition for for Everton. I would um addition for for Everton. I would um counter my own belief there with not counter my own belief there with not entirely sure where he's going to play. entirely sure where he's going to play. Illeman and Die as their starting left Illeman and Die as their starting left winger and at this point I would say is winger and at this point I would say is more consistent and reliable than Jack more consistent and reliable than Jack Greish. But there's a world where David Greish. But there's a world where David Moyes shifts them into a 42-31 maybe Moyes shifts them into a 42-31 maybe creates like a more obvious number 10 creates like a more obvious number 10 role for Jack Greish which of course is role for Jack Greish which of course is where he played for a lot for Aston where he played for a lot for Aston Villa when he was when he was there. So, Villa when he was there. So, it's a role that he would he would know it's a role that he would he would know well and Everton have chased Greish for well and Everton have chased Greish for a while. So, you would think they have a while. So, you would think they have some sort of plan for him. And I kind of some sort of plan for him. And I kind of want to see this happen cuz Jack Greish, want to see this happen cuz Jack Greish, it just seems very sad at the moment. it just seems very sad at the moment. Jack Greish um sitting on that Man City Jack Greish um sitting on that Man City bench and I like it when he's happy. bench and I like it when he's happy. He's a fun player. So, let's have him be He's a fun player. So, let's have him be fun at Everton. fun at Everton. &gt;&gt; Must be tough to get that 300 grand a &gt;&gt; Must be tough to get that 300 grand a week to sit on the bench though. Yeah, week to sit on the bench though. Yeah, I'd be sad as well. I'd be sad as well. &gt;&gt; He's not working out those calves &gt;&gt; He's not working out those calves sitting on the bench. That's what he's sitting on the bench. That's what he's really concerned about. really concerned about. &gt;&gt; But he's not No one's messing up his &gt;&gt; But he's not No one's messing up his hair when he's sitting on the bench, hair when he's sitting on the bench, though. there there is a positive I though. there there is a positive I would say but Graeme I suppose with the would say but Graeme I suppose with the idea with Everton and needing to get idea with Everton and needing to get some players on board I seem to remember some players on board I seem to remember when Arsenal moved to the Emirates they when Arsenal moved to the Emirates they had a good few windows where they had a good few windows where they basically didn't do anything because basically didn't do anything because they had to pay for a stadium so they they had to pay for a stadium so they might be a bit more financial pressure might be a bit more financial pressure on them at this point as well right on them at this point as well right &gt;&gt; oh absolutely um but I think Dan Frieden &gt;&gt; oh absolutely um but I think Dan Frieden when he comes in as the owner had when he comes in as the owner had promised funds for for for this window promised funds for for for this window and I should say now with Jby Hall and I should say now with Jby Hall coming in they have spent I'm just coming in they have spent I'm just looking at their transfer market page looking at their transfer market page now um They have spent €87 million now um They have spent €87 million euros. That's not nothing that they've euros. That's not nothing that they've spent. They did pay 50 million euros to spent. They did pay 50 million euros to make Carlos Alcarz's deal permanent from make Carlos Alcarz's deal permanent from Flamingo. He had a good impact on loan Flamingo. He had a good impact on loan in the second half of last season. They in the second half of last season. They brought in a uh they brought in How much brought in a uh they brought in How much would Yanick Center be? They brought in would Yanick Center be? They brought in um Mark Travers as a as a sub um Mark Travers as a as a sub goalkeeper. goalkeeper. goalkeeper. &gt;&gt; Sorry, Taylor's not here. I had to do &gt;&gt; Sorry, Taylor's not here. I had to do it. it. it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. To fill in the the the role. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. To fill in the the the role. Um, but I still a lot of players that Um, but I still a lot of players that they've lost like Ashley Young, Mason they've lost like Ashley Young, Mason Hol, Asarbeovich, Abdel Deore. I think a Hol, Asarbeovich, Abdel Deore. I think a lot of fans wanted him to to stick lot of fans wanted him to to stick around. Dominic Calvert Lu, we'll see around. Dominic Calvert Lu, we'll see where he ends up. I think Sunderland where he ends up. I think Sunderland have been interested in him. So, um, have been interested in him. So, um, yeah, it's a squad that's looking a bit yeah, it's a squad that's looking a bit thin on the ground right now. thin on the ground right now. &gt;&gt; Yeah. What do you think, Joe? Everton in &gt;&gt; Yeah. What do you think, Joe? Everton in their brand new Mercury side dock their brand new Mercury side dock stadium with Jack Greish somewhere in stadium with Jack Greish somewhere in the lineup. Does that excite you? the lineup. Does that excite you? &gt;&gt; Yeah, actually. Like that's that's the &gt;&gt; Yeah, actually. Like that's that's the most exciting thing about Everton. I most exciting thing about Everton. I mean, Graham brought us down to earth mean, Graham brought us down to earth with a lot of very practical realities with a lot of very practical realities around Everton and did the tactics around Everton and did the tactics nerdery as well. Um, I'm going to set nerdery as well. Um, I'm going to set all that completely aside and just say I all that completely aside and just say I would absolutely love for Jack Gish to would absolutely love for Jack Gish to go to a team where he can be the man go to a team where he can be the man again. Like just to really emphasize again. Like just to really emphasize that I I would love to see Jack Gish in that I I would love to see Jack Gish in that position to get him back in the that position to get him back in the spotlight because the the cycle has sort spotlight because the the cycle has sort of come to a a conclusion at City, of come to a a conclusion at City, right? I mean, Pep came out and said right? I mean, Pep came out and said that he was the one who fought for that he was the one who fought for Greish to move to City and and was Greish to move to City and and was really important player for them for a really important player for them for a couple of seasons. was part of of multip couple of seasons. was part of of multip it was a key part of multiple title it was a key part of multiple title pushes at 29 though barely playing over pushes at 29 though barely playing over the last two seasons there's not a lot the last two seasons there's not a lot of of top tier Jack Greish left right I of of top tier Jack Greish left right I mean Greish can still play soccer for a mean Greish can still play soccer for a lot of years but how much of of him at lot of years but how much of of him at his best do we have left to see I would his best do we have left to see I would actually like to see that rather than actually like to see that rather than see it rot on on city's bench and and see it rot on on city's bench and and get 800 minutes a year and I think get 800 minutes a year and I think Everton is a really fun potential Everton is a really fun potential destination for him it would make them destination for him it would make them so much more interesting I do think so much more interesting I do think there's a world in which he thrives there's a world in which he thrives there we've seen him carry a not great there we've seen him carry a not great Premier League team before and to do a Premier League team before and to do a lot of really good playmaking stuff for lot of really good playmaking stuff for them. He's an awesome player to watch them. He's an awesome player to watch and this would make me very happy. and this would make me very happy. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I kind of got muddled in my own &gt;&gt; Yeah, I kind of got muddled in my own point there by trying to bring us point there by trying to bring us points. points. points. &gt;&gt; Yeah, trying to get bring us um back to &gt;&gt; Yeah, trying to get bring us um back to ground on like where he's going to fit ground on like where he's going to fit into the team. Ultimately, I think if into the team. Ultimately, I think if you have an opportunity to sign Jack you have an opportunity to sign Jack Gish Everton should do it just on a Gish Everton should do it just on a talent basis like figure worry about talent basis like figure worry about where he he fits into the team later. where he he fits into the team later. Figure that stuff out later and just get Figure that stuff out later and just get him into the squad. Um, so yeah, I hope him into the squad. Um, so yeah, I hope this one happens. this one happens. &gt;&gt; Yeah. All right. Very good. Uh, how &gt;&gt; Yeah. All right. Very good. Uh, how about Rodrigo? Um, apparently not uh not about Rodrigo? Um, apparently not uh not fitting in at Chab Alonzo's Real Madrid. fitting in at Chab Alonzo's Real Madrid. Uh, Madrid, I've just seen some media Uh, Madrid, I've just seen some media reporting that Real Madrid will not let reporting that Real Madrid will not let him leave for anything less than 70 to him leave for anything less than 70 to 80 million euros. Well, which one is it? 80 million euros. Well, which one is it? If it's not anything less than, If it's not anything less than, &gt;&gt; I mean 70 to 80 million. The way that's &gt;&gt; I mean 70 to 80 million. The way that's framed is like, oh, well, no one's going framed is like, oh, well, no one's going to go near that. 70 to 80 million euros to go near that. 70 to 80 million euros for Rodrigo feels like a decent deal in for Rodrigo feels like a decent deal in this market for me given some of the this market for me given some of the other prices other prices other prices &gt;&gt; in the in the 150 million EAC market. &gt;&gt; in the in the 150 million EAC market. Yes, Graeme, I would agree if we if Yes, Graeme, I would agree if we if that's in the what was it 70 million that's in the what was it 70 million euros Kuna market I think the same or 10 euros Kuna market I think the same or 10 million more for Rodrigo's looking million more for Rodrigo's looking pretty good. pretty good. pretty good. &gt;&gt; Yeah, maybe so. Well, it seems a few &gt;&gt; Yeah, maybe so. Well, it seems a few clubs have been linked with him. I've clubs have been linked with him. I've seen Arsenal, Liverpool, uh Tottenham. seen Arsenal, Liverpool, uh Tottenham. Uh Graeme, do we think Rodrigo is going Uh Graeme, do we think Rodrigo is going to be a Premier League player in the to be a Premier League player in the next few weeks? next few weeks? It seems possible. Obviously, I don't It seems possible. Obviously, I don't have um you'll be shocked to learn this. have um you'll be shocked to learn this. I've got a few more hours to log at KFC I've got a few more hours to log at KFC before I have inside information, but I before I have inside information, but I don't have the scoop on Rodrigo, but don't have the scoop on Rodrigo, but just reading the tea leaves and the just reading the tea leaves and the reporting, yeah, it very much seems like reporting, yeah, it very much seems like he is on the outside of Jabi Lonzo's he is on the outside of Jabi Lonzo's team right now. I kind of predicted this team right now. I kind of predicted this at the start of the year that he or at the start of the year that he or maybe someone else would be squeezed out maybe someone else would be squeezed out of that forward line. And Arsenal have of that forward line. And Arsenal have been tentatively linked. seems like been tentatively linked. seems like they're maybe focusing on Ezie as that they're maybe focusing on Ezie as that um he he obviously is maybe more of a um he he obviously is maybe more of a number 10 than Rodrigo, but he shades number 10 than Rodrigo, but he shades out to the left side. So maybe that's out to the left side. So maybe that's what they're envisaging as his um what they're envisaging as his um position. But Spurs are the team that's position. But Spurs are the team that's been linked in the Spanish press. been linked in the Spanish press. Obviously they need um or you would Obviously they need um or you would think they need a replacement for Son on think they need a replacement for Son on the left wing. Rodrigo of course over the left wing. Rodrigo of course over the last three seasons, three or four the last three seasons, three or four seasons has largely played on the right seasons has largely played on the right wing for Real Madrid, but is he feels wing for Real Madrid, but is he feels he's more effective on the left. That's he's more effective on the left. That's where he wants to play. So that would be where he wants to play. So that would be an attraction for him going to Spurs is an attraction for him going to Spurs is that there's a place open in that in in that there's a place open in that in in that team. And Spurs um they it feels that team. And Spurs um they it feels like they need need another attacking like they need need another attacking piece before the start of the season or piece before the start of the season or at least before the window closes at least before the window closes because James Madison is out for the because James Madison is out for the season. Kulleski I believe is is has season. Kulleski I believe is is has also got an injury right now and has a also got an injury right now and has a bit of a a track record of of being a a bit of a a track record of of being a a bit of a crop quite frankly. Um so there bit of a crop quite frankly. Um so there there is scope for them to add another there is scope for them to add another attacker. They thought one of those attacker. They thought one of those attackers was going to be Morgan Gibbs attackers was going to be Morgan Gibbs White. Obviously, Rodrigo is a very White. Obviously, Rodrigo is a very different player, but in terms of just different player, but in terms of just adding goals and creativity to the team, adding goals and creativity to the team, Rodrigo would be a clear upgrade on what Rodrigo would be a clear upgrade on what they have. they have. they have. &gt;&gt; Very good. Joe, any thoughts on Rodrigo &gt;&gt; Very good. Joe, any thoughts on Rodrigo and his uh his outcasting in Madrid? and his uh his outcasting in Madrid? &gt;&gt; I I think it's interesting. It seems to &gt;&gt; I I think it's interesting. It seems to me that maybe we are moving from the uh me that maybe we are moving from the uh from it being striker summer into it from it being striker summer into it being winger summer a little bit at the being winger summer a little bit at the moment. There's still some some things moment. There's still some some things to be sort clear. to be sort clear. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fair. Um there's still &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fair. Um there's still um there's still some striker stuff to um there's still some striker stuff to be sorted out clearly as we've talked be sorted out clearly as we've talked about on today's show. Newcastle are at about on today's show. Newcastle are at the center of a lot of that. But I do the center of a lot of that. But I do think now that we see Rodrigo's name think now that we see Rodrigo's name popping up more. I've seen Bradley popping up more. I've seen Bradley Barka's name pop up a lot more in the Barka's name pop up a lot more in the last couple of days. last couple of days. &gt;&gt; Both of those guys I think are are &gt;&gt; Both of those guys I think are are massive massively effective additions to massive massively effective additions to wherever they're going to land. I mean, wherever they're going to land. I mean, maybe it's a little bit team dependent, maybe it's a little bit team dependent, but I think Barka that he's gotten sort but I think Barka that he's gotten sort of bumped out of the lineup by Kavar of bumped out of the lineup by Kavar Skellia, Dembele, and Desiree Der should Skellia, Dembele, and Desiree Der should not really be held against him. I think not really be held against him. I think he's a phenomenal player and and sort of he's a phenomenal player and and sort of a similar story with Rodrigo, right? I I a similar story with Rodrigo, right? I I I I think Rodrigo could fit in so many I I think Rodrigo could fit in so many places and at Tottenham he would be an places and at Tottenham he would be an awesome addition that they can go from awesome addition that they can go from having like a little bit of the husk of having like a little bit of the husk of Sunong men easier for me to say on that Sunong men easier for me to say on that side in their best games to having side in their best games to having Rodrigo feels like a slam dunk. So I I I Rodrigo feels like a slam dunk. So I I I think we are going to see a lot of think we are going to see a lot of movement in that part of the field on movement in that part of the field on the wing. Arsenal are still kind of the wing. Arsenal are still kind of digging around. Liverpool clearly are digging around. Liverpool clearly are digging around. there's there's more digging around. there's there's more chips to fall on uh on that part of the chips to fall on uh on that part of the field and I think Rodrigo is definitely field and I think Rodrigo is definitely part of that. part of that. &gt;&gt; Very good stuff. And just a note on Son &gt;&gt; Very good stuff. And just a note on Son um Joe, are we expecting to see him in um Joe, are we expecting to see him in action pretty soon for LAFC? action pretty soon for LAFC? &gt;&gt; Kind of kind of sounds like it. He had &gt;&gt; Kind of kind of sounds like it. He had his unveiling yesterday which was his unveiling yesterday which was awesome. Um when I talk about the husk awesome. Um when I talk about the husk of of Sun, I think from a Tottenham of of Sun, I think from a Tottenham perspective, that is kind of kind of perspective, that is kind of kind of where we were. I think he's going to where we were. I think he's going to crush a lot of MLS defenders and I'm crush a lot of MLS defenders and I'm very very excited to see what that looks very very excited to see what that looks like. I think it's going to be great TV. like. I think it's going to be great TV. He had his unveiling yesterday. Like He had his unveiling yesterday. Like it's wild how much uh attention he's it's wild how much uh attention he's already bringing into LAFC. Their social already bringing into LAFC. Their social media following has skyrocketed. You'd media following has skyrocketed. You'd have to imagine a lot of those followers have to imagine a lot of those followers are coming from Asia. Like it is it is are coming from Asia. Like it is it is awesome to see how this looks. And he awesome to see how this looks. And he talked about how I'm already like I'm talked about how I'm already like I'm ready to go. I mean I'm I'm already ready to go. I mean I'm I'm already through my preseason. I'm I'm ready to through my preseason. I'm I'm ready to play. I just need to like actually talk play. I just need to like actually talk with the coaches to figure out what with the coaches to figure out what we're doing. That's a rough paraphrase, we're doing. That's a rough paraphrase, but I do think we're going to see Sun but I do think we're going to see Sun very soon. And I don't know exactly how very soon. And I don't know exactly how he fits. And Jeff and I talked about he fits. And Jeff and I talked about that on on Tuesday. It's a bit odd that that on on Tuesday. It's a bit odd that Sun was their target when Denny Bwanga Sun was their target when Denny Bwanga plays in that same left wing position plays in that same left wing position and is probably the best left winger in and is probably the best left winger in MLS. But Sun is so good. Like he he is MLS. But Sun is so good. Like he he is still really good. Like I think he could still really good. Like I think he could have contributed to Tottenham this year have contributed to Tottenham this year in a real way. I'd just rather have in a real way. I'd just rather have Rodrigo, right? That that's where we're Rodrigo, right? That that's where we're at at this stage. But he is uh it at at this stage. But he is uh it doesn't sound like far away from playing doesn't sound like far away from playing and I'm I'm really eager to see what and I'm I'm really eager to see what that looks like. that looks like. &gt;&gt; Excellent stuff. Very excited. And hope &gt;&gt; Excellent stuff. Very excited. And hope Suns are acclimatizing well. I'm Suns are acclimatizing well. I'm presuming he's been practicing by presuming he's been practicing by sitting in a lot of traffic so he can sitting in a lot of traffic so he can get used to uh the uh environment get used to uh the uh environment &gt;&gt; paying exorbitant Ryan Bailey prices for &gt;&gt; paying exorbitant Ryan Bailey prices for parking I think is what that's his parking I think is what that's his training training training &gt;&gt; started don't do that Joe all right I &gt;&gt; started don't do that Joe all right I think Graeme that might wrap up our think Graeme that might wrap up our transfer update unless there's any more transfer update unless there's any more for any more it seems like is this is for any more it seems like is this is this an exciting window Graeme are you this an exciting window Graeme are you are you think because you are a transfer are you think because you are a transfer window fan does this one feel it feels window fan does this one feel it feels very as Joe's outlined striker and very as Joe's outlined striker and winger forward heavy this time around winger forward heavy this time around &gt;&gt; it has been a blockbuster summer it &gt;&gt; it has been a blockbuster summer it feels like every top Premier League team feels like every top Premier League team has gone nuts. Like Arsenal are spending has gone nuts. Like Arsenal are spending so much more than I thought than than I so much more than I thought than than I thought they would. Liverpool are thought they would. Liverpool are spending so much more than I thought spending so much more than I thought they would. Chelsea or Chelsea, h they would. Chelsea or Chelsea, h Manchester United, not entirely sure Manchester United, not entirely sure where their money is coming from or how where their money is coming from or how they're getting away with with that with they're getting away with with that with PSR. So, yeah, it's been a blockbuster PSR. So, yeah, it's been a blockbuster summer in in in the Premier League. Just summer in in in the Premier League. Just two more deals um quickly to to to touch two more deals um quickly to to to touch on before we we wrap this up. Javi on before we we wrap this up. Javi Simons. I was reading this morning some Simons. I was reading this morning some reports in Germany that basically Simons reports in Germany that basically Simons is now um trying to actively force his is now um trying to actively force his way out out of Leipzig. He wants that way out out of Leipzig. He wants that move to Chelsea. Of course, that's the move to Chelsea. Of course, that's the team that has been linked with him. team that has been linked with him. Leipzig, the sticking point for Leipzig Leipzig, the sticking point for Leipzig is they want significantly more than the is they want significantly more than the 50 million euros they paid for Simons in 50 million euros they paid for Simons in January. Do you remember that deal? That January. Do you remember that deal? That was a bit weird when he was on loan at was a bit weird when he was on loan at Leipzig. Leipzig did that deal with a Leipzig. Leipzig did that deal with a view to making a profit on him and view to making a profit on him and selling him pretty quickly. The problem selling him pretty quickly. The problem is it seems like Chelsea are not willing is it seems like Chelsea are not willing to pay more than that or they know to pay more than that or they know they've got leverage in in that they've got leverage in in that situation and and and maybe they can get situation and and and maybe they can get Leipzig down a little bit. Leipzig Leipzig down a little bit. Leipzig they're already looking at Harvey they're already looking at Harvey Elliot. I mentioned him earlier in in Elliot. I mentioned him earlier in in the episode about Liverpool maybe the episode about Liverpool maybe getting a fee for him. He's been lined getting a fee for him. He's been lined up as a as a replacement. And then the up as a as a replacement. And then the other big deal that looks close to being other big deal that looks close to being finalized has actually won out of the finalized has actually won out of the Premier League. It says Zabier the the Premier League. It says Zabier the the the Bournemouth central defender. Yeah, the Bournemouth central defender. Yeah, &gt;&gt; he is close to going to PSG in a deal &gt;&gt; he is close to going to PSG in a deal worth 63 million which is a lot. I think worth 63 million which is a lot. I think he'll be a depth option behind Marinos he'll be a depth option behind Marinos and and and William Pacio at least this and and and William Pacio at least this season and that would take Bournemouth season and that would take Bournemouth outgoings to 200 million pounds for this outgoings to 200 million pounds for this summer. Milos Kerkas Hoyen and Zabernier summer. Milos Kerkas Hoyen and Zabernier just three of their starting back four. just three of their starting back four. Remember remember I said uh remember I Remember remember I said uh remember I aired my concerns about the exodus at aired my concerns about the exodus at Brenford and that affecting them this Brenford and that affecting them this season. Well, I might have to recycle season. Well, I might have to recycle that point for uh for Bournemouth. that point for uh for Bournemouth. That's a lot of talent that's coming That's a lot of talent that's coming coming out of their team. coming out of their team. &gt;&gt; Oh boy. Oh boy. Giving some hope to the &gt;&gt; Oh boy. Oh boy. Giving some hope to the promoted teams here. And I haven't even promoted teams here. And I haven't even got to my thoughts on West Ham at any got to my thoughts on West Ham at any point yet. They're in trouble. Anyway, point yet. They're in trouble. Anyway, uh thank you very much for for this uh thank you very much for for this transfer update, Graeme and Joe. Graeme transfer update, Graeme and Joe. Graeme Rutton, thank you very much indeed. Rutton, thank you very much indeed. Pleasure as always, sir. Pleasure as always, sir. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Ryan Bailey. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Ryan Bailey. &gt;&gt; Joe Lowry, thank you very much indeed. &gt;&gt; Joe Lowry, thank you very much indeed. So, So, So, &gt;&gt; KFC, &gt;&gt; KFC, &gt;&gt; KFC, &gt;&gt; log those hours. Thank you very much, &gt;&gt; log those hours. Thank you very much, Lester, for joining us on this episode. Lester, for joining us on this episode. We'll be back on the feed very shortly We'll be back on the feed very shortly indeed. But for now, bye.