================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: XcL3ghAVflQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XcL3ghAVflQ
TITLE: Frank set for Spurs while Spalletti exits Italy
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-10
DURATION: 56m 18s
VIEWS: 8,143
LIKES: 178
COMMENTS: 26
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
With Europa League winner Ange Postecoglou dismissed, Spurs now look set to turn to Thomas Frank. What are the Brentford’s boss strengths and weaknesses ahead of the potential move to North London?

Portugal are the Nations League champions after their penalty shootout win over Spain, with Cristiano Ronaldo showing he still has the knack at 40 years of age.

Italy’s chances of missing a third successive World Cup increased after the 3-0 defeat to Norway that saw the exit of manager Luciano Spalletti.
Plus lots of transfer chat and England’s angst over a win in Andorra.
Jimbo’s back, with Jay Harris, Seb Stafford-Bloor and Adrian Clarke for company and lots to talk about from the world of football.

Listen to the audio version of the Totally Football Show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or by following this link: https://podfollow.com/totallyfootballshow

00:00:00 Intro 
00:02:40 Portugal v Spain: Nations League Final 
00:05:22 Ronaldo for Portugal 
00:09:08 Can Portugal compete in the World
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 21,457

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally football show today. Portugal Totally football show today. Portugal are nations league champions. Cristiano are nations league champions. Cristiano Ronaldo and Nuno Mendes are the Spain's Ronaldo and Nuno Mendes are the Spain's reign enders now. Will they be World Cup reign enders now. Will they be World Cup contenders? Plus, we talk England and contenders? Plus, we talk England and Pandora a bit as Spurs cancelling season Pandora a bit as Spurs cancelling season 3 of an posttoloo what awaits Italy's 3 of an posttoloo what awaits Italy's Spleti junction and much more in this Spleti junction and much more in this totally football show. Monday the 9th of totally football show. Monday the 9th of June. Hello listener. Today's show June. Hello listener. Today's show features Jay Harris. Hey Jay. Hey Jimbo. features Jay Harris. Hey Jay. Hey Jimbo. You're all good. Yeah, I'm very well. You're all good. Yeah, I'm very well. Lovely to see you. Great to see you in Lovely to see you. Great to see you in Hamburg. Seb Stafford blur. Hello back Hamburg. Seb Stafford blur. Hello back James Richson. James Richson. James Richson. And a little bit of Adrien Clark for us And a little bit of Adrien Clark for us today as well. Quite a lot I'm hoping. today as well. Quite a lot I'm hoping. Hi Adrian. I'm here. Yeah. Hello. Hi Adrian. I'm here. Yeah. Hello. Excited to get your take on the Spurs Excited to get your take on the Spurs madness, Adrian, and so much more. So madness, Adrian, and so much more. So much more. Among the topics naturally much more. Among the topics naturally we'll be talking about will be Italy and we'll be talking about will be Italy and their brilliant start to World Cup their brilliant start to World Cup qualifying. James Horncastle will be qualifying. James Horncastle will be along a little bit later on for some of along a little bit later on for some of that. Jay, that. Jay, that. Jay, even as we speak, you've got your brow even as we speak, you've got your brow furrowed waiting for updates on the furrowed waiting for updates on the ongoing situation in North London. Um ongoing situation in North London. Um what's the latest? Um this situation in what's the latest? Um this situation in North London has been ruling my life North London has been ruling my life over this weekend. Uh obviously over this weekend. Uh obviously Anastasia was sacked on Friday. It's a Anastasia was sacked on Friday. It's a decision that I think a lot of people decision that I think a lot of people felt had been coming for a long time. felt had been coming for a long time. But then there just been complete radio But then there just been complete radio silence after that final game of the silence after that final game of the season. It was two weeks where no one season. It was two weeks where no one really knew what was going on. Anapost really knew what was going on. Anapost was on holiday in Greece. Tottenham's was on holiday in Greece. Tottenham's chairman Daniel Levy was on holiday as chairman Daniel Levy was on holiday as well. and um the fan base was just sort well. and um the fan base was just sort of left in limbo and then everything's of left in limbo and then everything's ramped up since Friday evening. The ramped up since Friday evening. The statement came out at 5:00 pm that statement came out at 5:00 pm that Postogle had been sacked and um Thomas Postogle had been sacked and um Thomas Frank was the leading contender and then Frank was the leading contender and then uh myself and David just reported for uh myself and David just reported for the Athletic in the last hour or two the Athletic in the last hour or two that um Spurs have now made official that um Spurs have now made official direct contact with Brenford. Um but direct contact with Brenford. Um but there's around a 10 million there's around a 10 million buyout/compensation fee that they need buyout/compensation fee that they need to pay to get him out of Brenford. Um, to pay to get him out of Brenford. Um, but it looks like everything's sort of but it looks like everything's sort of speeding ahead towards that conclusion speeding ahead towards that conclusion and um, Thomas Frank will become the and um, Thomas Frank will become the next Spurs head head coach possibly by next Spurs head head coach possibly by the time this drops to listeners, would the time this drops to listeners, would you say, Jay? No, no, no. I think we've you say, Jay? No, no, no. I think we've I think we're safe enough to continue I think we're safe enough to continue recording without being surprised midway recording without being surprised midway through. Okay. All right. Okay. Well, through. Okay. All right. Okay. Well, we'll talk about much more on that and we'll talk about much more on that and what it means maybe for Spurs uh, what it means maybe for Spurs uh, shortly, but shall we kick off with shortly, but shall we kick off with this? Portugal are two-time winners of this? Portugal are two-time winners of the Nations League, beating highly rated the Nations League, beating highly rated Spain. Krikey, Spain. Krikey, Spain. Krikey, wow, who watched this, who was thrilled wow, who watched this, who was thrilled at Portugal, who's now clocking them up at Portugal, who's now clocking them up as maybe contenders for next year in as maybe contenders for next year in North America. They got to be North America. They got to be contenders, haven't they? when you look contenders, haven't they? when you look at at the the depth of the squad, the at at the the depth of the squad, the the quality of the individuals and the the quality of the individuals and the fact that they sort of, you know, held fact that they sort of, you know, held into the game against, you know, into the game against, you know, brilliant, talented Spanish side, they brilliant, talented Spanish side, they they stuck at it, didn't they? And they stuck at it, didn't they? And um in the end, one on penalties. Look, um in the end, one on penalties. Look, they've got really good individuals. Um they've got really good individuals. Um I think Nuno Mendes had a terrific I think Nuno Mendes had a terrific tournament. I mean, he was he he was tournament. I mean, he was he he was absolutely brilliant. He for PSG in the absolutely brilliant. He for PSG in the Champions League final, he kind of Champions League final, he kind of sacrificed himself by staying back and sacrificed himself by staying back and and being more of a left side center and being more of a left side center back, but we saw in in the Nations back, but we saw in in the Nations League tournament how effective he is League tournament how effective he is going forward. And yeah, I think you going forward. And yeah, I think you know the way he nullified Yal and then know the way he nullified Yal and then scored that goal and then assisted for scored that goal and then assisted for Ronaldo's equalizer was truly Ronaldo's equalizer was truly outstanding really. So yeah, they got to outstanding really. So yeah, they got to be contenders. Um, Spain absolutely will be contenders. Um, Spain absolutely will be, but they do need to obviously be, but they do need to obviously improve on their on their defending, improve on their on their defending, which was a little bit loose, I think, which was a little bit loose, I think, across those two games. Well, it's it's across those two games. Well, it's it's 15 goals conceded in their last six, so 15 goals conceded in their last six, so that's an ongoing issue for the Spanish. that's an ongoing issue for the Spanish. But Mendes, But Mendes, But Mendes, so much excitement about him and his so much excitement about him and his opposite number at PSG, Hakeime going opposite number at PSG, Hakeime going forward. But, as you say, shutting down forward. But, as you say, shutting down Yamal in the big Yamal versus CR7 Yamal in the big Yamal versus CR7 contest. Seb, you're nodding sagely. contest. Seb, you're nodding sagely. Yeah, I just it it's so one of the to me Yeah, I just it it's so one of the to me one of the most interesting trends in one of the most interesting trends in modern football is the power that comes modern football is the power that comes from fullback. And I was having a from fullback. And I was having a conversation with someone the other day conversation with someone the other day about we're talking about um Jeremy about we're talking about um Jeremy Fringong um and his defensive abilities, Fringong um and his defensive abilities, you know, in relation to kind of his you know, in relation to kind of his move to Liverpool. And it seems like move to Liverpool. And it seems like defensive abilities and fullbacks now is defensive abilities and fullbacks now is just it's it's not really the just it's it's not really the conversation. It's the level of thrust conversation. It's the level of thrust and the way that they can change the and the way that they can change the attacking gears of a side. And you'd attacking gears of a side. And you'd almost say like particularly with almost say like particularly with Hakeime, if you think about a kind of a Hakeime, if you think about a kind of a ranking of of world fullbacks, I would ranking of of world fullbacks, I would say I would make him number one on the say I would make him number one on the right hand side. I'm not even sure who right hand side. I'm not even sure who number two is. That's how clear he feels number two is. That's how clear he feels to the rest of the competition. I'm to the rest of the competition. I'm happy to hit entrance and contenders. happy to hit entrance and contenders. Maybe Trent Alexander Arnold on a very Maybe Trent Alexander Arnold on a very very good day, but I to me like to have very good day, but I to me like to have those two. It's almost the template for those two. It's almost the template for how you how you have attacking football how you how you have attacking football now is to have players who are exactly now is to have players who are exactly that like those two. It's a it's such an that like those two. It's a it's such an amazing privilege. Cristiano Ronaldo, amazing privilege. Cristiano Ronaldo, we all had a chuckle at him in the we all had a chuckle at him in the Euros, Euros, Euros, but that's eight goals now in his last but that's eight goals now in his last nine league appearances. And he did nine league appearances. And he did Cristiano Ronaldo things in both the Cristiano Ronaldo things in both the semi-final and this game here, Jay. semi-final and this game here, Jay. Yeah, it's the um age-old debate with Yeah, it's the um age-old debate with Ronaldo, isn't it? He sometimes just Ronaldo, isn't it? He sometimes just wanders through games. Old age debate wanders through games. Old age debate actually. But yes, he he sometimes w actually. But yes, he he sometimes w sometimes wanders through games so sometimes wanders through games so listly, but then when he pops up later listly, but then when he pops up later on in games and scores, um is that on in games and scores, um is that enough to sort of ignore what else he enough to sort of ignore what else he does? I actually thought it was quite does? I actually thought it was quite interesting that when Nunes scores, he interesting that when Nunes scores, he sort of just blows past Ronaldo and sort of just blows past Ronaldo and Ronaldo doesn't really move into the Ronaldo doesn't really move into the box, which is what you'd want your box, which is what you'd want your striker to do. And then he almost looks striker to do. And then he almost looks a bit moody that that Mendes didn't pass a bit moody that that Mendes didn't pass it to him. So, he can still be strange it to him. So, he can still be strange at times, but he will always have that at times, but he will always have that just magnetic ability to get a goal out just magnetic ability to get a goal out of nowhere. Um, the way he still attacks of nowhere. Um, the way he still attacks the back post and stuff like that, it's the back post and stuff like that, it's it's timeless. So, it seems like he's it's timeless. So, it seems like he's still going to be there um for the World still going to be there um for the World Cup next year. I think this is his third Cup next year. I think this is his third trophy with with Portugal now. So, um trophy with with Portugal now. So, um fair play to him. Even when we doubt fair play to him. Even when we doubt him, he still delivers. Of course, at him, he still delivers. Of course, at some point, he will not be Portugal's some point, he will not be Portugal's number nine anymore. He won't be their number nine anymore. He won't be their starting center forward. probably in 10 starting center forward. probably in 10 years time when players a lot younger years time when players a lot younger than him have already retired. Uh but than him have already retired. Uh but we'll see. You can't really rule we'll see. You can't really rule anything out with him these days. Do you anything out with him these days. Do you know do you know um do you remember like know do you know um do you remember like in medieval times when an army was was in medieval times when an army was was trying to um was attacking? I don't trying to um was attacking? I don't remember it personally. But do you remember it personally. But do you remember the anecdotes? remember do you remember the anecdotes? Do you remember the anecdotes? And you'd Do you remember the anecdotes? And you'd kind of wheel a catapult into position kind of wheel a catapult into position and just fire stuff at the castle. and just fire stuff at the castle. That's Ronaldo now, right? He's he kind That's Ronaldo now, right? He's he kind of like he can do a lot of damage, but of like he can do a lot of damage, but you do have to wheel him into position you do have to wheel him into position and then just, you know, and hope that and then just, you know, and hope that there's a lack of mobility around him in there's a lack of mobility around him in response. 22 touches in the course of uh response. 22 touches in the course of uh the the final, that doesn't feel like a the the final, that doesn't feel like a lot. I mean, one of them was a key lot. I mean, one of them was a key touch. Doesn't matter, does it? Doesn't touch. Doesn't matter, does it? Doesn't matter when when you can sort of, you matter when when you can sort of, you know, knock one into the back of the on know, knock one into the back of the on the volley as cleanly as he did, get in the volley as cleanly as he did, get in the right position at the right time, it the right position at the right time, it doesn't matter. Sorry, I'm going to doesn't matter. Sorry, I'm going to indulge a horrible cliche, but it's one indulge a horrible cliche, but it's one of those things you can't you don't just of those things you can't you don't just teach that. He has it as an instinct. teach that. He has it as an instinct. And I suppose that's what allows him to And I suppose that's what allows him to keep playing. Can you not teach that? I keep playing. Can you not teach that? I mean, it feels like whenever they talk mean, it feels like whenever they talk about it in commentary, I think that's about it in commentary, I think that's the one bit I could manage. But could the one bit I could manage. But could you But hang on, James. Hang on. Hang you But hang on, James. Hang on. Hang on. Um, like let's let's let's crack on. Um, like let's let's let's crack back against this burst of ego. Um, but back against this burst of ego. Um, but could you do it in the in the split could you do it in the in the split second that you would need to do it to second that you would need to do it to be effective? You could you could talk be effective? You could you could talk about it and we could all talk about it. about it and we could all talk about it. Like I I reckon, you know, I could back Like I I reckon, you know, I could back myself to to do that, but then in a way myself to to do that, but then in a way that evades a Premier League left back. that evades a Premier League left back. Probably not. Probably not. You also Probably not. Probably not. You also have to have have to have um to read the game extremely well um to read the game extremely well because you can make that movement, but because you can make that movement, but if you're not aware of where the ball is if you're not aware of where the ball is going to land, then it's sort of going to land, then it's sort of irrelevant if you're just going back and irrelevant if you're just going back and forth. So, it's that combination of forth. So, it's that combination of intelligence to see how the player is intelligence to see how the player is progressing and then the intelligence to progressing and then the intelligence to kind of trick the defender with the the kind of trick the defender with the the double movement. You can teach it. I've double movement. You can teach it. I've spent many a training session, you know, spent many a training session, you know, where coaches are working with strikers where coaches are working with strikers on the movements they make inside the on the movements they make inside the box. So, it's something that coaches box. So, it's something that coaches definitely work on, but the the intu the definitely work on, but the the intu the intuitive knack is is what I think Seb's intuitive knack is is what I think Seb's talking about. Um and and that that talking about. Um and and that that probably separates your your real goal probably separates your your real goal munchers from your your average sort of munchers from your your average sort of 10 to 15 a season guys. Um yeah, they 10 to 15 a season guys. Um yeah, they just they've just got this unspoken just they've just got this unspoken instinct. instinct. instinct. If Seb had his time again, that is how If Seb had his time again, that is how he would articulate that. Yeah, he would articulate that. Yeah, absolutely. absolutely. absolutely. Ronaldo's munched his way to almost a Ronaldo's munched his way to almost a thousand goals now and no doubt looking thousand goals now and no doubt looking to add to that next year in the states to add to that next year in the states but he won't be going along to the club but he won't be going along to the club world cup this summer possibly in world cup this summer possibly in deference to his advancing years just to deference to his advancing years just to point out that Yamal who represents the point out that Yamal who represents the other engine end of the age spectrum and other engine end of the age spectrum and that clash was built up a lot ahead of that clash was built up a lot ahead of this game Yamal's father is younger than this game Yamal's father is younger than Ronaldo Yamal is only three years older Ronaldo Yamal is only three years older than Ronaldo's elder son So than Ronaldo's elder son So just crazy. Just crazy. Anyway, uh we just crazy. Just crazy. Anyway, uh we rate Portugal then. Adrian's big on rate Portugal then. Adrian's big on them. Seb and Jay, you you agree? Or is them. Seb and Jay, you you agree? Or is there still a little bit of Yeah, it's there still a little bit of Yeah, it's Roberto Martinez. I'm not sure. Um there Roberto Martinez. I'm not sure. Um there of course, as we sort of alluded to, of course, as we sort of alluded to, there's always going to be an element of there's always going to be an element of they'll there'll come a game at some they'll there'll come a game at some point in the tournament where the point in the tournament where the smartest decision probably is to drop smartest decision probably is to drop Ronaldo and whether Martinez does that Ronaldo and whether Martinez does that might prove to be either a big success might prove to be either a big success or a big failure. But you just look at or a big failure. But you just look at that Portugal team and who they brought that Portugal team and who they brought off the bench. You got Gonzalo Ramos, off the bench. You got Gonzalo Ramos, Rafael Yao, Neves, Diego, Jota. That's Rafael Yao, Neves, Diego, Jota. That's like some some serious strength and like some some serious strength and depth that the other teams um don't depth that the other teams um don't possess that quality. I'd say at the possess that quality. I'd say at the World Cup next year, there's probably World Cup next year, there's probably maybe only five or six teams who will maybe only five or six teams who will have a comparable um amount of squad have a comparable um amount of squad depth. So that that's what you need in depth. So that that's what you need in um competitions uh especially when um competitions uh especially when there's going to be so many games in a there's going to be so many games in a short space of time. So yeah, they short space of time. So yeah, they definitely should be contenders. Yeah, definitely should be contenders. Yeah, Leo made a a big difference. Also, shout Leo made a a big difference. Also, shout out for Francisco Concal whose goal in out for Francisco Concal whose goal in the semi-final against Germany is gold the semi-final against Germany is gold of the tournament probably. I say of the tournament probably. I say tournament was what two games. But if I tournament was what two games. But if I had an asterisk Jimbo though, I would had an asterisk Jimbo though, I would say that and I think we probably all say that and I think we probably all agree on this across the course of those agree on this across the course of those fixtures. It showed a lot of exhaustive fixtures. It showed a lot of exhaustive footballers playing pretty fractured footballers playing pretty fractured football. Um certainly that that Germany football. Um certainly that that Germany Portugal game concesses goal was Portugal game concesses goal was wonderful of course nice move for um for wonderful of course nice move for um for Portugal second but it capitalized on Portugal second but it capitalized on bizarre like German football like really bizarre like German football like really really poor individual mistakes. I think really poor individual mistakes. I think it was Alex Pavlovich who gave the ball it was Alex Pavlovich who gave the ball away in the in his own third that led to away in the in his own third that led to the turnover. And that was a Germany the turnover. And that was a Germany that no Mi, no Rudiger. Um it was pretty that no Mi, no Rudiger. Um it was pretty short. No Kai Havits like you know it short. No Kai Havits like you know it was a long way from being a first choice was a long way from being a first choice side and and Portugal kind of needed side and and Portugal kind of needed those mistakes to get through that game. those mistakes to get through that game. Um so also I I don't think these end of Um so also I I don't think these end of season tournaments are contexts for season tournaments are contexts for anything. Um and they're not useful anything. Um and they're not useful contacts for anything either. Even contacts for anything either. Even though you know that that kind of um though you know that that kind of um that squad depth is mightily impressive that squad depth is mightily impressive heading into next year. On Wednesday, heading into next year. On Wednesday, it's going to be exactly one year till it's going to be exactly one year till the World Cup begins in Mexico City. Big the World Cup begins in Mexico City. Big congratulations to Usbekistan, Jordan, congratulations to Usbekistan, Jordan, and South Korea who qualified last week. and South Korea who qualified last week. It's 12th time the Koreans have made it It's 12th time the Koreans have made it to the big show. First time for to the big show. First time for Usbekistan and Jordan. So that's going Usbekistan and Jordan. So that's going to be exciting. to be exciting. Are Italy going to be there though? Will Are Italy going to be there though? Will the Azuri make it to a World Cup after the Azuri make it to a World Cup after quite literally missing out on the last quite literally missing out on the last two? Their qualifying hasn't started two? Their qualifying hasn't started well. On Friday night, they went to Oslo well. On Friday night, they went to Oslo and got beaten 3 nil. James Horncastle and got beaten 3 nil. James Horncastle joins us. James, classic get up for joins us. James, classic get up for Horncastle today. Lovely to see you. Horncastle today. Lovely to see you. Hello, James. First of all, this 3-0 in Hello, James. First of all, this 3-0 in Oslo on Friday. I mean, this is the best Oslo on Friday. I mean, this is the best Norway ever, though, isn't it? This is a Norway ever, though, isn't it? This is a Norway team that's going to beat a lot Norway team that's going to beat a lot of teams. of teams. of teams. Yeah, probably the best since um the '9s Yeah, probably the best since um the '9s when uh certainly the early 90s when when uh certainly the early 90s when Italy played them at the World Cup in Italy played them at the World Cup in the US. the US. the US. Um so, um yeah, I mean, look, this this Um so, um yeah, I mean, look, this this game was always going to be tricky um game was always going to be tricky um because of this generation of of because of this generation of of Norwegian players that they've got. Um Norwegian players that they've got. Um it was made trickier by kind of it was made trickier by kind of preparations for Italy because they had preparations for Italy because they had a number of injuries. So um you know a number of injuries. So um you know Moyes Ken who was you had the best Moyes Ken who was you had the best season of his life scored more than 20 season of his life scored more than 20 goals in all competitions. He was ruled goals in all competitions. He was ruled out through injury. You had a couple of out through injury. You had a couple of the big center backs like Ricardo the big center backs like Ricardo Califuri um who yeah this time last year Califuri um who yeah this time last year kind of really um turned heads at the kind of really um turned heads at the Euros with his performances. he was Euros with his performances. he was ruled out um as was Aleandro Bonjouro ruled out um as was Aleandro Bonjouro who won the the league title with who won the the league title with Napoli. Um and then you had Spleti being Napoli. Um and then you had Spleti being Spleti which is falling out with someone Spleti which is falling out with someone um on the on the eve of the game. So um um on the on the eve of the game. So um basically he he told Franchesco Acherby basically he he told Franchesco Acherby the inter center back that he wanted him the inter center back that he wanted him to be in the squad. Um and then in his to be in the squad. Um and then in his first press conference accused Ached of first press conference accused Ached of ghosting him um and saying that you know ghosting him um and saying that you know he had not responded um and so then he had not responded um and so then Achedi did respond by basically going on Achedi did respond by basically going on social media and saying um in no social media and saying um in no uncertain terms that he didn't really uncertain terms that he didn't really get on with Spleti and you know it was get on with Spleti and you know it was nothing to do with the national team nothing to do with the national team loves playing for Italy but he wasn't loves playing for Italy but he wasn't going to play for the national team as going to play for the national team as long as uh Spleti was in charge which long as uh Spleti was in charge which turns out um wasn't for much longer. turns out um wasn't for much longer. Yeah, indeed not interesting that Yeah, indeed not interesting that Roberto Manini chose to like a Cherab's Roberto Manini chose to like a Cherab's post. Yeah. Again, which you know, post. Yeah. Again, which you know, having had this kind of introductory having had this kind of introductory press conference um to this round of press conference um to this round of qualifiers where Spleti immediately kind qualifiers where Spleti immediately kind of went on the attack against the of went on the attack against the Cherby. You then had this sort of Cherby. You then had this sort of pre-match flash interview with with Sky pre-match flash interview with with Sky in Italy where, you know, he'd noticed in Italy where, you know, he'd noticed uh his predecessor, Roberto Manchini, uh his predecessor, Roberto Manchini, had liked a chair to be uh post and and had liked a chair to be uh post and and then just sort of said, "Well, I hope then just sort of said, "Well, I hope that Manini's phone has been hacked. You that Manini's phone has been hacked. You know, I I wouldn't want to believe that know, I I wouldn't want to believe that my predecessor would be doing this." Um my predecessor would be doing this." Um and yeah, so all all all of that, look, and yeah, so all all all of that, look, yesterday when uh Spleti did a press yesterday when uh Spleti did a press conference, even though he'd already conference, even though he'd already been sacked, um he he did say, "Look, I been sacked, um he he did say, "Look, I have no problems with the have no I have no problems with the players, you know, that I haven't lost players, you know, that I haven't lost the dressing room here." And got really the dressing room here." And got really kind of antsy as is his kind of default kind of antsy as is his kind of default when a journalist kind of said, "Have when a journalist kind of said, "Have you lost the dressing room?" Um and he you lost the dressing room?" Um and he said, "Can come on then. names, said, "Can come on then. names, surnames, you know, which players have I surnames, you know, which players have I lost, but the the the the wisdom of lost, but the the the the wisdom of taking on a player like a chair be when taking on a player like a chair be when you know most of the kind of leadership you know most of the kind of leadership group of that Italy team are into group of that Italy team are into players so teammates of a chair be um players so teammates of a chair be um you you'd question uh the wisdom of you you'd question uh the wisdom of doing that um before such a big game. So doing that um before such a big game. So issues with this happening off the issues with this happening off the field, what about Italy's performance on field, what about Italy's performance on it? Well, they were 3-0 down at Halime, it? Well, they were 3-0 down at Halime, which, you know, it's one thing to lose which, you know, it's one thing to lose a game like this 3-0, but to to be down a game like this 3-0, but to to be down and out so quickly. Um, was and out so quickly. Um, was unacceptable. unacceptable. unacceptable. I would say, you know what, there have I would say, you know what, there have been so many extremes. you you've kind been so many extremes. you you've kind of seen like uh Spalti uh his Italy team of seen like uh Spalti uh his Italy team kind of reflect the kind of own his own kind of reflect the kind of own his own kind of worst fee kind of character kind of worst fee kind of character really because um there have been some really because um there have been some moments where you could really get moments where you could really get behind this Italy and believe in them. behind this Italy and believe in them. Um you know like for example sort of Um you know like for example sort of last September when uh they beat France last September when uh they beat France 3-1 in Paris first time they won in in 3-1 in Paris first time they won in in France in 70 years. And you know, if you France in 70 years. And you know, if you wanted to be optimistic, you could have wanted to be optimistic, you could have said, "Ah, that was the beginning of said, "Ah, that was the beginning of Spleti's Italy because Spleti's Italy because um let's not forget how he got the job. um let's not forget how he got the job. Um he got the job because Roberto Manini Um he got the job because Roberto Manini kind of came up with an excuse to leave kind of came up with an excuse to leave um and then a few days later signed with um and then a few days later signed with Saudi Arabia and that was halfway Saudi Arabia and that was halfway through the qualifiers for the Euros. through the qualifiers for the Euros. England were already far and away out in England were already far and away out in front and we're going to top the group. front and we're going to top the group. And so there was a lot of kind of And so there was a lot of kind of tension already for Spalti you know who tension already for Spalti you know who um you know first first international um you know first first international break that he took uh took over um all break that he took uh took over um all the fans were saying you need to drop the fans were saying you need to drop Gio Donaruma. Um second international Gio Donaruma. Um second international get together he had police basically get together he had police basically came into his training ground to uh talk came into his training ground to uh talk to Sandra Tali and Nicolo Fajoli about to Sandra Tali and Nicolo Fajoli about betting on football and they were both betting on football and they were both banned. banned. banned. Um and then third international get Um and then third international get together was uh you have to play together was uh you have to play Ukraine. If you lose this game, you're Ukraine. If you lose this game, you're not going to the Euros. So I have some not going to the Euros. So I have some sympathy for him not having a lot of sympathy for him not having a lot of time. Um and that's why I was kind of time. Um and that's why I was kind of behind the decision not to sack him at behind the decision not to sack him at the Euros last year after they lost to the Euros last year after they lost to Switzerland. But um it does now feel Switzerland. But um it does now feel like this has has definitely kind of run like this has has definitely kind of run its course. M the the feeling that he its course. M the the feeling that he was never really a manager, though was never really a manager, though hugely gifted, suited to running a hugely gifted, suited to running a national team with the limited national team with the limited involvement with the players that that involvement with the players that that involves and the huge emphasis on involves and the huge emphasis on personal relationships. personal relationships. personal relationships. Not his strong point from what I'm what Not his strong point from what I'm what I'm hearing. A tense situation when he I'm hearing. A tense situation when he took over, not a great one for whoever took over, not a great one for whoever comes in now. Italy currently lying comes in now. Italy currently lying fourth in the group, although Italy they fourth in the group, although Italy they have several games in hand. They are have several games in hand. They are fully nine points though behind group fully nine points though behind group leaders Norway. Who's it going to be who leaders Norway. Who's it going to be who takes over the reigns? takes over the reigns? Well, at the moment it's between Claudia Well, at the moment it's between Claudia Rani and uh Stephano Pi. Uh favorite is Rani and uh Stephano Pi. Uh favorite is Claudia Rani. Um you know, Ranetti had Claudia Rani. Um you know, Ranetti had an incredible um seven or eight months an incredible um seven or eight months after coming out of retirement to bail after coming out of retirement to bail out his old club Roma. Um you know, I out his old club Roma. Um you know, I mean, poor Claudio, no one will let him mean, poor Claudio, no one will let him retire. Um, you know, I mean, he was retire. Um, you know, I mean, he was supposed to be just like sort of looking supposed to be just like sort of looking after the grandkids. Um, going on after the grandkids. Um, going on cruises with his wife. Uh, and then Roma cruises with his wife. Uh, and then Roma were like, "You're the only guy." Well, were like, "You're the only guy." Well, before that, Calerie was one last job. before that, Calerie was one last job. No, I'll do one last job at Calary. No, I'll do one last job at Calary. Yeah. Up, Roma. Okay, I'll do one last Yeah. Up, Roma. Okay, I'll do one last job at Roma. job at Roma. And um and so yeah, I mean and there was And um and so yeah, I mean and there was this kind of quite nice thing like last this kind of quite nice thing like last week where uh he did formally move week where uh he did formally move upstairs at Roma where he was like, I'm upstairs at Roma where he was like, I'm hiring Jiierro Gasperini as my hiring Jiierro Gasperini as my replacement and um you know kind of replacement and um you know kind of showed Gasparini around the training showed Gasparini around the training ground and um certainly people within ground and um certainly people within Roma felt that Ranieri would be a kind Roma felt that Ranieri would be a kind of really good influence on Gasparini of really good influence on Gasparini who a little bit like Spleti has a very who a little bit like Spleti has a very combustible um uh character. and and is combustible um uh character. and and is very fiery with the media and now very fiery with the media and now they're sort of negotiating with him to they're sort of negotiating with him to like can you please stay on as an like can you please stay on as an executive whilst you do um this national executive whilst you do um this national team role. So that's it. But you know team role. So that's it. But you know remember how discredited uh Rani was remember how discredited uh Rani was when he took a national team job the when he took a national team job the last time which was you know he was in last time which was you know he was in charge of Greece. Didn't last long. I charge of Greece. Didn't last long. I think they lost to the Pharaoh Islands. think they lost to the Pharaoh Islands. Lost the Pharaoh Islands. Pharaoh Lost the Pharaoh Islands. Pharaoh Islands not in this group though so Islands not in this group though so there's that. Oh, and then Gary Lker there's that. Oh, and then Gary Lker kind of was like, "This guy should never kind of was like, "This guy should never be near the Leicester job." I'm I'm be near the Leicester job." I'm I'm probably putting words in Gary Lker's probably putting words in Gary Lker's mouth there. But like, you know, there mouth there. But like, you know, there there was certainly some constonnation there was certainly some constonnation that Ranieri got that Leicester job and that Ranieri got that Leicester job and then obviously um you know uh the then obviously um you know uh the greatest story ever told in Premier greatest story ever told in Premier League history was Leicester winning the League history was Leicester winning the title. So, um I feel bad James that he's title. So, um I feel bad James that he's taking this job because um uh you know, taking this job because um uh you know, this job has made fools out of um very this job has made fools out of um very very good managers. uh recently and you very good managers. uh recently and you know at Cladio's age um having already know at Cladio's age um having already retired does he really need um the retired does he really need um the inevitable hassle that will come with inevitable hassle that will come with this job? Uh we shall see. It was kind this job? Uh we shall see. It was kind of weird that Spleti himself was the one of weird that Spleti himself was the one who announced that he'd been fired. who announced that he'd been fired. Isn't that normally what the the the Isn't that normally what the the the Italian FA would have done? Yeah, I I Italian FA would have done? Yeah, I I think this just shows what state the think this just shows what state the Italian Football Federation is in Italian Football Federation is in because um you know a lot of people because um you know a lot of people online are kind of saying ah come on online are kind of saying ah come on Spleti what you know he's he's Spleti what you know he's he's completely inadequate for this job you completely inadequate for this job you know we've seen all the worst sides of know we've seen all the worst sides of his character you know I mean ultimately his character you know I mean ultimately the Italian Football Federation has been the Italian Football Federation has been uh yeah the president of it has been in uh yeah the president of it has been in charge for when they last failed to get charge for when they last failed to get into the the World Cup in 2022. into the the World Cup in 2022. um they're up against it now. Um and you um they're up against it now. Um and you know, sort of he did his own media know, sort of he did his own media appearance um the morning uh of of appearance um the morning uh of of Sunday and kind of said, "Oh, Spalti, Sunday and kind of said, "Oh, Spalti, what an extraordinary guy, such a what an extraordinary guy, such a gentleman, a real noble soul." gentleman, a real noble soul." um and then just wasn't there for Spleti um and then just wasn't there for Spleti doing his own press conference where um doing his own press conference where um by then it had kind of already got out by then it had kind of already got out that Spleti was leaving and he was like, that Spleti was leaving and he was like, "Well, no, I'm not leaving. I've been "Well, no, I'm not leaving. I've been sacked." Um which was But he's still sacked." Um which was But he's still going to do Monday night's game. Yeah. going to do Monday night's game. Yeah. And I I think an element of that is he And I I think an element of that is he didn't want to go out on uh a 3-0 defeat didn't want to go out on uh a 3-0 defeat to Norway. uh and sort of like look, to Norway. uh and sort of like look, I'll be the grown-up here. I'll be very I'll be the grown-up here. I'll be very professional. Um it's too too late in professional. Um it's too too late in the day for the under21 coach to step the day for the under21 coach to step into the fray here. Um and I wouldn't into the fray here. Um and I wouldn't mind going out on a win. Um so let's mind going out on a win. Um so let's see. Is Italy prepared to take on see. Is Italy prepared to take on Moldova? Probably last night as you hear Moldova? Probably last night as you hear this listener. Lord knows what what we this listener. Lord knows what what we would have added about that game with would have added about that game with James, but it hasn't happened yet. Uh James, but it hasn't happened yet. Uh we'll catch up soon though. I hope Mr. we'll catch up soon though. I hope Mr. to Horncastle, sir. Yeah, Sir James. Sir to Horncastle, sir. Yeah, Sir James. Sir James. Yeah, I am off to Miami tomorrow. James. Yeah, I am off to Miami tomorrow. So, nice. Yeah. Okay. Great stuff. So, nice. Yeah. Okay. Great stuff. That's for the Club World Cup. So, That's for the Club World Cup. So, kicking off this weekend. All right, kicking off this weekend. All right, Jay. So, as you mentioned on Friday, Jay. So, as you mentioned on Friday, Spurs Spurs Spurs showed Anne Boscllo the door showed Anne Boscllo the door shortly after he'd finally brought them. shortly after he'd finally brought them. 16 days, was it after he brought the 16 days, was it after he brought the Europa League glory? Yep. 16 days. He Europa League glory? Yep. 16 days. He was, I was excited to read in your piece was, I was excited to read in your piece on the.com, on the.com, on the.com, the second longest Spurs manager since the second longest Spurs manager since Harry Rednaf left in Rednap left in Harry Rednaf left in Rednap left in 2012. Good lord. Yeah. So, um, they all 2012. Good lord. Yeah. So, um, they all seem to last a similar amount of time. I seem to last a similar amount of time. I think, um, Mourinho and Conte pretty think, um, Mourinho and Conte pretty much nearly hit the exact same number of much nearly hit the exact same number of around 60 games. So, normally by about around 60 games. So, normally by about 19 20 months into their their time in 19 20 months into their their time in charge of Spurs, Daniel Levy gets itchy charge of Spurs, Daniel Levy gets itchy feet and decides he wants to to get rid feet and decides he wants to to get rid of them. The difference on this occasion of them. The difference on this occasion was that um Spurs had this Europa League was that um Spurs had this Europa League carrot dangling in in front of them and carrot dangling in in front of them and I think obviously Mourinho got sacked a I think obviously Mourinho got sacked a couple of days before the Carabal Cup couple of days before the Carabal Cup final and I just think Spurs also knew final and I just think Spurs also knew that they couldn't really finish a third that they couldn't really finish a third season in a few years with another season in a few years with another caretaker manager. was just an awful caretaker manager. was just an awful look and they decided to go all in on on look and they decided to go all in on on Postgoglu and Postgoglu changed his way Postgoglu and Postgoglu changed his way of playing in um the Europa League. They of playing in um the Europa League. They became a bit more it's a bit of a dirty became a bit more it's a bit of a dirty word for postcog but pragmatic. It's word for postcog but pragmatic. It's true. Um they were really defensively true. Um they were really defensively disciplined against trafford. Me and Seb disciplined against trafford. Me and Seb were both there at that game. We thought were both there at that game. We thought Spurs were going to lose. Produced a Spurs were going to lose. Produced a really disciplined 1-0il performance. really disciplined 1-0il performance. Bodo glimpmped, you know, they should Bodo glimpmped, you know, they should have beaten comfortably considering the have beaten comfortably considering the greater resources they have and they greater resources they have and they did. And then they beat Manchester did. And then they beat Manchester United in the final. And I think the United in the final. And I think the outpouring of emotion from players, outpouring of emotion from players, fans, everybody after that game did make fans, everybody after that game did make you sit up and think maybe Postgu will you sit up and think maybe Postgu will go into a third season. If any manager go into a third season. If any manager deserves to be given a a second chance, deserves to be given a a second chance, maybe it's him. Then Postto almost added maybe it's him. Then Postto almost added to his own mythology by making that joke to his own mythology by making that joke about um the third season's always about um the third season's always better than the second. Um only to then better than the second. Um only to then realize that often main characters are realize that often main characters are killed in the third season of popular killed in the third season of popular television shows. Um but we what I television shows. Um but we what I thought would happen thought would happen is that Spurs would mull over the is that Spurs would mull over the decision for a week and then sack him. I decision for a week and then sack him. I didn't expect it would take two weeks. didn't expect it would take two weeks. Um I think it's been a bit of a damaging Um I think it's been a bit of a damaging period because you know Spurs are period because you know Spurs are looking at their rivals like uh looking at their rivals like uh Manchester United signing Matz Kuna Manchester United signing Matz Kuna going after Brian Bumo, Chelsea signing going after Brian Bumo, Chelsea signing Liam Dap, Liverpool getting Friong going Liam Dap, Liverpool getting Friong going after Vertz and Spurs have just been in after Vertz and Spurs have just been in stasis bas basically they're letting all stasis bas basically they're letting all of their rivals who already finished of their rivals who already finished apart from Manchester United comfortably apart from Manchester United comfortably ahead of them um get even more ground. ahead of them um get even more ground. Um but it looks like finally things are Um but it looks like finally things are heading in the right direction. Um, heading in the right direction. Um, Thomas Frank, we expect he's going to be Thomas Frank, we expect he's going to be appointed now, as I mentioned at the appointed now, as I mentioned at the beginning of the podcast. And it's going beginning of the podcast. And it's going to be interesting to see to be interesting to see what his version of Spurs looks like and what his version of Spurs looks like and if he's backed in the transfer market if he's backed in the transfer market and who he wants to keep in that squad and who he wants to keep in that squad and who he wants to to sell in that and who he wants to to sell in that squad. Um, it seems to be that every two squad. Um, it seems to be that every two years Spurs do this and they embark on years Spurs do this and they embark on another rebuild. They embark on a new another rebuild. They embark on a new project manager. Um, will will it work project manager. Um, will will it work this time? Who knows? Will it work this this time? Who knows? Will it work this time, Adrian? time, Adrian? time, Adrian? Well, should should we get on to the man Well, should should we get on to the man that that that has been obviously that that that has been obviously heavily linked? I suppose we we should heavily linked? I suppose we we should really in terms of Thomas Frank. Um really in terms of Thomas Frank. Um yeah. Yeah. I mean, first first and yeah. Yeah. I mean, first first and foremost, I do think the Posago had to foremost, I do think the Posago had to go. They finished 17th. It is. It's go. They finished 17th. It is. It's dreadful. And and they won a trophy dreadful. And and they won a trophy playing a brand of football that he playing a brand of football that he really found pretty grotesque. He really found pretty grotesque. He couldn't have carried on with that style couldn't have carried on with that style of football. had to surely have reverted of football. had to surely have reverted back to Angelore which which you know back to Angelore which which you know took them to 17th. So he had to go. Um took them to 17th. So he had to go. Um Thomas Frank I think has definitely Thomas Frank I think has definitely earned his chance. Um he sort of earned his chance. Um he sort of poundfor-pound an excellent manager. I poundfor-pound an excellent manager. I think that in terms of performance think that in terms of performance relative to wages he's top of the league relative to wages he's top of the league every single year Thomas Frank. So that every single year Thomas Frank. So that that is to be admired. He's shown that is to be admired. He's shown himself to be a really uh versatile himself to be a really uh versatile coach as well. I watched his Brenford coach as well. I watched his Brenford side in the Championship a lot and they side in the Championship a lot and they were excellent to watch. They were a were excellent to watch. They were a high possession team, attack-minded high possession team, attack-minded side. It was, you know, good football side. It was, you know, good football and then he adapted in the Premier and then he adapted in the Premier League. Realized I don't have the budget League. Realized I don't have the budget to compete playing that style of to compete playing that style of football in the Premier League, so I football in the Premier League, so I I'll go to something different. So, I I'll go to something different. So, I don't think we should judge him on the don't think we should judge him on the sort of direct style that that he's sort of direct style that that he's implemented um in West London. So, I implemented um in West London. So, I think yeah, I think he ticks a lot of think yeah, I think he ticks a lot of boxes. It's it's just boxes. It's it's just there are two question marks. Can he there are two question marks. Can he handle the the sort of uh bigger earner handle the the sort of uh bigger earner players, you know, that cuz he's a sort players, you know, that cuz he's a sort of quite a holistic guy, you know? I of quite a holistic guy, you know? I think he's quite a charismatic, nice think he's quite a charismatic, nice person. Um in these bigger dressing person. Um in these bigger dressing rooms, you get less nice people rooms, you get less nice people sometimes. So, how how will he handle sometimes. So, how how will he handle that? Um and also is a very methodical that? Um and also is a very methodical tactician in my opinion. someone that tactician in my opinion. someone that has really thrived on having a whole has really thrived on having a whole week to prepare against teams that have week to prepare against teams that have had European football. Uh and he's got a had European football. Uh and he's got a very good record in those big games. Um very good record in those big games. Um he's obviously then going to he's going he's obviously then going to he's going to have quick turnarounds, two three to have quick turnarounds, two three days to get those game plans right and days to get those game plans right and that's something he's just not used to. that's something he's just not used to. So there's a couple of question marks, So there's a couple of question marks, but he definitely deserves a shot at a but he definitely deserves a shot at a bigger club and you know in the bigger club and you know in the Champions League, you know, it's really Champions League, you know, it's really exciting and look the only way up surely exciting and look the only way up surely can't finish 17th again, can they? So I can't finish 17th again, can they? So I think it's a good time to take over think it's a good time to take over Tottenham. Okay, cut and clip that. Uh, Tottenham. Okay, cut and clip that. Uh, producer Charlie producer Charlie producer Charlie Date marked June the 9th, 2025. Date marked June the 9th, 2025. Uh, Seb, you've seen a lot of Spurs in Uh, Seb, you've seen a lot of Spurs in your time. Thumbs up or thumbs down on your time. Thumbs up or thumbs down on this? The decision to sack an decision this? The decision to sack an decision if if so it proves to go with Thomas if if so it proves to go with Thomas Frank. I've got some thumbs up with Frank. I've got some thumbs up with conditions. I the only thing I've got to conditions. I the only thing I've got to add to what Jay and Aid said is that I add to what Jay and Aid said is that I do hope that Spurs know what they're do hope that Spurs know what they're appointing or at least understand why appointing or at least understand why it's worked so well at Brenford because it's worked so well at Brenford because I think when you when you when you talk I think when you when you when you talk about Brenford, you think of probably about Brenford, you think of probably one of the smartest football clubs in one of the smartest football clubs in Europe in terms of its ability to use Europe in terms of its ability to use its resources well. I don't think you its resources well. I don't think you say the same thing about Tottenham. And say the same thing about Tottenham. And so, you know, the evaluation is not just so, you know, the evaluation is not just is Thomas Thomas Frank uh a good coach, is Thomas Thomas Frank uh a good coach, is he an adaptable coach, does he work is he an adaptable coach, does he work well with players, and can he make the well with players, and can he make the most of what resources he has? Clearly, most of what resources he has? Clearly, the answer to all of those questions is the answer to all of those questions is yes. It's can Spurs replicate that at a yes. It's can Spurs replicate that at a higher scale. That's the question I higher scale. That's the question I have. And so, if they are, then have. And so, if they are, then absolutely a thumbs up. But if they're absolutely a thumbs up. But if they're not, it's just um and Jay and I were on not, it's just um and Jay and I were on another podcast saying exact same thing another podcast saying exact same thing earlier. It's just another one Ramos if earlier. It's just another one Ramos if they can't. Um, so let's see. What's the they can't. Um, so let's see. What's the big difference at Spurs then to Brenford big difference at Spurs then to Brenford in terms of how that's going to impact in terms of how that's going to impact on Thomas Frank's work? I would say on Thomas Frank's work? I would say executive alignment. So everybody executive alignment. So everybody pulling in the same direction, everybody pulling in the same direction, everybody understanding what their role is within understanding what their role is within the system. Also, appointments making the system. Also, appointments making sense in terms of who is in control of sense in terms of who is in control of other departments. So for instance, um, other departments. So for instance, um, at Spurs sporting director Yan Lang um, at Spurs sporting director Yan Lang um, Shaw very data person. We've seen that Shaw very data person. We've seen that with some of his signings before. very with some of his signings before. very low noise person as well. Um doesn't, low noise person as well. Um doesn't, you know, doesn't celebrate his own job you know, doesn't celebrate his own job performance in the way that other people performance in the way that other people in that job can. Um but then of course in that job can. Um but then of course on top of him, um having seen Scott Mun on top of him, um having seen Scott Mun leave the club earlier this summer, leave the club earlier this summer, couple last week even, um Fabio Parathy couple last week even, um Fabio Parathy is supposedly coming back. Parati is not is supposedly coming back. Parati is not a data guy. Parati is a relationships, a data guy. Parati is a relationships, connections, deals guy. So, connections, deals guy. So, how do you reconcile that coach with how do you reconcile that coach with that sort of ideological direction? that sort of ideological direction? Maybe it works perfectly, but that would Maybe it works perfectly, but that would be a concern that I have. Broadly be a concern that I have. Broadly though, this does sound like good news though, this does sound like good news for Spurs after what Michael Cox for Spurs after what Michael Cox described as the worst managerial described as the worst managerial performance of all time in the Premier performance of all time in the Premier League, finishing 17th by a manager League, finishing 17th by a manager who'd been in charge for a full season who'd been in charge for a full season to bring in one of the brightest to bring in one of the brightest prospects certainly in this league. prospects certainly in this league. Yeah, I'm just going to follow up on Yeah, I'm just going to follow up on something. Um Seb said about like something. Um Seb said about like executive alignment. Thomas Frank's been executive alignment. Thomas Frank's been at Brenford for 9 years nearly. Um two at Brenford for 9 years nearly. Um two as an assistant coach to Dean Smith um as an assistant coach to Dean Smith um and then nearly seven as his head coach. and then nearly seven as his head coach. So he's had the same people working So he's had the same people working above him for pretty much all of that above him for pretty much all of that time. Phil Jiles the director of time. Phil Jiles the director of football, Matthew Benham the owner and football, Matthew Benham the owner and they all get on extremely well. And I they all get on extremely well. And I did a piece to celebrate Phil Jars's did a piece to celebrate Phil Jars's 10th anniversary at Brenford last month. 10th anniversary at Brenford last month. And a lot of people spoke about how he's And a lot of people spoke about how he's very good at separating his feelings or very good at separating his feelings or the emotional aspect of football from the emotional aspect of football from what the the stats and what the facts what the the stats and what the facts are telling you. And a perfect example are telling you. And a perfect example of that is I think it was in 2015 of that is I think it was in 2015 Brenford hired someone called Marinus Brenford hired someone called Marinus Dhousen and it went terribly wrong. Dhousen and it went terribly wrong. Hired him in June and he was sacked by Hired him in June and he was sacked by September because what they were seeing September because what they were seeing on the training ground and the on the training ground and the underlying numbers was awful. Thomas underlying numbers was awful. Thomas Frank loses eight of his first 10 games Frank loses eight of his first 10 games as Brenford head coach. Many other clubs as Brenford head coach. Many other clubs would have pulled the plug, but um they would have pulled the plug, but um they saw that the underlying data was good. saw that the underlying data was good. They knew that the squad had a really They knew that the squad had a really good relationship with Thomas Frank and good relationship with Thomas Frank and they kept him. If Thomas Frank loses they kept him. If Thomas Frank loses eight of his first 10 games at Spurs, he eight of his first 10 games at Spurs, he won't last long. Um he also didn't win won't last long. Um he also didn't win any of his first eight games when he was any of his first eight games when he was in charge of Brundy. Um, so he's doesn't in charge of Brundy. Um, so he's doesn't always get off to the the best possible always get off to the the best possible start and because of the sort of start and because of the sort of difficult emotions involved in sacking difficult emotions involved in sacking Costa Kogu, he he really needs a a quick Costa Kogu, he he really needs a a quick start to get the Spurs fan base on side start to get the Spurs fan base on side as as quickly as possible. So, it's um a as as quickly as possible. So, it's um a very tricky situation that he's going to very tricky situation that he's going to have to navigate. And then what Adrian have to navigate. And then what Adrian said about said about said about um the step up in the Champions League um the step up in the Champions League playing twice a week. I think Brenford playing twice a week. I think Brenford played maybe 42 games last season and played maybe 42 games last season and Spurs were on 60. So, it's a massive Spurs were on 60. So, it's a massive step up in in terms of demands. And step up in in terms of demands. And people will hear all the time now um one people will hear all the time now um one of Thomas Frank's favorite phrases, of Thomas Frank's favorite phrases, which is um the 24-hour rule. So, which is um the 24-hour rule. So, whether Brenford win or lose, they have whether Brenford win or lose, they have 24 hours to process their emotions and 24 hours to process their emotions and their feelings after a game. And I just their feelings after a game. And I just think I don't know if you can do that if think I don't know if you can do that if you're playing on a a Sunday um against you're playing on a a Sunday um against Liverpool for example at half four and Liverpool for example at half four and you've got an away game in the Champions you've got an away game in the Champions League on Wednesday. As much as I love League on Wednesday. As much as I love that idea, I just don't think it will that idea, I just don't think it will will work in principle. And and sorry to will work in principle. And and sorry to keep rambling on, but I think one of the keep rambling on, but I think one of the really good things Frank did at Brenford really good things Frank did at Brenford was he sort of weaponized this idea that was he sort of weaponized this idea that they were an underdog. You know, he they were an underdog. You know, he spoke about they didn't have they had a spoke about they didn't have they had a no policy. Um he always told no policy. Um he always told the the squad to be confident but humble the the squad to be confident but humble and I think that was reflected in the and I think that was reflected in the players that they were signing. They players that they were signing. They were signing players who are undervalued were signing players who are undervalued by other teams or not wanted by other by other teams or not wanted by other teams and they were sort of all growing teams and they were sort of all growing organically on this magical journey. organically on this magical journey. It's very different at Spurs. You're It's very different at Spurs. You're going to go Are you saying there are going to go Are you saying there are at Spurs? No, I'm not saying at Spurs? No, I'm not saying that. I'm saying there's I'm not saying that. I'm saying there's a completely different pressure at a completely different pressure at Spurs. If I if they lose five of his Spurs. If I if they lose five of his first 10 games, he can't really turn first 10 games, he can't really turn around and say, "Oh, you know, this is a around and say, "Oh, you know, this is a bit of a journey." People are going to bit of a journey." People are going to want to see progress immediately and want to see progress immediately and expect that. And how he deals with that expect that. And how he deals with that will be very intriguing. I think one of will be very intriguing. I think one of my hopes is that the club have all the my hopes is that the club have all the intelligence to recognize what Jay has intelligence to recognize what Jay has just said and that the situation he's just said and that the situation he's inheriting is quite difficult. inheriting is quite difficult. Emotionally, a lot of people are going Emotionally, a lot of people are going to be with Postto and are going to are to be with Postto and are going to hold on to that for a while. going to hold on to that for a while. Um, and so that means that he's got to Um, and so that means that he's got to be given enough time to prepare his team be given enough time to prepare his team for for the new season. You can't have a for for the new season. You can't have a situation where the club are trying to situation where the club are trying to do decisive business in the last, you do decisive business in the last, you know, in in August. You've got to know, in in August. You've got to recognize that he's someone that needs recognize that he's someone that needs preparation time. He's someone that's preparation time. He's someone that's going to need a lot of players to be going to need a lot of players to be able to kind of produce his best to able to kind of produce his best to replicate the kind of the time on the replicate the kind of the time on the training ground that he had at Brenford training ground that he had at Brenford when you're still on a Champions League when you're still on a Champions League schedule. and you've got to give him a schedule. and you've got to give him a chance to kind of compete with that that chance to kind of compete with that that an hangover for one of a better an hangover for one of a better expression. Um you've got to be fair to expression. Um you've got to be fair to him because at the moment Tom in a kind him because at the moment Tom in a kind of situation where it's almost like when of situation where it's almost like when Chelsea managers used to fail, it didn't Chelsea managers used to fail, it didn't really reflect on them. Um you can have really reflect on them. Um you can have that argument at Postogly if you like, that argument at Postogly if you like, but there's certainly um there's but there's certainly um there's certainly mitigation for some of the certainly mitigation for some of the things that happened in terms of the way things that happened in terms of the way that squad was equipped last year. um that squad was equipped last year. um not saying that he's not complicit in not saying that he's not complicit in the injuries and all that kind of stuff, the injuries and all that kind of stuff, but clearly um one of the kind of the but clearly um one of the kind of the threads that binds all of these threads that binds all of these Tottenham coaches and their success and Tottenham coaches and their success and failure is were they supported in the failure is were they supported in the right way and the answer has been no on right way and the answer has been no on quite a few occasions. So that has to be quite a few occasions. So that has to be rectified too and it's not just about rectified too and it's not just about changing a coach and think it's all changing a coach and think it's all going to go better cuz it it won't be going to go better cuz it it won't be like that. So Jay Brian Burma wants to like that. So Jay Brian Burma wants to leave Brenford and go to Man United but leave Brenford and go to Man United but Man United so far haven't got enough Man United so far haven't got enough money to make that happen. Is is this money to make that happen. Is is this situation impacted by the fact that situation impacted by the fact that Bruno Fernandez hasn't gone to Saudi Bruno Fernandez hasn't gone to Saudi Arabia? So, is that limited United's Arabia? So, is that limited United's means? I don't think so. Um I think they means? I don't think so. Um I think they were they've liked for a long time. were they've liked for a long time. Anyways, um firstly, this is sort of bad Anyways, um firstly, this is sort of bad timing for Brenford really, isn't it? timing for Brenford really, isn't it? You know, this at the start of they've You know, this at the start of they've had a mental two weeks at the start of had a mental two weeks at the start of this window when you think about it. this window when you think about it. Their first choice goalkeeper Mark Their first choice goalkeeper Mark Fleen's already moved to buy Leverkusen Fleen's already moved to buy Leverkusen and they've signed Kavine Keller from and they've signed Kavine Keller from Liverpool. um their best player last Liverpool. um their best player last season and someone who's been uh you season and someone who's been uh you know an incredible player for the last know an incredible player for the last six years and Brian Bumo wants to leave six years and Brian Bumo wants to leave um and is probably going to go to um and is probably going to go to Manchester United and their head coach Manchester United and their head coach is being poached. So it's probably I'm is being poached. So it's probably I'm glad I'm not their director of football glad I'm not their director of football at this point in time cuz it's probably at this point in time cuz it's probably a bit relentless. I think um Brenford a bit relentless. I think um Brenford are well within their rights to hold out are well within their rights to hold out for as much money as possible with the for as much money as possible with the Bumo. Um he's got a year left on his Bumo. Um he's got a year left on his contract, but there's a 12- month contract, but there's a 12- month option, so he's basically got two years option, so he's basically got two years left. They've they've got control over left. They've they've got control over that. Um he's just scored 20 goals in that. Um he's just scored 20 goals in the Premier League. The season before, the Premier League. The season before, uh I think he got 11 goals in the uh I think he got 11 goals in the league, but he was out injured with um league, but he was out injured with um ankle ligament damage for three months, ankle ligament damage for three months, but otherwise his trajectory was he was but otherwise his trajectory was he was going to finish the season really going to finish the season really strongly then as well. So he got an strongly then as well. So he got an incredible performer, goalcorer, who can incredible performer, goalcorer, who can play in multiple positions. He can play play in multiple positions. He can play centrally, he can play on the right centrally, he can play on the right wing. I've even seen him as a a right wing. I've even seen him as a a right wing back, which does make me slightly wing back, which does make me slightly worried Man United will turn him into an worried Man United will turn him into an auxiliary right wing back. Um, so I auxiliary right wing back. Um, so I think Brenford, yeah, they they have to think Brenford, yeah, they they have to demand a club record sale. Um, is there demand a club record sale. Um, is there any way that a Thomas Frank le Spurs any way that a Thomas Frank le Spurs could maybe step I'm not totally could maybe step I'm not totally convinced by that. Um, I also think to convinced by that. Um, I also think to to give you all a little bit of to give you all a little bit of background, Thomas Rank will inherit background, Thomas Rank will inherit Brennan Johnson at Spurs and Thomas Rank Brennan Johnson at Spurs and Thomas Rank really likes Brennan Johnson, tried to really likes Brennan Johnson, tried to sign him at Brenford on on quite a few sign him at Brenford on on quite a few occasions. Um, and I do wonder if he'll occasions. Um, and I do wonder if he'll quite enjoy working with Brennan Johnson quite enjoy working with Brennan Johnson as on the right wing. And I think as on the right wing. And I think bringing in Brema would just sort of bringing in Brema would just sort of muddy the waters a little bit and it'd muddy the waters a little bit and it'd be a little bit confusing. Look, I'm be a little bit confusing. Look, I'm sure he wouldn't turn it down. Um, but sure he wouldn't turn it down. Um, but he's also knows that he's he's getting he's also knows that he's he's getting someone in Brennan Johnson that he likes someone in Brennan Johnson that he likes and he values. Anyways, is it is he a and he values. Anyways, is it is he a good fit for Manchester United system good fit for Manchester United system because we know that's not changing. You because we know that's not changing. You see, I I like Kuna as a fit because all see, I I like Kuna as a fit because all of his best work I mean I've heard Manu of his best work I mean I've heard Manu fans saying Kuna is going to play up fans saying Kuna is going to play up front. For me, no, he he does all of his front. For me, no, he he does all of his best work as a left 10. If you look at best work as a left 10. If you look at everything he did for Wolves is when he everything he did for Wolves is when he played in a left number 10 position. played in a left number 10 position. He's a perfect fit there for me. I don't He's a perfect fit there for me. I don't like his attitude. I think they might like his attitude. I think they might have made a mistake um on that, but have made a mistake um on that, but stylistically he's a great fit. And stylistically he's a great fit. And Burma, I don't know because that right Burma, I don't know because that right side side side number 10, that's not really him. He number 10, that's not really him. He likes to fly down, you know, from wider likes to fly down, you know, from wider areas or, you know, drive him from wider areas or, you know, drive him from wider and and that's not really where Amarim and and that's not really where Amarim uses that player. For me, Ahmed Dio is uses that player. For me, Ahmed Dio is the perfect guy to play as the right the perfect guy to play as the right side number 10, not Brian and Burma. you side number 10, not Brian and Burma. you know, if they're looking at him as the know, if they're looking at him as the striker, then that's a risk because he striker, then that's a risk because he hasn't really played that many games as hasn't really played that many games as a lone striker. You often as a two with a lone striker. You often as a two with Yan Whistler. So, um I don't see it as a Yan Whistler. So, um I don't see it as a natural fit. I really don't. Um I think natural fit. I really don't. Um I think there are other clubs there are other clubs out there that would be miles better for out there that would be miles better for Brian and Bremo, but you know, it's up Brian and Bremo, but you know, it's up to him. He's obviously been seduced, to him. He's obviously been seduced, maybe. So, Adrian, what what do you make maybe. So, Adrian, what what do you make of the other moves going on? for of the other moves going on? for example, Chelsea, who have now confirmed example, Chelsea, who have now confirmed Lim Dilap joining them as their new Lim Dilap joining them as their new number nine. number nine. number nine. I really like Liam Dilap and he he kind I really like Liam Dilap and he he kind of suits Chelsea's model or the model of suits Chelsea's model or the model that they've had when they've had that they've had when they've had successful teams of having a sort of successful teams of having a sort of strong number nine, but but I don't in strong number nine, but but I don't in the here and now the here and now I don't think Nicholas Jackson is as bad I don't think Nicholas Jackson is as bad as some people kind of paint him out to as some people kind of paint him out to be. Like I think he can he might start be. Like I think he can he might start as number two behind Nicholas Jackson. as number two behind Nicholas Jackson. And I think that's that's up for debate And I think that's that's up for debate basically, you know, cuz he's a good basically, you know, cuz he's a good player, Liam Dap. He carries the ball player, Liam Dap. He carries the ball beautifully. He can finish. He can score beautifully. He can finish. He can score different types of goals, but it's a different types of goals, but it's a heck of a step up, isn't it, to be heck of a step up, isn't it, to be Chelsea's first choice center forward. Chelsea's first choice center forward. And and for me, Nicholas Jackson really And and for me, Nicholas Jackson really stretched opponents fantastically. And stretched opponents fantastically. And yeah, his finish is really erratic, but yeah, his finish is really erratic, but but Jackson's linkup play with Palmer is but Jackson's linkup play with Palmer is actually pretty good. So, I think that actually pretty good. So, I think that those two will just have competition. those two will just have competition. And that and that's really good for And that and that's really good for Chelsea. I think what's really Chelsea. I think what's really interesting is that Moresque is interesting is that Moresque is basically hoovering up all the players basically hoovering up all the players he wor with at Manchester City. Um you he wor with at Manchester City. Um you know cuz he didn't he work with I think know cuz he didn't he work with I think he wor with Palmer at Manchester City. he wor with Palmer at Manchester City. Um Lavia Palmer and Dap played Dap was Um Lavia Palmer and Dap played Dap was there wasn't Yeah. And and then there's there wasn't Yeah. And and then there's talk of Jamie Gittens coming in the guy talk of Jamie Gittens coming in the guy from Dortmund. So you know this I think from Dortmund. So you know this I think that's is Seb is that agreed now? that's is Seb is that agreed now? Yeah, the there's an agreement between Yeah, the there's an agreement between the player and Chelsea, but there's no the player and Chelsea, but there's no agreement between Chelsea and Dortmund agreement between Chelsea and Dortmund as of yet. I think I think that happens. as of yet. I think I think that happens. I think that happens, but there's still I think that happens, but there's still a little bit of way to go. Um hope that a little bit of way to go. Um hope that maybe he um he joins he joins Chelsea maybe he um he joins he joins Chelsea for the Club World Cup, but um yeah, for the Club World Cup, but um yeah, we'll see. Still still a bit bit of a we'll see. Still still a bit bit of a grin to do. Isn't it quite funny how grin to do. Isn't it quite funny how that 15 years ago it was considered that 15 years ago it was considered tapping up and now it's just part of the tapping up and now it's just part of the course like everybody does it. like we course like everybody does it. like we don't even consider it tapping up don't even consider it tapping up anymore. But back in the day, that's anymore. But back in the day, that's exactly what it was. Yeah. I think I exactly what it was. Yeah. I think I think it's kind of a way of reducing think it's kind of a way of reducing time wasting if you can't if you're not time wasting if you can't if you're not going to be able to make an agreement going to be able to make an agreement with the player. Don't even bother. And with the player. Don't even bother. And I think it's a way of moving through the I think it's a way of moving through the market a little bit more efficiently so market a little bit more efficiently so that you can um so you know what's that you can um so you know what's available, so you know what's realistic, available, so you know what's realistic, so you can just go and do it. But I so you can just go and do it. But I think he's um I think he's a wonderful think he's um I think he's a wonderful player. Like I know Jamie Gittens had um player. Like I know Jamie Gittens had um bit of a tough time in the second half bit of a tough time in the second half of the season in the Bundesliga, but he of the season in the Bundesliga, but he he was asked to be a first team regular he was asked to be a first team regular for the first time in his career. for the first time in his career. Suffered a little bit with the kind of Suffered a little bit with the kind of the physical requirement of having to the physical requirement of having to play Bundesliga Champions League and be play Bundesliga Champions League and be kind of the focus of Dortmund's attack kind of the focus of Dortmund's attack and the focus of an attack within a team and the focus of an attack within a team that wasn't particularly stable under that wasn't particularly stable under Nuros Shaheen. And then or when Nuros Shaheen. And then or when Nikkovich comes in in February, he's not Nikkovich comes in in February, he's not really in the best place physically. his really in the best place physically. his confidence has been dented and also confidence has been dented and also Carvaj prefers a sort of slightly more Carvaj prefers a sort of slightly more centerbased running player um in Adi Ya centerbased running player um in Adi Ya and wanted a player who was a kind of a and wanted a player who was a kind of a slightly different stage of his slightly different stage of his development because the situation was so development because the situation was so dire at the club um and yeah he was kind dire at the club um and yeah he was kind of a bit of a man at a time but I none of a bit of a man at a time but I none of that should distract from um just how of that should distract from um just how talented he is just such a direct talented he is just such a direct attacking player is he a better player attacking player is he a better player than Noni Madoke um said because I I got than Noni Madoke um said because I I got I got to be honest I'm I'm I'm not a MK I got to be honest I'm I'm I'm not a MK fan. Um I Well, I I I like I like him a fan. Um I Well, I I I like I like him a little a little bit, but I Yeah, he did. little a little bit, but I Yeah, he did. I mean, I I think there's more to Jamie I mean, I I think there's more to Jamie Gitton's game. I think you can beat a Gitton's game. I think you can beat a defender off the left and right foot. I defender off the left and right foot. I think um I think the release of his think um I think the release of his shots is quicker. I think there's a shots is quicker. I think there's a great amount of power that you can great amount of power that you can generate in shoot in in in small spaces generate in shoot in in in small spaces in the penalty box. I think as a kind of in the penalty box. I think as a kind of a a left to right touchline to penalty a a left to right touchline to penalty box player, he's incredibly dangerous box player, he's incredibly dangerous when he's um when he's confident. Only when he's um when he's confident. Only caveat, he needs the right player behind caveat, he needs the right player behind him. Um because he's not a defensive him. Um because he's not a defensive player yet. He hasn't built that side of player yet. He hasn't built that side of his game. So he needs to be supported in his game. So he needs to be supported in a way that he probably wasn't at a way that he probably wasn't at Dortmund last season. So um you know, Dortmund last season. So um you know, there's potential to tap, but he's uh there's potential to tap, but he's uh he's very very exciting, very talented. he's very very exciting, very talented. H Chelsea also look like they're H Chelsea also look like they're bringing in Mike Man according to uh bringing in Mike Man according to uh sources in Italy who's a terrific sources in Italy who's a terrific goalkeeper and quite possibly an upgrade goalkeeper and quite possibly an upgrade on their current situation between not on their current situation between not quite possibly also heading out quite possibly also heading out definitely an upgrade also heading out definitely an upgrade also heading out of San Djani reindeers who's going to of San Djani reindeers who's going to Man City who've been pretty busy Man City who've been pretty busy Ron Nori heading in from Wolves Ryan Ron Nori heading in from Wolves Ryan Chery perhaps most excitingly we didn't Chery perhaps most excitingly we didn't really talk about what he did for France really talk about what he did for France in that extraordinary semi-final with in that extraordinary semi-final with Spain of the Nations League when Spain Spain of the Nations League when Spain were what 4-0 up when he came on 4-1. were what 4-0 up when he came on 4-1. magical player and uh extraordinary magical player and uh extraordinary performance when he sort of strolled on performance when he sort of strolled on thought well they're having a kick thought well they're having a kick around I'll join in three goals later around I'll join in three goals later not all of them scored by him but he not all of them scored by him but he certainly played a part anyway I guess certainly played a part anyway I guess the the worry with this is given how Pep the the worry with this is given how Pep stroke Man City have affected this kind stroke Man City have affected this kind of freewheing talent in the past what do of freewheing talent in the past what do you make this question actually Andrew you make this question actually Andrew Turmer asks how will Pep handle a team Turmer asks how will Pep handle a team full of soloists after his grid full of soloists after his grid experience Turkey, Dou, Marmuse, Svenia, experience Turkey, Dou, Marmuse, Svenia, Renders, and Harland. All very fun, but Renders, and Harland. All very fun, but offer nothing without the ball. offer nothing without the ball. Don't agree with that. No, I think it's Don't agree with that. No, I think it's a bit harsh. I think certainly on Mish, a bit harsh. I think certainly on Mish, I think that's very very harsh on Mish. I think that's very very harsh on Mish. I think he's he is a fun player, but I think he's he is a fun player, but he's also he's become a very hardworking he's also he's become a very hardworking uh talented player in both directions. uh talented player in both directions. What about the pep impact on their their What about the pep impact on their their playing style? Yeah, there's that habit playing style? Yeah, there's that habit of kind of soaring off all the kind of of kind of soaring off all the kind of the fun frilly bits. Um, but I don't the fun frilly bits. Um, but I don't necessarily think that kind of Guill necessarily think that kind of Guill should be the model for for what happens should be the model for for what happens with Ryan Shery. I think um there are with Ryan Shery. I think um there are other factors there. I think there's a other factors there. I think there's a little bit of a personality issue little bit of a personality issue clearly. Um, and I don't know. I think clearly. Um, and I don't know. I think it can go the other way too. I think you it can go the other way too. I think you can kind of distill all of that essence can kind of distill all of that essence into a really really uh fun, attractive into a really really uh fun, attractive player. I mean, look at what he did with player. I mean, look at what he did with Bernardo Silva. David Silva played some Bernardo Silva. David Silva played some wonderful football under under Guardiola wonderful football under under Guardiola too before he left. Um, so could go one too before he left. Um, so could go one with the other. I mean I there there's a with the other. I mean I there there's a there is a slight cultural um jarring to there is a slight cultural um jarring to it cuz you kind of want to see Sheri it cuz you kind of want to see Sheri play in like a very very flawed team play in like a very very flawed team where he's the sort of the regal like where he's the sort of the regal like genius in the middle of it who just genius in the middle of it who just walks around the pitch and does whatever walks around the pitch and does whatever he wants with the ball but no he's um he wants with the ball but no he's um he's going to Manchester City for a he's going to Manchester City for a reason I'm sure. Oh he's a brilliant reason I'm sure. Oh he's a brilliant play to watch. What I love what I love play to watch. What I love what I love about him James is he plays with about him James is he plays with personality like he plays with real he's personality like he plays with real he's an individual isn't he? He he would just an individual isn't he? He he would just be free and do what he wants to do when be free and do what he wants to do when the ball is with him. Will he though? the ball is with him. Will he though? Well, this is the issue I have with Well, this is the issue I have with anyone that Pepsign that's an attacker anyone that Pepsign that's an attacker because he's such um so intense in terms because he's such um so intense in terms of what he requires from the players of what he requires from the players positionally. He fills them with so much positionally. He fills them with so much information. Now, some players can information. Now, some players can handle that and still be free and and go handle that and still be free and and go and do their thing. I'd say that Dou and and do their thing. I'd say that Dou and Marmush are two good examples of that. Marmush are two good examples of that. But there are certain players that that But there are certain players that that it becomes it overloads them and they it becomes it overloads them and they they suddenly feel that they can't play they suddenly feel that they can't play with the same freedom as before. So with the same freedom as before. So that's the only sort of question mark that's the only sort of question mark I'd have over it. I mean talent-wise I'd have over it. I mean talent-wise he's definitely good enough Cherokee to he's definitely good enough Cherokee to to thrive um for City. Um is he robust to thrive um for City. Um is he robust enough for the Premier League? Probably. enough for the Premier League? Probably. Um but that that some people would have Um but that that some people would have it down as as a minor question mark as it down as as a minor question mark as well. But it's a really exciting well. But it's a really exciting signing. An absolute bargain fee by the signing. An absolute bargain fee by the way. Um I know that Leon is sort of way. Um I know that Leon is sort of having to offload, but City are getting having to offload, but City are getting a very clear run at a player of immense a very clear run at a player of immense talent for for very little money. I talent for for very little money. I think this this could be an amazing think this this could be an amazing signing. It's one of those anomalies, signing. It's one of those anomalies, isn't it? Because it was almost to the isn't it? Because it was almost to the point where he was available for so point where he was available for so little money that you thought something little money that you thought something must be wrong with him. Cuz I remember must be wrong with him. Cuz I remember Dortmund tried to sign him in January Dortmund tried to sign him in January and that went right to the end of the and that went right to the end of the window. Dortund quite confident. John window. Dortund quite confident. John Texta went on French TV and said, "Ah, Texta went on French TV and said, "Ah, he's not going to Dormund." And it was he's not going to Dormund." And it was kind of I think Dormund had assumed kind of I think Dormund had assumed there was a some kind of not there was a some kind of not necessarily release clause, but some necessarily release clause, but some kind of mechanism in that contract that kind of mechanism in that contract that Texa said, "No." Um, I'm not sure of the Texa said, "No." Um, I'm not sure of the ins and outs of that situation, but it ins and outs of that situation, but it seemed like something has happened in seemed like something has happened in the space of a couple of months where the space of a couple of months where people have either been convinced or, people have either been convinced or, you know, the trajectory of his career you know, the trajectory of his career has completely changed. Interesting. has completely changed. Interesting. Sounds a very exciting prospect for Sounds a very exciting prospect for Liverpool fans. Man City we hear beefing Liverpool fans. Man City we hear beefing up their lineup ahead of the next run at up their lineup ahead of the next run at the title. Other teams going to be the title. Other teams going to be facing a bit of competition. Hey Adrian. facing a bit of competition. Hey Adrian. Anyway, we'll move on. 10th of June Anyway, we'll move on. 10th of June quite possibly as you hear this listener quite possibly as you hear this listener on this day in which case in 1984 what on this day in which case in 1984 what happened Adrian? Oh John Barnes 2. Yeah happened Adrian? Oh John Barnes 2. Yeah he scored a phenomenal solo goal at the he scored a phenomenal solo goal at the American I think over 100,000. Do you American I think over 100,000. Do you remember watching that? Well, I think I remember watching that? Well, I think I woke up the next morning. I don't think woke up the next morning. I don't think I watched at the time. I was quite young I watched at the time. I was quite young at the time, but I do remember it being at the time, but I do remember it being played over and over and over again on played over and over and over again on TV. And it was as a winger, and I I was TV. And it was as a winger, and I I was a winger back in the day, it was like, a winger back in the day, it was like, whoa, okay, an English winger can score whoa, okay, an English winger can score this kind of goal against the mighty this kind of goal against the mighty Brazil in Brazil. That that's what made Brazil in Brazil. That that's what made it so special when you look at it. I it so special when you look at it. I would advise anyone young enough not to would advise anyone young enough not to know what we're talking about here to know what we're talking about here to look on YouTube. Look at the pitch. Look look on YouTube. Look at the pitch. The grass is long. It's at the pitch. The grass is long. It's it's proper bobbly and he just glides it's proper bobbly and he just glides past three, four, five players, past three, four, five players, including the goalkeeper and and just including the goalkeeper and and just knocks it into the goal. It's it's a knocks it into the goal. It's it's a thing of beauty. So, yeah, one of one of thing of beauty. So, yeah, one of one of England national teams greatest ever England national teams greatest ever goals. No doubt about that. Yeah, Mark goals. No doubt about that. Yeah, Mark Hatley scored the other in his game, but Hatley scored the other in his game, but no one ever talks about that one. Uh, no one ever talks about that one. Uh, moving on. On the 10th of June, 1997, do moving on. On the 10th of June, 1997, do you know what happened? Jay you know what happened? Jay Torno. Torno. Torno. Yes. It was the last time that England Yes. It was the last time that England won a trophy. Lornoir won a trophy. Lornoir ahead of the 1998 World Cup in France. ahead of the 1998 World Cup in France. This dress rehearsal a year before This dress rehearsal a year before featured England and Brazil and France. featured England and Brazil and France. Who was the other team? Italy. Italy. Who was the other team? Italy. Italy. Italy. Of course, Roberto Cara scored Italy. Of course, Roberto Cara scored that free kick. and England lifted the that free kick. and England lifted the trophy. It was a magnificent trophy as trophy. It was a magnificent trophy as well. It was a kind of black and white well. It was a kind of black and white ball on a bit of wood, wasn't it? Or something like Yeah, I wasn't it? Or something like Yeah, I suppose. Yeah, very much. And by the suppose. Yeah, very much. And by the way, we didn't talk about it earlier, way, we didn't talk about it earlier, but look at what it meant to the players but look at what it meant to the players to win the Nations League. Like, it it to win the Nations League. Like, it it took me back a little bit. I was like, took me back a little bit. I was like, whoa, that these guys, this means whoa, that these guys, this means something huge to them. And I think something huge to them. And I think maybe we as English people maybe need to maybe we as English people maybe need to start embracing, you know, this start embracing, you know, this competition and seeing it as a little competition and seeing it as a little bit more important because to the rest bit more important because to the rest of Europe, it it seems to matter of Europe, it it seems to matter massively. You know, you're representing massively. You know, you're representing your country. I feel if England had made your country. I feel if England had made the last four, had made the semi-finals, the last four, had made the semi-finals, it would have suddenly become very very it would have suddenly become very very Yeah. important. July the 19th, 2026, Yeah. important. July the 19th, 2026, could England be lifting something could England be lifting something pretty special that day? What do you pretty special that day? What do you think? We've seen a third match. This think? We've seen a third match. This was last week, Saturday, was it not? A was last week, Saturday, was it not? A third match under Thomas Tukul endura third match under Thomas Tukul endura with the opponents 1-0il the score line. with the opponents 1-0il the score line. You'll have seen this perhaps listener You'll have seen this perhaps listener if you were had nothing better to do. if you were had nothing better to do. Some pretty pretty damning appraisals of Some pretty pretty damning appraisals of England's performance, not least from England's performance, not least from manager Thomas Tukul himself. manager Thomas Tukul himself. But next up on Tuesday, there's a But next up on Tuesday, there's a friendly with Sagal at the City Ground friendly with Sagal at the City Ground in Nottingham. in Nottingham. in Nottingham. Adrian, what was your take? I'm going to Adrian, what was your take? I'm going to the game against center goal, so I'm the game against center goal, so I'm looking forward to that. Are you? Um, looking forward to that. Are you? Um, yeah. Um, I don't think I think are yeah. Um, I don't think I think are exciting. They've got your Nicholas exciting. They've got your Nicholas Jackson in there. It will be a better Jackson in there. It will be a better game. It will be a better game because I game. It will be a better game because I think they'll bring they'll bring a think they'll bring they'll bring a little bit of flare. They'll go for it. little bit of flare. They'll go for it. They'll try to score goals and and that They'll try to score goals and and that will probably help England. I don't will probably help England. I don't think we should take too much from the think we should take too much from the Andura game. It's not going to be like Andura game. It's not going to be like anything England experienced at the anything England experienced at the World Cup. But yeah, it was it was World Cup. But yeah, it was it was pretty miserable. It was it was it was pretty miserable. It was it was it was you know slow and and non-inventive. I you know slow and and non-inventive. I think what we saw what we've seen under think what we saw what we've seen under TUCL that from a tactical point of view TUCL that from a tactical point of view that that is interesting is the inverted that that is interesting is the inverted fullbacks. Okay. So he seems really keen fullbacks. Okay. So he seems really keen on that. He did it with Miles Lewis on that. He did it with Miles Lewis Skellyy didn't in the first two games. Skellyy didn't in the first two games. It worked brilliantly here. I had no It worked brilliantly here. I had no problem with him trying it with Curtis problem with him trying it with Curtis Jones who obviously played a big part in Jones who obviously played a big part in the goal. Um so he you know he's looked the goal. Um so he you know he's looked at him in that position. He knows that at him in that position. He knows that Trent Alexander can do that in that Trent Alexander can do that in that position. Um, and and I don't have an position. Um, and and I don't have an issue with the inverted fullback, but issue with the inverted fullback, but what I think England do lack is is what I think England do lack is is someone to fly down the sides and and someone to fly down the sides and and and have that real pace and dynamism and have that real pace and dynamism down the sides. We talked about Nuno down the sides. We talked about Nuno Mendes earlier, Hakeime, guys like this. Mendes earlier, Hakeime, guys like this. They are the kind of players that can They are the kind of players that can stretch and make things happen in in stretch and make things happen in in tight matches. Um I do think that maybe tight matches. Um I do think that maybe this England squad lacks that at the this England squad lacks that at the moment. So yeah, that's where I think a moment. So yeah, that's where I think a Gordon or a Rogers have probably quite Gordon or a Rogers have probably quite an important part to play under TUL an important part to play under TUL because we are going to need pacey because we are going to need pacey players because we haven't got one at players because we haven't got one at striker. So you're going to have to striker. So you're going to have to find, you know, somewhere somewhere else find, you know, somewhere somewhere else in the team to to to burst past people in the team to to to burst past people for for one of a better expression. So for for one of a better expression. So yeah, that's what I think England need yeah, that's what I think England need to work on between now and the World to work on between now and the World Cup. There's a lot to work on, but Cup. There's a lot to work on, but that's that's one aspect for sure. I that's that's one aspect for sure. I think that's one of the interesting think that's one of the interesting aspects of Gon's move to Chelsea, aspects of Gon's move to Chelsea, potential move to Chelsea, because like potential move to Chelsea, because like the absence of that kind of one-on-one the absence of that kind of one-on-one player that just is raw ambition, like player that just is raw ambition, like technical ability, speed, that's kind of technical ability, speed, that's kind of what he represents. And there's a way to what he represents. And there's a way to go. Um, clearly there's some go. Um, clearly there's some development, there's some sort of development, there's some sort of reputation bolstering that needs to reputation bolstering that needs to happen. But you could see a year further happen. But you could see a year further down the track him potentially being down the track him potentially being that kind of player in the England that kind of player in the England setup. I think I could see it. setup. I think I could see it. Jay, what would you like to see happen Jay, what would you like to see happen to England after the Andor game? Well, I to England after the Andor game? Well, I was going to say, is Madek not speedy was going to say, is Madek not speedy and with dynamism? But Adrian, I think and with dynamism? But Adrian, I think I've realized you're not the biggest fan I've realized you're not the biggest fan of him, are you? Well, it's just because of him, are you? Well, it's just because I don't think he's I think he's a little I don't think he's I think he's a little bit greedy and and and like I don't know bit greedy and and and like I don't know about his end product really and and and about his end product really and and and I certainly don't think he works hard I certainly don't think he works hard enough when he doesn't have the ball. enough when he doesn't have the ball. Like it's just just a personal thing. I Like it's just just a personal thing. I just don't really rate him that highly. just don't really rate him that highly. But but I think there are other I would But but I think there are other I would prefer Gordon in that position even prefer Gordon in that position even though he played fine in that game Mad. though he played fine in that game Mad. I prefer Gordon or even a Rogers. I prefer Gordon or even a Rogers. Obviously, you got Saka on the right who Obviously, you got Saka on the right who who will add a bit of that 1 v one who will add a bit of that 1 v one quality, but on the left it's definitely quality, but on the left it's definitely up for grabs. I kind of prefer Madaki up for grabs. I kind of prefer Madaki off the right too. Like uh I feel like off the right too. Like uh I feel like he's a bit better. That's where he plays he's a bit better. That's where he plays for for Chelsea. But um I was just going for for Chelsea. But um I was just going to say I feel like uh it always happens to say I feel like uh it always happens every qualifi qualification campaign. every qualifi qualification campaign. There'll be some result where England There'll be some result where England don't play particularly well. Well, they don't play particularly well. Well, they get hammered by everybody and we have to get hammered by everybody and we have to turn it into a big deal because turn it into a big deal because otherwise there's no jeopardy whatsoever otherwise there's no jeopardy whatsoever in England qualifying campaigns. And I in England qualifying campaigns. And I also think, you know, you look at that also think, you know, you look at that lineup. I didn't watch the game. I've lineup. I didn't watch the game. I've seen the highlights, but a lot of those seen the highlights, but a lot of those players have never played with each players have never played with each other before in that type of system. So, other before in that type of system. So, it's always going to take a a little bit it's always going to take a a little bit of time. Still, I'm quite excited by the of time. Still, I'm quite excited by the attacking talent at Tukul's disposal. It attacking talent at Tukul's disposal. It just needs to work out how what the best just needs to work out how what the best lineup for them is. And and that's sort lineup for them is. And and that's sort of the point of this qual qualifying of the point of this qual qualifying campaign. If this was happening a month campaign. If this was happening a month before the World Cup, I'd be a bit more before the World Cup, I'd be a bit more worried, but it's a year away. So, we worried, but it's a year away. So, we should uh we should stop televising should uh we should stop televising postseason international friendlies. No, postseason international friendlies. No, really, because it would it would save really, because it would it would save us all so much pro so much so much us all so much pro so much so much trouble. You just you just you print the trouble. You just you just you print the print the result on the paper, you know, print the result on the paper, you know, digitally if you want to and then you digitally if you want to and then you just move on. It's done. They won an just move on. It's done. They won an Andor. Every Nobody has to have any any Andor. Every Nobody has to have any any any any conclusions. They don't need to any any conclusions. They don't need to have any opinions about it. It's just have any opinions about it. It's just done. On we go. I think it's an opinion done. On we go. I think it's an opinion that would be really popular in Italy as that would be really popular in Italy as well. Yeah. Okay. State of affairs. All well. Yeah. Okay. State of affairs. All right then. Well, on that note, let's right then. Well, on that note, let's park the England chat. They'll be park the England chat. They'll be playing Sagal Tuesday night. Thursday, playing Sagal Tuesday night. Thursday, we'll be back with another part and we we'll be back with another part and we can have a discussion on what comes out can have a discussion on what comes out of that match and the latest transfer of that match and the latest transfer stories and what's happened with Thomas stories and what's happened with Thomas Frank and all the other things we've Frank and all the other things we've been touching on and loads of new things been touching on and loads of new things as well including as well including this is exciting on Thursday we're going this is exciting on Thursday we're going to be having the draw for this year's to be having the draw for this year's inter totally cup woof inter totally cup woof woof woof woof so plenty to look forward to then do so plenty to look forward to then do hope you'll join us for that listener hope you'll join us for that listener for today as many thanks to James for today as many thanks to James Horncastle to Seb Safabl, Jay Harris, Horncastle to Seb Safabl, Jay Harris, Adrien Clark, and producer Charlie and Adrien Clark, and producer Charlie and also video producer Liam. Remember our also video producer Liam. Remember our show is very much a visual feast as well show is very much a visual feast as well over on our YouTube channel. Uh, and over on our YouTube channel. Uh, and thanks to you listener be back with you thanks to you listener be back with you on Thursday. Hope you join us then. For on Thursday. Hope you join us then. For now, from all of us here, it's goodbye. now, from all of us here, it's goodbye. The Totally Football Show podcast is The Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a week, bringing available three times a week, bringing you all the football news you could you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care about. reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of the best got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around. And the whole football writers around. And the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the all the usual places by clicking on the link below.