================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: Y73yx7762qk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y73yx7762qk
TITLE: Ep 421: Ira Mukhoty's Quest for Unseen Histories
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-06-30
DURATION: 6h 4m 23s
VIEWS: 4,911
LIKES: 80
COMMENTS: 8

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Too much of our history is looked at through either a colonial lens or a patriarchal one. Ira Mukhoty joins Amit Varma in episode 421 of The Seen and the Unseen to share her gaze on India's history, and all that it has taught her.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)   Also check out: 1. Ira Mukhoty on Instagram, Twitter, Goodreads and Amazon.  2. Women in Indian History -- Episode 155 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Ira Mukhoty). 3. The Lion and The Lily: The Rise and Fall of Awadh -- Ira Mukhoty. 4. Akbar: The Great Mughal -- Ira Mukhoty. 5. Song of Draupadi -- Ira Mukhoty. 6. Daughters of the Sun: Empresses, Queens and Begums of the Mughal Empire -- Ira Mukhoty. 7. Heroines: Powerful Indian Women of Myth and History -- Ira Mukhoty. 8. Jahangir the Curious — Episode 147 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Parvati Sharma). 9. The Many Cities of Delhi — Episode 172 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Rana Safvi). 10. Episodes of The Seen and the Unseen with Manu Pillai: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 136,342

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Jorge Luis Bourhees has a short story Jorge Luis Bourhees has a short story about a map of the world which is as big about a map of the world which is as big as a world itself which it has to be in as a world itself which it has to be in order to be accurate even though it's order to be accurate even though it's accurate only for a moment because a accurate only for a moment because a world is constantly changing. There's an world is constantly changing. There's an analog of this in the writing of history analog of this in the writing of history and in the history of writing. The great and in the history of writing. The great Robert Caro began writing a biography of Robert Caro began writing a biography of Lyndon Johnson in the 1970s and he still Lyndon Johnson in the 1970s and he still hasn't finished. Four of the five hasn't finished. Four of the five volumes are out and the fifth is still volumes are out and the fifth is still being written. One of those volumes being written. One of those volumes which deals with Johnson's time in the which deals with Johnson's time in the Senate took care longer to write than Senate took care longer to write than the time Johnson actually spent in the the time Johnson actually spent in the Senate and he spent 12 years. This Senate and he spent 12 years. This sounds excessive but frankly I would say sounds excessive but frankly I would say that it's perhaps not enough. When that it's perhaps not enough. When Johnson spent those 12 years in the Johnson spent those 12 years in the Senate, time moved at his usual Senate, time moved at his usual predictable pace. Things happened to predictable pace. Things happened to him. He lived his one life. But when him. He lived his one life. But when Kero wrote about it, he had to examine Kero wrote about it, he had to examine many lives, go back and forth in time, many lives, go back and forth in time, understand historical currents, understand historical currents, individual motivations of so many people individual motivations of so many people involved, and go deep in a tapestry that involved, and go deep in a tapestry that was basically endless. And still, he was basically endless. And still, he would have missed many things. That's a would have missed many things. That's a strange thing about history. By one strange thing about history. By one definition, history is what happened. By definition, history is what happened. By another, history is a study of what another, history is a study of what happened. That study can never be too happened. That study can never be too deep. There's always more to know. And a deep. There's always more to know. And a good historian can open doors that good historian can open doors that haven't been opened before. That is why haven't been opened before. That is why my guest today is so special. So is this my guest today is so special. So is this episode. I love it. You will too. episode. I love it. You will too. Welcome to the scene and the unseen our Welcome to the scene and the unseen our weekly podcast on economics, politics weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral science. Please welcome and behavioral science. Please welcome your host Amit Ba. your host Amit Ba. Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My guest today is Ira Makotti who's been on guest today is Ira Makotti who's been on this show before talking about her first this show before talking about her first two books, Heroins and Daughters of the two books, Heroins and Daughters of the Sun, but that was many years ago when Sun, but that was many years ago when the show was in an earlier shorter the show was in an earlier shorter format and we've been talking about format and we've been talking about doing another longer life and times kind doing another longer life and times kind of episode. She's written three books of episode. She's written three books since red time. I've come to admire her since red time. I've come to admire her work more and more and we finally work more and more and we finally decided to record this online rather decided to record this online rather than wait for a chance to meet. Now, let than wait for a chance to meet. Now, let me tell you why I both love's work and me tell you why I both love's work and think of it as important. Indian history think of it as important. Indian history has always suffered from the fact that has always suffered from the fact that it has been dominated by particular it has been dominated by particular gazes. There is the colonial gaze that gazes. There is the colonial gaze that the British brought to history which was the British brought to history which was always self-serving, always simplistic, always self-serving, always simplistic, often patronizing. There has been the often patronizing. There has been the patriarchal gaze which bedevils history patriarchal gaze which bedevils history everywhere which only looks at the lives everywhere which only looks at the lives of men and privileges those aspects of of men and privileges those aspects of it like conquest and glory that really it like conquest and glory that really men care about more. Women are men care about more. Women are invisible. Their points of view remain invisible. Their points of view remain unseen. In recent times, there's been unseen. In recent times, there's been push back against both these gazes. And push back against both these gazes. And Ira's work is an outstanding example of Ira's work is an outstanding example of that. All our histories, including that that. All our histories, including that of Akbar, one of the great men in our of Akbar, one of the great men in our history, make the women of the times history, make the women of the times much more visible to us. We see their much more visible to us. We see their lives. We understand the importance. And lives. We understand the importance. And in the hands of a master storyteller in the hands of a master storyteller like they come to life, and we sometimes like they come to life, and we sometimes feel that we are inside their heads. She feel that we are inside their heads. She also busts old school colonial also busts old school colonial narratives time and again and paints us narratives time and again and paints us a picture of the world that is richer a picture of the world that is richer than I realized. I've had many fine than I realized. I've had many fine historians on the show. I recommend all historians on the show. I recommend all those episodes from Ram Guha to Ranasafi those episodes from Ram Guha to Ranasafi to Sapna Little to Manu Pille to Parvati to Sapna Little to Manu Pille to Parvati Sharma to Sinatraan and more. And this Sharma to Sinatraan and more. And this was one of my most enjoyable was one of my most enjoyable conversations. We spoke not just about conversations. We spoke not just about the refreshing new gaze which era brings the refreshing new gaze which era brings to history but also about the evolution to history but also about the evolution of our clothes and our food and our of our clothes and our food and our languages as well as larger subjects languages as well as larger subjects like how Islam adapted to the like how Islam adapted to the subcontinent and how feminism expressed subcontinent and how feminism expressed itself then and now. I also got to know itself then and now. I also got to know more about Ra's own life, her battles more about Ra's own life, her battles with bereiement, her evolving feminism, with bereiement, her evolving feminism, her lessons from parenthood, her her lessons from parenthood, her incredible work ethic. This conversation incredible work ethic. This conversation is a keeper. But before we get to it, is a keeper. But before we get to it, let's take a quick commercial break. let's take a quick commercial break. Hey, the music started and this sounds Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it everything is everything. Every week everything is everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about from the profound to the we care about from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma amit v a r. The show is called amit v a r. The show is called everything is everything. Please do everything is everything. Please do check it out. A welcome to the scene in the unseen. A welcome to the scene in the unseen. Thank you so much Amit. It's a real Thank you so much Amit. It's a real pleasure to be back here with you again. pleasure to be back here with you again. It's a great pleasure for me and so many It's a great pleasure for me and so many years have passed like we recorded in years have passed like we recorded in 2019 and since then not only has a 2019 and since then not only has a podcast changed the world changed in podcast changed the world changed in drastic ways. Uh you wrote three more drastic ways. Uh you wrote three more books or published three more books at books or published three more books at least. Uh I guess you were most of the least. Uh I guess you were most of the way through Akbar by that time. Let's way through Akbar by that time. Let's start by talking about how was CO for start by talking about how was CO for you? How have these years been? How was you? How have these years been? How was CO for you? uh what's been happening. CO for you? uh what's been happening. Yeah. So, I mean, unbelievable that it Yeah. So, I mean, unbelievable that it was 2019. I can't get over it. It seems was 2019. I can't get over it. It seems so fresh in my mind when we were talking so fresh in my mind when we were talking about Daughters of the Sun. Um but yes, about Daughters of the Sun. Um but yes, CO happened and you know, it was CO happened and you know, it was incredibly hard for me as it was for so incredibly hard for me as it was for so many people. And I think now I'm ready many people. And I think now I'm ready to kick anyone who says that they to kick anyone who says that they learned how to bake bread and were very learned how to bake bread and were very happy during CO. I think that's just happy during CO. I think that's just really overstating the thing. And it's really overstating the thing. And it's just not possible to have been happy just not possible to have been happy during those dreadful times of anxiety, during those dreadful times of anxiety, you know, and and stress and not knowing you know, and and stress and not knowing what was going to happen. Um, thank God what was going to happen. Um, thank God we didn't know um that Trump was going we didn't know um that Trump was going to happen, for example. Uh, so for me to happen, for example. Uh, so for me personally, um, it was really quite hard personally, um, it was really quite hard because I had been working on this big because I had been working on this big book for many years, a biography of book for many years, a biography of Emperor Akbar that we were all very Emperor Akbar that we were all very invested in. I mean in my publishing invested in. I mean in my publishing house you know my publisher Davidar it house you know my publisher Davidar it was one of his pet projects and he um was one of his pet projects and he um spent a lot of time uh working on it spent a lot of time uh working on it with me uh and of course I did too uh with me uh and of course I did too uh and then it was you know how books uh and then it was you know how books uh the way in which they are published is the way in which they are published is that you have to book a slot months in that you have to book a slot months in advance uh with the printing house and advance uh with the printing house and there's nothing you can do once that is there's nothing you can do once that is done and it just so happened that it was done and it just so happened that it was booked for March of 2020 and we all know booked for March of 2020 and we all know what happened in March of 2020. So my what happened in March of 2020. So my you know we had prepared everything a you know we had prepared everything a launch discussions uh we had written to launch discussions uh we had written to many people to endorse the book to tell many people to endorse the book to tell us what they thought about it and then us what they thought about it and then we could do none of those things. Um and we could do none of those things. Um and Akbar came out right as the pandemic was Akbar came out right as the pandemic was beginning. Um so it was extremely hard beginning. Um so it was extremely hard for me uh personally you know to have for me uh personally you know to have you know a writer have this very you know a writer have this very visceral connection with their books visceral connection with their books because you know we spend so much time because you know we spend so much time on them non-fiction especially I feel uh on them non-fiction especially I feel uh we work really hard to you know to get a we work really hard to you know to get a sense of what those times are like it sense of what those times are like it takes us a long time even to disengage takes us a long time even to disengage you know sometimes months if not years you know sometimes months if not years some I still feel sometimes I have the some I still feel sometimes I have the shadow of Akbar by my side so it is a shadow of Akbar by my side so it is a really really visceral process and to be really really visceral process and to be suddenly uh you know told that this book suddenly uh you know told that this book is just there somewhere but you you is just there somewhere but you you can't feel it you don't have it in your can't feel it you don't have it in your hands you can't go out to your public hands you can't go out to your public and talk about it was really gutting I and talk about it was really gutting I have to admit um but then I was also have to admit um but then I was also very surprised by the way in which the very surprised by the way in which the world reacted the literary world how world reacted the literary world how everybody went online we discovered this everybody went online we discovered this format you know that you are such a past format you know that you are such a past master at um there were launches online master at um there were launches online JF I think was one of the first to move JF I think was one of the first to move online and they had a full-on uh online and they had a full-on uh festival online. So that was uh festival online. So that was uh incredibly useful for me. Very incredibly useful for me. Very heartwarming to have that response. So heartwarming to have that response. So so all of that happened. so all of that happened. Uh but those years were pretty difficult Uh but those years were pretty difficult uh you know as it was for all of us uh you know as it was for all of us especially for I think those of us who especially for I think those of us who have children. So it was tough for my have children. So it was tough for my girls. They were in high school uh and girls. They were in high school uh and they were cut off from their peers and I they were cut off from their peers and I was able to see firsthand the effect of was able to see firsthand the effect of you know lack of sociability on young you know lack of sociability on young people. Um but then also luckily I was people. Um but then also luckily I was able to go on writing you know that's able to go on writing you know that's something now that we can do with the something now that we can do with the internet with the archives online and a internet with the archives online and a lot of uh work that can be done online. lot of uh work that can be done online. So I began writing uh the lion and the So I began writing uh the lion and the lily my last book um while we were still lily my last book um while we were still in lockdown and a lot of those um in lockdown and a lot of those um systems were still in place. So so it systems were still in place. So so it didn't change my writing life very much. didn't change my writing life very much. You know luckily uh I didn't have to You know luckily uh I didn't have to travel too much in the beginning. I travel too much in the beginning. I could do a lot of my primary research could do a lot of my primary research online. Um so so so that's how that's online. Um so so so that's how that's how co was for me I guess. So I want to how co was for me I guess. So I want to examine a couple of dualities here and examine a couple of dualities here and the first of them is of being a writer. the first of them is of being a writer. Like one thing I've realized over time Like one thing I've realized over time and this is actually true of everything and this is actually true of everything that one does is that um you you know that one does is that um you you know wanting to be a writer is actually not wanting to be a writer is actually not one desire but two desires. Uh on the one desire but two desires. Uh on the one hand there is the thick desire of one hand there is the thick desire of just wanting to write. You like to just wanting to write. You like to write, you like to tell stories, you write, you like to tell stories, you like to go into the rabbit holes of like to go into the rabbit holes of forgotten worlds, etc., etc. And it is a forgotten worlds, etc., etc. And it is a process that is joyful and beautiful. process that is joyful and beautiful. And that's what you mean by uh you know And that's what you mean by uh you know wanting to be a writer. At the same wanting to be a writer. At the same time, there's that other aspect of it time, there's that other aspect of it that you want to be known as a writer. that you want to be known as a writer. You want people to read your books, to You want people to read your books, to enjoy your books, to tell you they loved enjoy your books, to tell you they loved your books, to get signed copies from your books, to get signed copies from you, that validation that comes and so you, that validation that comes and so on and so forth. And you've written a on and so forth. And you've written a bunch of uh books by now, five at last bunch of uh books by now, five at last count. And uh uh you know I speak to so count. And uh uh you know I speak to so many of my writer friends and I realize many of my writer friends and I realize how their journey is one of expecting a how their journey is one of expecting a lot in that second dimension that I will lot in that second dimension that I will write a book and finally and this is the write a book and finally and this is the biggest thing in my life and I'm the biggest thing in my life and I'm the main character and it's going to do so main character and it's going to do so well and then it kind of uh you know well and then it kind of uh you know most of the time it's a whisper if not a most of the time it's a whisper if not a whimper and it just goes away and they whimper and it just goes away and they go on to the next one and they find the go on to the next one and they find the motivation and they keep on going and motivation and they keep on going and during co you I guess would have been during co you I guess would have been except for those online events utterly except for those online events utterly deprived of the second kind of uh deprived of the second kind of uh writerly happiness as it were of the writerly happiness as it were of the validation that you get. But how like validation that you get. But how like how do these two balance themselves for how do these two balance themselves for you like how important is um that whole you like how important is um that whole process of going out there and people process of going out there and people reading your book and etc etc. And how reading your book and etc etc. And how important um uh you know in relation to important um uh you know in relation to that it's just the process of writing that it's just the process of writing itself because many writers at some itself because many writers at some level come to terms with the fact that level come to terms with the fact that they're never going to be uh superstars. they're never going to be uh superstars. In your case of course your books have In your case of course your books have been very popular and I know you have a been very popular and I know you have a fan following but you know many writers fan following but you know many writers get reconciled to that but they don't get reconciled to that but they don't care because the main thing is in the care because the main thing is in the doing it is a process that is a more doing it is a process that is a more important part of writing. So how do you important part of writing. So how do you think about these two and how is it for think about these two and how is it for you? you? you? Yeah, that's that's a really you know Yeah, that's that's a really you know interesting point that that duality and interesting point that that duality and that dichotomy and um you know I talk that dichotomy and um you know I talk about it with my writer friends all the about it with my writer friends all the time and I think Manuple was telling me time and I think Manuple was telling me about this as well and saying you know about this as well and saying you know we were agreeing that for many we were agreeing that for many especially writers of non-fiction so for especially writers of non-fiction so for many years we live like Neanderthalss in many years we live like Neanderthalss in our caves surrounded by books and you our caves surrounded by books and you know entirely self-sufficient it is know entirely self-sufficient it is amazing to what extent a writer is amazing to what extent a writer is selfish egotistical centered on selfish egotistical centered on themselves and their imaginary world, themselves and their imaginary world, you know, and that can go on for for you know, and that can go on for for years in the case of non-fiction years in the case of non-fiction writers. And we are entirely happy in writers. And we are entirely happy in that space. Even though we will go on that space. Even though we will go on saying how hard it is to write a book, saying how hard it is to write a book, and it is it is something that takes and it is it is something that takes something out of you each time you like something out of you each time you like when you give birth, you know, it takes when you give birth, you know, it takes something out of you, but it is still something out of you, but it is still something entirely self-sufficient and something entirely self-sufficient and and and I I suppose, you know, satisfies and and I I suppose, you know, satisfies us on some level that a level that where us on some level that a level that where we are seeking answers for certain we are seeking answers for certain things. So that goes on for some years things. So that goes on for some years and then suddenly we have to transform and then suddenly we have to transform ourselves into these creatures almost of ourselves into these creatures almost of a circus act you know entertainment and a circus act you know entertainment and to bring the book into the world and to bring the book into the world and perform for people um and depending on perform for people um and depending on your personality you get more or less uh your personality you get more or less uh satisfaction from that that side of satisfaction from that that side of writing. So when people of course when writing. So when people of course when people come and when you get actual people come and when you get actual readers coming up to you and telling you readers coming up to you and telling you that they have read your book or that it that they have read your book or that it has had an impact on you in some way and has had an impact on you in some way and I think that has been you know some of I think that has been you know some of the most moving things that have the most moving things that have happened to me in my life as a writer is happened to me in my life as a writer is uh people coming and quoting bits of uh people coming and quoting bits of passage or telling me how in specific passage or telling me how in specific cases it has helped their own lives in cases it has helped their own lives in some way. So that is very important and some way. So that is very important and you know I as you were saying I have you know I as you were saying I have been lucky enough to to strike a chord been lucky enough to to strike a chord with at least a small population of with at least a small population of readers who have stayed loyal to me and readers who have stayed loyal to me and have followed my journey. So I know that have followed my journey. So I know that to a certain extent um I am being read. to a certain extent um I am being read. You know the the second bit of a You know the the second bit of a writer's life when you get the book out writer's life when you get the book out into the world and you're interacting into the world and you're interacting with you know actual readers is very with you know actual readers is very important but I I feel that it is important but I I feel that it is important now for me now that I've important now for me now that I've written five books more in terms of written five books more in terms of qualitative feedback rather than qualitative feedback rather than quantitative feedback. I think I know quantitative feedback. I think I know that I will never be on par with the that I will never be on par with the William Dal Rimple uh you know uh any of William Dal Rimple uh you know uh any of those writers of mythology as well. those writers of mythology as well. That's fine. I've reconciled myself to That's fine. I've reconciled myself to that. I think I think I have a core of that. I think I think I have a core of loyal readers and that's that's been loyal readers and that's that's been enough for me. Uh so now what really enough for me. Uh so now what really matters to me is you know the occasional matters to me is you know the occasional individual feedback that I will get. individual feedback that I will get. Even yesterday for example I was at JF Even yesterday for example I was at JF international here at the British international here at the British library you know and I was thinking okay library you know and I was thinking okay here in London I don't know how many here in London I don't know how many people will have read my book but people will have read my book but somebody came up to me after uh the somebody came up to me after uh the session to say that they had you know session to say that they had you know there was a particular passage a there was a particular passage a particular character you know in my new particular character you know in my new book the lion and the lily which has book the lion and the lily which has really dozens of character but there was really dozens of character but there was this one character the son of Asafola this one character the son of Asafola was who ends up being exiled and then was who ends up being exiled and then imprisoned by the British and they were imprisoned by the British and they were doing some work on that character doing some work on that character character and they had used my book and character and they had used my book and it had really brought him to life. Uh it had really brought him to life. Uh and for me he was a very minor character and for me he was a very minor character in the book even though I felt very in the book even though I felt very strongly for him you know because of the strongly for him you know because of the way he had been treated by the British. way he had been treated by the British. So these you know individual reactions So these you know individual reactions can carry me through for many more can carry me through for many more months of then writing you know. So months of then writing you know. So really to answer your question quite really to answer your question quite simply I think now for me the writing simply I think now for me the writing process has become almost enough as long process has become almost enough as long as I know that some people will take as I know that some people will take away some important bits and pieces from away some important bits and pieces from my books and and and find it of my books and and and find it of importance to their lives. That's very importance to their lives. That's very resonant and it ties in with something resonant and it ties in with something that um I often think of when I think that um I often think of when I think about this podcast like a few minutes about this podcast like a few minutes back you were asking me why are your back you were asking me why are your episodes so long who listens etc etc and episodes so long who listens etc etc and one dictim that I really love and I've one dictim that I really love and I've adopted actually comes from the startup adopted actually comes from the startup world Paul Graham likes to say that it's world Paul Graham likes to say that it's better to be loved by a few than liked better to be loved by a few than liked by many and I I have wholeheartedly uh by many and I I have wholeheartedly uh adopted that I'd rather have deep adopted that I'd rather have deep engagement from a few people than engagement from a few people than shallow engagement from many and I shallow engagement from many and I wonder if that's the same for you I wonder if that's the same for you I would imagine it is because your books would imagine it is because your books uh you know may not uh sell you know uh you know may not uh sell you know lacks or millions of copies and etc etc lacks or millions of copies and etc etc but clearly they mean something to the but clearly they mean something to the people who read them uh you know I loved people who read them uh you know I loved reading them deeply immersive a lot of reading them deeply immersive a lot of the responses that I see coming from out the responses that I see coming from out there for all the popular historians there for all the popular historians I've had on my show in the early days of I've had on my show in the early days of course there was you and Palvati Sharma course there was you and Palvati Sharma and Rana Safi you've all been on that and Rana Safi you've all been on that show Manupil has been on here five times show Manupil has been on here five times and he's he's got a massive fan and he's he's got a massive fan following and uh though that's also following and uh though that's also Because uh as one person complained to Because uh as one person complained to me that Manupil he's posting topless me that Manupil he's posting topless pictures of himself on Instagram which pictures of himself on Instagram which is which is true but you know he's very is which is true but you know he's very fetching so why not uh and absolutely fetching so why not uh and absolutely more power to him and so g give me a more power to him and so g give me a little sense of that and give me a little sense of that and give me a little sense of explaining that like why little sense of explaining that like why you know people love you but why not do you know people love you but why not do why why do people love you but this why why do people love you but this thirst for popular history and this is thirst for popular history and this is all good popular history that the likes all good popular history that the likes of you and Manu and Parvati and so many of you and Manu and Parvati and so many aner Kanisetti so many others do why is aner Kanisetti so many others do why is there such a thirst for it why do people there such a thirst for it why do people need this in their lives what's going on need this in their lives what's going on here give me a sense of what you've here give me a sense of what you've picked up so you know I think what I picked up so you know I think what I have picked up on Amit is that a lot of have picked up on Amit is that a lot of what we have been handed down to us as what we have been handed down to us as histories have been as you know you have histories have been as you know you have discussed this with so many of your discussed this with so many of your authors before and with me uh is the authors before and with me uh is the colonial interpretation of our past we colonial interpretation of our past we have been deeply you know shaped by our have been deeply you know shaped by our colonial experience. I think we are only colonial experience. I think we are only beginning to dismantle that and to beginning to dismantle that and to understand it uh you know individually understand it uh you know individually and very far from understanding it as a and very far from understanding it as a society. You know the fact that you and society. You know the fact that you and I are speaking in English is because of I are speaking in English is because of our colonial past. The sort of books we our colonial past. The sort of books we write is because of our colonial past. write is because of our colonial past. So our histories that have been handed So our histories that have been handed down to us have been shaped by that same down to us have been shaped by that same colonial past. And I think we also again colonial past. And I think we also again underestimate the extent to which our underestimate the extent to which our histories actually um shape the way we histories actually um shape the way we think of ourselves individually as a think of ourselves individually as a society. Uh the idea we have uh of society. Uh the idea we have uh of ourselves as a people our place in the ourselves as a people our place in the world is really deeply shaped by our world is really deeply shaped by our historical myths by other myths by the historical myths by other myths by the stories we tell each other within stories we tell each other within families within schools and within the families within schools and within the larger context. And I think that is larger context. And I think that is extremely pertinent when we come to the extremely pertinent when we come to the way in which women think of themselves. way in which women think of themselves. uh and I think a lot of women today, uh and I think a lot of women today, young women, even older women have been young women, even older women have been shaped by the idea that the British left shaped by the idea that the British left of us about how how femininity, how of us about how how femininity, how womanhood was acted out in India, how it womanhood was acted out in India, how it was played out. A huge part of that was played out. A huge part of that being their the interaction of before being their the interaction of before the Raj how the East India Company the Raj how the East India Company interacted with the Mughal Empire and interacted with the Mughal Empire and when they came across the Mughal Empire when they came across the Mughal Empire and they uh were able to survey the and they uh were able to survey the haram this closed cloistered space of haram this closed cloistered space of the women the zanana or the haram and the women the zanana or the haram and the way these women within that haram the way these women within that haram seemed to exercise a power that was seemed to exercise a power that was almost inexplicable to them. You know almost inexplicable to them. You know they were men from the Edwwardian times they were men from the Edwwardian times uh from the Regency period unable to uh from the Regency period unable to understand how women were able to understand how women were able to control their money were able to invest control their money were able to invest their money were able to exercise the their money were able to exercise the kind of political power and cultural kind of political power and cultural power that they were uh so they they power that they were uh so they they used a lot of mythmaking a lot of really used a lot of mythmaking a lot of really uh harmful myths came about around that uh harmful myths came about around that time that Indian women therefore you time that Indian women therefore you know I'm making it a broader statement know I'm making it a broader statement were all cloistered they were all there were all cloistered they were all there to serve the sexual needs of the to serve the sexual needs of the emperor. They were entirely uneducated. emperor. They were entirely uneducated. They were helpless, powerless women. So They were helpless, powerless women. So on and so forth. The idea of the exotic on and so forth. The idea of the exotic harum. Uh even when I started writing, I harum. Uh even when I started writing, I had a slight malaise at the back of my had a slight malaise at the back of my mind thinking, hm, what am I going to mind thinking, hm, what am I going to find when I look at these Mughal women? find when I look at these Mughal women? What were they really doing with their What were they really doing with their lives? Because I had sort of absorbed, lives? Because I had sort of absorbed, you know, by osmosis almost through my you know, by osmosis almost through my education the idea of the Mughal woman. education the idea of the Mughal woman. And I think what I found when I wrote And I think what I found when I wrote Daughters of the Sun and even heroins uh Daughters of the Sun and even heroins uh through the works of Ruby Lal through the works of Ruby Lal essentially the feminist historian is essentially the feminist historian is that this was entirely untrue that that this was entirely untrue that Mughal women as we now know were very Mughal women as we now know were very powerful. They had you know they could powerful. They had you know they could uh you know issue edicts, they could uh you know issue edicts, they could issue laws, they were able to carry out issue laws, they were able to carry out trade, they were very educated, they had trade, they were very educated, they had money. All these things that I was able money. All these things that I was able to talk about in a way which was very to talk about in a way which was very accessible to a lay reader. you know, it accessible to a lay reader. you know, it was not just in the world of scholarship was not just in the world of scholarship where it may have been known, but I where it may have been known, but I brought it out, you know, as we all do brought it out, you know, as we all do in in narrative history. I made it in in narrative history. I made it accessible for the lay person and the accessible for the lay person and the lay woman especially. And I cannot tell lay woman especially. And I cannot tell you how many women have contacted me you how many women have contacted me after that saying, you have changed our after that saying, you have changed our lives. You have changed the way in which lives. You have changed the way in which we think of ourselves. You have we think of ourselves. You have empowered us. We no longer feel that empowered us. We no longer feel that slight sense of shame about how we lived slight sense of shame about how we lived in the past, what was done to us in the in the past, what was done to us in the past. we were a certain way in the past. past. we were a certain way in the past. We can be that once again. You have you We can be that once again. You have you know removed some of the veils that were know removed some of the veils that were uh you know metaphorical veils that that uh you know metaphorical veils that that had been cast over the past. So I think had been cast over the past. So I think especially Muslim women of course uh and especially Muslim women of course uh and I feel that that is I mean if I do I feel that that is I mean if I do nothing else in my life I think that nothing else in my life I think that will have been enough because it has will have been enough because it has resonated so strongly uh you know with resonated so strongly uh you know with women and so these women have remained women and so these women have remained my uh faithful readers a lot of them you my uh faithful readers a lot of them you know and they and I think even in the know and they and I think even in the books that I have written after that books that I have written after that which are not quintessentially feminist which are not quintessentially feminist works in the sense that they are only works in the sense that they are only focused on women they are still feminist focused on women they are still feminist works in that I bring back hidden women works in that I bring back hidden women into the narrative. So even if I'm into the narrative. So even if I'm writing about Akbar, such an a powerful writing about Akbar, such an a powerful emperor, I will show how he was shaped emperor, I will show how he was shaped by the women in his life, how he could by the women in his life, how he could not have become the emperor he was not have become the emperor he was without an galaxy of women helping him, without an galaxy of women helping him, showing him the way, bringing in their showing him the way, bringing in their own influences into his life. Uh and I own influences into his life. Uh and I have done the same in the lion and the have done the same in the lion and the lily. So I think those readers stay lily. So I think those readers stay loyal to me because they do see uh a loyal to me because they do see uh a reflection of that need to see uh the reflection of that need to see uh the erasia of women uh countered and brought erasia of women uh countered and brought back into the spout life. One of the uh back into the spout life. One of the uh great revelations for me when I read great revelations for me when I read daughters of the sun and when we did our daughters of the sun and when we did our episode together was how it passed the episode together was how it passed the way I used to think of harams. you know, way I used to think of harams. you know, I I had the typical colonial way that I I had the typical colonial way that oh, you know, it's an army of women oh, you know, it's an army of women meant to sort of entertain the emperor. meant to sort of entertain the emperor. Every night he will decide what to do, Every night he will decide what to do, etc., etc. And uh the way that you sort etc., etc. And uh the way that you sort of opened up my perspective on that and of opened up my perspective on that and you could see the sociology and the you could see the sociology and the politics that was actually inside a politics that was actually inside a haram and it's not just about sex, the haram and it's not just about sex, the entire family is there. Was mind-blowing entire family is there. Was mind-blowing to me. And I also wonder therefore to me. And I also wonder therefore taking off from what you just said about taking off from what you just said about the women who got in touch with you and the women who got in touch with you and said that hey we don't feel so ashamed said that hey we don't feel so ashamed anymore or we feel a sense of pride or anymore or we feel a sense of pride or we feel differently about this. I wonder we feel differently about this. I wonder how the uh the way history is written how the uh the way history is written can actually shape society that it can can actually shape society that it can have you know that element of have you know that element of reflexivity in the sense that what is reflexivity in the sense that what is written about us uh you know changes the written about us uh you know changes the way that we view ourselves and it way that we view ourselves and it changes then what we are and I think a changes then what we are and I think a lot of us don't realize a lot of lot of us don't realize a lot of listeners may not realize to what extent listeners may not realize to what extent uh you know British narratives about who uh you know British narratives about who we are and what we are you know changed we are and what we are you know changed so much in our society across so many so much in our society across so many dimensions, but especially this. So, dimensions, but especially this. So, give me a sense of uh how this plays out give me a sense of uh how this plays out like did it surprise you that the like did it surprise you that the writing of history is not just some writing of history is not just some arcane thing where you're writing about arcane thing where you're writing about stuff that happened in the past and you stuff that happened in the past and you know interested a few interested readers know interested a few interested readers will read it and that is it. But no, will read it and that is it. But no, it's far more important than that. You it's far more important than that. You know, the way you tell your stories know, the way you tell your stories determines who you become in the future. determines who you become in the future. So give me a sense of that and also give So give me a sense of that and also give me a sense of your journey and me a sense of your journey and understanding that and you know any uh understanding that and you know any uh sort of uh til you had during this uh sort of uh til you had during this uh phase. Yes. Uh that's that's a huge um a phase. Yes. Uh that's that's a huge um a huge question and uh a really important huge question and uh a really important one. And you know I've been thinking one. And you know I've been thinking about this. I think more and more you about this. I think more and more you know as as I write books and uh as I know as as I write books and uh as I begin to you know think about what I'm begin to you know think about what I'm reading also and what I'm writing reading also and what I'm writing therefore um I think we cannot therefore um I think we cannot overestimate the influence that books overestimate the influence that books have on the way even on what we become have on the way even on what we become in our own lives you know. So to come to in our own lives you know. So to come to say something like feminist thinking um say something like feminist thinking um I think it was in the 17 and then oh god I think it was in the 17 and then oh god I'm stuck in the 18th century in the I'm stuck in the 18th century in the 1960s 1960s 1960s that feminist thinking you know the that feminist thinking you know the second wave started saying that you have second wave started saying that you have to reach this feminist consciousness to reach this feminist consciousness where you just understand the fact that where you just understand the fact that the way things are around you the way the way things are around you the way women are subjugated the way that you women are subjugated the way that you know they are enthralled to the the know they are enthralled to the the patriarchy the way that they assume that patriarchy the way that they assume that it must they must do certain tasks asks it must they must do certain tasks asks and no other this can be questioned. and no other this can be questioned. This does not have to be how it is going This does not have to be how it is going forward. Start questioning your role and forward. Start questioning your role and the role of women in society. Uh so so the role of women in society. Uh so so there's this fundamental consciousness there's this fundamental consciousness that once you attain that then there's that once you attain that then there's no going back you know once you see the no going back you know once you see the world and start reading books uh through world and start reading books uh through that lens then there's really no going that lens then there's really no going back to accepting uh things the way they back to accepting uh things the way they were. So you know I think we spoke about were. So you know I think we spoke about this way back when we were doing this way back when we were doing daughters of the sun. I think the the daughters of the sun. I think the the realization struck me when I when I realization struck me when I when I became aware as a young adult of the became aware as a young adult of the fact that I had read very voraciously fact that I had read very voraciously throughout my childhood and my teenage throughout my childhood and my teenage years. But the books that I was reading years. But the books that I was reading really taught me how to inhabit a space really taught me how to inhabit a space that was not my own. So I was very that was not my own. So I was very comfortable with quoting poetry like comfortable with quoting poetry like Tennyson and Werdsworth and all the Tennyson and Werdsworth and all the romantics you know Byron and Shelly and romantics you know Byron and Shelly and I was comfortable with a mellow gentle I was comfortable with a mellow gentle sun and enjoying strolls in that mild sun and enjoying strolls in that mild summer sunshine you know and I was I summer sunshine you know and I was I think a teenager a young adult when I think a teenager a young adult when I started to realize that this is not my started to realize that this is not my life this is not my lived experience life this is not my lived experience what have I been reading uh what have I what have I been reading uh what have I been allowing you know my mind to be been allowing you know my mind to be entirely colonized by so that I am so entirely colonized by so that I am so comfortable in that world. You could you comfortable in that world. You could you know I could interact uh you know using know I could interact uh you know using the terms of that world but I could not the terms of that world but I could not quote Amir or uh Dag Dehilvi or any of quote Amir or uh Dag Dehilvi or any of the Uru poets who actually shaped uh the the Uru poets who actually shaped uh the history of Delhi which is where I grew history of Delhi which is where I grew up in and that really started me along up in and that really started me along this journey of what do we read uh and this journey of what do we read uh and which truths what must we accept you which truths what must we accept you know um the very latest one that I have know um the very latest one that I have read that has made and uh you know read that has made and uh you know influence in in me right now is uh the influence in in me right now is uh the book Wifdom by Anna Thunder where she book Wifdom by Anna Thunder where she writes about George Orwell's wife um and writes about George Orwell's wife um and she says that this very brilliant woman she says that this very brilliant woman called Eileen Onessy she was absolutely called Eileen Onessy she was absolutely instrumental in shaping George Orwell's instrumental in shaping George Orwell's thinking because she was a brilliant thinking because she was a brilliant scholar herself and she gave him many scholar herself and she gave him many ideas that he would later use but she ideas that he would later use but she also in the domestic space enabled his also in the domestic space enabled his day-to-day life and yet his six main day-to-day life and yet his six main biography of her still did. They had biography of her still did. They had completely written her out of the texts. completely written her out of the texts. So, uh this uh Anna Fun has written a So, uh this uh Anna Fun has written a new book which completely restores her new book which completely restores her place um in the world. Um so I think you place um in the world. Um so I think you see if you had not read a book like uh see if you had not read a book like uh Waifdom, you would think George Orwell Waifdom, you would think George Orwell was the man. You know, he's the this was the man. You know, he's the this great male hero that the entire western great male hero that the entire western world looks up to and quotes and puts on world looks up to and quotes and puts on a pedestal. No woman around him to to a pedestal. No woman around him to to talk about. Once you have read wife, you talk about. Once you have read wife, you cannot look at him the same way again. cannot look at him the same way again. It fundamentally changes your experience It fundamentally changes your experience um of that of viewing not only George um of that of viewing not only George Orwell but the western world the way in Orwell but the western world the way in which they will idolize a person and which they will idolize a person and allow for the erasia of everything allow for the erasia of everything around him. So, so being aware of these around him. So, so being aware of these facts, you you can read any text, you facts, you you can read any text, you can read any books, but keep this can read any books, but keep this awareness in your mind, this fundamental awareness in your mind, this fundamental consciousness consciousness consciousness uh that what we are told is through a uh that what we are told is through a certain lens. It's a colonial lens, it's certain lens. It's a colonial lens, it's a patriarchal one. Um, and keep that a patriarchal one. Um, and keep that awareness in your mind as you try and go awareness in your mind as you try and go forward deconstructing uh the myths that forward deconstructing uh the myths that you are given. you are given. I'll address the second of the I'll address the second of the dichotoies I uh wanted to ask you about dichotoies I uh wanted to ask you about before we go on to the story of your before we go on to the story of your life because uh yes uh I will you have life because uh yes uh I will you have told the story of so many other women told the story of so many other women you've got to tell your own story in you've got to tell your own story in this episode as well but before we get this episode as well but before we get there the other dichotomy is what it there the other dichotomy is what it means to write history like at one level means to write history like at one level history is truth you are searching for history is truth you are searching for uh you know those aspects of the truth uh you know those aspects of the truth which aren't out there yet and you're which aren't out there yet and you're looking to get deeper into that at the looking to get deeper into that at the Same time you can also look at history Same time you can also look at history as necessary narrative. You can say that as necessary narrative. You can say that hey we live in times of great narrative hey we live in times of great narrative battles you know whether it is the battles you know whether it is the political battles that happen in India political battles that happen in India around us and you know the way the around us and you know the way the muggles are painted Akbar good or ang muggles are painted Akbar good or ang bad etc etc or it is the battles that bad etc etc or it is the battles that emerge out of these colonial narratives emerge out of these colonial narratives etc etc and that can almost then give etc etc and that can almost then give you a sense of um almost a sense of the you a sense of um almost a sense of the writing of history being something that writing of history being something that is politically important and I wonder is politically important and I wonder how one balances these because when one how one balances these because when one chooses to write history, you are chooses to write history, you are obviously choosing to tell some stories obviously choosing to tell some stories out of this portion of stories out there out of this portion of stories out there and you're choosing the stuff that and you're choosing the stuff that interests you. And in your case, that interests you. And in your case, that seems to be uh really driven by a strong seems to be uh really driven by a strong feminist lens by uh the revelation you feminist lens by uh the revelation you brought to many of us that that the brought to many of us that that the women have just been erased completely women have just been erased completely from history and you know, you've gone from history and you know, you've gone on a quest to make them legible again as on a quest to make them legible again as it were. But how does one sort of uh uh it were. But how does one sort of uh uh then balance that because um it it is then balance that because um it it is both there is a truth out there uh that both there is a truth out there uh that needs to be told and you can look at needs to be told and you can look at history like that or you can say that history like that or you can say that these are the objectives in the these are the objectives in the narrative battles of today and therefore narrative battles of today and therefore I must focus on ABC and that carries I must focus on ABC and that carries dangers of its own. So how do you think dangers of its own. So how do you think about that? Yeah. Yeah. That's that's about that? Yeah. Yeah. That's that's super important you know uh Amit and the super important you know uh Amit and the word truth makes me very uneasy because word truth makes me very uneasy because you know we all have our own truth with you know we all have our own truth with the best will in the world you know so the best will in the world you know so when we are writing uh histories um me when we are writing uh histories um me and many of my colleagues I I think and many of my colleagues I I think we've we very um honestly and sincerely we've we very um honestly and sincerely tried to bring a truth but it is only tried to bring a truth but it is only eight truths and I'm very aware of that eight truths and I'm very aware of that and I will be no matter the best and I will be no matter the best intentions I have. I will be shaped by intentions I have. I will be shaped by my past. I will be shaped by my gender, my past. I will be shaped by my gender, by my education, by my privilege, by who by my education, by my privilege, by who I am, by my lived experience. So, it is I am, by my lived experience. So, it is impossible for me to say I am going to impossible for me to say I am going to bring a totally unprejudiced writing or bring a totally unprejudiced writing or point of view to this story. You know, point of view to this story. You know, given putting that aside, of course, uh given putting that aside, of course, uh there are, you know, as I was saying there are, you know, as I was saying earlier, there are two things that I earlier, there are two things that I will try and do. I think now for any will try and do. I think now for any history that I write and I think I have history that I write and I think I have been doing it pretty much from from the been doing it pretty much from from the beginning uh is as you were saying try beginning uh is as you were saying try to bring back the stories of erased to bring back the stories of erased women because now we know that this is a women because now we know that this is a truth um a fact that is widely known truth um a fact that is widely known around the world. This is not an Indian around the world. This is not an Indian issue. It's not an Indian problem. It's issue. It's not an Indian problem. It's around the world. You know Caroline Crio around the world. You know Caroline Crio Perez in her book invisible women has Perez in her book invisible women has shown how women are written out of even shown how women are written out of even data processing. You know the world is data processing. You know the world is literally shaped and fitted for the body literally shaped and fitted for the body and minds of men not women you know. So and minds of men not women you know. So every for example everything I buy every for example everything I buy because I'm a petite woman is much too because I'm a petite woman is much too big for me. Everything gardening from big for me. Everything gardening from gardening gloves to seat belts in the gardening gloves to seat belts in the cars. Um that is just a fact. So I will cars. Um that is just a fact. So I will always try to bring women back into the always try to bring women back into the limelight into center stage because I limelight into center stage because I know that there has been a process of know that there has been a process of elimination you know where they are elimination you know where they are concerned. Um secondly I will push back concerned. Um secondly I will push back against colonial narratives because we against colonial narratives because we now know how toxic they have been for now know how toxic they have been for us. How obviously the British created a us. How obviously the British created a narrative which would suit their narrative which would suit their takeover of India. Right? That is the takeover of India. Right? That is the aim of why they wrote things the the way aim of why they wrote things the the way they did. Uh so these two things I will they did. Uh so these two things I will try and do. Um but there always of try and do. Um but there always of course you know unexpected things that course you know unexpected things that you find uh and I think the key word you find uh and I think the key word maybe more than truth is nuance. So I maybe more than truth is nuance. So I think what I want to bring I will never think what I want to bring I will never claim that what I write is the truth. claim that what I write is the truth. You know tomorrow somebody will find a You know tomorrow somebody will find a saw something which completely calls saw something which completely calls into question something I've said and I into question something I've said and I ac you know completely accept that but ac you know completely accept that but if I can bring nuance into my stories if I can bring nuance into my stories and tell you listen hey keep your mind and tell you listen hey keep your mind open you know just look at alternatives. open you know just look at alternatives. So one main thing that I set off when I So one main thing that I set off when I was writing my latest book the lion in was writing my latest book the lion in the lily was that I thought okay we have the lily was that I thought okay we have been given a colonial perspective I'm been given a colonial perspective I'm talking about the suba of aad uh I have talking about the suba of aad uh I have been shaped by the stories of say um uh been shaped by the stories of say um uh you know wajalisha about shatran kiladar you know wajalisha about shatran kiladar this is what I have in my mind this very this is what I have in my mind this very beautiful aesthetically pleasing but beautiful aesthetically pleasing but decadent and and you know end of sier decadent and and you know end of sier cla kind of feeling that was there so cla kind of feeling that was there so these These nabs were certainly very these These nabs were certainly very culturally, you know, they created culturally, you know, they created beautiful things, but they were beautiful things, but they were essentially powerless. This this was essentially powerless. This this was something that I I thought I knew. Uh, something that I I thought I knew. Uh, and I figured I would use French and I figured I would use French colonial sources to push back against colonial sources to push back against that narrative. You know, I'm sure we that narrative. You know, I'm sure we will talk about it, but I do read and will talk about it, but I do read and write French. So, I thought this would write French. So, I thought this would give me a little edge and I would be give me a little edge and I would be able to find sources able to find sources uh on the 18th century. And I did. I uh on the 18th century. And I did. I found a lot of sources. But what I found found a lot of sources. But what I found did not give me a simple story to push did not give me a simple story to push back against the British story. Instead, back against the British story. Instead, it complicated the story even more. it complicated the story even more. Because then now I could see that the Because then now I could see that the very ideas of French, of British, of very ideas of French, of British, of Catholic, of Protestant, of what Catholic, of Protestant, of what language you are speaking was all language you are speaking was all completely muddled. That people are not completely muddled. That people are not so binary as we think. That a Frenchman so binary as we think. That a Frenchman could be working for a nab. He could could be working for a nab. He could also be spying for the British. He could also be spying for the British. He could also switch allegiances, pretend to be also switch allegiances, pretend to be Protestant on one day whereas actually Protestant on one day whereas actually he was brought up Catholic. He could he was brought up Catholic. He could learn a language Persian and thereby learn a language Persian and thereby become a culturated to the Nwabi become a culturated to the Nwabi lifestyle. So I think what I have lifestyle. So I think what I have learned increasingly going forward is learned increasingly going forward is that I need to bring this sense of a that I need to bring this sense of a nuance into my writing that there are nuance into my writing that there are many truths and they live along each many truths and they live along each other depending on whose point of view other depending on whose point of view you are seeing. Even the British point you are seeing. Even the British point of view, the colonial narrative is true of view, the colonial narrative is true in quotes to the extent that they you in quotes to the extent that they you they actually I think tried to believe they actually I think tried to believe that that they were greater than us that that that they were greater than us that they uh as part of the enlightenment they uh as part of the enlightenment process had certain truths to impart to process had certain truths to impart to us. I think they possibly believe that us. I think they possibly believe that we were a depraved and uh ignorant race we were a depraved and uh ignorant race who needed to be shown the lights of the who needed to be shown the lights of the enlightenment. Right? So from their enlightenment. Right? So from their point of view perhaps this was true. the point of view perhaps this was true. the writings that they left us, right? Uh writings that they left us, right? Uh but we can counter that with other but we can counter that with other truths to give a much more granular truths to give a much more granular textually rich experience for readers to textually rich experience for readers to play with today. And so as they live play with today. And so as they live because I really hope that I bring my because I really hope that I bring my books to life, as my uh readers inhabit books to life, as my uh readers inhabit the world of my books, they can take on the world of my books, they can take on the different colors that they see lying the different colors that they see lying around them, clothes of different around them, clothes of different colors. And one day they can try on the colors. And one day they can try on the Nabi turban and the jama. The next day Nabi turban and the jama. The next day they can try on the British uniform and they can try on the British uniform and see how it feels to live in that world see how it feels to live in that world that I have created using these that I have created using these different points of view. So as it happens I am going to uh you So as it happens I am going to uh you know inhabit uh that world is very much know inhabit uh that world is very much an apt phrase because all your books do an apt phrase because all your books do bring the characters uh very much to bring the characters uh very much to life and I'm going to even ask you more life and I'm going to even ask you more about uh that later in the episode. Uh about uh that later in the episode. Uh but I'll ask you to double click on the but I'll ask you to double click on the phrase colonial narratives. For the sake phrase colonial narratives. For the sake of my listeners, can you expand on what of my listeners, can you expand on what what that phrase means to you? Like in what that phrase means to you? Like in our last episode uh about daughters of our last episode uh about daughters of the sun, we spoke about um one the sun, we spoke about um one particular aspect of colonial narratives particular aspect of colonial narratives where their u you know the the where their u you know the the prudishness plays into the prudishness plays into the objectification of women and therefore objectification of women and therefore they paint the haram in a particular way they paint the haram in a particular way and uh that's a thread that kind of runs and uh that's a thread that kind of runs through um everything that they write through um everything that they write about India. Manu and I have also about India. Manu and I have also discussed this in our episodes together, discussed this in our episodes together, but give me a broader sense of colonial but give me a broader sense of colonial narratives because I find that those are narratives because I find that those are so internalized and normalized by us so internalized and normalized by us that sometimes it is useful to just that sometimes it is useful to just shine a light on it and say here this is shine a light on it and say here this is what you thought was true of us but it what you thought was true of us but it actually isn't. Yes. Um that's that's actually isn't. Yes. Um that's that's very interesting. I mean it's a very very interesting. I mean it's a very interesting part of my life uh and my interesting part of my life uh and my working life is to uncover these you working life is to uncover these you know colonial truths uh in parenthesis know colonial truths uh in parenthesis and I think through the 18th century and I think through the 18th century which is the period that I examine in which is the period that I examine in the lion and the lily it's it's the lion and the lily it's it's particularly a vivid you know it's particularly a vivid you know it's brought out in a very vivid way because brought out in a very vivid way because um it is a time of uh you know enormous um it is a time of uh you know enormous mythmaking for the British themselves. mythmaking for the British themselves. So the 18th century begins with the So the 18th century begins with the British and the French poised to become British and the French poised to become global empires. Okay, it is just the global empires. Okay, it is just the beginning of that and at that point the beginning of that and at that point the French are by far the stronger in the French are by far the stronger in the stronger position. They are a much stronger position. They are a much larger country. They are on the larger country. They are on the continent. So they have access to continent. So they have access to continental resources. They have an continental resources. They have an enormous army. Uh they are very rich enormous army. Uh they are very rich compared to the British. The Brit the compared to the British. The Brit the the English at that time it was not yet the English at that time it was not yet the British Isles. The English are a the British Isles. The English are a very small nation on the little rocky very small nation on the little rocky island. Uh something that post Brexit island. Uh something that post Brexit may resonate with British listeners may resonate with British listeners today. Uh but they are this small tiny today. Uh but they are this small tiny island at the edge of prosperous island at the edge of prosperous continental Europe. So they begin like continental Europe. So they begin like this. You know they have gone through this. You know they have gone through the reformation. They have been uh the reformation. They have been uh because of Elizabeth the first and her because of Elizabeth the first and her father Henry VII they have been kicked father Henry VII they have been kicked out by the pope uh from trading with out by the pope uh from trading with continental Europe which is Catholic. continental Europe which is Catholic. They have become Protestant. So that They have become Protestant. So that makes them uh much more adventurous in makes them uh much more adventurous in terms of looking for global markets. terms of looking for global markets. They begin by trading with North Africa, They begin by trading with North Africa, with the Ottoman Empire and eventually with the Ottoman Empire and eventually make their way to India. By the make their way to India. By the beginning of the 18th century, they are beginning of the 18th century, they are poised to, you know, to to to really poised to, you know, to to to really make Indro into India. But France is by make Indro into India. But France is by far the bigger the bigger threat, much far the bigger the bigger threat, much more powerful, a much stronger sense of more powerful, a much stronger sense of what it is to be French, for example. So what it is to be French, for example. So this through the 18th century as the this through the 18th century as the British make inroads into India and are British make inroads into India and are more and more successful by you know more and more successful by you know it's it's so funny that a lot of these it's it's so funny that a lot of these things are happens are just fortuitous things are happens are just fortuitous are just lucky sometimes you know and of are just lucky sometimes you know and of course sometimes talent of individual uh course sometimes talent of individual uh uh talent or just sociopathic ability uh talent or just sociopathic ability like Robert Robert Clive to you know to like Robert Robert Clive to you know to seize the moment if you like uh and they seize the moment if you like uh and they become more and more powerful but they become more and more powerful but they remain they have this existential ex remain they have this existential ex existentialist existentialist existentialist uh uh sort of worry regarding France. uh uh sort of worry regarding France. You know, they are really really worried You know, they are really really worried about what France can do. And as the about what France can do. And as the 18th century progresses and you have the 18th century progresses and you have the ideas of evangelical, you know, ideas of evangelical, you know, Protestantism coming up, it France being Protestantism coming up, it France being this Catholic um under Louis the 16th, this Catholic um under Louis the 16th, this very exuberant, confident monarchy this very exuberant, confident monarchy and then under Napoleon this again this and then under Napoleon this again this very ostentatious and opulent uh you very ostentatious and opulent uh you know emperor that he becomes. They react know emperor that he becomes. They react counter to this and they say we will counter to this and they say we will place ourselves and we will develop our place ourselves and we will develop our Englishness in opposition to French Englishness in opposition to French Catholic excess. Instead we will become Catholic excess. Instead we will become the austere uh the truthful uh the sober the austere uh the truthful uh the sober the protestant English person. They they the protestant English person. They they really go ahead and say this is what our really go ahead and say this is what our leaders must be. This is when they found leaders must be. This is when they found their schools. Eaton, Harrow, you know, their schools. Eaton, Harrow, you know, all the great um private schools here in all the great um private schools here in in England were built around this time in England were built around this time to create um um a tranch of leading men to create um um a tranch of leading men and women to some extent but mostly and women to some extent but mostly leading men who would take the country leading men who would take the country forward carrying forward this legacy of forward carrying forward this legacy of what it means to be English. what it means to be English. And therefore the their men their And therefore the their men their leaders who are sent to India are told I leaders who are sent to India are told I have this expectation of them that they have this expectation of them that they will be great evangelical protestants will be great evangelical protestants and they will be upright men uh despite and they will be upright men uh despite their actions on the ground you know their actions on the ground you know being anything but that. So for example being anything but that. So for example Warren Hastings is somebody that I look Warren Hastings is somebody that I look at very closely uh in my book uh the at very closely uh in my book uh the lion and the lily and he will go on and lion and the lily and he will go on and it is written about him that he is a it is written about him that he is a certain way. He is very sober. He is certain way. He is very sober. He is very incorruptible. He is honest. Uh the very incorruptible. He is honest. Uh the way he deals with the Indians are you way he deals with the Indians are you know he absolutely you cannot criticize know he absolutely you cannot criticize him much at all. But when I looked and him much at all. But when I looked and and this is the story that we are given and this is the story that we are given till today that Hastings wasn't so bad. till today that Hastings wasn't so bad. You know Robert Clive yes William has You know Robert Clive yes William has shown us you know exactly the sort of um shown us you know exactly the sort of um crazy sociopath he was but Hastings is crazy sociopath he was but Hastings is not so bad is what we have been left not so bad is what we have been left with. Um but when I looked at him the with. Um but when I looked at him the way he behaved with Bahubam for example way he behaved with Bahubam for example you know the wife of Shuja then the you know the wife of Shuja then the widow Shuah the way he is absolutely widow Shuah the way he is absolutely horrified that a woman in Para should horrified that a woman in Para should hold should you know have the confidence hold should you know have the confidence and the self-belief to want to interact and the self-belief to want to interact with British men and say no you cannot with British men and say no you cannot have my treasure this is my treasure and have my treasure this is my treasure and I have the right to it and I will rule I have the right to it and I will rule my country uh I do not need you my country uh I do not need you interfering. He is so horrified by this interfering. He is so horrified by this uh and he sends his agents uh to seize uh and he sends his agents uh to seize her Unix because she is uh to seize her Unix because she is ruling through the intermediary of ruling through the intermediary of Quadasara's Unix uh elite units Quadasara's Unix uh elite units and I saw a completely different picture and I saw a completely different picture you know which we can talk about at you know which we can talk about at length later or it's there in the book length later or it's there in the book uh but this sort of colonial narrative uh but this sort of colonial narrative that I found uh where the women were that I found uh where the women were concerned where the unuks were concerned concerned where the unuks were concerned the way they wrote about the nabs as the way they wrote about the nabs as being really a feat being really a feat uh and by a lacking backbone and somehow uh and by a lacking backbone and somehow lacking virility. lacking virility. lacking virility. I really had this in the back of my head I really had this in the back of my head and when I came to examine the figures and when I came to examine the figures of Shuja tala for example, he is the of Shuja tala for example, he is the great military hero of the 18th century. great military hero of the 18th century. He is the one that everyone asked for He is the one that everyone asked for his sucker when they needed to fight a his sucker when they needed to fight a battle. Whether it was the mobile battle. Whether it was the mobile emperor Sha Alam or Emit Sha Abdali the emperor Sha Alam or Emit Sha Abdali the Afghan you know invader they all came to Afghan you know invader they all came to Shuja because he was the primary uh Shuja because he was the primary uh fighting man the warrior the leader the fighting man the warrior the leader the charismatic leader of his time and that charismatic leader of his time and that was a complete revelation to me you know was a complete revelation to me you know because I thought oh aad you know because I thought oh aad you know singing and dancing uh you know good singing and dancing uh you know good food maybe biryani um but but that's food maybe biryani um but but that's about it but when I saw the layers about it but when I saw the layers behind it the extent to which the behind it the extent to which the colonial narrative had spent time and colonial narrative had spent time and resources to write these nabs into a resources to write these nabs into a certain light to say that these are just certain light to say that these are just a feat men. These are unable to govern a feat men. These are unable to govern their own country. We must come and help their own country. We must come and help them. We need a resident there. We need them. We need a resident there. We need them to um uh you know to to spend money them to um uh you know to to spend money on maintaining our own garrisons in on maintaining our own garrisons in their uh you know in their suba. the way their uh you know in their suba. the way they slowly encroached on their they slowly encroached on their integrity uh really was an eye openener integrity uh really was an eye openener for me personally and um I think a lot for me personally and um I think a lot of that I have been able to write about of that I have been able to write about in the lion and the lily you also uh in the lion and the lily you also uh pointed to this lovely uh painting which pointed to this lovely uh painting which shows Hastings meeting with the beams shows Hastings meeting with the beams and the unox and we'll talk much more and the unox and we'll talk much more about art as we go along but I want to about art as we go along but I want to turn attention now to uh yourself so turn attention now to uh yourself so give me a sense of you know where was give me a sense of you know where was your childhood where did you grow up your childhood where did you grow up tell me about your parents tell me about your parents Yeah. So I uh grew up in Delhi. I am Yeah. So I uh grew up in Delhi. I am very much uh you know a diial uh but I very much uh you know a diial uh but I am the I suppose the ch children of am the I suppose the ch children of immigrants like a lot of Delhi people immigrants like a lot of Delhi people are. So um it took me a lot of time to are. So um it took me a lot of time to come to this realization really uh you come to this realization really uh you know as a child you think your childhood know as a child you think your childhood is normal no matter what it is even it is normal no matter what it is even it is you know it is entirely different is you know it is entirely different from your neighbors you think okay well from your neighbors you think okay well it's normal for me this is how it is. Uh it's normal for me this is how it is. Uh so my father uh you know was from what so my father uh you know was from what he called undivided India. He was from he called undivided India. He was from Bangladesh. Um and at the time of Bangladesh. Um and at the time of partition him and his family moved to partition him and his family moved to Kolkata and uh he eventually moved uh to Kolkata and uh he eventually moved uh to London to become a barristister because London to become a barristister because you know looking for a way forward you know looking for a way forward having lost everything during partition having lost everything during partition um he needed to reinvent himself let us um he needed to reinvent himself let us say. uh and interestingly in his say. uh and interestingly in his reinvention I think like for a lot of reinvention I think like for a lot of Bengali gentlemen is that he shed uh Bengali gentlemen is that he shed uh everything that had linked him to everything that had linked him to Bangladesh you know he shed his Bangladesh you know he shed his Bengaless at least where we were Bengaless at least where we were concerned the family um he did never concerned the family um he did never spoke to us in Bengali he never wore you spoke to us in Bengali he never wore you know Bengali clothes we were not really know Bengali clothes we were not really exposed to Bengali culture that whole exposed to Bengali culture that whole side of that you know which later on I I side of that you know which later on I I mourned greatly uh that was not part of mourned greatly uh that was not part of my life so instead he went to England my life so instead he went to England where he met my mother. So my mother was where he met my mother. So my mother was uh you know a French Catholic lady and uh you know a French Catholic lady and she had gone to England to uh she was she had gone to England to uh she was very good at languages. She loved very good at languages. She loved English. So she had gone to perfect her English. So she had gone to perfect her English and they met and my mother found English and they met and my mother found my father very exotic. She had never my father very exotic. She had never been anywhere south of Nice, the south been anywhere south of Nice, the south of France. So she had a an extremely of France. So she had a an extremely exotic and idealized idea of what India exotic and idealized idea of what India might be. found my father extremely you might be. found my father extremely you know uh romantic and intriguing compared know uh romantic and intriguing compared to all the other white men I suppose uh to all the other white men I suppose uh and they got married and they lived in and they got married and they lived in England for a while where my brother was England for a while where my brother was born and as I said my mother had no idea born and as I said my mother had no idea what India was about and I don't think what India was about and I don't think my father did much to disabuse that my father did much to disabuse that notion so they finally decided this was notion so they finally decided this was um 1960s England when there was a fair um 1960s England when there was a fair amount of racism you know and my father amount of racism you know and my father was told that despite having become a was told that despite having become a bar barrista at last he would find it bar barrista at last he would find it very difficult to find a job equal to very difficult to find a job equal to his um education. So he decided to come his um education. So he decided to come back to Kolkata and you can imagine my back to Kolkata and you can imagine my French mother you know who had never French mother you know who had never been anywhere outside France except for been anywhere outside France except for London for the first time arriving by London for the first time arriving by ship uh in Bombay and then going to ship uh in Bombay and then going to Kolkata. Um and I think it was uh you Kolkata. Um and I think it was uh you know just an existential shock so great know just an existential shock so great um that I think after 5 years she must um that I think after 5 years she must have given my father an ultimatum of have given my father an ultimatum of some sort uh and they moved to Delhi some sort uh and they moved to Delhi where I was born and she found Delhi where I was born and she found Delhi much easier to deal with you know in much easier to deal with you know in terms of the climate and even in those terms of the climate and even in those days it was you know uh less chaotic let days it was you know uh less chaotic let us say than Kolkata. So I was raised in us say than Kolkata. So I was raised in this pretty unusual uh family where my this pretty unusual uh family where my first language was French because my first language was French because my mother only spoke to us in French. Um mother only spoke to us in French. Um she would her her way of teaching us she would her her way of teaching us French was to only speak to us in French French was to only speak to us in French and if we ever answered replied in and if we ever answered replied in French she would not she would ignore us French she would not she would ignore us you know so we we grew up with the first you know so we we grew up with the first language being French. Um and as a language being French. Um and as a result I can't pronounce the Hindi Rs result I can't pronounce the Hindi Rs you know the the way you you pronounce you know the the way you you pronounce the R in Hindi. uh which is ridiculous the R in Hindi. uh which is ridiculous really and I was made a lot of fun of by really and I was made a lot of fun of by my school friends. Um and so that was my school friends. Um and so that was it. Uh we spent time between France and it. Uh we spent time between France and India but I never got to uh uh explore India but I never got to uh uh explore my father's uh you know family because my father's uh you know family because he distanced himself. I think it was I he distanced himself. I think it was I think the trauma of that separation for think the trauma of that separation for him was too painful for for him ever to him was too painful for for him ever to be able to come to terms with it. So he be able to come to terms with it. So he just sort of uh you know left it out of just sort of uh you know left it out of our lives. So we were not burdened with our lives. So we were not burdened with his trauma. Uh but then we also did not his trauma. Uh but then we also did not get that side of it. So we got much more get that side of it. So we got much more from my French mother's side of it and from my French mother's side of it and her family and then my Delhi life. So in her family and then my Delhi life. So in a nutshell yes that was it. a nutshell yes that was it. So, by the way, I'm also uh half Bengali So, by the way, I'm also uh half Bengali and I I also I can't pronounce or and I I also I can't pronounce or whatever that I mean it's like we can whatever that I mean it's like we can just go down in loops if I tell you just go down in loops if I tell you about what I can't pronounce but yeah uh about what I can't pronounce but yeah uh so tell me about how the way that you so tell me about how the way that you looked at the world evolved through your looked at the world evolved through your childhood like you've spoken elsewhere childhood like you've spoken elsewhere about the evolving feminist lens that about the evolving feminist lens that first you see yourself as a woman in the first you see yourself as a woman in the world and then as an Asian woman in the world and then as an Asian woman in the world and then as a mother of two world and then as a mother of two daughters in the world and so on and so daughters in the world and so on and so forth. Uh but even before that you know forth. Uh but even before that you know when you are a kid at at at at one level when you are a kid at at at at one level you must have been a privileged pampered you must have been a privileged pampered kids you're reading an blighton and kids you're reading an blighton and talking about cucumber sandwiches as you talking about cucumber sandwiches as you mentioned in our last episode and not mentioned in our last episode and not reading garb but memorizing words but reading garb but memorizing words but and gradually I guess that begins to and gradually I guess that begins to expand. and you see the larger context expand. and you see the larger context of the city you're in and then the of the city you're in and then the larger context of the country you're in larger context of the country you're in and then the even larger context of the and then the even larger context of the city you are in but you hadn't really city you are in but you hadn't really seen uh as you begin to figure out the seen uh as you begin to figure out the history and all of that and and so on history and all of that and and so on and so forth. So, and that's the journey and so forth. So, and that's the journey that I'm really fascinated about in that I'm really fascinated about in terms of I would imagine that the way terms of I would imagine that the way the 10-year-old era looked at the world the 10-year-old era looked at the world would have been different from 15, would would have been different from 15, would have been different from 20, would have have been different from 20, would have been different from 25. Uh, take me been different from 25. Uh, take me through as much of that journey as you through as much of that journey as you can manage to uh uh, you know, piece can manage to uh uh, you know, piece together. Yeah. So, no, absolutely. together. Yeah. So, no, absolutely. You're right. We spoke about the first You're right. We spoke about the first bit of it at least in our earlier bit of it at least in our earlier episode. Um and as a child so so not episode. Um and as a child so so not only was I privileged to the extent that only was I privileged to the extent that you know I was reading uh you know all you know I was reading uh you know all the English language classics but my I the English language classics but my I was a great reader and um I was was a great reader and um I was constantly ill. So these two things constantly ill. So these two things meant that I read a lot because in those meant that I read a lot because in those days with no Tik Tok and no Snapchat and days with no Tik Tok and no Snapchat and no WhatsApp even you know what did you no WhatsApp even you know what did you do as a kid and I'm sure this resonates do as a kid and I'm sure this resonates even with you I mean youngster though even with you I mean youngster though you are. Um so I think I'm older than you are. Um so I think I'm older than you. No no nonsense. Let's not talk you. No no nonsense. Let's not talk about age but not that much. about age but not that much. Yeah. Um so yeah so what we did was read Yeah. Um so yeah so what we did was read books right when you were at home. Um books right when you were at home. Um and so there were two things that that and so there were two things that that really made a difference to my reading really made a difference to my reading life. The first thing was that I lived life. The first thing was that I lived across from a bookstore. Uh and the across from a bookstore. Uh and the bookstore owner was my neighbor. They bookstore owner was my neighbor. They lived above me. So he was very lived above me. So he was very sympathetic to my parents having to sympathetic to my parents having to spend money on books. So he said here spend money on books. So he said here borrow books whenever you're ill. And borrow books whenever you're ill. And then went off and no doubt sold those then went off and no doubt sold those books. not telling people they were books. not telling people they were secondhand. Um so I was very lucky so I secondhand. Um so I was very lucky so I read a lot of books um growing up but I read a lot of books um growing up but I also because my mother was at her wit's also because my mother was at her wit's end uh with the books the whole books end uh with the books the whole books issue but she had her whole collection issue but she had her whole collection when she came from France of French when she came from France of French classics. So she sat me down at a very classics. So she sat me down at a very pretty young age like 10 11 years old pretty young age like 10 11 years old and said here are a few basic uh grammar and said here are a few basic uh grammar rules that you need to know about uh rules that you need to know about uh reading French. This is how the accents reading French. This is how the accents are pronounced off you go. And she gave are pronounced off you go. And she gave me stem me stem me stem and all the great uh you know and all the great uh you know all that stuff which I was reading as a all that stuff which I was reading as a very young person you know made very very young person you know made very little sense to me but still somewhere I little sense to me but still somewhere I think some of those ideas some of that think some of those ideas some of that aesthetic sense some of the beauty of aesthetic sense some of the beauty of the words some of the complexity of the words some of the complexity of those thoughts you know uh no doubt uh those thoughts you know uh no doubt uh must have influenced me but I think one must have influenced me but I think one of the biggest changes uh for me was in of the biggest changes uh for me was in high school where I was very lucky to high school where I was very lucky to have as an English teacher. So I had two have as an English teacher. So I had two English teachers which shaped me you English teachers which shaped me you know who shaped me a lot. The first was know who shaped me a lot. The first was um a man who believed in my writing. You um a man who believed in my writing. You know, I was writing even as a teenager. know, I was writing even as a teenager. I I just loved books and writing. Uh and I I just loved books and writing. Uh and he told me I had talent. That was that he told me I had talent. That was that was it. He just wrote in one of my was it. He just wrote in one of my essays, you know, you have a talent. See essays, you know, you have a talent. See if you can pursue it. That's it. You if you can pursue it. That's it. You know, um but that meant a lot to me. I I know, um but that meant a lot to me. I I really carried that that belief which really carried that that belief which sometimes, you know, in the world you sometimes, you know, in the world you you it's so easy to lose that belief. you it's so easy to lose that belief. That belief was really important to me. That belief was really important to me. The second teacher was a feminist uh The second teacher was a feminist uh English teacher, you know. So she for English teacher, you know. So she for the first time ever in my life uh told the first time ever in my life uh told us to taught us how to question all the us to taught us how to question all the books that we were given uh and to look books that we were given uh and to look at every writing every great text you at every writing every great text you know um what did we read? We read Thomas know um what did we read? We read Thomas Hardy we read Austin all the great text Hardy we read Austin all the great text look at them from a feminist lens as look at them from a feminist lens as well you know see the regular classical well you know see the regular classical interpretation then look at it through a interpretation then look at it through a feminist lens. Um and I think that feminist lens. Um and I think that stayed with me because in high school stayed with me because in high school you know uh you know very influencable you know uh you know very influencable it makes a big huge influence and impact it makes a big huge influence and impact on the way you see the world. So that on the way you see the world. So that has stayed with me. That was the one big has stayed with me. That was the one big uh change to my reading life. And after uh change to my reading life. And after that I really tried to do that and look that I really tried to do that and look at things through a feminist voice. uh at things through a feminist voice. uh and then later on uh you know it was not and then later on uh you know it was not as you said not just the feminist angle as you said not just the feminist angle but I began to see the world uh in not but I began to see the world uh in not just through Delhi but India and the just through Delhi but India and the broader context and that's when I I broader context and that's when I I realized that there were many different realized that there were many different ways of writing about the world and when ways of writing about the world and when I read Chimamanda Adichi you know and I read Chimamanda Adichi you know and she talks about the danger of a single she talks about the danger of a single voice uh Maya Angelou the way she writes voice uh Maya Angelou the way she writes about her lived experience and I about her lived experience and I realized it was okay even Salman Rashti realized it was okay even Salman Rashti the way in which he played with words the way in which he played with words and suddenly I realized oh you don't and suddenly I realized oh you don't have to be given permission these people have to be given permission these people are writing the English language using are writing the English language using those same words but twisting and those same words but twisting and shaping them according to the way in shaping them according to the way in which they inhabit the world according which they inhabit the world according to the way in which what are the fruits to the way in which what are the fruits they eat you know it's not just apples they eat you know it's not just apples and cucumbers as we talked about and cucumbers as we talked about chimamanda she talks about mangoes and chimamanda she talks about mangoes and that resonated with me about hibiscus that resonated with me about hibiscus flowers about how the sense our flowers about how the sense our sensorial world is different from the sensorial world is different from the western world and how even that shapes western world and how even that shapes the way we write and the shapes the way the way we write and the shapes the way we are as you know human beings a and I we are as you know human beings a and I think even beyond that amid today uh think even beyond that amid today uh there's a book that I've just gotten at there's a book that I've just gotten at home which I haven't gotten around to home which I haven't gotten around to reading it's I think it's called an reading it's I think it's called an immense world it's newly out it talks immense world it's newly out it talks about how animals see the world or or about how animals see the world or or see is not the right word it is how they see is not the right word it is how they experience world sometimes through the experience world sometimes through the sense of taste of smell any of us who sense of taste of smell any of us who has dogs would know that Dogs only has dogs would know that Dogs only experience the world through smell. Uh experience the world through smell. Uh that is the their primary sense. Uh and that is the their primary sense. Uh and how we are surrounded by these millions how we are surrounded by these millions of creatures who inhabit the same of creatures who inhabit the same environment that we do but they are environment that we do but they are interpreting their world in these ways. interpreting their world in these ways. So I feel as a human being it is I I So I feel as a human being it is I I need to go beyond even my gender. I need need to go beyond even my gender. I need to go beyond even my Indianness. Uh I to go beyond even my Indianness. Uh I beyond even being a human being. And now beyond even being a human being. And now I think it is almost necessary for me to I think it is almost necessary for me to take on the fact that there's a take on the fact that there's a different way to be alive that different way to be alive that everything every creature that inhabits everything every creature that inhabits the space that I do you know has a right the space that I do you know has a right to be part of my journey and I need to to be part of my journey and I need to therefore bend my experience to take on therefore bend my experience to take on board those ways of being. It's not board those ways of being. It's not enough to be just an Indian woman in the enough to be just an Indian woman in the world. It's far more than that now I world. It's far more than that now I think. So think. So think. So I don't know I probably have gone very I don't know I probably have gone very far away from the original question you far away from the original question you have asked me but I feel that um every have asked me but I feel that um every such experience that I have every such such experience that I have every such book that I read which enlarges my own book that I read which enlarges my own sense of who I am and breaks those sense of who I am and breaks those borders between I think you know in the borders between I think you know in the end what it is it's it's trying to break end what it is it's it's trying to break uh uh you know create a continuum uh uh you know create a continuum between our inner selves and every other between our inner selves and every other human being and life form that exists. I human being and life form that exists. I should not be just who I am in this should not be just who I am in this body. A woman, a certain type of woman, body. A woman, a certain type of woman, uh privileged woman. I can be beyond uh privileged woman. I can be beyond that. You know that ultimately I would that. You know that ultimately I would like to ease all signs of who I am like to ease all signs of who I am exteriorly. So that as an inner self, I exteriorly. So that as an inner self, I can really bond with say amit who you can really bond with say amit who you are inside and who everybody listening are inside and who everybody listening to us and beyond that. I can't wait to to us and beyond that. I can't wait to pick up an immense world. I remember pick up an immense world. I remember being deeply affected by Thomas Nagel's being deeply affected by Thomas Nagel's essay, what is it like to be a bat? essay, what is it like to be a bat? where his argument was that you know where his argument was that you know bats navigate the world not through bats navigate the world not through sight but echolocation and his argument sight but echolocation and his argument was we can't possibly put ourselves in was we can't possibly put ourselves in the shoes of the bat or the ears of the the shoes of the bat or the ears of the bat as it were and sort of imagine that bat as it were and sort of imagine that and I also remember you know when I was and I also remember you know when I was a kid coming across the concept of the a kid coming across the concept of the expanding circle like the philosopher we expanding circle like the philosopher we like he had written this book called a like he had written this book called a history of European morals in the late history of European morals in the late 19th century where he came up with the 19th century where he came up with the concept of the expanding circle where he concept of the expanding circle where he said that from prehistoric times the said that from prehistoric times the circle of those we consider worthy of circle of those we consider worthy of moral consideration expands and expands moral consideration expands and expands and expands. So you begin with a family and expands. So you begin with a family and you go to a tribe and that might go and you go to a tribe and that might go to a region and that might be a nation to a region and that might be a nation state and it expands and his fun was state and it expands and his fun was that it just keeps uh expanding till all that it just keeps uh expanding till all of humanity is within it. Peter Singer of humanity is within it. Peter Singer later argued that all of animals also later argued that all of animals also should be within it. But in the times should be within it. But in the times that we live in, it often seems that that we live in, it often seems that that expanding circle is not inevitably that expanding circle is not inevitably going to expand that it contracts in going to expand that it contracts in different ways where we are beset in different ways where we are beset in these times by tribalisms of different these times by tribalisms of different kinds, identity politics of different kinds, identity politics of different kinds uh and so on and so forth. And to kinds uh and so on and so forth. And to that I then want to turn to you and ask that I then want to turn to you and ask that as you you as you made the journey that as you you as you made the journey where you're intellectually expanding where you're intellectually expanding and also at the same time empathetically and also at the same time empathetically expanding and feeling for more people expanding and feeling for more people and uh you know broadening your and uh you know broadening your narrative of what it means to be a Wii. narrative of what it means to be a Wii. uh at the same time um you know there is uh at the same time um you know there is so much in the world either the stuff so much in the world either the stuff that that we had normalized and stopped that that we had normalized and stopped thinking about or taking for granted or thinking about or taking for granted or the new developments that happen around the new developments that happen around us in our society both in India and us in our society both in India and elsewhere that must have really troubled elsewhere that must have really troubled you. So take me through the things that you. So take me through the things that made you angry while growing up and made you angry while growing up and through your journey. What were the through your journey. What were the sources of your anger? You know, some of sources of your anger? You know, some of which might have erupted in front of you which might have erupted in front of you and been new things and some of which and been new things and some of which would have been stuff that you had just would have been stuff that you had just normalized and taken for granted and normalized and taken for granted and suddenly you saw it with new eyes and suddenly you saw it with new eyes and you were like, "What the hell is this?" you were like, "What the hell is this?" Yeah. No, that's that's a great question Yeah. No, that's that's a great question and um and um and um I think uh the source of anger for me I think uh the source of anger for me really became uh when I saw the world really became uh when I saw the world through my daughters you know because I through my daughters you know because I had as you were saying I had had as you were saying I had internalized so much of this uh misogyny internalized so much of this uh misogyny that we have in say a city like India that we have in say a city like India growing up I had normalized so much of growing up I had normalized so much of it despite having you know coming from a it despite having you know coming from a family where this was not at all the family where this was not at all the norm you know my the first great norm you know my the first great feminist feminist feminist icon in example for me was my father. icon in example for me was my father. You know he was a complete feminist. Um You know he was a complete feminist. Um but nonetheless you through society but nonetheless you through society through culture through the movies through culture through the movies through songs through the interaction through songs through the interaction with your peers you normalize a lot of with your peers you normalize a lot of behaviors growing up as a woman in behaviors growing up as a woman in Delhi. Um but it was really when I was Delhi. Um but it was really when I was experiencing this a second time through experiencing this a second time through my daughters that I became just just you my daughters that I became just just you know just filled with a sense of rage know just filled with a sense of rage when these were again shown to me in the when these were again shown to me in the mirror through my children. Um so things mirror through my children. Um so things like for example very basic things like for example very basic things the racism we have in our society just the racism we have in our society just the color racism you know this color of the color racism you know this color of your skin will determine how people your skin will determine how people react to you on on even a degree level react to you on on even a degree level somebody who is a tiny bit darker tiny somebody who is a tiny bit darker tiny bit fairer and you'll be treated a bit fairer and you'll be treated a different way you know so that was different way you know so that was something that horrified me the things something that horrified me the things that my daughters were told about how that my daughters were told about how they were meant to behave the things they were meant to behave the things that it was accepted that they be you that it was accepted that they be you know a little quieter that that laughter know a little quieter that that laughter should not be too loud, that they just should not be too loud, that they just should sit with their legs together so should sit with their legs together so that nothing should ever show, that you that nothing should ever show, that you know, preferably they should wear these know, preferably they should wear these clothes, that preferably they should not clothes, that preferably they should not sing too loudly, they should not be sing too loudly, they should not be seen. Um, and I don't know if, you know, seen. Um, and I don't know if, you know, if men really truly can um understand if men really truly can um understand the extent to which we have to repress the extent to which we have to repress ourselves just to live a normal life and ourselves just to live a normal life and not be assaulted, not be raped, not be not be assaulted, not be raped, not be attacked, not be killed, not be, you attacked, not be killed, not be, you know, some way violated. Uh but whereas know, some way violated. Uh but whereas I had internalized a lot of those things I had internalized a lot of those things for myself, I really was not ready to do for myself, I really was not ready to do that for my for my girls. And that was that for my for my girls. And that was what really got me writing because I saw what really got me writing because I saw that a lot of the examples that were that a lot of the examples that were very subliminally almost fed to us very subliminally almost fed to us culturally through cultural norms were culturally through cultural norms were things like the Sitha story. You know, things like the Sitha story. You know, we were told to be, you know, perfect we were told to be, you know, perfect examplers of Indian femininity by uh you examplers of Indian femininity by uh you know, emulating the example of Sitha. know, emulating the example of Sitha. And the more I looked at the story of And the more I looked at the story of Sitha, the more I was horrified and the Sitha, the more I was horrified and the more I was absolutely determined that I more I was absolutely determined that I would not offer this as an option for my would not offer this as an option for my girls or for any 21st century young girls or for any 21st century young woman growing up in India. That this woman growing up in India. That this should not be the limit of her ambitions should not be the limit of her ambitions to be someone like Sitha as she is to be someone like Sitha as she is represented to us. You know this fair, represented to us. You know this fair, quiet, domesticated quiet, domesticated quiet, domesticated uh perfect patriarchal brahminical woman uh perfect patriarchal brahminical woman really which is the way in which she is really which is the way in which she is interpreted to us. interpreted to us. in popular culture in popular writing in popular culture in popular writing even in uh children's books and things even in uh children's books and things and that got me started uh thinking and that got me started uh thinking about angry women you know how is it about angry women you know how is it poss how can you direct your fury in poss how can you direct your fury in India you know what has happened in the India you know what has happened in the past uh and I came across the example of past uh and I came across the example of course of draati you know uh I read course of draati you know uh I read Ivatikar's juga and books like that and Ivatikar's juga and books like that and that was like it just blew apart my mind that was like it just blew apart my mind you know and I was like Okay, now I have you know and I was like Okay, now I have license to say what I want to say to license to say what I want to say to examine our myths which I thought till examine our myths which I thought till then untouchable. I thought they were then untouchable. I thought they were monoliths presented you know that they monoliths presented you know that they had never changed through time. I had never changed through time. I realized this is completely untrue. They realized this is completely untrue. They have been added to over centuries have been added to over centuries uh interpreted reinterpreted. Brahmans uh interpreted reinterpreted. Brahmans have added lines to it, you know, have added lines to it, you know, choruses and verses and that was very choruses and verses and that was very liberating to me because I was able to liberating to me because I was able to go to what is more or less understood to go to what is more or less understood to be a core story of the Mahabharat and be a core story of the Mahabharat and extract this figure of Draati who is so extract this figure of Draati who is so powerful but is so angry you know she's powerful but is so angry you know she's a really a fiery woman and I use that to a really a fiery woman and I use that to to navigate the sort of very loaded to navigate the sort of very loaded landscape that we live in India. For landscape that we live in India. For example, it was around the same time example, it was around the same time that uh there was an incident that that uh there was an incident that happened in Delhi where young happened in Delhi where young collegegoing women you know going out at collegegoing women you know going out at night were uh you know uh um I don't night were uh you know uh um I don't know if they were assaulted or molested know if they were assaulted or molested and there was a big human cry in the and there was a big human cry in the papers and an Indian politician a woman papers and an Indian politician a woman said uh that they should have observed said uh that they should have observed the Lakshman raka you know they should the Lakshman raka you know they should have stayed within the bounds of their have stayed within the bounds of their uh hostel at night not stepped outside uh hostel at night not stepped outside you know that enraged me so much this you know that enraged me so much this idea of the Lakshman raika using idea of the Lakshman raika using cultural norms and to pretend that this cultural norms and to pretend that this has existed forever to pretend that this has existed forever to pretend that this represents Indianness Indian womanhood represents Indianness Indian womanhood to the extent that you cannot challenge to the extent that you cannot challenge it today in the 21st century and so all it today in the 21st century and so all of these thinkings led to my writing of these thinkings led to my writing what was my first manuscript but was what was my first manuscript but was eventually my fourth published work eventually my fourth published work which is the song of Draadi um and even which is the song of Draadi um and even till today I find that that when I read till today I find that that when I read it I can you know I am sometimes was it I can you know I am sometimes was amazed that that book doesn't burst into amazed that that book doesn't burst into flames because it is so filled with flames because it is so filled with anger you know mine and I think anger you know mine and I think channeling uh the character Draati's channeling uh the character Draati's anger but for me it is my most anger but for me it is my most controversial let us say book because I controversial let us say book because I really have tried to uh challenge a lot really have tried to uh challenge a lot of what we consider our cultural norms. of what we consider our cultural norms. Why are they considered cultural norms? Why are they considered cultural norms? Is cultural norms something that can Is cultural norms something that can never be challenged? You know that is never be challenged? You know that is patently untrue. uh to fight back patently untrue. uh to fight back against things like today um this against things like today um this excessive uh you know valorization of excessive uh you know valorization of being a wife uh and a mother in India so being a wife uh and a mother in India so that you have this um this festival um that you have this um this festival um oh god it's completely slipped my mind oh god it's completely slipped my mind um where you worship the long life of um where you worship the long life of your husband by fasting uh karach yeah your husband by fasting uh karach yeah karach so you know I've seen this in my karach so you know I've seen this in my life whereas initially I've never heard life whereas initially I've never heard about it my Bengali father had never about it my Bengali father had never heard about it. We never did anything heard about it. We never did anything around that. Obviously, my French mother around that. Obviously, my French mother knew nothing about it. Uh but even in knew nothing about it. Uh but even in Delhi, we didn't speak about it much. Delhi, we didn't speak about it much. Then it started to appear in Bollywood Then it started to appear in Bollywood movies. And now in my community every movies. And now in my community every garbach the ladies very proudly go to garbach the ladies very proudly go to the middle of the community garden and the middle of the community garden and sit around and you know sing songs and sit around and you know sing songs and no doubt feel very valorized in their no doubt feel very valorized in their role as perfect brahnically you know role as perfect brahnically you know using strictctures that have been given using strictctures that have been given by the brahnical patriarchal order you by the brahnical patriarchal order you know internalizing these things being know internalizing these things being very proud of it and feeling fulfilled very proud of it and feeling fulfilled in their roles and feeling that this is in their roles and feeling that this is what we should be telling young girls what we should be telling young girls you So given half a chance I am enraged you So given half a chance I am enraged every day if I stop to think about these every day if I stop to think about these things. But the only way that me things. But the only way that me individually I can do something about it individually I can do something about it is to write about it. Um so so yes many is to write about it. Um so so yes many things that are that are enraging and things that are that are enraging and you are right that we are becoming it you are right that we are becoming it seems to be more and more tribal uh in seems to be more and more tribal uh in the way in which we somehow we seem to the way in which we somehow we seem to get our sense of worth our sense of get our sense of worth our sense of identity from our tribes even more than identity from our tribes even more than you know before which is really you know before which is really puzzling. There's now I don't know if puzzling. There's now I don't know if you've come across it you've come across it a sort of a new wave of uh in the west a sort of a new wave of uh in the west of women being trad wives uh where they of women being trad wives uh where they are you know almost like moments they are you know almost like moments they are staying at home stay at home mothers are staying at home stay at home mothers it's become very glamorous to be to you it's become very glamorous to be to you know to take Tik Toks of yourself in know to take Tik Toks of yourself in your kitchen with your many beautiful your kitchen with your many beautiful blonde children around you and you are blonde children around you and you are going and milking the cows and you are going and milking the cows and you are doing all these lovely things which doing all these lovely things which apparently hearken back to a happier a apparently hearken back to a happier a time of bliss where men were not time of bliss where men were not challenged in their roles, right? And challenged in their roles, right? And I'm like come to India if you want to I'm like come to India if you want to see trades. This is nothing new. Trad see trades. This is nothing new. Trad wives has been going on a long time, you wives has been going on a long time, you know. Um, so it is a mystery to me, you know. Um, so it is a mystery to me, you know. But I think also that it is normal know. But I think also that it is normal uh when the world is in crux when there uh when the world is in crux when there are many uh like feminis feminism has are many uh like feminis feminism has brought men maybe to a sense of brought men maybe to a sense of reckoning where they had there this is reckoning where they had there this is now the push back against many waves of now the push back against many waves of feminism you know where much was feminism you know where much was obtained much was celebrated and there obtained much was celebrated and there was going to be an inevitable push back was going to be an inevitable push back so I don't feel despair when I see this so I don't feel despair when I see this I feel that it is perhaps somewhere a I feel that it is perhaps somewhere a measure of the success that we had that measure of the success that we had that women had you know that their power was women had you know that their power was finally out in the open enough that a finally out in the open enough that a lot of men in the cultural uh you know lot of men in the cultural uh you know in the traditional modes felt challenged in the traditional modes felt challenged and had to kick back and push back and had to kick back and push back against that but there will be again you against that but there will be again you know another movement I am quite sure of know another movement I am quite sure of that you know a mirror of the whole that you know a mirror of the whole tradive thing is what happens in the tradive thing is what happens in the manosphere I've actually entered a manosphere I've actually entered a rabbit hole where uh you know out of rabbit hole where uh you know out of horror I've I've I know those ecosystems horror I've I've I know those ecosystems so well because uh in a horrified way so well because uh in a horrified way I've just gone deeper and deeper into I've just gone deeper and deeper into checking out what they look like and checking out what they look like and it's mindblowing but we won't go there it's mindblowing but we won't go there but I must I must point out I must point but I must I must point out something else to you that this out something else to you that this whole Lakshman raka thing in a sense whole Lakshman raka thing in a sense Bengali are responsible for it because Bengali are responsible for it because the concept of the Lakshman raka was not the concept of the Lakshman raka was not in the original Ramayan it came about in the original Ramayan it came about because of kitivas's 15th century because of kitivas's 15th century Bengali translation of the Ramayan so I Bengali translation of the Ramayan so I think both you and I on behalf of our think both you and I on behalf of our ancestors over may kalpa to the world ancestors over may kalpa to the world but here's what I want to ask you that but here's what I want to ask you that you You're absolutely right that that you You're absolutely right that that whole tradife manuscript thing is whole tradife manuscript thing is happening over there but even over here happening over there but even over here there is an embrace of uh this kind of there is an embrace of uh this kind of thinking you know like throughout of thinking you know like throughout of course we have glorified sitha over course we have glorified sitha over drapppadi but at the same time drapppadi but at the same time drapppad's been outspoken and drapppad's been outspoken and externalized her rage in many many externalized her rage in many many different versions of the mahabharata different versions of the mahabharata over time thus indicating that that over time thus indicating that that stand also exists but what we have seen stand also exists but what we have seen in recent times is exactly what you in recent times is exactly what you pointed to when you said that hey you pointed to when you said that hey you know uh The kvachoth became a national know uh The kvachoth became a national phenomenon as opposed to a regional one phenomenon as opposed to a regional one partly because of popular culture partly because of popular culture because popular culture embraced it and because popular culture embraced it and popular culture would have embraced it popular culture would have embraced it for a reason because society was a for a reason because society was a particular way and in many different particular way and in many different ways we are regressing into worse kinds ways we are regressing into worse kinds of misogyny than before. And by the way, of misogyny than before. And by the way, I once quoted in a column of mine from I once quoted in a column of mine from Iraati Kurves Yuga and got threatened on Iraati Kurves Yuga and got threatened on Twitter with lynching because I had had Twitter with lynching because I had had the temerity to quote the particular the temerity to quote the particular birds I did, but I have survived and birds I did, but I have survived and that was long time ago. So, so why do that was long time ago. So, so why do you think there is this sort of tendency you think there is this sort of tendency uh uh because sure patriarchy is all uh uh because sure patriarchy is all pervasive but why would it be worse pervasive but why would it be worse today or is it that social media today or is it that social media empowers those who are most um willing empowers those who are most um willing to scream into a megaphone to scream into a megaphone I hope it's the latter aid and uh I hope it's the latter aid and uh somehow subconsciously I think somehow subconsciously I think instinctively I feel it is the latter it instinctively I feel it is the latter it is the fact that social media and just is the fact that social media and just the the way media is today, it amplifies the the way media is today, it amplifies the voices of hate because they are the the voices of hate because they are the loudest. Uh good people tend to be loudest. Uh good people tend to be quieter. They tend to go about their quieter. They tend to go about their lives, not looking for too much trouble lives, not looking for too much trouble uh and you know staying under the radar uh and you know staying under the radar and not find feeling the need to go and and not find feeling the need to go and you know screech and shout about their you know screech and shout about their uh their feelings on social media. So I uh their feelings on social media. So I think uh there is a there's some part of think uh there is a there's some part of that to play because I in my day-to-day that to play because I in my day-to-day and in my research I come across so many and in my research I come across so many extremely fine and good people who do extremely fine and good people who do not stand with the current dispensation not stand with the current dispensation who do not stand with uh you know the who do not stand with uh you know the voices of hatred that are that seem to voices of hatred that are that seem to you know be spewing everywhere. But you know be spewing everywhere. But there are also people I think who feel there are also people I think who feel you know who don't want to risk too much you know who don't want to risk too much you know who would rather play it safe you know who would rather play it safe than than you know than go out and and than than you know than go out and and challenge the status quo. Um as you were challenge the status quo. Um as you were saying this has always happened you know saying this has always happened you know we have always had voices of women who we have always had voices of women who are far more you know powerful than uh are far more you know powerful than uh than we think acceptable today. So even than we think acceptable today. So even the whole Lakman raka uh uh issue um the whole Lakman raka uh uh issue um when I was talking about it earlier I when I was talking about it earlier I remember at one point I I mentioned the remember at one point I I mentioned the example of Miraabai that I talk about in example of Miraabai that I talk about in one of my books and I said uh you know one of my books and I said uh you know this whole we had a movement in called this whole we had a movement in called reclaim the night you know because women reclaim the night you know because women needed to reclaim outside spaces because needed to reclaim outside spaces because they felt so threatened but I was like they felt so threatened but I was like look at the example of Miraabai that we look at the example of Miraabai that we have you know 16th century Rajput elite have you know 16th century Rajput elite woman she just leave the comfort of her woman she just leave the comfort of her pivoted life and goes out into the dusty pivoted life and goes out into the dusty hinterland of North India. What a hinterland of North India. What a dangerous space we believe it to be. But dangerous space we believe it to be. But it she was you know completely accepted it she was you know completely accepted by that community in that time. Today by that community in that time. Today when we look at her myths she has been when we look at her myths she has been reanitized brought back into the safe reanitized brought back into the safe space of family temples of the rat codia space of family temples of the rat codia temples and you know made again that uh temples and you know made again that uh untouchable uh perfect woman that she untouchable uh perfect woman that she she sought to break the bonds of you she sought to break the bonds of you know cast and gender. so so strongly uh know cast and gender. so so strongly uh so vividly. But yes, so these examples so vividly. But yes, so these examples have been there to you know throughout have been there to you know throughout history. But yes, today we live in this history. But yes, today we live in this bizarre time where the the voices that bizarre time where the the voices that act against it that are feeling act against it that are feeling threatened by all these advances that threatened by all these advances that have been made are the loudest. And have been made are the loudest. And unfortunately also what we have you know unfortunately also what we have you know is then the exposure of people who do is then the exposure of people who do not want to risk what they have by not want to risk what they have by standing against it. And I think uh standing against it. And I think uh because things are getting so extreme because things are getting so extreme everywhere in the world. Perhaps what it everywhere in the world. Perhaps what it will bring out uh is it will push people will bring out uh is it will push people into taking a stance one way or the into taking a stance one way or the other. So we know that the loud, noisy, other. So we know that the loud, noisy, hatefilled ones are taking a stance. But hatefilled ones are taking a stance. But I think it will push the others into I think it will push the others into maybe uh you know taking on roles in the maybe uh you know taking on roles in the public space that they would not have public space that they would not have done otherwise. Uh making statements done otherwise. Uh making statements that they may would not have otherwise that they may would not have otherwise becoming more proactive in fighting for becoming more proactive in fighting for de democratic rights into gender fre you de democratic rights into gender fre you know rights for gender uh norms. Um so know rights for gender uh norms. Um so I'm hoping that that happens that when I'm hoping that that happens that when things become too extreme that even things become too extreme that even those of us who would be quiet who would those of us who would be quiet who would want to stay uh you know quietly living want to stay uh you know quietly living our lives will be pushed out into the our lives will be pushed out into the open and forced to take a stand. That's open and forced to take a stand. That's not necessarily a bad thing and I do see not necessarily a bad thing and I do see it happening in the circles uh that I it happening in the circles uh that I share on WhatsApp groups and my family share on WhatsApp groups and my family and my extended colleagues you know I do and my extended colleagues you know I do find that people are now almost forced find that people are now almost forced to take a stand and they are doing that to take a stand and they are doing that they are cutting off with family members they are cutting off with family members who are too extreme in their hatreds who who are too extreme in their hatreds who are not willing to you know uh negotiate are not willing to you know uh negotiate to to talk about things. So I think it a to to talk about things. So I think it a crisis point is being reached and so crisis point is being reached and so there will be hopefully a reversal uh there will be hopefully a reversal uh eventually. eventually. eventually. I want to double click on something you I want to double click on something you mentioned a while back where you spoke mentioned a while back where you spoke about the rage you would be filled with about the rage you would be filled with where you saw uh how much that was where you saw uh how much that was normal for you was actually not normal normal for you was actually not normal that your daughters were also having to that your daughters were also having to go through it and that was unacceptable go through it and that was unacceptable uh for you and this extra layer of uh for you and this extra layer of awareness that uh you know women have to awareness that uh you know women have to live with and how many men don't realize live with and how many men don't realize that like I think it took me into that like I think it took me into adulthood to realize that every woman I adulthood to realize that every woman I know without exception walks around the know without exception walks around the world with an extra layer of awareness world with an extra layer of awareness that I just don't think about at all. that I just don't think about at all. You know, I when I enter a lift, I don't You know, I when I enter a lift, I don't have to look around to see who else is have to look around to see who else is there. If I want to go for a walk at there. If I want to go for a walk at night, I just go for a walk at night. night, I just go for a walk at night. Uh, you know, I don't have to think Uh, you know, I don't have to think about which neighborhood I'm in or what about which neighborhood I'm in or what I'm wearing and like that. And I'm wearing and like that. And women go through that. And and that kind women go through that. And and that kind of makes me wonder, and this is a of makes me wonder, and this is a question I've asked, you know, uh, question I've asked, you know, uh, previous guests on my show as well, that previous guests on my show as well, that how do women deal with the rage, right? how do women deal with the rage, right? The rage surely has to be ubiquitous uh The rage surely has to be ubiquitous uh among women. Uh it's just a freaking among women. Uh it's just a freaking horrible world. How do they deal with horrible world. How do they deal with the rage? Like in your books you've the rage? Like in your books you've referred to you know different referred to you know different characters like Draadi and Radha and characters like Draadi and Radha and Lakshmi and Miraabai and how they deal Lakshmi and Miraabai and how they deal with the different kind of rages but with the different kind of rages but always there is a larger kind of cause always there is a larger kind of cause out there. But I would imagine that in out there. But I would imagine that in those times it would have been even those times it would have been even harder for a woman to even be able to harder for a woman to even be able to make coherent sense of a rage because make coherent sense of a rage because you would not have those feminist frames you would not have those feminist frames that we are all fortunate to have today that we are all fortunate to have today where you can make sense of the world. where you can make sense of the world. So something normalized would be So something normalized would be normalized forever. You would never ever normalized forever. You would never ever question it perhaps through a life but question it perhaps through a life but nevertheless there would be some subdued nevertheless there would be some subdued rage there. So maybe therefore enlarging rage there. So maybe therefore enlarging my question, how did women deal with my question, how did women deal with their age and how do women deal with their age and how do women deal with their age even today? their age even today? I think um I think a primary way in I think um I think a primary way in which women have dealt and continue to which women have dealt and continue to deal with it is that uh you know deal with it is that uh you know patriarchy is a very very um patriarchy is a very very um clever in a sense and uh flexible system clever in a sense and uh flexible system in the sense that it valorizes women. So in the sense that it valorizes women. So it will of course subjugate you in it will of course subjugate you in enormous ways. It will take away many of enormous ways. It will take away many of your freedoms. you know, you will not be your freedoms. you know, you will not be able to travel, for example, freely. Uh able to travel, for example, freely. Uh you will not be able to marry uh the man you will not be able to marry uh the man of your choice. You will not be able to of your choice. You will not be able to work in certain areas, but it will also work in certain areas, but it will also give you what was what is seen as uh give you what was what is seen as uh great gifts. It will at certain times of great gifts. It will at certain times of the year worship you as a goddess. So the year worship you as a goddess. So little girls, you know, uh will be pre- little girls, you know, uh will be pre- pubertal girls will be woripped uh pubertal girls will be woripped uh during a festival, right? Um during a festival, right? Um at other times uh you will be told uh at other times uh you will be told uh you know your a woman's honor is above you know your a woman's honor is above and above and beyond everything. We will and above and beyond everything. We will fight for you for that. You know we are fight for you for that. You know we are there your your brothers. This is raki. there your your brothers. This is raki. We will tie this you know you tie this We will tie this you know you tie this thread around us. We protect to uh to to thread around us. We protect to uh to to we we promise to protect you throughout we we promise to protect you throughout your life. Most women will not stop to your life. Most women will not stop to think why do we need protecting? Why think why do we need protecting? Why can't we protect our own own honor? What can't we protect our own own honor? What is our honor? Where in does our honor is our honor? Where in does our honor lie? Right? So a lot of these so-called lie? Right? So a lot of these so-called you know gifts and uh things that c that you know gifts and uh things that c that that society offers to women is enough that society offers to women is enough to offset a lot of the subjugation a lot to offset a lot of the subjugation a lot of the violence that is enacted against of the violence that is enacted against us right uh and the rest of the stuff us right uh and the rest of the stuff the really really dark stuff you know uh the really really dark stuff you know uh is too shameful to be even I think is too shameful to be even I think called rage. So whether we talk about called rage. So whether we talk about the fact that marital rape is not the fact that marital rape is not recognized in India, what does that say? recognized in India, what does that say? You know that means that a woman is You know that means that a woman is meant to not even think of her own body meant to not even think of her own body as her own once she is married. That as her own once she is married. That means she gives up not just her objects, means she gives up not just her objects, her possessions, her body, you know, the her possessions, her body, you know, the integrity of her body. So that is the integrity of her body. So that is the extent to which we are told we must extent to which we are told we must internalize the lack of agency and internalize the lack of agency and ownership over our own bodies. So in ownership over our own bodies. So in those circumstances you know how do we those circumstances you know how do we where is the outlet for rage? There is where is the outlet for rage? There is none. We would combust if we were able none. We would combust if we were able to do anything with that rage. So to do anything with that rage. So occasionally we have something you know occasionally we have something you know we have that amazing movie that I was we have that amazing movie that I was late to the party and saw only recently late to the party and saw only recently uh the great Indian kitchen the the uh the great Indian kitchen the the Malali one I think where it shows the Malali one I think where it shows the everyday life uh of a woman from a everyday life uh of a woman from a middle class uh you know south Indian middle class uh you know south Indian family and how her her life is just family and how her her life is just eaced and crushed by the dayto-day eaced and crushed by the dayto-day chores that she has to perform you know chores that she has to perform you know the kitchen chore the no recognition the the kitchen chore the no recognition the no praise for that you know the very no praise for that you know the very slight praise of okay today it's not so slight praise of okay today it's not so bad and that is enough to valorize you bad and that is enough to valorize you and you take that and you hold it in and you take that and you hold it in your heart then of course now you have your heart then of course now you have Banu Mushtak's book right um lampart and Banu Mushtak's book right um lampart and that is one way for you to express your that is one way for you to express your rage so Banu was able as a journalist rage so Banu was able as a journalist and as somebody who came from that and as somebody who came from that disempowered or the wise background of a disempowered or the wise background of a poor Muslim woman living in South India poor Muslim woman living in South India how did she deal with her rage for the how did she deal with her rage for the years and years of her being a years and years of her being a journalist and observing those stories. journalist and observing those stories. So there you have it. She was able to So there you have it. She was able to write down those words, write down those write down those words, write down those stories and today she has won uh you stories and today she has won uh you know the the the prize with book and know the the the prize with book and translation and these words are now translation and these words are now going to go to millions of people and going to go to millions of people and give hope to millions of women. So it's give hope to millions of women. So it's not easy Amit because because it is not not easy Amit because because it is not just a a question of the stick there is just a a question of the stick there is also the carrot and often that carrot is also the carrot and often that carrot is enough to keep a lot of women quiet and enough to keep a lot of women quiet and living their lives. uh but it is living their lives. uh but it is hopefully sometimes when that you know hopefully sometimes when that you know that tipping point is reached that a that tipping point is reached that a woman will come out and say okay I have woman will come out and say okay I have this story to this I have this movie to this story to this I have this movie to make I have this other thing that I want make I have this other thing that I want to share with the world but it is it is to share with the world but it is it is not easy because what you give up when not easy because what you give up when you talk out against patriarchy is a you talk out against patriarchy is a great deal it's your place and your great deal it's your place and your standing in society is your uh you know standing in society is your uh you know even not just your standing but as a you even not just your standing but as a you know as a as a woman in in Indian know as a as a woman in in Indian society you are given And uh you know society you are given And uh you know you are given a lot of um bow as we say you are given a lot of um bow as we say in Delhi you know you are given respect in Delhi you know you are given respect you are given a certain dignity now when you are given a certain dignity now when I walk around uh in Delhi as an older I walk around uh in Delhi as an older woman uh it's no longer as dangerous as woman uh it's no longer as dangerous as it was when I was young and I am given it was when I was young and I am given you know respect people will talk to me you know respect people will talk to me a certain way the you know the a certain way the you know the shopkeepers have respect for me because shopkeepers have respect for me because I'm a privileged older woman. So you are I'm a privileged older woman. So you are constantly given uh sort of little constantly given uh sort of little tidbits to keep you uh part of the tidbits to keep you uh part of the system and not fight too hard against system and not fight too hard against it. it. it. You know, a great example of uh how You know, a great example of uh how patriarchy can frame women in apparently patriarchy can frame women in apparently complimentary ways comes when you speak complimentary ways comes when you speak about Lakshmi in your books where you about Lakshmi in your books where you point out how the British painted her as point out how the British painted her as a kind of Amazon and uh you know the the a kind of Amazon and uh you know the the local Brahman folks painted her as a local Brahman folks painted her as a sort of mother India and both of those sort of mother India and both of those are deeply reductive and almost uh are deeply reductive and almost uh offensive uh to any women and I remember offensive uh to any women and I remember you know the column for which in in you know the column for which in in which I quoted u uh Iraati Kurve was one which I quoted u uh Iraati Kurve was one about adultery laws Um u the main about adultery laws Um u the main adultery law has been struck down but adultery law has been struck down but there are a couple of other laws like it there are a couple of other laws like it on the books and the way those laws are on the books and the way those laws are written in the Indian penal code they written in the Indian penal code they treat women as a property of the treat women as a property of the husband. So the adultery law husband. So the adultery law specifically spoke you know spoke of the specifically spoke you know spoke of the husband as an agrieved party and husband as an agrieved party and agrieved by the guy his wife was having agrieved by the guy his wife was having an affair with as if you know uh as if an affair with as if you know uh as if it is a matter of theft that guy has it is a matter of theft that guy has interfered with someone else's property interfered with someone else's property and you know just the wording was so uh and you know just the wording was so uh bizarre and uh uh sort of uh shitty and bizarre and uh uh sort of uh shitty and you know in your studies of the women of you know in your studies of the women of centuries past you know centuries past you know what did to observe of what today from what did to observe of what today from today's prisms we would not describe as today's prisms we would not describe as feminist acts but in their own ways were feminist acts but in their own ways were little acts of rebellion like one of my little acts of rebellion like one of my earlier guests I think it might have earlier guests I think it might have been Mulika Banerjee with whom you did been Mulika Banerjee with whom you did an excellent podcast episode by the way an excellent podcast episode by the way a few weeks ago I'll link to that from a few weeks ago I'll link to that from the show notes mulika told me about u uh the show notes mulika told me about u uh about how her mom once in the '9s 50s or about how her mom once in the '9s 50s or 60s when she was a young woman did a 60s when she was a young woman did a Tonga trip from one city to another city Tonga trip from one city to another city just with another female friend and I just with another female friend and I thought that that was so incredibly thought that that was so incredibly awesome. I hope I'm remembering this awesome. I hope I'm remembering this right but uh you know age does strange right but uh you know age does strange things to memory but a story of that things to memory but a story of that sort and it struck me as she spoke about sort and it struck me as she spoke about a mom that uh and many uh with many a mom that uh and many uh with many guests this has happened you know guests this has happened you know Shantaa Gokle Nal Pandi when she spoke Shantaa Gokle Nal Pandi when she spoke about her mom Shivani is that these were about her mom Shivani is that these were not women who were uh you know that not women who were uh you know that stereotype of the bra burning feminist stereotype of the bra burning feminist but in quiet ways within the constraints but in quiet ways within the constraints of their lives and their environments of their lives and their environments they were asserting their agency and they were asserting their agency and their independence and um you know if if their independence and um you know if if you just look at that a little more you just look at that a little more closely it can be so inspiring. So give closely it can be so inspiring. So give me a sense of the lived feminisms as it me a sense of the lived feminisms as it were of all the women who lived in uh were of all the women who lived in uh those years say in Mughal times and not those years say in Mughal times and not just the women who were royals who just the women who were royals who obviously also had a lot of power uh to obviously also had a lot of power uh to go with being a woman but give me a go with being a woman but give me a sense of what life would have been like sense of what life would have been like for uh the normal woman as it were the for uh the normal woman as it were the citizen and how they would have had you citizen and how they would have had you know the kind of small compromises and know the kind of small compromises and rebellions that their lives would have rebellions that their lives would have involved. Well uh now you've put me uh involved. Well uh now you've put me uh in a tough spot AIT because uh when I in a tough spot AIT because uh when I have written about uh you know Mughal have written about uh you know Mughal women uh when I wrote especially women uh when I wrote especially daughters of the sun and I was asked why daughters of the sun and I was asked why do I not talk about everyday women you do I not talk about everyday women you know can is there something that I can know can is there something that I can say about that and I said that the lives say about that and I said that the lives of women is so erased it is so normal of women is so erased it is so normal for women's voices to be lost that it is for women's voices to be lost that it is only elite women who have a chance of only elite women who have a chance of being recorded at all you know even If being recorded at all you know even If it is in a cursory manner, it is only it is in a cursory manner, it is only elite women. So there is very little elite women. So there is very little that I can say uh with certainty um that that I can say uh with certainty um that this is how ordinary women uh you know this is how ordinary women uh you know live their lives and this these are the live their lives and this these are the sort of ways in which they could um say sort of ways in which they could um say combat uh you know the challenges in combat uh you know the challenges in their life but I can do that in a sort their life but I can do that in a sort of oblique manner which is often how one of oblique manner which is often how one accesses women's stories is in an accesses women's stories is in an oblique way. you know you're not you're oblique way. you know you're not you're looking at the sun to look at a man's looking at the sun to look at a man's story and then on the side you see the story and then on the side you see the clouds and you see something else. Um so clouds and you see something else. Um so we have through the way in which say we have through the way in which say Abbar talks about women. Um Abbar talks about women. Um so he is somebody who has a lot of so he is somebody who has a lot of compassion and sympathy for women. We compassion and sympathy for women. We know that through the laws he enacts know that through the laws he enacts through the way he writes about them you through the way he writes about them you know through Abu al- Fazal is that he know through Abu al- Fazal is that he has a lot of sympathy because in his own has a lot of sympathy because in his own life as you have said the royal women life as you have said the royal women have a lot of freedoms even when they have a lot of freedoms even when they don't have that freedom later on in his don't have that freedom later on in his reign they would still insist on reign they would still insist on exercising it. Um so he is very exercising it. Um so he is very sympathetic to the way in which uh you sympathetic to the way in which uh you know women live their life. Uh and one know women live their life. Uh and one of the things he says that listen let us of the things he says that listen let us try and um increase the age of uh try and um increase the age of uh marriage uh you know marriageable age marriage uh you know marriageable age should be increased to 14 for women and should be increased to 14 for women and 16 for boys for example. He goes from 16 for boys for example. He goes from being somebody who uh is quite impressed being somebody who uh is quite impressed with the uh the whole notion of sati with the uh the whole notion of sati saying these women love their husbands saying these women love their husbands so much that they can't imagine a day so much that they can't imagine a day without them to realizing that it is without them to realizing that it is often u not their own choice that they often u not their own choice that they are being forced into making these are being forced into making these decisions and he starts you know acting decisions and he starts you know acting out against that. So we see the out against that. So we see the challenges that women have to face that challenges that women have to face that you know sati is not something that they you know sati is not something that they willingly go into. They are often forced willingly go into. They are often forced by their men folk who would rather that by their men folk who would rather that they you know uh not carry on living they you know uh not carry on living because it's too dangerous uh to control because it's too dangerous uh to control their sexual chastity once their their sexual chastity once their husbands are dead. Um but an interesting husbands are dead. Um but an interesting thing that he then uh comes that comes thing that he then uh comes that comes about in his writing and we see what about in his writing and we see what women were up to um is that uh he is women were up to um is that uh he is very annoyed at people who drink too very annoyed at people who drink too much. Okay. So drinking is part of much. Okay. So drinking is part of courtly culture. Absolutely. And it is courtly culture. Absolutely. And it is part of the way in which you enjoy an part of the way in which you enjoy an evening. It isn't the way in which your evening. It isn't the way in which your experiences of art are enhanced by experiences of art are enhanced by having a little bit of alcohol but having a little bit of alcohol but everything in moderation. That was everything in moderation. That was really you know the Mughal way and what really you know the Mughal way and what Adbar believed and it shouldn't be to Adbar believed and it shouldn't be to excess where your senses take leave of excess where your senses take leave of you. You should be the one in control you. You should be the one in control always. So finally he realized that he always. So finally he realized that he could not stop his people from drinking. could not stop his people from drinking. He could not put an outright ban because He could not put an outright ban because people would find a way to drink. So he people would find a way to drink. So he opens these little uh sort of uh you opens these little uh sort of uh you know distilleries and little shops, know distilleries and little shops, alcohol shops at the entrance of Agra alcohol shops at the entrance of Agra where you can buy alcohol. But he makes where you can buy alcohol. But he makes the seller of the alcohol a woman. He the seller of the alcohol a woman. He says a woman should be there because she says a woman should be there because she will make sure that the men are well will make sure that the men are well behaved. So clearly the when women were behaved. So clearly the when women were around men you know tended to be on around men you know tended to be on better behavior. It brought out their better behavior. It brought out their better instincts. they made a better better instincts. they made a better effort to be well- behaved men in the effort to be well- behaved men in the company of women. The other thing that I company of women. The other thing that I found interesting was that he he wants found interesting was that he he wants to encourage women to remarry. He finds to encourage women to remarry. He finds it very uh uh regrettable that Hindu it very uh uh regrettable that Hindu women are not encouraged to remarry that women are not encouraged to remarry that they are in fact you know encouraged to they are in fact you know encouraged to commit sati among certain uh you know of commit sati among certain uh you know of course certain sects. Um but he finds it course certain sects. Um but he finds it very regrettable that they're not very regrettable that they're not encouraged to uh remarry because the encouraged to uh remarry because the women in his family have always been women in his family have always been remaring. Divorce is not looked upon remaring. Divorce is not looked upon with shame. Uh it is a very acceptable with shame. Uh it is a very acceptable part of life. So he encourages women to part of life. So he encourages women to remarry. But he says we should try and remarry. But he says we should try and ensure that the age difference between ensure that the age difference between the husband and the wife is not so great the husband and the wife is not so great because a lot of older women should not because a lot of older women should not be allowed to marry younger men. So the be allowed to marry younger men. So the fact that he has had to bring out a law fact that he has had to bring out a law trying to ensure that older women do not trying to ensure that older women do not harpo young men and marry them clearly harpo young men and marry them clearly points to the fact that a lot of older points to the fact that a lot of older women were marrying younger men. Right? women were marrying younger men. Right? You're only having to bring a law if You're only having to bring a law if that is actually happening in society. that is actually happening in society. So you know in these oblique ways you So you know in these oblique ways you see that actually a lot of ordinary see that actually a lot of ordinary women are not having to live by the women are not having to live by the stringent laws that the elite women are stringent laws that the elite women are meant to aspire to. And of course we meant to aspire to. And of course we know that even those laws are simply know that even those laws are simply laws. Often the women do away with that. laws. Often the women do away with that. But ordinary women are not bound to the But ordinary women are not bound to the same extent by these sort of rules and same extent by these sort of rules and regulations. They will remarry. They regulations. They will remarry. They marry older men if they fancy uh younger marry older men if they fancy uh younger men if they fancy them. um and they you men if they fancy them. um and they you know clearly are used to being around know clearly are used to being around alcohol and men who drink alcohol you alcohol and men who drink alcohol you know pretty regularly. So so I think um know pretty regularly. So so I think um perhaps it is less difficult in those perhaps it is less difficult in those times to be a non- elite Mughal woman uh times to be a non- elite Mughal woman uh than it is to be just an ordinary woman. than it is to be just an ordinary woman. I was you know fascinated by the story I was you know fascinated by the story of Khanada Beum and what it indicated of Khanada Beum and what it indicated about the shifting landscape of morals about the shifting landscape of morals at the time like Kanzada Beum as you've at the time like Kanzada Beum as you've pointed out was abducted when she was pointed out was abducted when she was very young and after 10 years she comes very young and after 10 years she comes back into her uh family after two back into her uh family after two marriages and etc etc and she is treated marriages and etc etc and she is treated with complete uh respect even devotion with complete uh respect even devotion and is incredibly uh respected even goes and is incredibly uh respected even goes on a mission for Humayun I think at the on a mission for Humayun I think at the age of 65 and uh is like an elder age of 65 and uh is like an elder statesmanly uh figure despite being a statesmanly uh figure despite being a woman and despite having that past where woman and despite having that past where she had been abducted and forcibly she had been abducted and forcibly married to two other people etc etc married to two other people etc etc there is no blemish of honor and you there is no blemish of honor and you contrast this in your books with some of contrast this in your books with some of the Rajput customs Johar and Sati and the Rajput customs Johar and Sati and all of that and at the same time like all of that and at the same time like you just said for ordinary women if you just said for ordinary women if elder women were marrying younger men elder women were marrying younger men and uh this stuff was going on you know and uh this stuff was going on you know it's it's a multitude of uh sort of it's it's a multitude of uh sort of moral codes that are coexisting ing at moral codes that are coexisting ing at the same time and evolving over time. the same time and evolving over time. Give me a sense of this shifting Give me a sense of this shifting landscape because today what has landscape because today what has happened is that one of the things that happened is that one of the things that we have normalized which perhaps comes we have normalized which perhaps comes from uh a different kind of colonial from uh a different kind of colonial narrative is that we have normalized narrative is that we have normalized that the term sanscari that the term sanscari you know refers to a woman's sexuality you know refers to a woman's sexuality being controlled and chastity being being controlled and chastity being important and and all of this is really important and and all of this is really Victorian prudishness perhaps of the Victorian prudishness perhaps of the 19th century. uh you know Manu points 19th century. uh you know Manu points out in his books that in Kerala the out in his books that in Kerala the custom was that women would basically go custom was that women would basically go around bare chested for someone to cover around bare chested for someone to cover their chest was considered rude and it their chest was considered rude and it simply wasn't done and within a few simply wasn't done and within a few decades the British inverted this decades the British inverted this completely and the notion of shame and completely and the notion of shame and all of those things came into play. So all of those things came into play. So give me a sense of what is uh what are give me a sense of what is uh what are the moral landscapes of the time because the moral landscapes of the time because you have different cultures, different you have different cultures, different people from places you know it's a people from places you know it's a melting pot not just in terms of the melting pot not just in terms of the clothes and the art and the language all clothes and the art and the language all of which we'll also come back to but of which we'll also come back to but also in terms of morality and what is also in terms of morality and what is acceptable and women's sexuality and the acceptable and women's sexuality and the way they can express themselves. So give way they can express themselves. So give me a sense of the different uh sort of me a sense of the different uh sort of influences on all of this and how things influences on all of this and how things are changing. This is a really um you are changing. This is a really um you know interesting facet as well to to know interesting facet as well to to look at through the through the ages. So look at through the through the ages. So as you were saying when the Mughals come as you were saying when the Mughals come into India they are proud descendants of into India they are proud descendants of Timur. Uh so they consider themselves Timur. Uh so they consider themselves Timurits they do not even call Timurits they do not even call themselves obviously Mughal they call themselves obviously Mughal they call themselves Guran which means in-law themselves Guran which means in-law dynasty because Timur referred to dynasty because Timur referred to himself as an in-law because he married himself as an in-law because he married Chikasid women. So it was his wives who Chikasid women. So it was his wives who were of the great lineage of Changan. were of the great lineage of Changan. But uh the Timurid element is what the But uh the Timurid element is what the Mughals were very proud of. And so Mughals were very proud of. And so Timour himself because he was a recent Timour himself because he was a recent convert to Islam. Uh he was very convert to Islam. Uh he was very pragmatic about the rules of the Sharia. pragmatic about the rules of the Sharia. And so and he knew that he had to he And so and he knew that he had to he conquered an enormous empire. He knew he conquered an enormous empire. He knew he had to bring in a diversity of peoples had to bring in a diversity of peoples into the fold. He knew he couldn't be uh into the fold. He knew he couldn't be uh you know too intrigent with people on you know too intrigent with people on religious basis. So he accepted he still religious basis. So he accepted he still had the Yasa laws that Shankis Khan had had the Yasa laws that Shankis Khan had in which a man's honor is determined by in which a man's honor is determined by how well his household is kept, how well how well his household is kept, how well his tent is run by his wife, you know, his tent is run by his wife, you know, things like that. Um, so the Yasa laws things like that. Um, so the Yasa laws were in play. They were semi-nomadic. So were in play. They were semi-nomadic. So you had a semi-nomadic sort of you had a semi-nomadic sort of lifestyles where women were, you know, lifestyles where women were, you know, riding alongside the men. So no sense of riding alongside the men. So no sense of a settled space, no s sense of a a settled space, no s sense of a sequestered space for women. Um so all sequestered space for women. Um so all of these different facets also the of these different facets also the Persian element because this was the Persian element because this was the time of the rise of the great Persian time of the rise of the great Persian city. So the idea of a great Persian city. So the idea of a great Persian capital city like Samarand you know this capital city like Samarand you know this was something which was important to was something which was important to Timur. So all of these the different Timur. So all of these the different factors were what made a Timurid factors were what made a Timurid landscape and it was what the muggles landscape and it was what the muggles were very proud of and they were very were very proud of and they were very clear that this was their inheritance clear that this was their inheritance that they brought into Hindustan. So that they brought into Hindustan. So this idea of a woman who is very lightly this idea of a woman who is very lightly veiled, hardly veiled, you know, with a veiled, hardly veiled, you know, with a very t thin muslin cloth through which very t thin muslin cloth through which you can see her face. This is the ideal. you can see her face. This is the ideal. This woman is very educated because she This woman is very educated because she must also contribute to the culture that must also contribute to the culture that is passed on to the children. So highly is passed on to the children. So highly educated woman, a woman whose council is educated woman, a woman whose council is sought because when all your allies, all sought because when all your allies, all your kinsmen uh are potential threats your kinsmen uh are potential threats because remember there was no law of because remember there was no law of primogenature. Anybody can any sibling primogenature. Anybody can any sibling can say that I am want to be king next. can say that I am want to be king next. So you can never trust your brothers or So you can never trust your brothers or your uncles but you can trust your your uncles but you can trust your women. So the council of women extremely women. So the council of women extremely important in war and peace. All these important in war and peace. All these elements come down to us and so we have elements come down to us and so we have a figure like Hanzada Beum like you were a figure like Hanzada Beum like you were saying a woman who was married off to saying a woman who was married off to Shabbani Khan beg against her will uh Shabbani Khan beg against her will uh and then was uh cast off by her married and then was uh cast off by her married a second time to a lesser man finally 10 a second time to a lesser man finally 10 years into her exile rescued brought to years into her exile rescued brought to the court of Babber and reinstated with the court of Babber and reinstated with great honor and dignity uh and great honor and dignity uh and throughout her life she is you know throughout her life she is you know respected enormously uh by all the respected enormously uh by all the patchas and is given diplomatic roles. patchas and is given diplomatic roles. Um you have this entire generation of Um you have this entire generation of matriarchs who are like this you know I matriarchs who are like this you know I can quote many of them Darbe even you can quote many of them Darbe even you know and then you have um Gulbadan Beum know and then you have um Gulbadan Beum who lives into Abar's reign you know who who lives into Abar's reign you know who goes on a hajj unaccompanied with the goes on a hajj unaccompanied with the only women in her group uh so many other only women in her group uh so many other examples like this then slowly what examples like this then slowly what happens is that we as we know Akbar happens is that we as we know Akbar marries a number of Rajput ladies they marries a number of Rajput ladies they bring their culture into the haram bring their culture into the haram because They for the first time they are because They for the first time they are not required to convert to Islam. So not required to convert to Islam. So they remain with their culture with they remain with their culture with their traditions. Not only that they their traditions. Not only that they bring their households with them because bring their households with them because you know an elite woman is hardly going you know an elite woman is hardly going to come on her own to her married house to come on her own to her married house when she is marrying the emperor. So she when she is marrying the emperor. So she brings her masseuse, she brings her brings her masseuse, she brings her chefs, she brings her physician, she chefs, she brings her physician, she brings her priests, she all women, she brings her priests, she all women, she brings her dancing girls, she brings her brings her dancing girls, she brings her singing girls. uh all this you know singing girls. uh all this you know slice of Rajput culture is brought into slice of Rajput culture is brought into the Mughal Haram. So how can it not have the Mughal Haram. So how can it not have a huge impact on Mughal on Akbar who was a huge impact on Mughal on Akbar who was only 20 when he marries Harika by his only 20 when he marries Harika by his first Mughal uh Rajput wife. We see him first Mughal uh Rajput wife. We see him almost immediately changing in the way almost immediately changing in the way he views uh for example he does away he views uh for example he does away with the pilgrimage tax immediately with the pilgrimage tax immediately because until then Hindus have to pay a because until then Hindus have to pay a tax when they go and visit you know tax when they go and visit you know Matar Vindav and all the great centers Matar Vindav and all the great centers and he says no no this is absolutely and he says no no this is absolutely sinful to do this clearly it is an sinful to do this clearly it is an influence of his Rajput wife and her uh influence of his Rajput wife and her uh you know her family that she brings with you know her family that she brings with him his in-laws he does away with the him his in-laws he does away with the tisa very quickly he's his food eating tisa very quickly he's his food eating habits change uh so We see this habits change uh so We see this influence but the Rajputs also have PADA influence but the Rajputs also have PADA because they have been living in the because they have been living in the north you know northwestern regions of north you know northwestern regions of India very fractious volatile India very fractious volatile environment many invaders have been environment many invaders have been coming through they have been fighting coming through they have been fighting each other as well clans have been each other as well clans have been fighting each other they have invested fighting each other they have invested very heavily in the sexual purity of very heavily in the sexual purity of their wives which is equated to male their wives which is equated to male honor therefore they have brought in the honor therefore they have brought in the system because they have polygamy system because they have polygamy because they need to produce many many because they need to produce many many boys to grow up and become virtuous boys to grow up and become virtuous warriors because they are constantly ly warriors because they are constantly ly fighting. So they have polygamy and they fighting. So they have polygamy and they have invested heavily in the sexual have invested heavily in the sexual honor of their wives. So they have honor of their wives. So they have pararda. So they have a zenana. Okay. So pararda. So they have a zenana. Okay. So these ideas travel into the mughal these ideas travel into the mughal haram. I'm not saying that the moguls haram. I'm not saying that the moguls did not also have pararda. They had did not also have pararda. They had veiling. But it was far more cursory. It veiling. But it was far more cursory. It was far more incidental to their was far more incidental to their identity. With the coming of the Rajput, identity. With the coming of the Rajput, this becomes an elite thing to aspire this becomes an elite thing to aspire to. Abu Al fuzz who is Mughal's to. Abu Al fuzz who is Mughal's biography starts to write about this biography starts to write about this very perfect space. Now he writes about very perfect space. Now he writes about in the next few decades he will write in the next few decades he will write about an an emperor who is almost about an an emperor who is almost superhuman who is beyond being a normal superhuman who is beyond being a normal mortal human. You know he is beyond the mortal human. You know he is beyond the gaze and the touch of an ordinary uh man gaze and the touch of an ordinary uh man and therefore his wives are far beyond and therefore his wives are far beyond the gaze of ordinary mortals. And so the gaze of ordinary mortals. And so they are hidden behind high walls also they are hidden behind high walls also and their names are ephacased behind and their names are ephacased behind titles. So we no longer know who these titles. So we no longer know who these women are. These two two things happen women are. These two two things happen the Rajput influence as well as the wish the Rajput influence as well as the wish of Abul Fazan and Abbar to develop this of Abul Fazan and Abbar to develop this idea of the insane Kamil this perfect idea of the insane Kamil this perfect man and they form and fuse together to man and they form and fuse together to bring about a system of para an bring about a system of para an invisibility of women which is far more invisibility of women which is far more entrenched and far harder to pierce. And entrenched and far harder to pierce. And then in the later generations it is much then in the later generations it is much harder to see who these women these harder to see who these women these women for who they are. As time goes by women for who they are. As time goes by this loosens to a little extent so that this loosens to a little extent so that in the later muggles say a woman like in the later muggles say a woman like Jana Rabum Jana Rabum Jana Rabum even though you know um she there are even though you know um she there are certain things about her that we will certain things about her that we will never know because they are hidden she never know because they are hidden she is able to exercise far more agency. is able to exercise far more agency. This daughter of Shajahan by the time of This daughter of Shajahan by the time of Shajahan it is far less necessary for Shajahan it is far less necessary for women to be invisible to that extent. So women to be invisible to that extent. So we see uh you know her agency through we see uh you know her agency through her building commissions through her her building commissions through her journey as a Sufi Murid. She writes two journey as a Sufi Murid. She writes two biographies an extraordinary thing for a biographies an extraordinary thing for a 17th century Muslim woman to do and so 17th century Muslim woman to do and so we have again a far greater sense as we have again a far greater sense as these women are now living in Hindustan these women are now living in Hindustan where things are changing constantly. uh where things are changing constantly. uh they are less it is less necessary for they are less it is less necessary for them to remain completely invisible all them to remain completely invisible all the time and they are clearly busting the time and they are clearly busting the bounds of those you know boundaries the bounds of those you know boundaries uh which have been imposed on them by uh which have been imposed on them by the time we come to the my next jump is the time we come to the my next jump is into the 18th century when I'm when I into the 18th century when I'm when I write the line and the lily so now I write the line and the lily so now I come across somebody like Nawab Beum and come across somebody like Nawab Beum and Bahub beam so nawab beam is the mother Bahub beam so nawab beam is the mother of such tala the nawab of Abad Bahub of such tala the nawab of Abad Bahub beum is his wife and so here we We have beum is his wife and so here we We have women who once again are supposedly in women who once again are supposedly in para. You are not supposed to see them para. You are not supposed to see them at all. And we have no paintings of them at all. And we have no paintings of them at all. You know which perpetss to show at all. You know which perpetss to show what they looked like. That was not what they looked like. That was not allowed. They meant to be completely in allowed. They meant to be completely in para. So this para for elite women has para. So this para for elite women has become very strict. But they are far become very strict. But they are far from lacking an agency because they not from lacking an agency because they not only say that we have our own money only say that we have our own money which we know in Islam women inherit which we know in Islam women inherit money. they are able to control. They do money. they are able to control. They do not have to give it up to the husbands not have to give it up to the husbands the way Victorian women will have to do the way Victorian women will have to do later on. They can, you know, keep their later on. They can, you know, keep their their treasure for themselves. And when their treasure for themselves. And when Shujah dies eventually, Bahubam says Shujah dies eventually, Bahubam says this to the British East India this to the British East India Companyman. She says that land that he Companyman. She says that land that he was given after his defeat at the battle was given after his defeat at the battle of Bakar was given to him only because of Bakar was given to him only because he paid this huge war indemnity of 50 he paid this huge war indemnity of 50 lakhs. And guess where that 50 lakhs lakhs. And guess where that 50 lakhs came from? It came from me. It came from came from? It came from me. It came from my jewelry. It came from my nose ring my jewelry. It came from my nose ring which I gave up. My sign of a married which I gave up. My sign of a married woman. I gave up all my treasure. So you woman. I gave up all my treasure. So you will jolly well not ask me for my will jolly well not ask me for my treasure. It is mine. It is mine to treasure. It is mine. It is mine to control and to do with as I wish. Look control and to do with as I wish. Look at the you know confident the at the you know confident the self-belief that this woman has. She has self-belief that this woman has. She has not come out of nowhere. She has come not come out of nowhere. She has come out of a system in which it is out of a system in which it is understood and accepted that women can understood and accepted that women can reign, women can exercise power, women reign, women can exercise power, women have wealth. It is accepted within the have wealth. It is accepted within the boundaries that you society will impose boundaries that you society will impose on you. So if you continue to maintain on you. So if you continue to maintain those boundaries, if you live a good those boundaries, if you live a good moral life as a good Muslim woman, if moral life as a good Muslim woman, if you keep the para, if you do your you keep the para, if you do your prayers, if you do the you know the few prayers, if you do the you know the few things that are accepted of expected of things that are accepted of expected of you, you within that system can exercise you, you within that system can exercise a great deal of power far more than the a great deal of power far more than the British were willing to tolerate. For British were willing to tolerate. For them it is unacceptable to hear of a them it is unacceptable to hear of a woman saying that she will exercise woman saying that she will exercise power. Eventually Bahu beam realizes the power. Eventually Bahu beam realizes the sort of man she's up against and she sort of man she's up against and she changes her wording. She says to Warren changes her wording. She says to Warren Hastings, "I am a poor helpless woman. Hastings, "I am a poor helpless woman. You must protect me." And never was You must protect me." And never was there a less powerless and helpless there a less powerless and helpless woman than Bahub. But she has understood woman than Bahub. But she has understood the sort of men that she has to deal the sort of men that she has to deal with. She has understood their thinking with. She has understood their thinking that they can be knights in shining that they can be knights in shining armor for a poor downtrodden brown armor for a poor downtrodden brown woman. But they can't be the same for a woman. But they can't be the same for a powerful brown woman. Um so we see how powerful brown woman. Um so we see how things have changed so that women in the things have changed so that women in the 18th century which is a very interesting 18th century which is a very interesting time because things are changing all the time because things are changing all the time. Cultural norms are changing. Uh time. Cultural norms are changing. Uh the players are changing. Now we have a the players are changing. Now we have a cosmopolitan world of Europeans, French, cosmopolitan world of Europeans, French, Portuguese, British as well as Armenians Portuguese, British as well as Armenians as uh Sufis as Shia you know all kinds as uh Sufis as Shia you know all kinds of people. of people. of people. Uh so things are no longer black and Uh so things are no longer black and white. Things are no longer the way they white. Things are no longer the way they were in Akbar's time. Everything is up were in Akbar's time. Everything is up for challenge. You know, you have a case for challenge. You know, you have a case to make for any sort of way in which you to make for any sort of way in which you want to navigate the world. It is far want to navigate the world. It is far more I find liberating for a woman to be more I find liberating for a woman to be in the 18th century to try and exercise in the 18th century to try and exercise power say than it was uh either earlier power say than it was uh either earlier or later once Victorian more norms come or later once Victorian more norms come into play. into play. into play. All of this is so fascinating and you All of this is so fascinating and you know there are these uh one of the know there are these uh one of the common tropes uh in the manosphere is common tropes uh in the manosphere is there'll be these threads on Twitter there'll be these threads on Twitter about how not to be manipulated by women about how not to be manipulated by women and had Warren Hastings read that he and had Warren Hastings read that he would not have fallen for the helpless would not have fallen for the helpless women trap. That's one of the common women trap. That's one of the common traps by the way that uh oh my god traps by the way that uh oh my god you're warned against. I'll send you you're warned against. I'll send you some links you know there's a whole some links you know there's a whole history waiting to be uh there's a whole history waiting to be uh written about that as well. Before we written about that as well. Before we get back to your live, since we are on get back to your live, since we are on this period and we are talking about the this period and we are talking about the shifting landscape of morality, I also shifting landscape of morality, I also want to uh dive into the shifting want to uh dive into the shifting landscapes of all other elements of landscapes of all other elements of culture uh in this time as well. uh culture uh in this time as well. uh because I'm really curious because because I'm really curious because there's so little that one finds often there's so little that one finds often even in books and uh to begin with I even in books and uh to begin with I sort of want to talk about the evolution sort of want to talk about the evolution of clothes like we often assume that of clothes like we often assume that certain dresses which are Indian have certain dresses which are Indian have always been thus and we uh you know the always been thus and we uh you know the fact is stitched clothing came from fact is stitched clothing came from outside our prime minister's elegant outside our prime minister's elegant churidars definitely have an Islamic churidars definitely have an Islamic origin I was you know looking into the origin I was you know looking into the history of sulvars which in the west history of sulvars which in the west will only be described as loose baggy will only be described as loose baggy trousers which is so inadequate because trousers which is so inadequate because there there are such a variety and there there are such a variety and complexity of them. So all the way from complexity of them. So all the way from Turkey to the Middle East to here and um Turkey to the Middle East to here and um uh so I find the evolution of fashion uh so I find the evolution of fashion interesting and yet what we see in the interesting and yet what we see in the paintings of that era are people wearing paintings of that era are people wearing coatly dress in the coat and I often coatly dress in the coat and I often wondered that outside the coat what are wondered that outside the coat what are they chilling in they're surely not they chilling in they're surely not wearing these uh long robes all the time wearing these uh long robes all the time what are they uh uh you know how are what are they uh uh you know how are they going about their business what is they going about their business what is the loungewear of that era uh you know the loungewear of that era uh you know in the lion and the lily you have this in the lion and the lily you have this fetching picture of Mira Z Javan bucked fetching picture of Mira Z Javan bucked in a tight in a tight diaphous tunic and in a tight diaphous tunic and I was very curious about that because I I was very curious about that because I don't imagine he would wear that to don't imagine he would wear that to relax in but uh he's dressing up for relax in but uh he's dressing up for perhaps just a portrait being taken. So perhaps just a portrait being taken. So give me a sense of how clothes evolve give me a sense of how clothes evolve because I imagine that when the muggles because I imagine that when the muggles come in and of course there are people come in and of course there are people coming in from everywhere. I mean India coming in from everywhere. I mean India is basically all migrants all of us and is basically all migrants all of us and uh so there are all these different uh so there are all these different fashions that come in from uh different fashions that come in from uh different places. So how does one get a sense of places. So how does one get a sense of that? How does one decode that? How does that? How does one decode that? How does one begin to um uh you know go into one begin to um uh you know go into social significance of some of these social significance of some of these things? What you're supposed to wear, things? What you're supposed to wear, what you're not supposed to wear. I had what you're not supposed to wear. I had an episode with the great Dalith scholar an episode with the great Dalith scholar Chandraan Prasad and he always wears a Chandraan Prasad and he always wears a suit. He will not wear Indian clothing suit. He will not wear Indian clothing because Indian clothing always has because Indian clothing always has always carries connotations of cast uh always carries connotations of cast uh to it which he's exh you know explained to it which he's exh you know explained in a uh number of uh pieces. Equally for in a uh number of uh pieces. Equally for that reason he will always speak in that reason he will always speak in English in all the interviews and public English in all the interviews and public facing stuff that he does. So there are facing stuff that he does. So there are layers and layers of sign significance layers and layers of sign significance behind this also. Uh and you've gone behind this also. Uh and you've gone into a tremendous amount of detail and into a tremendous amount of detail and nuance when it comes to art and I'll nuance when it comes to art and I'll come to that also later. But just in come to that also later. But just in terms of clothing uh you know what have terms of clothing uh you know what have you learned uh about how people used to you learned uh about how people used to dress in that way and how it evolved and dress in that way and how it evolved and changed over time? Yeah, that's that's a changed over time? Yeah, that's that's a whole fascinating area myth. Uh one can whole fascinating area myth. Uh one can just go on and on and it is also uh just go on and on and it is also uh though extremely fascinating it's the though extremely fascinating it's the most fragile one because clothes do not most fragile one because clothes do not remain fabrics do not remain. So when we remain fabrics do not remain. So when we have you know a full set or a full piece have you know a full set or a full piece an item of clothing it is guarded with an item of clothing it is guarded with you know just everything that that uh a you know just everything that that uh a museum has uh at its command because it museum has uh at its command because it is so precious you know. So we have a is so precious you know. So we have a hunting jacket for example uh of Jangir hunting jacket for example uh of Jangir at the VNA which was exhibited during at the VNA which was exhibited during the great muggles exhibition. Uh you the great muggles exhibition. Uh you have a few such items not very many um have a few such items not very many um but it is a fascinating fascinating but it is a fascinating fascinating history. So when the mules first came history. So when the mules first came into India Barber was shocked by a into India Barber was shocked by a number of things as we know he was number of things as we know he was shocked by the lack of tidy gardens. He shocked by the lack of tidy gardens. He was shocked by the fact that streams do was shocked by the fact that streams do not flow in a straight line that they go not flow in a straight line that they go higgled piggledy in his own words and he higgled piggledy in his own words and he tries to straighten everything. Uh he tries to straighten everything. Uh he may have been a man who suffered from may have been a man who suffered from some degree of OCD. I think the amount some degree of OCD. I think the amount he tried to rearrange things in his he tried to rearrange things in his life. Uh you know so the fruits were not life. Uh you know so the fruits were not good enough the melon etc. Also he found good enough the melon etc. Also he found that people really did not dress the way that people really did not dress the way they should. He said they are half naked they should. He said they are half naked people. Uh because what Babuur and his people. Uh because what Babuur and his commandions were wearing as they rode commandions were wearing as they rode down the Hindu Kush would have been down the Hindu Kush would have been these long heavy garments which cover these long heavy garments which cover came down their sleeves would have come came down their sleeves would have come down to their hands almost covering down to their hands almost covering their hands. Long uh you know trouser their hands. Long uh you know trouser type things on their legs which cover type things on their legs which cover their feet, boots over that, a cloak their feet, boots over that, a cloak over everything else. Similarly the over everything else. Similarly the women very long loose clothes covering women very long loose clothes covering everything and a conicle hat. when they everything and a conicle hat. when they came into North India, the the people came into North India, the the people were quite reasonably dressed in a lungi were quite reasonably dressed in a lungi type thing and no upper garment because type thing and no upper garment because how else do you deal with the conditions how else do you deal with the conditions and the weather and the you know and the weather and the you know conditions in North India and of course conditions in North India and of course Babour found this absolutely outrageous Babour found this absolutely outrageous uh and unacceptable and a sign of just uh and unacceptable and a sign of just the backwardness of Indian people though the backwardness of Indian people though eventually he would change his mind on eventually he would change his mind on that and and find them quite honest um that and and find them quite honest um and loyal after all. Um but so the mules and loyal after all. Um but so the mules bring in this uh system of having an up. bring in this uh system of having an up. So we often had till that time Rajput So we often had till that time Rajput kings as well. They would wear a lungi a kings as well. They would wear a lungi a lower garment a voluminous lower garment lower garment a voluminous lower garment and they would often be barechested and they would often be barechested uh except sometimes for a cloth thrown uh except sometimes for a cloth thrown around the shoulders you know because around the shoulders you know because according to the Hindu tradition and you according to the Hindu tradition and you know Hindu scriptures uh the human body know Hindu scriptures uh the human body is a reflection of the divine. So there is a reflection of the divine. So there is nothing that needs to be hidden is nothing that needs to be hidden there. It it it should in fact you know there. It it it should in fact you know be openly shown. Uh so you put it to be openly shown. Uh so you put it to good effect by wearing gold jewelry and good effect by wearing gold jewelry and you know uh ornaments certainly uh but you know uh ornaments certainly uh but that is all that is required you know that is all that is required you know and then a lung and then a lung when the mules come in. So they bring in when the mules come in. So they bring in an upper garment uh and we hear it an upper garment uh and we hear it written about at the time of Akbar. So written about at the time of Akbar. So Akbar says I have developed Abbar is Akbar says I have developed Abbar is somebody who will fiddle in every aspect somebody who will fiddle in every aspect of his administration. There's not one of his administration. There's not one aspect that is too lonely for him and he aspect that is too lonely for him and he really gets involved into everything and really gets involved into everything and I sometimes it amuses me to wonder what I sometimes it amuses me to wonder what his crafts people what his his crafts people what his administrators was you know it must be administrators was you know it must be difficult to deal with a man like that difficult to deal with a man like that who anytime can barge into your room and who anytime can barge into your room and look at what you're doing and find a look at what you're doing and find a novel way for doing it right um so he novel way for doing it right um so he says I have developed a new type of uh says I have developed a new type of uh uh garment it is on the Hindustani model uh garment it is on the Hindustani model it is a now I forget the exact word it it is a now I forget the exact word it is in my book a choga or something like is in my book a choga or something like that. So it is something which to our that. So it is something which to our eyes looks like a drama. So it is an eyes looks like a drama. So it is an upper garment which is tight tightish upper garment which is tight tightish till the waist and then flares out a till the waist and then flares out a little bit and ends at the knees. So at little bit and ends at the knees. So at the time of Adbar it ends at the knees the time of Adbar it ends at the knees and below that are as you were saying a and below that are as you were saying a sort of pajama. sort of pajama. Now Adbar himself likes dotis. So he is Now Adbar himself likes dotis. So he is often to be found like a good Bengali often to be found like a good Bengali gent wearing a very you know elaborate gent wearing a very you know elaborate doi in muslin cloth with a jama on the doi in muslin cloth with a jama on the top. Now Abbar has found a system so top. Now Abbar has found a system so that you can wear this jama whether you that you can wear this jama whether you are Hindu or Muslim or Shia Sunni are Hindu or Muslim or Shia Sunni wherever you come from Dhakani or you wherever you come from Dhakani or you know wherever you are from you can wear know wherever you are from you can wear this costume. What had happened little this costume. What had happened little earlier in his reign is that an Orthodox earlier in his reign is that an Orthodox Muslim uh uh gentleman Muslim uh uh gentleman uh he was sitting in his home and uh he was sitting in his home and somebody walked in, a Hindu gentleman somebody walked in, a Hindu gentleman walked in and because this Hindu walked in and because this Hindu gentleman was very well-dressed, this gentleman was very well-dressed, this Muslim um uh person stood up to greet Muslim um uh person stood up to greet him. When he realized he was Hindu and him. When he realized he was Hindu and had inadvertently offered him the had inadvertently offered him the dignity of standing up for him, he was dignity of standing up for him, he was outraged and he was like this is not outraged and he was like this is not right. people should not be uh you know right. people should not be uh you know passing themselves off as Muslim gentry. passing themselves off as Muslim gentry. I should be able to make out what people I should be able to make out what people are from from what they are wearing. He are from from what they are wearing. He made them wear I'm sorry abhorently a made them wear I'm sorry abhorently a patch on their clothes like the Jewish patch on their clothes like the Jewish star. What else can I say? It was a star. What else can I say? It was a Tukra. He was in fact called uh Tukra. He was in fact called uh something I forget his first name uh something I forget his first name uh Shahbad Khan Tukria because he made Shahbad Khan Tukria because he made Hindus wear the Tukra. Okay. So shocking Hindus wear the Tukra. Okay. So shocking that there were people who felt they that there were people who felt they should be able to tell Muslims and should be able to tell Muslims and Hindus apart. Akbar would have none of Hindus apart. Akbar would have none of that. He said, "No, no, everybody is that. He said, "No, no, everybody is going to be the same. My Hindu courtiers going to be the same. My Hindu courtiers as well." Here's the difference. The as well." Here's the difference. The Hindus will tie the jama under their Hindus will tie the jama under their left h uh their left armpit and the left h uh their left armpit and the Muslims will tie it under the right Muslims will tie it under the right armpit. So you can instantly see who is armpit. So you can instantly see who is Muslim, who is Hindu. But overall they Muslim, who is Hindu. But overall they are the same. So it is extraordinary are the same. So it is extraordinary that if you look at Mughal miniature that if you look at Mughal miniature paintings even today you can use this paintings even today you can use this technique and see who is otherwise you technique and see who is otherwise you can't make out for a you know can't make out for a you know non-kuniser you cannot make out who is non-kuniser you cannot make out who is the Mughal is you know Muslim courtier the Mughal is you know Muslim courtier who is a Hindu courtier who is who is a Hindu courtier who is but by using the way that the thread the but by using the way that the thread the jama is tied you can actually make it jama is tied you can actually make it out so this jamba because the mughal out so this jamba because the mughal court is wearing it the courtiers are court is wearing it the courtiers are wearing it it becomes something that wearing it it becomes something that then spreads out to the whole of North then spreads out to the whole of North Indian courts because it is carried Indian courts because it is carried along by the mansabdar to whichever along by the mansabdar to whichever courts they go to and it is taken on as courts they go to and it is taken on as an elite symbol. Everybody starts an elite symbol. Everybody starts wearing the jama and the pajama with wearing the jama and the pajama with shawls in the winter. So this is pretty shawls in the winter. So this is pretty much your standard uh you know dressing much your standard uh you know dressing for that period. Then through the for that period. Then through the centuries it stays more or less like centuries it stays more or less like this but the length of the drama extends this but the length of the drama extends so that it slowly gets longer and longer so that it slowly gets longer and longer so that by the time the 18th century so that by the time the 18th century comes around when I'm writing again uh comes around when I'm writing again uh it is floor length. So the jama is still it is floor length. So the jama is still the it is still the same piece of the it is still the same piece of clothing with the kamar bun which you clothing with the kamar bun which you know I forgot to mention there's a uh so know I forgot to mention there's a uh so the jamba could often be a simple white the jamba could often be a simple white muslin or a simple embroidered cloth but muslin or a simple embroidered cloth but there was a very elaborate often uh you there was a very elaborate often uh you know silk brocade embroidered comer buns know silk brocade embroidered comer buns that was tied around the waist. This is that was tied around the waist. This is your basic outfit. This is what the nabs your basic outfit. This is what the nabs also wore except that then they extended also wore except that then they extended it till their uh floor length. it till their uh floor length. As the 19th century came about because As the 19th century came about because they wanted to be more ostentatious they wanted to be more ostentatious because they wanted to differentiate because they wanted to differentiate themselves from the mules at Delhi themselves from the mules at Delhi because they were saying now we are because they were saying now we are semi-independent kings that floor length semi-independent kings that floor length became longer and longer. The women wore became longer and longer. The women wore a similar thing often through the a similar thing often through the centuries through these clothes. Women centuries through these clothes. Women and men wore pretty much the same and men wore pretty much the same clothes. So the women also peswas was a clothes. So the women also peswas was a similar thing tight a top tunic tight at similar thing tight a top tunic tight at the till the waist and then flaring out the till the waist and then flaring out in a voluminous skirt. This skirt became in a voluminous skirt. This skirt became longer and longer as the 19th century longer and longer as the 19th century progress and became the freshy pajama so progress and became the freshy pajama so that it was literally dragging along the that it was literally dragging along the fur as they walked past and they had to fur as they walked past and they had to fold it over their arms when they stood fold it over their arms when they stood still. So you will see in portraits of still. So you will see in portraits of the tawitives usually that they're the tawitives usually that they're wearing the so this is the pajama which wearing the so this is the pajama which is getting longer and longer. They're is getting longer and longer. They're wearing it folded over their arm. So wearing it folded over their arm. So this is the fi style. Now the lucknavi this is the fi style. Now the lucknavi court especially fzabad and then lucknam court especially fzabad and then lucknam uh which were the capitals of uh aad uh which were the capitals of uh aad in these courts it became very in these courts it became very fashionable for the entire elite society fashionable for the entire elite society to be welldressed. So while the nawabs to be welldressed. So while the nawabs are wearing particularly beautiful are wearing particularly beautiful clothes uh often in Muslim. So what you clothes uh often in Muslim. So what you are seeing that translucent material is are seeing that translucent material is the very expensive and coveted muslin. the very expensive and coveted muslin. Okay. And because the weather is so hot, Okay. And because the weather is so hot, it is something which is very popular. it is something which is very popular. So even women will wear muslin clothes. So even women will wear muslin clothes. So in their homes they might be wearing So in their homes they might be wearing say just a tight top uh and a long loose say just a tight top uh and a long loose shell. So that they are really when they shell. So that they are really when they are in their zenana they are in a state are in their zenana they are in a state of undress which would be entirely of undress which would be entirely unacceptable for any outsider. But unacceptable for any outsider. But should anybody enter to come and see should anybody enter to come and see them a visitor or you know some other them a visitor or you know some other member they immediately wear like a very member they immediately wear like a very heavy embroidered heavy embroidered heavy embroidered um veil or a dupata but you know a um veil or a dupata but you know a dupata which is really heavy and covers dupata which is really heavy and covers almost their entire body. So the minute almost their entire body. So the minute they have to either step out or somebody they have to either step out or somebody comes into that inner sanctum they just comes into that inner sanctum they just get a hold of this dupata throw it over get a hold of this dupata throw it over their head and shoulders and immediately their head and shoulders and immediately low presto the inner wear has been you low presto the inner wear has been you know transformed into a perfectly know transformed into a perfectly acceptable outerear as well. Men acceptable outerear as well. Men similarly when they are inside the homes similarly when they are inside the homes will obviously not be in as beautiful uh will obviously not be in as beautiful uh you know an achan or top or jama as they you know an achan or top or jama as they would with their going out. That is the would with their going out. That is the only time when they may not be wearing a only time when they may not be wearing a turban. So they might be wearing a small turban. So they might be wearing a small cap, embroidered cap on their heads. cap, embroidered cap on their heads. They will be just wearing like a loose They will be just wearing like a loose ka uh and a loose pajama to be in their ka uh and a loose pajama to be in their house. Uh and but the moment they step house. Uh and but the moment they step out, they will be wearing a turban. The out, they will be wearing a turban. The most important thing is a turban for the most important thing is a turban for the men. You know, they must always be men. You know, they must always be wearing a turban which often is a sign wearing a turban which often is a sign of their own individuality. They'll have of their own individuality. They'll have a particular way in which they want to a particular way in which they want to wear it. Um then they will be wearing an wear it. Um then they will be wearing an embroidered achan. Uh and the embroidered achan. Uh and the fashionable men would have blue long fashionable men would have blue long hair. They will have mustaches, you hair. They will have mustaches, you know, and they all really pride know, and they all really pride themselves on being always immaculately themselves on being always immaculately turned out and immaculately presented. turned out and immaculately presented. What is really fascinating to me uh and What is really fascinating to me uh and really amusing is that the British never really amusing is that the British never understand this. They just never are understand this. They just never are able to crack the code simply of what able to crack the code simply of what people wear. Because when they first people wear. Because when they first come into Hindustan, they're told, "Oh, come into Hindustan, they're told, "Oh, if you want to approach the emperor, you if you want to approach the emperor, you have to take off your shoes." Because as have to take off your shoes." Because as every good Indian knows, it is filthy to every good Indian knows, it is filthy to wear your shoes uh not just in the royal wear your shoes uh not just in the royal presence, but in any clean space, in any presence, but in any clean space, in any clean indoor space. The British fight clean indoor space. The British fight this tooth and nail. And they say our this tooth and nail. And they say our dignity cannot be compromised. We will dignity cannot be compromised. We will wear our shoes no matter what you say. wear our shoes no matter what you say. So finally, you know, the Indians are at So finally, you know, the Indians are at their wits end. They say okay fine fine their wits end. They say okay fine fine then what compromise can you do? They then what compromise can you do? They say we will remove our headgear and for say we will remove our headgear and for the Indians that is horrifying because the Indians that is horrifying because no man ever takes out their turban no man ever takes out their turban unless they are in the inner sanctum of unless they are in the inner sanctum of their own homes. Uh so they say okay their own homes. Uh so they say okay fine but that is you know in in a sense fine but that is you know in in a sense that is much more demeaning to your to that is much more demeaning to your to your honor as men than taking off your your honor as men than taking off your shoes. The British men never understand shoes. The British men never understand that. So you will notice in portraits that. So you will notice in portraits they are bare of head whereas all the they are bare of head whereas all the Indians are wearing these gorgeous Indians are wearing these gorgeous voluminous turbons which signify their voluminous turbons which signify their origins. tell us where they come from, origins. tell us where they come from, tell us their standing in society. The tell us their standing in society. The English men idiotically are showing English men idiotically are showing their bald heads, you know, and they're their bald heads, you know, and they're insisting on wearing their shoes. Um, so insisting on wearing their shoes. Um, so these are the tropes that are very these are the tropes that are very interesting to decode when we look at interesting to decode when we look at Mughal miniature paintings. The nabs Mughal miniature paintings. The nabs often also are shown with a little fur often also are shown with a little fur element which shows their Persian uh element which shows their Persian uh origin. So they will be wearing a fur origin. So they will be wearing a fur stole around their shoulders or a little stole around their shoulders or a little edging of fur on their turban which edging of fur on their turban which tells us that their origins are Persians tells us that their origins are Persians because they came uh the founder of the because they came uh the founder of the uh the Nawabadi dynasty came from Persia uh the Nawabadi dynasty came from Persia Sadat Khan in 1722 and they are very Sadat Khan in 1722 and they are very proud of this Persian origin. So in proud of this Persian origin. So in their paintings they are very quick to their paintings they are very quick to pull out you know and take out from the pull out you know and take out from the mothballs the Persian stole and the mothballs the Persian stole and the little uh per furlined caps. little uh per furlined caps. Listen, for all the fun you make of the Listen, for all the fun you make of the British, they won. Indian men are British, they won. Indian men are wearing shirt pant everywhere. So uh wearing shirt pant everywhere. So uh they won and we should grant them uh uh they won and we should grant them uh uh that. And it's interesting how fashions, that. And it's interesting how fashions, you know, keep changing with the times you know, keep changing with the times because I recently noticed on Instagram because I recently noticed on Instagram that fers shal are trending in Pakistan. that fers shal are trending in Pakistan. It suddenly become a big thing over It suddenly become a big thing over there though. They they go till the there though. They they go till the ground wide-legged this thing. But they ground wide-legged this thing. But they don't you don't have to hold them up don't you don't have to hold them up when you stand. They're not that they're when you stand. They're not that they're not that crazily uh long. And you know not that crazily uh long. And you know the the anecdote about how Akbar deemed the the anecdote about how Akbar deemed that the jama has to be worn differently that the jama has to be worn differently by Hindus and Muslims is interesting by Hindus and Muslims is interesting because it brings me to the thought that because it brings me to the thought that therefore every Hindu when he looks in therefore every Hindu when he looks in the mirror sees a Muslim which is uh uh the mirror sees a Muslim which is uh uh also a sort of uh and an alluring also a sort of uh and an alluring metaphor as it were. Very true. I hadn't metaphor as it were. Very true. I hadn't thought of that. Amit tell me about thought of that. Amit tell me about food. What are they eating? Because you food. What are they eating? Because you know I did an episode of my YouTube show know I did an episode of my YouTube show and I think I I had Vikram doctor on the and I think I I had Vikram doctor on the scene and the unseen as well. uh and scene and the unseen as well. uh and push pesh pant chatting about how so push pesh pant chatting about how so much of what we consider our food comes much of what we consider our food comes from outside you know potato miti tomato from outside you know potato miti tomato amud all of that came from the colombian amud all of that came from the colombian exchange there's hardly anything that is exchange there's hardly anything that is here give me a sense of what are the here give me a sense of what are the mughals eating what are the common mughals eating what are the common people eating people eating people eating you know how is that changing I mean you know how is that changing I mean that is literally a melting pot so that is literally a melting pot so what's going on there yeah so I'm you what's going on there yeah so I'm you know I'm not an expert and you've had know I'm not an expert and you've had some real experts on your on your show some real experts on your on your show so um but broadly speaking what they say so um but broadly speaking what they say is absolutely right. A lot of what we is absolutely right. A lot of what we consider quintessentially Indian uh came consider quintessentially Indian uh came through the Colombian exchange came from through the Colombian exchange came from the Portuguese from South America. So the Portuguese from South America. So you know whether it is chilies you know you know whether it is chilies you know chilies is not uh indigenous to India, chilies is not uh indigenous to India, potatoes, pineapples. Um also paneer I potatoes, pineapples. Um also paneer I heard recently you know cottage cheese heard recently you know cottage cheese it is the Portuguese who started making it is the Portuguese who started making it. Um so there you have it. Um uh but it. Um so there you have it. Um uh but what the mughles were eating therefore what the mughles were eating therefore uh would have been what they had you uh would have been what they had you know in central Asia. Uh so it is um far know in central Asia. Uh so it is um far fewer spices fewer spices fewer spices uh far more fruit in their diet. So you uh far more fruit in their diet. So you would have like a rice dish with would have like a rice dish with apricots, with figs in it, with raisins, apricots, with figs in it, with raisins, you know. So far more likely to use you know. So far more likely to use those kind of those kinds of uh um those kind of those kinds of uh um additions to their rice dishes. They additions to their rice dishes. They would have used cashews, dried nuts. Uh would have used cashews, dried nuts. Uh fruits were a big big integral part of fruits were a big big integral part of their diet. You will see even in Mughal their diet. You will see even in Mughal miniature paintings there will often be miniature paintings there will often be if it is you know they are greeting uh if it is you know they are greeting uh an outsider there will be trays of an outsider there will be trays of beautiful fruit like melons and mangoes beautiful fruit like melons and mangoes when they're in India figs uh when they're in India figs uh pomegranate uh all of these are are very pomegranate uh all of these are are very sought after the emperors write about sought after the emperors write about them as well there is of course uh you them as well there is of course uh you know kebabs that is something that they know kebabs that is something that they would have brought in that they would would have brought in that they would have been cooking and meats of various have been cooking and meats of various form uh but not only meats they also form uh but not only meats they also have vegetables in their diets. Um when have vegetables in their diets. Um when Humayung goes for two years, he is in Humayung goes for two years, he is in exile in Persia. It's a very interesting exile in Persia. It's a very interesting episode because he goes there uh with episode because he goes there uh with his wife Hamidabanu beam and only a his wife Hamidabanu beam and only a handful of courtier some there's a total handful of courtier some there's a total of 3540 people. Um so his wife is of 3540 people. Um so his wife is traveling with him. Humayou and his wife traveling with him. Humayou and his wife are greeted as honored Mughal guests. are greeted as honored Mughal guests. They are greeted as kings and queens in They are greeted as kings and queens in exile. uh not as parvanos who have just exile. uh not as parvanos who have just arrived upon the Hindustani scene and so arrived upon the Hindustani scene and so they are fated and banqueted and feasted they are fated and banqueted and feasted all the time. So I feel that when they all the time. So I feel that when they returned to India, no doubt Hamida returned to India, no doubt Hamida Banuku Beum would have brought with her Banuku Beum would have brought with her tales of the feasts she had um uh and tales of the feasts she had um uh and tales of the sort of cuisine, the sort tales of the sort of cuisine, the sort of techniques and the sort of of techniques and the sort of ingredients that they had tasted. So ingredients that they had tasted. So that when they return to Kabul where that when they return to Kabul where they live for very many years, that is they live for very many years, that is really one of the first melting points really one of the first melting points in terms of cuisine because they bring in terms of cuisine because they bring back not only their own traditions but back not only their own traditions but also the Persian ones for that they have also the Persian ones for that they have experienced for 2 years. Things like uh experienced for 2 years. Things like uh you know the shirmals, the very you know the shirmals, the very beautiful white breads that are beautiful white breads that are appreciated in Persia. Um uh the the appreciated in Persia. Um uh the the drinks. So they have a lot of sherbets drinks. So they have a lot of sherbets uh which are which are also greatly uh which are which are also greatly appreciated filled with ice. uh and the appreciated filled with ice. uh and the Mughals start bringing down ice from the Mughals start bringing down ice from the Himalayas which is you know a Himalayas which is you know a fascinating thing. They would have uh fascinating thing. They would have uh ice brought every day from the Himalayas ice brought every day from the Himalayas by runners and by boats. So they would by runners and by boats. So they would just basically load them onto boats and just basically load them onto boats and push them downstream till they reached push them downstream till they reached Agra. Uh and so you had ice every day Agra. Uh and so you had ice every day which was a real luxury. They had these which was a real luxury. They had these shbats uh uh and they had the kind of shbats uh uh and they had the kind of cooking techniques you know which would cooking techniques you know which would give rise to uh biryani was brought in give rise to uh biryani was brought in as well. uh and so these are the you as well. uh and so these are the you know essential basis of the food that know essential basis of the food that the muggles would have liked but then the muggles would have liked but then immediately there was the Rajasthani immediately there was the Rajasthani food that they were exposed to there food that they were exposed to there were the spices that they did not know were the spices that they did not know about that they were slowly about that they were slowly incorporating into their cuisine and it incorporating into their cuisine and it became a melting point which when then became a melting point which when then it goes to uh aad as well um and we know it goes to uh aad as well um and we know that food is food becomes of course a that food is food becomes of course a very great uh place not only of very great uh place not only of enjoyment of lux luxury but of also of enjoyment of lux luxury but of also of contestation of a way in which the Nabi contestation of a way in which the Nabi aads would be able to make a claim to aads would be able to make a claim to independence from the muggles at Delhi independence from the muggles at Delhi by developing their own cuisine. uh and by developing their own cuisine. uh and so initially it would have been Mughal so initially it would have been Mughal food because the best cooks were mughal food because the best cooks were mughal and when all the you know crisis of the and when all the you know crisis of the 18th century happens whether it is 18th century happens whether it is Nadada Sha's invasion in 1739 Ahmed Shab Nadada Sha's invasion in 1739 Ahmed Shab Dali later on and all the great cooks Dali later on and all the great cooks the poets the painters the you know the the poets the painters the you know the musicians and the dancers start moving musicians and the dancers start moving away from Delhi they look for patrons in away from Delhi they look for patrons in other places and one of the main places other places and one of the main places is Avad so we know that great cooks came is Avad so we know that great cooks came to great Mughal cooks came to uh Aad at to great Mughal cooks came to uh Aad at this time but they are encouraged by the this time but they are encouraged by the nawabs as the nawabs would encourage nawabs as the nawabs would encourage every aspect of culture. They would do every aspect of culture. They would do it the same thing in architecture in it the same thing in architecture in painting and in music is that they would painting and in music is that they would encourage innovation. So they would tell encourage innovation. So they would tell their chefs create something new for us their chefs create something new for us create something really outstanding. And create something really outstanding. And you would have the tradition of the chef you would have the tradition of the chef who would cook only one thing but to who would cook only one thing but to extraordinary extent and to a a great extraordinary extent and to a a great amount of diversity. So one would become amount of diversity. So one would become uh you know a chef of dal only but he uh you know a chef of dal only but he would cook so many different dal that he would cook so many different dal that he could present a different one every day. could present a different one every day. And then they brought in innovation to And then they brought in innovation to an extent where it became uh almost a an extent where it became uh almost a sort of um a mimicry or almost a sherad. sort of um a mimicry or almost a sherad. So you would have an entire meal which So you would have an entire meal which looked like a delicious savory meal but looked like a delicious savory meal but it would be made out of sugar. So when it would be made out of sugar. So when your guest came and he tried one your guest came and he tried one mouthful of the delicious biryani, it mouthful of the delicious biryani, it was sweet in his mouth and he would be was sweet in his mouth and he would be either outraged or amused depending on either outraged or amused depending on his personality. Right? Uh so this kind his personality. Right? Uh so this kind of uh element of uh element of fast of uh elaborate chicainery of of fast of uh elaborate chicainery of sort became a almost a calling card of sort became a almost a calling card of the nabs you know uh and then others the nabs you know uh and then others would try and do the same thing and and would try and do the same thing and and do you know be carry out a oneupmanship do you know be carry out a oneupmanship on them. So this became very much part on them. So this became very much part and even uh decoration using vegetables and even uh decoration using vegetables and fruit to to mimic uh flowering and fruit to to mimic uh flowering plants uh and to decorate the table very plants uh and to decorate the table very extensively became a nabi specialtity. extensively became a nabi specialtity. So we see how this entire culture of So we see how this entire culture of what the British considered excess but what the British considered excess but we can say is a novel and creative way we can say is a novel and creative way to react to the pressures that you are to react to the pressures that you are under by creatively addressing the under by creatively addressing the problem by going above and beyond what problem by going above and beyond what you have known till then even infuses you have known till then even infuses the food which is uh you know brought the food which is uh you know brought out at this time. Uh even things like out at this time. Uh even things like the the kebabs which apparently they the the kebabs which apparently they have ingredients that run into the have ingredients that run into the hundreds and they are secret hundreds and they are secret ingredients. You know, you would ingredients. You know, you would probably have to kill the person before probably have to kill the person before you got the secret ingredient out of you got the secret ingredient out of them. But that is how much they invested them. But that is how much they invested into the secrecy into the elaborate uh into the secrecy into the elaborate uh sort of um just the creativity that sort of um just the creativity that surrounded their cooking as well. This surrounded their cooking as well. This is so fascinating. But I'm completely is so fascinating. But I'm completely horrified by the thought of biryani made horrified by the thought of biryani made of sugar. Like don't tell me we did of sugar. Like don't tell me we did molecular gastronomy first. I mean I molecular gastronomy first. I mean I don't know should we be proud or don't know should we be proud or ashamed? No. And and you know I was ashamed? No. And and you know I was listening to the legend about the listening to the legend about the galvati kebab that apparently a nawab galvati kebab that apparently a nawab who lost his teeth said give me a kebab who lost his teeth said give me a kebab I can have and they made this really I can have and they made this really melty nice galavati kebabs for him. I am melty nice galavati kebabs for him. I am going to ask you a quiz question and as going to ask you a quiz question and as a historian you should be ashamed if you a historian you should be ashamed if you don't get it right though no doubt we don't get it right though no doubt we get it. It's not exactly your time get it. It's not exactly your time period. So in the middle of the 19th period. So in the middle of the 19th century uh the factories all across century uh the factories all across America came up and started doing really America came up and started doing really well providing something to the British well providing something to the British Empire in India which was a result of Empire in India which was a result of what was a problem to begin with. So what was a problem to begin with. So what am I talking about? what am I talking about? Big source of industry in middle America Big source of industry in middle America who were making something and they were who were making something and they were shipping it to India. Oh my god. Because shipping it to India. Oh my god. Because the British in India didn't have it or the British in India didn't have it or it was a problem for them. Let us say it was a problem for them. Let us say that they could access it but not in the that they could access it but not in the quantities they needed for that quantities they needed for that particular activity they wanted to particular activity they wanted to indulge in. Oh not opium not tea. No no indulge in. Oh not opium not tea. No no that they wanted to indulge in. that they wanted to indulge in. Oh god gosh you've got me there. No Oh god gosh you've got me there. No clue. I'll give you a clue. Think clue. I'll give you a clue. Think mosquito. Think mosquito. Not gin. Think mosquito. Not gin. Not mosquito nets. Uh Not mosquito nets. Uh actually I'll give it to you. I'll give actually I'll give it to you. I'll give it to you because uh the way to fight it to you because uh the way to fight malaria was with something called malaria was with something called quinine quinine quinine quinine. And uh the palatable way to quinine. And uh the palatable way to have that was as part of tonic water. have that was as part of tonic water. And the palatable way to have that was And the palatable way to have that was as part of ginonic. And the palatable as part of ginonic. And the palatable way to have ginonic is ice. But they way to have ginonic is ice. But they couldn't get ice from the Himalayas in couldn't get ice from the Himalayas in quantities large enough. So these quantities large enough. So these factories in America were manufacturing factories in America were manufacturing ice. Oh, that's amazing. Oh yes, I did ice. Oh, that's amazing. Oh yes, I did read that the ice came from America read that the ice came from America somewhere in the 19th century. somewhere in the 19th century. Fascinating. Thank you for that. You Fascinating. Thank you for that. You know, I have learned a million more know, I have learned a million more things from you than you have from me. things from you than you have from me. So, thank you for that. I want to now So, thank you for that. I want to now talk about another place where this talk about another place where this cultural intermingling was taking place cultural intermingling was taking place which is art. Like you've point you've which is art. Like you've point you've spoken about this 1545 painting that I spoken about this 1545 painting that I will uh link to from the show notes will uh link to from the show notes because it's so fascinating. I looked at because it's so fascinating. I looked at it for a long time. It's this large it for a long time. It's this large Mughal painting where Akbar is going to Mughal painting where Akbar is going to his mother like Himmaayun and his wife his mother like Himmaayun and his wife have come back after ages and Humayun have come back after ages and Humayun decides I will trick this child. He's decides I will trick this child. He's only 2 years old and a whole bunch of only 2 years old and a whole bunch of women including his mother are all women including his mother are all dressed up in similar clothes and Akbar dressed up in similar clothes and Akbar straight away goes to his mother and straight away goes to his mother and this painting depicts that and you speak this painting depicts that and you speak of the seinal painting as not just in of the seinal painting as not just in the context of depicting this event but the context of depicting this event but the fact that until a while ago we the fact that until a while ago we couldn't name all the women in the couldn't name all the women in the painting and today we can you know painting and today we can you know thanks to historians like you and Ruby thanks to historians like you and Ruby Lal and um all the stellar efforts of Lal and um all the stellar efforts of the people who've delved into that era. the people who've delved into that era. And so I'm fascinated by uh Mughal art And so I'm fascinated by uh Mughal art as it was then and also by the change as it was then and also by the change that begins to happen a few years after that begins to happen a few years after this where Akbar commissions a Hamzanama this where Akbar commissions a Hamzanama where he's listening to these great where he's listening to these great stories but he's saying key bring it to stories but he's saying key bring it to life show don't tell you know I need life show don't tell you know I need visuals and then he decides to get a visuals and then he decides to get a whole bunch of art commission to portray whole bunch of art commission to portray the stories he's being told. So as a the stories he's being told. So as a story is being told to him the story is being told to him the appropriate panel can be held up and appropriate panel can be held up and there aren't at this point enough there aren't at this point enough Persian painters who are there who can Persian painters who are there who can you know painters who've been brought you know painters who've been brought from Persia to continue with the kind of from Persia to continue with the kind of uh to to deal with the quantity as it uh to to deal with the quantity as it were you know similar problem much later were you know similar problem much later with quantity of ice but right now with quantity of ice but right now quantity of paintings so all these local quantity of paintings so all these local painters Hindus Rajputs are brought in painters Hindus Rajputs are brought in and their influences come into Mughal and their influences come into Mughal art in terms of color and so on and so art in terms of color and so on and so forth and uh you've written and spoken forth and uh you've written and spoken eloquently about this and I find this so eloquently about this and I find this so incredibly fascinating. So give me a incredibly fascinating. So give me a sense of how Mughal art is evolving and sense of how Mughal art is evolving and the lens that we can bring to it when we the lens that we can bring to it when we look at works from that period uh look at works from that period uh sitting today because the issue with art sitting today because the issue with art always is that if you just see a always is that if you just see a painting or a particular work out of painting or a particular work out of context in a museum or somewhere else it context in a museum or somewhere else it may make no sense. Maybe viscerally may make no sense. Maybe viscerally something might appeal to you but it may something might appeal to you but it may make no sense. But when you talk about make no sense. But when you talk about art of that period, everything comes to art of that period, everything comes to life. You know, it is like I'm life. You know, it is like I'm inhabiting that world. So give me a inhabiting that world. So give me a sense of how you got into art to be able sense of how you got into art to be able to engage with that kind of nuanced to engage with that kind of nuanced understanding. And give me a sense of understanding. And give me a sense of how it evolved because that again is how it evolved because that again is this fantastic melting pot where so much this fantastic melting pot where so much is happening. It's fascinating Amit. I is happening. It's fascinating Amit. I think perhaps the most rewarding aspect think perhaps the most rewarding aspect of my journey as a writer has been um my of my journey as a writer has been um my discovery of paintings through art discovery of paintings through art history. Uh and I have to say uh history. Uh and I have to say uh straight up that art historians are my straight up that art historians are my favorite historians in the world. They favorite historians in the world. They are just the most generous people. They are just the most generous people. They are the most enthusiastic about sharing are the most enthusiastic about sharing their knowledge and their information. their knowledge and their information. You know there is no gatekeeping that You know there is no gatekeeping that happens with art historians. At least happens with art historians. At least that has been my experience. and they that has been my experience. and they have been incredibly generous with me. have been incredibly generous with me. Uh, and there's a whole list of uh, you Uh, and there's a whole list of uh, you know, art historians. I'll give you a know, art historians. I'll give you a list later on. You can put it in your list later on. You can put it in your show notes that people can discover for show notes that people can discover for themselves. Young um, writers, uh, older themselves. Young um, writers, uh, older scholars, you know, Kavita Singh from scholars, you know, Kavita Singh from JNU who so unfortunately passed away JNU who so unfortunately passed away while I was writing the book. Uh, an while I was writing the book. Uh, an absolutely brilliant woman and I cannot absolutely brilliant woman and I cannot recommend her highly enough. any work of recommend her highly enough. any work of hers you know even for a lay audience hers you know even for a lay audience and and a whole host I will give you the and and a whole host I will give you the names. So these you know we think as we names. So these you know we think as we I think started off our conversation I think started off our conversation somewhere along the line saying that we somewhere along the line saying that we think that history is unchanging. We think that history is unchanging. We think the facts are there they have to think the facts are there they have to be discovered or not discovered or seen be discovered or not discovered or seen but that's all that there is. Now, one but that's all that there is. Now, one uh source of history that is con uh source of history that is con constantly evolving is art history constantly evolving is art history because scholars are constantly because scholars are constantly re-examining images with new information re-examining images with new information with new breakthroughs that they have with new breakthroughs that they have made uh with uh also you know things made uh with uh also you know things like um forensic science is improving. like um forensic science is improving. So they can even analyze now the So they can even analyze now the pigments used. Uh so for example I am pigments used. Uh so for example I am going to digress for 2 seconds but there going to digress for 2 seconds but there is uh you know a tomb outside the Humayu is uh you know a tomb outside the Humayu tomb complex in Delhi which uh used to tomb complex in Delhi which uh used to be to called the uh I think it used to be to called the uh I think it used to be called the the green tomb or the one be called the the green tomb or the one just outside it. And a scholar has just outside it. And a scholar has analyzed the paintings inside that analyzed the paintings inside that mausoleum and has seen that they use mausoleum and has seen that they use lapis laguli which is a very very lapis laguli which is a very very precious pigment that they use to paint precious pigment that they use to paint the the the the the sky. Uh so it is now being deduced that sky. Uh so it is now being deduced that possibly this is actually the tomb of a possibly this is actually the tomb of a royal woman because there's only a royal royal woman because there's only a royal woman would have had these kind of you woman would have had these kind of you know access to these kind of pigments. know access to these kind of pigments. Uh the men are all accounted for. Uh so Uh the men are all accounted for. Uh so very exciting things happening in the very exciting things happening in the world of art history. Um so I have world of art history. Um so I have learned enormously through work that has learned enormously through work that has been done already in in in art history. been done already in in in art history. But what I do is I try and link it into But what I do is I try and link it into my stories so that an layer can access my stories so that an layer can access it side by side along with the stories it side by side along with the stories to bring things to life, you know. And to bring things to life, you know. And just yesterday I I I did a talk on the just yesterday I I I did a talk on the lion and the lily at JLF here at the lion and the lily at JLF here at the British Library. And a scholar came up British Library. And a scholar came up to me, a friend later on came up to me to me, a friend later on came up to me and said, "You really talk about art in and said, "You really talk about art in a way totally different to what an a way totally different to what an artist or would would probably ever artist or would would probably ever dream of saying, right?" Because I'm dream of saying, right?" Because I'm saying it for an lay audience. I'm saying it for an lay audience. I'm saying it to bring the humanity of saying it to bring the humanity of people to life. I'm saying it for a people to life. I'm saying it for a different reason, you know. Um so that different reason, you know. Um so that has been extraordinary for me. So that has been extraordinary for me. So that information is out there. It is information is out there. It is wonderful to access and I have been wonderful to access and I have been really privileged to be able to do that. really privileged to be able to do that. What I have learned is that we must What I have learned is that we must begin with Humayou and give him the begin with Humayou and give him the credit that he is due because he is credit that he is due because he is often given a hard wrap for being the often given a hard wrap for being the Mughal who lost the empire. Right? Uh Mughal who lost the empire. Right? Uh now stuck between men like Barbar and now stuck between men like Barbar and Akbar as a son it is very diff and the Akbar as a son it is very diff and the father then of Akbar it is very father then of Akbar it is very difficult to make a name for yourself. difficult to make a name for yourself. Right? So I have a lot of sympathy for Right? So I have a lot of sympathy for Humayou and I think what's important to Humayou and I think what's important to to remember is that Humayu was someone to remember is that Humayu was someone who really appreciated art. He was one who really appreciated art. He was one of the you know the first u Mughal of the you know the first u Mughal emperors to do so. He had an atier which emperors to do so. He had an atier which he carried with him everywhere even in he carried with him everywhere even in the most dire of circumstances. So we the most dire of circumstances. So we are told of an uh incident that happens are told of an uh incident that happens when he is being chased out of India by when he is being chased out of India by Sher Shasuri and he has almost nothing Sher Shasuri and he has almost nothing to his name. His men have all abandoned to his name. His men have all abandoned him. They have understood that he is on him. They have understood that he is on a losing wicket. So all his great a losing wicket. So all his great generals have defected to other parties. generals have defected to other parties. He has only a small core group around He has only a small core group around him including of course his family him including of course his family members and the women. But here's the members and the women. But here's the thing. At one time he has given his only thing. At one time he has given his only pair of clothes that he has. He has pair of clothes that he has. He has given them for wash. He is sitting in given them for wash. He is sitting in his dressing gown in his tent. Look look his dressing gown in his tent. Look look at how uh you know impoverished he is at at how uh you know impoverished he is at this st at this point. He has one set of this st at this point. He has one set of clothes. He's waiting for them to dry in clothes. He's waiting for them to dry in his tent. A beautiful bird flies into his tent. A beautiful bird flies into the tent. He has this bird caught. the tent. He has this bird caught. Gently pulls out a feather, releases the Gently pulls out a feather, releases the bird, and gets his artist to paint a bird, and gets his artist to paint a painting of this feather which he finds painting of this feather which he finds so beautiful. Now, what does this tell so beautiful. Now, what does this tell us about? It tells us that he was a us about? It tells us that he was a great athlete that in the middle of the great athlete that in the middle of the most trying circumstances when he is most trying circumstances when he is losing the empire that his great father losing the empire that his great father has gifted to him when he is really on has gifted to him when he is really on the run he has the ability to admire the run he has the ability to admire beauty in a bird and secondly he has an beauty in a bird and secondly he has an atalier he has enough artist he has atalier he has enough artist he has pigments he has resources enough to have pigments he has resources enough to have an atalier traveling with him and an atalier traveling with him and painting pictures as they go. So really painting pictures as they go. So really the Mughal Atalier begins with Humayou. the Mughal Atalier begins with Humayou. whom will travel two years in Persia as whom will travel two years in Persia as we said comes back to India with not we said comes back to India with not just a taste for good biryani and for just a taste for good biryani and for sharbat and for ice but having pinched sharbat and for ice but having pinched two of the best painters from the court two of the best painters from the court of Shatamas because Shartamas at this of Shatamas because Shartamas at this point is going through a bit of a point is going through a bit of a midlife crisis and has turned away from midlife crisis and has turned away from his youthful exuberance as a patron of his youthful exuberance as a patron of music and dancing and art and is slowly music and dancing and art and is slowly becoming a more austere man. So he gives becoming a more austere man. So he gives two of his great Persian painters to two of his great Persian painters to whom he comes back to Kabul and sets up whom he comes back to Kabul and sets up this atur under the direction of these this atur under the direction of these two great Persian painters. Now the be two great Persian painters. Now the be Persian style is a certain way. It is Persian style is a certain way. It is very intricate. It is very um very intricate. It is very um aesthetically pleasing. There's nothing aesthetically pleasing. There's nothing jarring about it. But it is also to a to jarring about it. But it is also to a to some extent very still, very some extent very still, very self-contained. self-contained. self-contained. uh the colors are slightly faded to our uh the colors are slightly faded to our eyes. Um whereas when you say uh then eyes. Um whereas when you say uh then Abbar inherits this atalier he inherits Abbar inherits this atalier he inherits these two great painters who survive and these two great painters who survive and come into his court but he decides that come into his court but he decides that he wants this enormous commission the he wants this enormous commission the Hamza Nama which will take 15 years Hamza Nama which will take 15 years which ends up being 14 volumes of which ends up being 14 volumes of enormous paintings. He has to hire a lot enormous paintings. He has to hire a lot of other artists and it the numbers of other artists and it the numbers vary. artists are not quite sure between vary. artists are not quite sure between 30 and 100 painters. So obviously a lot 30 and 100 painters. So obviously a lot of these painters are Indian painters of these painters are Indian painters from the Indian Gujarati Rajasthani from the Indian Gujarati Rajasthani traditions of art. And if you look at traditions of art. And if you look at the Hamza Nama, you can immediately the Hamza Nama, you can immediately sense that change happening because you sense that change happening because you have the same uh you know finesse of the have the same uh you know finesse of the Persian artists because they are often Persian artists because they are often giving overall directions to the artists giving overall directions to the artists but you have this exuberance of color. but you have this exuberance of color. The colors just pop out of there. The The colors just pop out of there. The action is happening everywhere. It is action is happening everywhere. It is not a self-contained sort of uh work not a self-contained sort of uh work which is very neatly and orderly which is very neatly and orderly following certain rules. It is almost following certain rules. It is almost bursting out of those pages. There is bursting out of those pages. There is life, there is creativity uh that is life, there is creativity uh that is coming from the Indian painters. Uh and coming from the Indian painters. Uh and this continues through the hundreds of this continues through the hundreds of paintings of the the Hamza Nama. What paintings of the the Hamza Nama. What happens after the Hamza Nama after the happens after the Hamza Nama after the 15 years are over is that Akbar lets go 15 years are over is that Akbar lets go of many of these painters. He cannot of many of these painters. He cannot afford to have such an enormous atalier. afford to have such an enormous atalier. He is also interested other things as He is also interested other things as well. So these artists who have now well. So these artists who have now developed a style that combines Persian developed a style that combines Persian finesse, Persian delicacy with Indian finesse, Persian delicacy with Indian exuberance and Indian sense of color and exuberance and Indian sense of color and Indian action to create now a Hindustani Indian action to create now a Hindustani style. So they take this style and they style. So they take this style and they go to other courts who will employ them go to other courts who will employ them namely the Rajput courts. And so we have namely the Rajput courts. And so we have the so-called Mughal Hindustani style the so-called Mughal Hindustani style which will now go into the so-called which will now go into the so-called subimperial Rajput courts. And thereby subimperial Rajput courts. And thereby this sense of a new way of painting will this sense of a new way of painting will go little by little to all the other go little by little to all the other courts. So something fascinating happens courts. So something fascinating happens in the 1580s the court of Akbar is that in the 1580s the court of Akbar is that the Jesuit missionaries arrive. So this the Jesuit missionaries arrive. So this is the time in which the Jesuits are is the time in which the Jesuits are coming out to uh India to try and coming out to uh India to try and convert all the innumerable heathens uh convert all the innumerable heathens uh who were in desperate need of being who were in desperate need of being saved. Ankur hears of them being in Goa saved. Ankur hears of them being in Goa under the Portuguese and he invites them under the Portuguese and he invites them to his court and they bring a number of to his court and they bring a number of gifts with them including some beautiful gifts with them including some beautiful oil paintings of the Virgin Mary. Now oil paintings of the Virgin Mary. Now the first time that one of these the first time that one of these paintings, Akbar is absolutely enamored paintings, Akbar is absolutely enamored by these paintings, he calls all his by these paintings, he calls all his courtiers, he tells them to come and bow courtiers, he tells them to come and bow before this painting. He himself bows before this painting. He himself bows before them, shows it reverence, holds before them, shows it reverence, holds it to his head. He accepts that it is a it to his head. He accepts that it is a religious figure for these Jesuit religious figure for these Jesuit missionaries and he gives them the same missionaries and he gives them the same uh honor and dignity he would for say uh honor and dignity he would for say you know an Islamic uh place of worship. you know an Islamic uh place of worship. Um so he calls everybody to see this Um so he calls everybody to see this painting. It is said that there was an painting. It is said that there was an absolute pandemonium amongst the people absolute pandemonium amongst the people who are convinced that this is a living who are convinced that this is a living image. It is miraculous because never image. It is miraculous because never have they seen an image in oils, have they seen an image in oils, threedimensional oils, a large painting, threedimensional oils, a large painting, you know, till then Mughal art much you know, till then Mughal art much smaller water-based colors. So people smaller water-based colors. So people rush up to look at this painting and it rush up to look at this painting and it is said that there's you know absolute is said that there's you know absolute pandemonium for a few days in the city. pandemonium for a few days in the city. But what also happens is that Abbar But what also happens is that Abbar shows it also on an aside uh to his shows it also on an aside uh to his Zenana uh who may have had a slightly Zenana uh who may have had a slightly more nuanced reaction saying we have had more nuanced reaction saying we have had enough of these missionaries telling us enough of these missionaries telling us telling our king to divorce his many telling our king to divorce his many wives. uh but he also shows it to his wives. uh but he also shows it to his many painters and his painters learn many painters and his painters learn more about three-dimensional art about more about three-dimensional art about the art of perspective uh and they the art of perspective uh and they incorporated it into their own Mughal incorporated it into their own Mughal Hindustani traditions and so again after Hindustani traditions and so again after the 1580s we see that the artists from the 1580s we see that the artists from the Mughal court and later Jenis court the Mughal court and later Jenis court will uh start uh experimenting a lot you will uh start uh experimenting a lot you see in the margins often astonishing see in the margins often astonishing images from Christian biblical imagery. images from Christian biblical imagery. You know, you kind of um wonder what You know, you kind of um wonder what that is doing alongside a beautifully that is doing alongside a beautifully attired Mughal woman. Uh but they start attired Mughal woman. Uh but they start experimenting with this different genre. experimenting with this different genre. And this in turn this will tell you if And this in turn this will tell you if you are you know a lay person that you you are you know a lay person that you are looking at the late sixth century are looking at the late sixth century early 17th century. This is when this is early 17th century. This is when this is really happening. Um and then you see really happening. Um and then you see the Mughal artist beginning to now that the Mughal artist beginning to now that he has a full command over things like he has a full command over things like uh you know two dimensionality, uh you know two dimensionality, three-dimensionality of a perspective. three-dimensionality of a perspective. He uses it for his own um to convey He uses it for his own um to convey certain tropes that are only then certain tropes that are only then visible to a Mughal conessor. No longer visible to a Mughal conessor. No longer to the Europeans who will criticize to the Europeans who will criticize Mughal artists for not being able to use Mughal artists for not being able to use perspective and realism in the way that perspective and realism in the way that they would expect it. But Indian artists they would expect it. But Indian artists use it in a completely new and use it in a completely new and experimental fashion which people like experimental fashion which people like Kavita Singh have t written about and we Kavita Singh have t written about and we can talk about endlessly. can talk about endlessly. You know I I I I find this whole the You know I I I I find this whole the evolution of Mughal art and the way evolution of Mughal art and the way you've spoken about it. Uh and I' I've you've spoken about it. Uh and I' I've learned about it from you know your learned about it from you know your readings and the talks I've seen on readings and the talks I've seen on YouTube. Obviously I need to go out and YouTube. Obviously I need to go out and read Kavita Singh and everyone else read Kavita Singh and everyone else whose name you will give me. But I found whose name you will give me. But I found it completely fascinating like I came it completely fascinating like I came across this uh you know another step you across this uh you know another step you talk about is uh when Jiangir shows his talk about is uh when Jiangir shows his own taste in painting and you pointed us own taste in painting and you pointed us to this painting where Jiangir is to this painting where Jiangir is shooting Malikumber in the head by Abu shooting Malikumber in the head by Abu Hal Hassan and I looked at that and I Hal Hassan and I looked at that and I thought that this dude could have used thought that this dude could have used Canva because you know you have this Canva because you know you have this plain green kind of background and you plain green kind of background and you have the elements like the globe and the have the elements like the globe and the fish and the chain and everything which fish and the chain and everything which is you know you go to Canva and you say is you know you go to Canva and you say create element and it'll give you all create element and it'll give you all these auctions. So it is in that sense these auctions. So it is in that sense it shows a very modern kind of it shows a very modern kind of sensibility and how clean it is and not sensibility and how clean it is and not you know packed with different elements you know packed with different elements everywhere. And I was thinking about the everywhere. And I was thinking about the question of how the evolution of art question of how the evolution of art through those centuries not just here through those centuries not just here but everywhere in the world was but everywhere in the world was dependent on royal patronage and dependent on royal patronage and therefore the tastes of the royals and therefore the tastes of the royals and where that takes you. Like I travel where that takes you. Like I travel through uh I traveled to Spain recently through uh I traveled to Spain recently and I was so struck by all the museum and I was so struck by all the museum visits I made that I came and recorded visits I made that I came and recorded an episode of my YouTube show on my an episode of my YouTube show on my favorite Spanish artists and two of them favorite Spanish artists and two of them were court painters Velasquez and Goa were court painters Velasquez and Goa and they were both they both found it and they were both they both found it very constricting to do um uh you know very constricting to do um uh you know the kind of work they were commissioned the kind of work they were commissioned to do and paid to paid to do. But both to do and paid to paid to do. But both of them found their own ways to sort of of them found their own ways to sort of rebel against it. Like uh Velasquez rebel against it. Like uh Velasquez would paint uh the court gesture would paint uh the court gesture gestures and the dwarves in a very gestures and the dwarves in a very humanistic way almost humanizing them humanistic way almost humanizing them and not as a form of caricature which and not as a form of caricature which was not there till then and Goya's was not there till then and Goya's silent rebellion towards the end of his silent rebellion towards the end of his life was to paint on the walls of the life was to paint on the walls of the home where he lived not for anyone's home where he lived not for anyone's eye. There's series called the black eye. There's series called the black paintings. I don't know if you've ever paintings. I don't know if you've ever seen them. It'll just it is so seen them. It'll just it is so mind-blowing. there uh in the Praau in mind-blowing. there uh in the Praau in Madrid and just one of the most moving Madrid and just one of the most moving experiences of my life. Like he had gone experiences of my life. Like he had gone deaf 30 years ago. He was in his mid70s deaf 30 years ago. He was in his mid70s and he made these remarkable works on and he made these remarkable works on the walls of his house and in a sense the walls of his house and in a sense people say modern art begins there that people say modern art begins there that he was the last of the old masters and he was the last of the old masters and the first of the moderns except that the the first of the moderns except that the rest of the moderns actually begin some rest of the moderns actually begin some 30 40 years after he dies. But leaving 30 40 years after he dies. But leaving that uh tangent aside, how was it for that uh tangent aside, how was it for the development of art in what we call the development of art in what we call India today that uh uh you know on the India today that uh uh you know on the one hand royal patronage is playing a one hand royal patronage is playing a big part all of these people not just big part all of these people not just the Mughal emperors but certain Rajbut the Mughal emperors but certain Rajbut uh rulers as well are connoisseurs of uh rulers as well are connoisseurs of art and they're doing everything they art and they're doing everything they can but at the same time uh what does can but at the same time uh what does this do for the individuality of the this do for the individuality of the artist like I'm ashamed to say that I artist like I'm ashamed to say that I don't know enough about that period to don't know enough about that period to be able to point to an Indian Velasquez be able to point to an Indian Velasquez or an Indian Goa Goya though I'm sure or an Indian Goa Goya though I'm sure they must have existed people kind of they must have existed people kind of breaking away and doing their making breaking away and doing their making their own little radical departures as their own little radical departures as it were. So give me a sense of um uh you it were. So give me a sense of um uh you know what that ecosystem was like know what that ecosystem was like because for an artist it must have been because for an artist it must have been incredibly frustrating that you can't incredibly frustrating that you can't survive and do your own thing without survive and do your own thing without royal patronage and then you u you know royal patronage and then you u you know are tied to a particular kind of taste are tied to a particular kind of taste but at the same time once you get that but at the same time once you get that it can also be really empowering and you it can also be really empowering and you can do funky things within those can do funky things within those constraints. So give me a sense of what constraints. So give me a sense of what that world of Indian art was like. Yeah. that world of Indian art was like. Yeah. So, you know, you have uh hit upon the So, you know, you have uh hit upon the the the key problem for anybody the the key problem for anybody looking at the history of art in India looking at the history of art in India and wanting to write something like a and wanting to write something like a biography of Velasquez or Goya is that biography of Velasquez or Goya is that you can't do it in India. uh because the you can't do it in India. uh because the we know almost little to nothing uh we know almost little to nothing uh about any of the individual artists who about any of the individual artists who worked in Mughal Atalles and then the worked in Mughal Atalles and then the subimperial courts and then you know in subimperial courts and then you know in right up till the 18th century um the right up till the 18th century um the for the simple fact that they were for the simple fact that they were they were not uh their names were often they were not uh their names were often not written down uh nothing was told to not written down uh nothing was told to us about no details were ever recorded us about no details were ever recorded anywhere uh about their lives about who anywhere uh about their lives about who they were uh under the reign of Akbar. they were uh under the reign of Akbar. He started writing down uh their names. He started writing down uh their names. At least Abu Al fuzzle has a list of At least Abu Al fuzzle has a list of first great painters. So we know how first great painters. So we know how many Hindus there were. You know there many Hindus there were. You know there was Basawan, there was the um a number was Basawan, there was the um a number of them uh Dash um but we know nothing of them uh Dash um but we know nothing else apart from the fact that they were else apart from the fact that they were painters at the royal court. So we will painters at the royal court. So we will never be able to write a history like never be able to write a history like Velasquez and Goya unfortunately. you Velasquez and Goya unfortunately. you know that kind of detail was never know that kind of detail was never thought necessary to write down thought necessary to write down anywhere. It was really uh it was really anywhere. It was really uh it was really curated to be the biographies of royal curated to be the biographies of royal elite people usually men. Uh so the elite people usually men. Uh so the lives and times of these men it is only lives and times of these men it is only I think um we recently have the lineage I think um we recently have the lineage of one of the ra you know I think the of one of the ra you know I think the great uh Rajasthani art painters there great uh Rajasthani art painters there is a lineage has been created for them. is a lineage has been created for them. So we know who the father, the son, the So we know who the father, the son, the grandson. That's about all that we know grandson. That's about all that we know for one great family of Indian artists. for one great family of Indian artists. For the rest, for the ones who worked at For the rest, for the ones who worked at the Mughal court, I can say almost the Mughal court, I can say almost nothing. The most I know about in terms nothing. The most I know about in terms of individuality. Now I know as you were of individuality. Now I know as you were saying uh it is really the individual saying uh it is really the individual personalities of the Mughal emperors. Uh personalities of the Mughal emperors. Uh sometimes the women we have a few sometimes the women we have a few indications that the women were patrons. indications that the women were patrons. So very interestingly uh we are told So very interestingly uh we are told that probably Hamidabanu beum uh the that probably Hamidabanu beum uh the story of the Ramayan resonated with her. story of the Ramayan resonated with her. Now we know that Akbar had the Now we know that Akbar had the Mahabharat and the Ramayan translated Mahabharat and the Ramayan translated from Sanskrit into Persian. First time from Sanskrit into Persian. First time ever that this happened. Uh he had it ever that this happened. Uh he had it translated into Persian so that the translated into Persian so that the Muslim gentry could have access to these Muslim gentry could have access to these great Hindu texts so that these sources great Hindu texts so that these sources of misunderstanding between Muslims and of misunderstanding between Muslims and Hindus could be done away with. This was Hindus could be done away with. This was the aim of translating these texts and the aim of translating these texts and apparently the Ramayan became very apparently the Ramayan became very popular. The Persian Ram Ramayan uh popular. The Persian Ram Ramayan uh Hamita Banu Beum was particularly fond Hamita Banu Beum was particularly fond of the Ramayan. Uh she had an imperial a of the Ramayan. Uh she had an imperial a copy in her possession. So possibly she copy in her possession. So possibly she commissioned personally some of those commissioned personally some of those paintings. So that is a very intriguing paintings. So that is a very intriguing thought. Uh it is believed to be the thought. Uh it is believed to be the last uh manuscript, the last uh album last uh manuscript, the last uh album that she asked to look at upon her that she asked to look at upon her deathbed. And it is believed that the deathbed. And it is believed that the story of Sitha being in exile is story of Sitha being in exile is something that resonated with her something that resonated with her because for 2 years she was in exile in because for 2 years she was in exile in Persia not knowing if she would ever Persia not knowing if she would ever come back to her homeland. So these are come back to her homeland. So these are the connections very tenuously that we the connections very tenuously that we can make to suggest that perhaps Hamida can make to suggest that perhaps Hamida Banu beum commission some of these Banu beum commission some of these paintings for the rest it's mostly the paintings for the rest it's mostly the men. So when the personality of the men men. So when the personality of the men shines through very strongly uh then I shines through very strongly uh then I think the artists are given free reign. think the artists are given free reign. So like you were talking about the So like you were talking about the painting that Jangir commissioned. So painting that Jangir commissioned. So for a lay person anybody going trying to for a lay person anybody going trying to understand which is an Abari painting understand which is an Abari painting which is a Jangiri painting. Here's a which is a Jangiri painting. Here's a trick. A painting which has dozens and trick. A painting which has dozens and dozens of people engaged in all sorts of dozens of people engaged in all sorts of activities is an Agari painting. You can activities is an Agari painting. You can almost 99% say that you know all the almost 99% say that you know all the Hamza Nama paintings many of the later Hamza Nama paintings many of the later paintings the the Razam Nama paintings paintings the the Razam Nama paintings they are all full of life full of they are all full of life full of activity loads of people doing all kinds activity loads of people doing all kinds of stuff that's Adburi by the time we of stuff that's Adburi by the time we come to Jahani who is his son they are come to Jahani who is his son they are much much quieter they are much more much much quieter they are much more about one single figure they are more about one single figure they are more introspective they are more introspective they are more psychological paintings you know they psychological paintings you know they are trying to deconstruct something are trying to deconstruct something about the person being painted often about the person being painted often Jangir himself. So a very interesting Jangir himself. So a very interesting series of paintings happens between600 series of paintings happens between600 and604. and604. and604. So this is the time when Mira as he then So this is the time when Mira as he then was rebelss against his father Akbar was rebelss against his father Akbar because he decides that this is time for because he decides that this is time for me to become emperor. I will not wait me to become emperor. I will not wait endlessly to become emperor. My brothers endlessly to become emperor. My brothers of his two brothers one is already dead of his two brothers one is already dead you know and his now his sons are of an you know and his now his sons are of an age to mount a challenge. So he is like age to mount a challenge. So he is like I am going to uh you know make a bid for I am going to uh you know make a bid for the throne. So he leaves Agra goes to the throne. So he leaves Agra goes to Alabad and sets up court uh as P as Alabad and sets up court uh as P as emperor Salem. Okay. So he proclaims emperor Salem. Okay. So he proclaims himself emperor. He um issues edicts in himself emperor. He um issues edicts in his name. He holds the Friday prayers in his name. He holds the Friday prayers in his name. Uh and of course this is an his name. Uh and of course this is an act of treason. Now what does Akbar do? act of treason. Now what does Akbar do? One of the things he does he mostly One of the things he does he mostly ignores his son. Uh, one of the things ignores his son. Uh, one of the things he does is he sends um I think now I he does is he sends um I think now I don't want to get it wrong. Um, which don't want to get it wrong. Um, which painter does he send? I think he sends painter does he send? I think he sends Abu Hassan's father who is a great Abu Hassan's father who is a great Mughal painter to Jangi's court to Mughal painter to Jangi's court to paralle with him as a diplomat you know paralle with him as a diplomat you know um as you will know if you've read Akbar um as you will know if you've read Akbar is that if you were part of the mansari is that if you were part of the mansari system part of the you know uh imperial system part of the you know uh imperial administrative uh structure you were not administrative uh structure you were not only uh you know an administrator only uh you know an administrator warrior but you also had your own um you warrior but you also had your own um you know job which you continued doing know job which you continued doing whether you were painter calligrapher or whether you were painter calligrapher or what have you. So this painter was an what have you. So this painter was an important man, an important uh courtier. important man, an important uh courtier. He sends him to Jangi's court Mira uh He sends him to Jangi's court Mira uh and says please bring him back to Agbar, and says please bring him back to Agbar, bring him back to Agra, make him see the bring him back to Agra, make him see the folly of his ways. Instead folly of his ways. Instead he is won over by uh Mirasim because the he is won over by uh Mirasim because the two men have grown up together. You know two men have grown up together. You know he is a young artist who has grown up he is a young artist who has grown up alongside Mir Salee. They have a lot in alongside Mir Salee. They have a lot in common. The artist probably thinks okay common. The artist probably thinks okay Abar is now nearing 60 he's nearing the Abar is now nearing 60 he's nearing the end of his life perhaps it's better if I end of his life perhaps it's better if I stay on here in Alabad. So he stays on stay on here in Alabad. So he stays on at uh Salem's court and oversees a at uh Salem's court and oversees a number of paintings which are a clear number of paintings which are a clear challenge to Akbar. So I find it very challenge to Akbar. So I find it very amusing that these two imperial men are amusing that these two imperial men are fighting by creating different sorts of fighting by creating different sorts of paintings and kind of throwing it at the paintings and kind of throwing it at the face of the other because whereas Akbar face of the other because whereas Akbar had created this great melting pot of had created this great melting pot of Hindustan at his court and even his Hindustan at his court and even his paintings reflect that the these are paintings reflect that the these are Hindustani paintings right. Mira goes Hindustani paintings right. Mira goes back to the old Timurid ideals. He uses back to the old Timurid ideals. He uses Persian tropes you know as his Persian tropes you know as his forefathers would have recognized to say forefathers would have recognized to say I am distancing myself from this you I am distancing myself from this you know Hindustani experiment of my father know Hindustani experiment of my father Akbar and I am going to create this pure Akbar and I am going to create this pure Persian tradition. Look at my paintings. Persian tradition. Look at my paintings. Can you get any more pure and any more Can you get any more pure and any more Persian? So anybody who sees these Persian? So anybody who sees these paintings who are inexplic suddenly paintings who are inexplic suddenly inexplicably more Persian in nature and inexplicably more Persian in nature and they are suddenly more subdued uh very they are suddenly more subdued uh very fine paintings but very different from fine paintings but very different from the exuberance of earlier. You will know the exuberance of earlier. You will know that they have been made during the 1600 that they have been made during the 1600 to604 period because once he becomes to604 period because once he becomes emperor in6005 he goes back to the emperor in6005 he goes back to the Akbari style because that is really what Akbari style because that is really what he also understand. It was only part of he also understand. It was only part of his challenge to say that hey hello I am his challenge to say that hey hello I am here. I want to call to my court all the here. I want to call to my court all the people who are disaffected with my people who are disaffected with my father's experimentations in this uh father's experimentations in this uh syncric culture. I'm calling to those syncric culture. I'm calling to those who would want a return to the older who would want a return to the older order and it is reflected in the art. So order and it is reflected in the art. So these are these are the artworks that these are these are the artworks that are created. Then he will concentrate on are created. Then he will concentrate on these very individualistic these very individualistic psychologically heavy uh imageries uh psychologically heavy uh imageries uh which show him uh you know with as you which show him uh you know with as you say with all these um objects around him say with all these um objects around him which have which are really heavy in which have which are really heavy in symbolism and you can decode them for symbolism and you can decode them for endlessly for the meanings that they try endlessly for the meanings that they try to convey because Jang is trying to to convey because Jang is trying to convey all sorts of things about the convey all sorts of things about the sort of man he is. But I found it very sort of man he is. But I found it very amusing that father and son were to amusing that father and son were to carry out this clearly a very uh bitter carry out this clearly a very uh bitter battle through the painters that they battle through the painters that they commanded. commanded. commanded. This is so fascinating the canvas as a This is so fascinating the canvas as a battlefield and you know Akbar having battlefield and you know Akbar having age on his side and throwing all the age on his side and throwing all the multitudes of India into his canvases multitudes of India into his canvases and Jangi just using Canva. and Jangi just using Canva. So yeah uh so you know before we go in So yeah uh so you know before we go in for a break a last culture question. for a break a last culture question. I've always been curious about how I've always been curious about how people of that age entertained people of that age entertained themselves like I think in my episode themselves like I think in my episode with Parvati on Jangir I think it was in with Parvati on Jangir I think it was in that episode I keep forgetting but we that episode I keep forgetting but we were discussing how you know most of were discussing how you know most of these Mughal royals uh you know the these Mughal royals uh you know the brothers and cousins and all of that brothers and cousins and all of that about half of them would die through um about half of them would die through um just through drinking because that is just through drinking because that is all they had like I think of our brains all they had like I think of our brains dopamine centers today we have like a dopamine centers today we have like a hundred things to get addicted to hundred things to get addicted to whether it is social media India or whether it is social media India or online games or whatever and back in the online games or whatever and back in the day all you could do is you know take a day all you could do is you know take a swig which is why uh you know museums swig which is why uh you know museums are so full of wine glasses from that are so full of wine glasses from that period because what else are they going period because what else are they going to do? But uh so my question there is to do? But uh so my question there is for forget the angle of you know for forget the angle of you know addiction and wine but what did people addiction and wine but what did people do to entertain themselves like what do to entertain themselves like what would the texture of a normal day have would the texture of a normal day have been like? Akbar being an emperor could been like? Akbar being an emperor could order someone to tell him stories while order someone to tell him stories while the paintings of the Hamza Nama are the paintings of the Hamza Nama are shown up as a visual guide and it's shown up as a visual guide and it's almost like proto cinema as it were u of almost like proto cinema as it were u of the time but uh otherwise how did people the time but uh otherwise how did people entertain themselves what kind of music entertain themselves what kind of music did people listen to was there a culture did people listen to was there a culture of live performances singers what what of live performances singers what what what sense do you have of this so yes so what sense do you have of this so yes so my sense of this uh you know at least my sense of this uh you know at least amongst the elite once again you know I amongst the elite once again you know I must point out that it is much easier to must point out that it is much easier to to deduce things about the elite. Uh is to deduce things about the elite. Uh is that they they had these um so evenings that they they had these um so evenings were very much so either you hunted if were very much so either you hunted if you were you know if you at all had you were you know if you at all had access to that uh if you were an elite access to that uh if you were an elite person you know in a mansar or anybody person you know in a mansar or anybody even in the countryside uh talugdar even in the countryside uh talugdar later on you would hunt for men that was later on you would hunt for men that was a big part of their uh outdoor life. Um, a big part of their uh outdoor life. Um, another thing was they really traveled a another thing was they really traveled a lot. People traveled, you know, a lot. lot. People traveled, you know, a lot. Uh, they would travel of of course for Uh, they would travel of of course for for war. But that aside, they would for war. But that aside, they would travel to just keep an eye on things. travel to just keep an eye on things. They would travel for pilgrimages. They They would travel for pilgrimages. They would travel to beauty spots. And in would travel to beauty spots. And in that case, the entire family would go to that case, the entire family would go to pilgrim. And this was happening, you pilgrim. And this was happening, you know, from the time I start when I start know, from the time I start when I start saying the 16th century, people are saying the 16th century, people are traveling for pilgrimage. People are traveling for pilgrimage. People are traveling to see a beautiful area. So traveling to see a beautiful area. So that would happen during the cooler that would happen during the cooler months. The rest of the time uh evenings months. The rest of the time uh evenings were often um uh uh set aside for things were often um uh uh set aside for things like poetry and for music and dance. And like poetry and for music and dance. And this happened really this happens at this happened really this happens at whatever uh period I look at whether it whatever uh period I look at whether it is from the 16th to the late 18th is from the 16th to the late 18th century which is what I have covered so century which is what I have covered so far far far without fail when something has to be without fail when something has to be done if somebody has to be entertained done if somebody has to be entertained somebody is visiting you or you don't somebody is visiting you or you don't know what what to do you have some know what what to do you have some resources you will ask for a singing or resources you will ask for a singing or dancing to to uh entertain you so people dancing to to uh entertain you so people are really invested in music they uh are really invested in music they uh poet poetry is actually you know quite poet poetry is actually you know quite easily available. It is a more easily available. It is a more democratic thing than we imagine. Uh democratic thing than we imagine. Uh people are storytellers. I think in people are storytellers. I think in India there has always been India there has always been storytelling. So even in the Zenanas storytelling. So even in the Zenanas women will tell stories to each other, women will tell stories to each other, mothers will tell stories to their mothers will tell stories to their children. Uh this is a tradition that is children. Uh this is a tradition that is very strongly held on to and dancing and very strongly held on to and dancing and music where it's true that dancing is music where it's true that dancing is set aside for different communities. So set aside for different communities. So it is often not the Sharif women who it is often not the Sharif women who will be dancers themselves. So in the 18 will be dancers themselves. So in the 18 late 18th and 19th century when the late 18th and 19th century when the Sharif Indians see uh British women Sharif Indians see uh British women dancing they are horrified and they uh dancing they are horrified and they uh are very sympathetic with the husbands are very sympathetic with the husbands saying we are very sorry that your wives saying we are very sorry that your wives have to dance for us like this. They have to dance for us like this. They obviously have no dignity of their own. obviously have no dignity of their own. Uh in in in our system there is a Uh in in in our system there is a separate cast of people who who does separate cast of people who who does dancing. Um so you have tawites, you dancing. Um so you have tawites, you have cortisans and they provide the have cortisans and they provide the singing and the dancing. Um a and this singing and the dancing. Um a and this can be quite um widely spread in society can be quite um widely spread in society for those who can afford it. It is not for those who can afford it. It is not just the king. Uh it is also all his just the king. Uh it is also all his courtiers. Uh it is also the people that courtiers. Uh it is also the people that he rules in other regions Gujarat, he rules in other regions Gujarat, Rajasthan etc. Bengal they all do this. Rajasthan etc. Bengal they all do this. they all have singing and dancing of an they all have singing and dancing of an evening at their courts and at their evening at their courts and at their estates uh for those who can afford it. estates uh for those who can afford it. So, so these are the ways in which uh So, so these are the ways in which uh you know music, poetry and then dance is you know music, poetry and then dance is very much uh a part of of elite life at very much uh a part of of elite life at least and you are educated in a way uh least and you are educated in a way uh in which you will gain the most from in which you will gain the most from these entertainments. So you will be these entertainments. So you will be educated so that uh when you are educated so that uh when you are listening to a rag you understand all listening to a rag you understand all the emotions that this is meant to the emotions that this is meant to provoke in you. You will have the provoke in you. You will have the correct uh uh you will have the correct correct uh uh you will have the correct fragrances being lit so that your fragrances being lit so that your experience as an aesthetic really singing rags music it starts from really singing rags music it starts from the morning like at least at the the morning like at least at the emperor's court it starts with a emperor's court it starts with a particular rag so you know dupat particular rag so you know dupat that a particular rag is sung out in the that a particular rag is sung out in the morning to wake up everybody. Uh I am morning to wake up everybody. Uh I am recently looking at the 19th century for recently looking at the 19th century for a new book I'm writing on and in Delhi a new book I'm writing on and in Delhi for all the people life starts with this for all the people life starts with this rag being sung everywhere with the watch rag being sung everywhere with the watch for example during Ramsan very very for example during Ramsan very very early the watch watchman goes around early the watch watchman goes around with a drum waking up people calling with a drum waking up people calling them to prayer. So the auditory world is them to prayer. So the auditory world is something that I think you know we have something that I think you know we have lost touch of how rich the alfactory and lost touch of how rich the alfactory and auditory worlds were and therefore how auditory worlds were and therefore how people's lives were already very rich. people's lives were already very rich. They did not always need Tik Tok. You They did not always need Tik Tok. You know their lived lives were full of know their lived lives were full of sound and fragrances uh and music and sound and fragrances uh and music and dance. So I think uh these are the ways dance. So I think uh these are the ways in which they live their lives. in which they live their lives. I'll recommend a couple of my old I'll recommend a couple of my old episodes here. I'd done an episode on episodes here. I'd done an episode on tawias with Sabah Dwan which uh you know tawias with Sabah Dwan which uh you know speaks about that period and it's a speaks about that period and it's a lovely episode and I'd also done a lovely episode and I'd also done a recent episode with Sapna Little on her recent episode with Sapna Little on her beautiful book the broken script and one beautiful book the broken script and one of the things that took me by surprise of the things that took me by surprise there was how popular poetry Shi was there was how popular poetry Shi was among the masses that every day it was among the masses that every day it was published in the newspapers and that was published in the newspapers and that was the first page people would turn to and the first page people would turn to and it was such a big deal and masharas were it was such a big deal and masharas were so popular and she speaks of another so popular and she speaks of another fascinating ing uh angle which I'm sure fascinating ing uh angle which I'm sure you're also studying since you're you're also studying since you're writing about that period which is about writing about that period which is about the shifting landscape of language like the shifting landscape of language like at the time her book begins Persian is a at the time her book begins Persian is a court language all the elites are court language all the elites are learning Persian because that is a learning Persian because that is a lingua franqua that's the official lingua franqua that's the official language and by the time the book ends language and by the time the book ends English is a lingua franqua and everyone English is a lingua franqua and everyone who learned Persian is redundant and the who learned Persian is redundant and the landscape has changed and equally you landscape has changed and equally you have the stirrings of the politicization have the stirrings of the politicization of language where what we could call of language where what we could call Hindustani is being politically driven Hindustani is being politically driven into two sep separate directions of udu into two sep separate directions of udu and Hindi and uh you know those are the and Hindi and uh you know those are the very very early days of that give me a very very early days of that give me a sense of how uh what the shifting sense of how uh what the shifting landscape of language looks like in uh landscape of language looks like in uh those years from 1500 1600s 1700s what's those years from 1500 1600s 1700s what's going on there what are people speaking going on there what are people speaking what what is emerging out of that when what what is emerging out of that when does Hindustani as we would recognize it does Hindustani as we would recognize it begin to emerge u you know are there begin to emerge u you know are there connotations of class and politics connotations of class and politics embedded into how you choose to speak. embedded into how you choose to speak. Give me a sense of that. Yeah, that's Give me a sense of that. Yeah, that's you know that's an interesting area as you know that's an interesting area as well and linguists have you know poured well and linguists have you know poured over this and there there are many many over this and there there are many many theories and uh with the muggles it's theories and uh with the muggles it's it's very fascinating to see that you it's very fascinating to see that you know for them Turkey is their um it is know for them Turkey is their um it is the language of their heart. It is the the language of their heart. It is the language of their emotions because it is language of their emotions because it is what they used to speak of in speak in what they used to speak of in speak in in central Asia. So we can see how they in central Asia. So we can see how they hold on to Turkey for a long time but in hold on to Turkey for a long time but in a different form. Uh so we know that a different form. Uh so we know that Babur when he writes his uh biography he Babur when he writes his uh biography he writes in Shagatai Turkey you know writes in Shagatai Turkey you know linking it back to the clan of Changes linking it back to the clan of Changes Khan. Khan. Khan. Um so that for him is his mother tongue. Um so that for him is his mother tongue. It is what he is most comfortable with It is what he is most comfortable with obviously you know he has lived there obviously you know he has lived there most of his life and then in Kabul. Um most of his life and then in Kabul. Um then uh as they come into Hindustan we then uh as they come into Hindustan we see that the hold of Turkey uh it begins see that the hold of Turkey uh it begins to loosen a bit you know so we know that to loosen a bit you know so we know that Humayun speaks it we know then that Humayun speaks it we know then that Akbar can speak it a little bit. Uh Akbar can speak it a little bit. Uh Gulbadan writes Gulbadan who is Akbar's Gulbadan writes Gulbadan who is Akbar's aunt writes in very robust Persian aunt writes in very robust Persian because by then even though she is a because by then even though she is a matriarch of the older generation she matriarch of the older generation she clearly has learned Persian. uh but she clearly has learned Persian. uh but she writes it in a very robust style. So not writes it in a very robust style. So not in a very rarified uh you know fancy in a very rarified uh you know fancy way. Uh so her style of speaking uh way. Uh so her style of speaking uh Persian is in this kind of very every Persian is in this kind of very every man sort of way interspersed with words man sort of way interspersed with words of Turkey. So we see that Turki is still of Turkey. So we see that Turki is still being spoken amongst the women, right? being spoken amongst the women, right? And women are often uh the purveyors of And women are often uh the purveyors of culture and language in a family. So culture and language in a family. So they are still trying to teach the they are still trying to teach the children Turkey. But by the time Jiangir children Turkey. But by the time Jiangir speaks of Turkey, he says it as a uh as speaks of Turkey, he says it as a uh as something that he's very proud of. He something that he's very proud of. He says, you know, I can speak a little bit says, you know, I can speak a little bit of Turkey. Uh and then by Shajahan's of Turkey. Uh and then by Shajahan's time it is pretty much over and he says, time it is pretty much over and he says, "No, I want nothing to do with Turkey." "No, I want nothing to do with Turkey." Uh by Akbar's time already, we know that Uh by Akbar's time already, we know that he is born and brought up in India. So he is born and brought up in India. So though he learns Turkey with his family, though he learns Turkey with his family, he speaks I suppose what we would he speaks I suppose what we would recognize something as Brajhasha perhaps recognize something as Brajhasha perhaps you know uh as Braj um a sort of a you know uh as Braj um a sort of a Hindustani which would be familiar to us Hindustani which would be familiar to us because we know this because uh of the because we know this because uh of the way in which Abal Fuzzel writes his way in which Abal Fuzzel writes his histories and he admits to very histories and he admits to very amusingly he admits to certain very bad amusingly he admits to certain very bad language that Akbar uses when he is language that Akbar uses when he is extremely angry. And we can recognize extremely angry. And we can recognize them for insults that we would give them for insults that we would give today and we may hear on the streets of today and we may hear on the streets of Delhi today if we are walking. Like Delhi today if we are walking. Like what? Like what? No, I dare say this. what? Like what? No, I dare say this. This is I I have internalized misogyny This is I I have internalized misogyny to a far greater extent than is correct. to a far greater extent than is correct. I cannot be saying those things but it I cannot be saying those things but it is in my book. So it is a phrase that in is in my book. So it is a phrase that in Hindi you would say quite easily to Hindi you would say quite easily to somebody that you really detested. Uh somebody that you really detested. Uh luckily Abdul Fazul ke kept that. But luckily Abdul Fazul ke kept that. But what we know that is happening also at what we know that is happening also at Akpar's court in the 16th century Akpar's court in the 16th century through uh the scholar like Odrushk for through uh the scholar like Odrushk for example in her earlier work when she has example in her earlier work when she has written about Sanskrit at the Mughal written about Sanskrit at the Mughal court is that Sanskrit also enters uh court is that Sanskrit also enters uh the vocabulary of the Mughal elite the vocabulary of the Mughal elite because they recognize uh you know because they recognize uh you know Sanskrit text as being sources of elite Sanskrit text as being sources of elite knowledge. They bring it into the court. knowledge. They bring it into the court. It is used in a way uh that is It is used in a way uh that is integrated then into language at the integrated then into language at the court. Similarly, Persian is taken over court. Similarly, Persian is taken over into Sanskrit text and when you have into Sanskrit text and when you have churns or bs writing the stories of churns or bs writing the stories of various Rajput kings for example, they various Rajput kings for example, they use Persian terms uh to denote certain use Persian terms uh to denote certain things. So they also it's not just the things. So they also it's not just the uh you know the Mughal court it is also uh you know the Mughal court it is also Rajasthani language which is influenced Rajasthani language which is influenced by its contracts with the Mughals and by its contracts with the Mughals and they start integrating uh and using they start integrating uh and using Persian terms uh for the first time in Persian terms uh for the first time in their in their stories in their uh in their in their stories in their uh in the old the bic poetry that they start the old the bic poetry that they start creating at around this time. So this is creating at around this time. So this is a very uh fascinating way of seeing how a very uh fascinating way of seeing how language is crossing over both ways. So language is crossing over both ways. So Sanskrit is entering the Mughal court Sanskrit is entering the Mughal court but Persian is also going into uh the but Persian is also going into uh the other Indian courts. other Indian courts. Uh uh but Persian as a lingua frana Uh uh but Persian as a lingua frana really holds sway for a long time. It really holds sway for a long time. It becomes the language of the elite. It becomes the language of the elite. It becomes like English is today a way for becomes like English is today a way for you to move forward in life for you to you to move forward in life for you to sort of go up in the ladder. So if you sort of go up in the ladder. So if you have a you know a a poor Brahman uh have a you know a a poor Brahman uh scholar somewhere if he wants to really scholar somewhere if he wants to really advance in life like Chandraban uh Ib advance in life like Chandraban uh Ib Brahman for example who becomes a very Brahman for example who becomes a very famous writer he learns Persian and he famous writer he learns Persian and he offers his services to the court at the offers his services to the court at the time and he will be taken on so across time and he will be taken on so across North India uh and even in the Dean North India uh and even in the Dean Persian is the language of the elite and Persian is the language of the elite and it really binds together it is also the it really binds together it is also the administrative language and it binds administrative language and it binds together the world uh the administrative together the world uh the administrative world, the cultural world throughout world, the cultural world throughout India and this goes on for a very long India and this goes on for a very long time. It's happening in the 18th century time. It's happening in the 18th century that I am that that the lion and the that I am that that the lion and the lily talks about it is really in the lily talks about it is really in the 19th century that the break begins to 19th century that the break begins to happen when the British realize that happen when the British realize that they can you know this whole divide and they can you know this whole divide and conquer idea comes into play and they're conquer idea comes into play and they're like okay they begin initially like okay they begin initially they were also enamored by the Persian they were also enamored by the Persian text. So one of the uh figures I talk text. So one of the uh figures I talk about is a man called Antoan Pulier who about is a man called Antoan Pulier who is a Frenchman who works for the British is a Frenchman who works for the British and also spies for the nabs. Uh he is and also spies for the nabs. Uh he is initially like his English counterpart initially like his English counterpart enamored by Persian. He speaks, reads enamored by Persian. He speaks, reads and writes Persian beautifully. He tries and writes Persian beautifully. He tries to understand poetry at the court. You to understand poetry at the court. You know he tries to become part of that know he tries to become part of that Persian culture. Uh and he uh patronizes Persian culture. Uh and he uh patronizes uh Persian uh albums, paintings and uh Persian uh albums, paintings and writings. Then during his own lifetime writings. Then during his own lifetime which is simply over the 1780s 1790s he which is simply over the 1780s 1790s he realizes that the British under William realizes that the British under William Jones and others who create the Asiatic Jones and others who create the Asiatic society of India they have now society of India they have now discovered Sanskrit texts and they now discovered Sanskrit texts and they now feel that the future is through the feel that the future is through the understanding of Sanskrit text. They understanding of Sanskrit text. They take on certain uh so the Brahmans tell take on certain uh so the Brahmans tell them certain things. So they tell them them certain things. So they tell them their Brahman truths in inverted commas. their Brahman truths in inverted commas. They give them the manusmmiti and the They give them the manusmmiti and the East India company uh officials are East India company uh officials are convinced that this is what everybody convinced that this is what everybody speaks and listens to. They are all speaks and listens to. They are all quoting the manusmmiti morning and quoting the manusmmiti morning and evening. This is what we will base our evening. This is what we will base our law books on. And Manusmitti becomes the law books on. And Manusmitti becomes the basis for lot of the laws that are basis for lot of the laws that are enacted at that time which is why enacted at that time which is why homosexuality was illegal in India till homosexuality was illegal in India till very recently. So it is really uh this very recently. So it is really uh this liinal period late 18th century early liinal period late 18th century early 19th century where they discover 19th century where they discover Sanskrit text they realize that they can Sanskrit text they realize that they can actually bring in this divide force actually bring in this divide force Persian into being the language of the Persian into being the language of the others where it's really it was you know others where it's really it was you know say Persianized udu was spoken by say Persianized udu was spoken by everybody even by the hopey by the everybody even by the hopey by the gentry by by every person um and they gentry by by every person um and they say that it is the language of the say that it is the language of the Muslim it is language of the other Muslim it is language of the other instead It is a a language that will be instead It is a a language that will be pushed forward which is Sanskritized pushed forward which is Sanskritized Hindi you know coming from Khariboli and Hindi you know coming from Khariboli and more that sort of language which becomes more that sort of language which becomes more acceptable and then uh you know more acceptable and then uh you know obviously English becomes the lingua obviously English becomes the lingua franker. This is also incredibly uh franker. This is also incredibly uh fascinating. I will now share something fascinating. I will now share something with jingoistic pride that I know that with jingoistic pride that I know that you will share which is that in in all you will share which is that in in all this turmoil with all this nonsense this turmoil with all this nonsense British doing divide and rule. Bengali British doing divide and rule. Bengali survived survived survived you know like they say you can take the you know like they say you can take the Bengali out of Bengal but you cannot Bengali out of Bengal but you cannot take Bengali out of the Bengali you know take Bengali out of the Bengali you know do you know Bengali by the way? No no do you know Bengali by the way? No no unfortunately not. I understand a little unfortunately not. I understand a little bit but really the ignorance is bit but really the ignorance is complete. Oh my god I need to recover complete. Oh my god I need to recover from the shock. Let's do so by taking a from the shock. Let's do so by taking a quick break. And on the other side of quick break. And on the other side of this break, we shall get to talking this break, we shall get to talking about your life. Because you can't just about your life. Because you can't just talk about other people's lives. What is talk about other people's lives. What is this? You have to talk about your own this? You have to talk about your own life. After the break. Long before I was a podcaster, I was a Long before I was a podcaster, I was a writer. In fact, chances are that many writer. In fact, chances are that many of you first heard of me because of my of you first heard of me because of my blog India Uncut, which was active blog India Uncut, which was active between 2003 and 2009 and became between 2003 and 2009 and became somewhat popular at the time. I love the somewhat popular at the time. I love the freedom the form gave me and I feel I freedom the form gave me and I feel I was shaped by it in many ways. I was shaped by it in many ways. I exercised my writing muscle every day exercised my writing muscle every day and was forced to think about many and was forced to think about many different things because I wrote about different things because I wrote about many different things. Well, that phase many different things. Well, that phase in my life ended for various reasons and in my life ended for various reasons and now it is time to revive it. Only now now it is time to revive it. Only now I'm doing it through a newsletter. I I'm doing it through a newsletter. I have started the India Uncut newsletter have started the India Uncut newsletter at indiun.substack.com at indiun.substack.com at indiun.substack.com where I will write regularly about where I will write regularly about whatever catches my fancy. I'll write whatever catches my fancy. I'll write about some of the themes I cover in this about some of the themes I cover in this podcast and about much else. So, please podcast and about much else. So, please do head on over to indiaun do head on over to indiaun uncut.substack.com uncut.substack.com uncut.substack.com and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign up, each new installment that I write up, each new installment that I write will land up in your email inbox. You will land up in your email inbox. You don't need to go anywhere. So, subscribe don't need to go anywhere. So, subscribe now for free. The India uncut newsletter now for free. The India uncut newsletter at indiaunut.substack.com. at indiaunut.substack.com. at indiaunut.substack.com. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome back to the scene and the Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still chatting with Ira unseen. I'm still chatting with Ira Makotti. An entire day has passed since Makotti. An entire day has passed since we took the last break. We like to take we took the last break. We like to take long breaks at our age also. We are long breaks at our age also. We are Bengali which uh helps you know between Bengali which uh helps you know between us we are one Bengali. So correct that's us we are one Bengali. So correct that's a that's a lot of breaking but leaving a that's a lot of breaking but leaving aside uh you know the that particular aside uh you know the that particular hyphenation aside u I want to tell you hyphenation aside u I want to tell you that everything you told me about your that everything you told me about your background yesterday was a lie because background yesterday was a lie because it appeared that you were talking about it appeared that you were talking about your love for reading your love for your love for reading your love for literature uh you became a historian. literature uh you became a historian. However, the newspaper Mint describes However, the newspaper Mint describes you as quote a French Bengali scientist you as quote a French Bengali scientist at Cambridge University who worked in at Cambridge University who worked in pharmaceutical consulting. Stop quote pharmaceutical consulting. Stop quote and this is you and you cannot deny it. and this is you and you cannot deny it. I have done my uh forensic I have done my uh forensic investigations into the past. So what investigations into the past. So what can I say Amit? I have multiplicities in can I say Amit? I have multiplicities in me. Yeah. Much like Emperor Hagbar which me. Yeah. Much like Emperor Hagbar which is Exactly. Yeah. So um but no but on a is Exactly. Yeah. So um but no but on a serious note u you know that's where we serious note u you know that's where we stopped our uh biographical musing so to stopped our uh biographical musing so to say. So I want to ask about that period say. So I want to ask about that period of your time that when you're growing up of your time that when you're growing up uh you know what is your vision of uh you know what is your vision of yourself? What is a story you're telling yourself? What is a story you're telling yourself and how is it that you know you yourself and how is it that you know you uh land up in Cambridge and uh you uh land up in Cambridge and uh you studied natural history at one point but studied natural history at one point but then you're a scientist you're you're in then you're a scientist you're you're in pharmaceuticals and whatever whatever pharmaceuticals and whatever whatever what was going on there like was it was what was going on there like was it was that were you just going down paths that that were you just going down paths that you were naturally good at or was that you were naturally good at or was that also a passion take me through that part also a passion take me through that part of your journey of your journey so natural sciences actually is what I so natural sciences actually is what I studied but uh yeah you're absolutely studied but uh yeah you're absolutely right uh is that growing up I was you right uh is that growing up I was you know a very capable student and in those know a very capable student and in those days uh even though I was you know I days uh even though I was you know I loved literature and I liked writing and loved literature and I liked writing and you know I was I think pretty good at it you know I was I think pretty good at it but uh since I was also good at the but uh since I was also good at the sciences in those days it was considered sciences in those days it was considered you know a much better bet to go into you know a much better bet to go into the sciences you know and I was very the sciences you know and I was very driven very ambitious um I wanted to do driven very ambitious um I wanted to do well I had had you know the beginnings well I had had you know the beginnings of a feminist uh you input from my of a feminist uh you input from my school teacher. So I wanted to do as school teacher. So I wanted to do as well as the boys, you know. So I was well as the boys, you know. So I was very driven in that sense. And so I very driven in that sense. And so I thought okay, you know, then I'll do thought okay, you know, then I'll do sciences since I'm told it's a better sciences since I'm told it's a better bet. It's, you know, better option for bet. It's, you know, better option for careers. Uh it's something that girls careers. Uh it's something that girls don't tend to get into. So I should go don't tend to get into. So I should go against um the tide. So all of those, against um the tide. So all of those, you know, all of that thinking was in my you know, all of that thinking was in my mind that I I need to do something. mind that I I need to do something. So I studied zoologology honors at Delhi So I studied zoologology honors at Delhi University first uh and then went on to University first uh and then went on to Cambridge because at that time it was Cambridge because at that time it was considered you know how it is the hangup considered you know how it is the hangup we have about Oxbridge it was like okay we have about Oxbridge it was like okay that's the best if you're a good student that's the best if you're a good student aim for that you know um so I did that aim for that you know um so I did that and I got into natural sciences so I and I got into natural sciences so I actually have five years of scientific actually have five years of scientific training you know all told um and for a training you know all told um and for a little while I did work in that area um little while I did work in that area um and then actually there was a and then actually there was a combination of factors but essentially combination of factors but essentially uh you know the big defining event of my uh you know the big defining event of my 20ies was that my father very 20ies was that my father very unexpectedly fell ill and died very unexpectedly fell ill and died very quickly. So that sort of um really threw quickly. So that sort of um really threw me off course. It completely changed the me off course. It completely changed the direction in which I would go. It direction in which I would go. It changed you know as it does for many changed you know as it does for many people you know going through bererement people you know going through bererement at that age is that it changes you very at that age is that it changes you very essentially as a as a human being and essentially as a as a human being and also your path in life the choices you also your path in life the choices you then choose to make. So I felt uh after then choose to make. So I felt uh after that that I had lost a lot of that that that I had lost a lot of that ambition that driving force and I think ambition that driving force and I think that's when I realized that I guess as that's when I realized that I guess as children you often do things for your children you often do things for your parents no matter how old you are you parents no matter how old you are you want to make them proud and you do want to make them proud and you do things for their approval you know things for their approval you know constantly um and once my father died constantly um and once my father died and then you know unfortunately 2 years and then you know unfortunately 2 years after that my mother fell ill and would after that my mother fell ill and would eventually pass away. Uh uh so these two eventually pass away. Uh uh so these two these twin events kind of completely these twin events kind of completely changed uh you know what I would go on changed uh you know what I would go on to do and become and think was important to do and become and think was important in my life. Then I I kind of completely in my life. Then I I kind of completely um it made me you know rethink what was um it made me you know rethink what was important for me and what I needed to important for me and what I needed to do. So that is your answer in a nutshell do. So that is your answer in a nutshell is that I have done these two things is that I have done these two things actually. actually. actually. So you know one of the themes I um So you know one of the themes I um explore constantly in many of these uh explore constantly in many of these uh sort of longer episodes that I do um the sort of longer episodes that I do um the life and times kind of episodes oral life and times kind of episodes oral histories is how people relate to their histories is how people relate to their parents which fascinated me so much that parents which fascinated me so much that I'm actually um making a documentary on I'm actually um making a documentary on it right now and you know talking to a it right now and you know talking to a whole bunch of people including many whole bunch of people including many people who've come on my show and what people who've come on my show and what kind of fascinates me is that that is a kind of fascinates me is that that is a one relationship especially in Indian one relationship especially in Indian society we simply haven't sorted out society we simply haven't sorted out that people go entire entire lifetimes that people go entire entire lifetimes without having honest conversations with without having honest conversations with their parents and sometimes their kids their parents and sometimes their kids and often they go entire lifetimes and often they go entire lifetimes without relating to them as real human without relating to them as real human beings where they always see them in the beings where they always see them in the role of father mother and all of that role of father mother and all of that and uh bereiement and I have personally and uh bereiement and I have personally found this is almost impossible to deal found this is almost impossible to deal with in a sense uh no matter how old you with in a sense uh no matter how old you are I mean my parents of course died are I mean my parents of course died when I was much much older but whether when I was much much older but whether you're young or old it's really you're young or old it's really difficult and you've spoken in the past difficult and you've spoken in the past about how some of your refuge refuge and about how some of your refuge refuge and understanding came from books like the understanding came from books like the Tibetan book of the dead and the year of Tibetan book of the dead and the year of magical thinking by Jean Ddian and you magical thinking by Jean Ddian and you just said that it changed you as a just said that it changed you as a person completely. Uh so if it is not person completely. Uh so if it is not too painful to talk about can you too painful to talk about can you elaborate a bit on this? Yes. No elaborate a bit on this? Yes. No absolutely you are absolutely right and absolutely you are absolutely right and um I think despite you know having lost um I think despite you know having lost my parents at a young age especially my my parents at a young age especially my father I was lucky in that I had one father I was lucky in that I had one year when I finished whatever I was year when I finished whatever I was doing in London I finished my education doing in London I finished my education at Cambridge I was working in London and at Cambridge I was working in London and I came back for no ostensible reason I I came back for no ostensible reason I just thought let me go back and I got just thought let me go back and I got that one year to be with my father and that one year to be with my father and you know all these questions you you you know all these questions you you know you have brought up about how we do know you have brought up about how we do not have relationships with our parents not have relationships with our parents in India beyond the child and the in India beyond the child and the parent. It was that during that one parent. It was that during that one year, it was almost a kind of grace that year, it was almost a kind of grace that I was given that I was able to interact I was given that I was able to interact with him as an adult. I saw him as an with him as an adult. I saw him as an independent adult of his own who was independent adult of his own who was doing marvelous and remarkable things in doing marvelous and remarkable things in the world. You know, he was a human the world. You know, he was a human rights lawyer. So, I accompanied him on rights lawyer. So, I accompanied him on a lot of his talks. Uh his involvement a lot of his talks. Uh his involvement in people's union for de democratic in people's union for de democratic rights. I got to see him um other than rights. I got to see him um other than just as my father. I saw him as other just as my father. I saw him as other people saw him. So I was I feel that people saw him. So I was I feel that this was really almost the universe this was really almost the universe giving me this year of grace you know to giving me this year of grace you know to to have that time with my father. But to have that time with my father. But then he passed away and I have to say then he passed away and I have to say for about let's say almost a decade um I for about let's say almost a decade um I could not relate to people or thinking could not relate to people or thinking or writing that was anything other than or writing that was anything other than dealing with grief because it took over dealing with grief because it took over my life to such an extent that all I my life to such an extent that all I wanted to do was either talk to people. wanted to do was either talk to people. I found people who had not undergone I found people who had not undergone similar experiences utterly uh you know similar experiences utterly uh you know on a different plane to mine. I I just I on a different plane to mine. I I just I realized they could not understand me realized they could not understand me and I could not no longer understand and I could not no longer understand them. Um and as for writing um yes I them. Um and as for writing um yes I read the Tibetan book of the living and read the Tibetan book of the living and the dead which was very very helpful. the dead which was very very helpful. You know it's a way for the lay person You know it's a way for the lay person to understand lots of issues around to understand lots of issues around grief. So I used that a lot. I it was by grief. So I used that a lot. I it was by my bedside for many years. But then I my bedside for many years. But then I also read fiction around the issue like also read fiction around the issue like you were saying uh Joan Ddian you know you were saying uh Joan Ddian you know the the year of magical thinking and the the year of magical thinking and blue nights the way she writes with so blue nights the way she writes with so much beauty and eloquence um and power much beauty and eloquence um and power about losing her daughter. Um then I about losing her daughter. Um then I read uh like a number of books which read uh like a number of books which dealt with the issue in different ways dealt with the issue in different ways you know fictional just as as much as you know fictional just as as much as non-fiction. non-fiction. non-fiction. A a lot of people actually deal with you A a lot of people actually deal with you know with grief as writers. So whether know with grief as writers. So whether it was uh H's for hawk by I think Helen it was uh H's for hawk by I think Helen McDonald that was also beautiful. She McDonald that was also beautiful. She deals with the loss of her father uh by deals with the loss of her father uh by taming a hawk, you know, uh and you taming a hawk, you know, uh and you would think that this is like, you know, would think that this is like, you know, it makes no sense, but you read her book it makes no sense, but you read her book and she goes step by step and her and she goes step by step and her journey into the life of she becomes journey into the life of she becomes almost cloistered from the outside world almost cloistered from the outside world and it's just her and this wild creature and it's just her and this wild creature in a in a closed space. And she begins in a in a closed space. And she begins to understand this animal and the animal to understand this animal and the animal seems to respond to her and slowly she seems to respond to her and slowly she in quotes domesticates it to the extent in quotes domesticates it to the extent that it is willing to hunt for her. And that it is willing to hunt for her. And this extraordinary journey that takes this extraordinary journey that takes almost a year helps her process all the almost a year helps her process all the grief she has for her father's loss. And grief she has for her father's loss. And seeing how human beings have done this seeing how human beings have done this in the past helped me understand you in the past helped me understand you know my own humanity that of others and know my own humanity that of others and how essentially at the end of it we are how essentially at the end of it we are all so very similar in the face of the all so very similar in the face of the events that define us like grief. So so events that define us like grief. So so yeah for 10 years I mostly read uh you yeah for 10 years I mostly read uh you know books that help me understand how know books that help me understand how other people coped with similar other people coped with similar situations as well. How did it change situations as well. How did it change what you wanted in your life? what you wanted in your life? So as I said you know the earlier very So as I said you know the earlier very driven ambitious person like simply driven ambitious person like simply seemed to die you know because there was seemed to die you know because there was like no need for me. I early on I always like no need for me. I early on I always felt I was like on a treadmill or that I felt I was like on a treadmill or that I was you know looking at the clock and I was you know looking at the clock and I had to do certain things by 18 I had to had to do certain things by 18 I had to do certain things by 21 and then by 25 do certain things by 21 and then by 25 and suddenly all that didn't matter you and suddenly all that didn't matter you know wrongly or rightly it just felt know wrongly or rightly it just felt that without my parents there to uh you that without my parents there to uh you know to I don't know to validate what I know to I don't know to validate what I was doing it didn't seem to matter was doing it didn't seem to matter anymore and also obviously it showed me anymore and also obviously it showed me that at instantly things can change that at instantly things can change completely so it really matters what you completely so it really matters what you spend each precious day doing. Uh spend each precious day doing. Uh whether you are old or young, the world whether you are old or young, the world can turn upside down, you know, without can turn upside down, you know, without you ever having planned for that you ever having planned for that eventuality. So what do you do with the eventuality. So what do you do with the time you have? You may have a day, you time you have? You may have a day, you may have a decade, you may have 50 may have a decade, you may have 50 years, but you don't know that. Um so it years, but you don't know that. Um so it really did change um really did change um the things in which I wanted to pour my the things in which I wanted to pour my energies. And so initially after uh you energies. And so initially after uh you know all that happened, I had my two know all that happened, I had my two children. one after the other. So I was children. one after the other. So I was focused on that and I was raising them focused on that and I was raising them and it was when they were small then and it was when they were small then this whole issue that we talked about this whole issue that we talked about earlier came about that I was thinking earlier came about that I was thinking about what kind of girls do I want to about what kind of girls do I want to raise what kind of human beings do I raise what kind of human beings do I want to raise uh what are the influences want to raise uh what are the influences I want them to see and to absorb what I want them to see and to absorb what books and that's what got me first books and that's what got me first thinking about the way in which we thinking about the way in which we portray uh women uh two young girls in portray uh women uh two young girls in India two young women and and how India two young women and and how problematic it continues to be and what problematic it continues to be and what we can do to counter that so That's we can do to counter that so That's really when I started writing and I really when I started writing and I wrote song of Draati at that point. Tell wrote song of Draati at that point. Tell me about how your thinking about me about how your thinking about parenthood about your being a parent was parenthood about your being a parent was uh shaped by this. Like I remember like uh shaped by this. Like I remember like one of my favorite episodes of the show one of my favorite episodes of the show is with Manal Pand and Manal G was is with Manal Pand and Manal G was talking about uh how once she and a talking about uh how once she and a bunch of ladies had kind of gathered and bunch of ladies had kind of gathered and they were all young mothers and one of they were all young mothers and one of them brought up this newspaper item them brought up this newspaper item about some mother who had strangled her about some mother who had strangled her kid uh to death. God and they were all kid uh to death. God and they were all saying what a horrible thing. What a saying what a horrible thing. What a horrible thing. And then one mother horrible thing. And then one mother said, "You know what? I felt like doing said, "You know what? I felt like doing that sometimes." And then one by one that sometimes." And then one by one they all admitted that they had felt they all admitted that they had felt like that. So motherhood despite the like that. So motherhood despite the halo around it that only men really halo around it that only men really believe is actually bloody difficult. Uh believe is actually bloody difficult. Uh it is difficult. It is traumatic. It it is difficult. It is traumatic. It completely changes your life. It uproots completely changes your life. It uproots you from where you were before and puts you from where you were before and puts you somewhere else. Uh uh it can bring you somewhere else. Uh uh it can bring about resentment. Uh you can approach about resentment. Uh you can approach your kids with that resentment. You can your kids with that resentment. You can approach them with a sense of parental approach them with a sense of parental duty and maybe you can begin to uh duty and maybe you can begin to uh approach it as connecting with two approach it as connecting with two people who are unique. They might have people who are unique. They might have come out of you but they are unique come out of you but they are unique individuals and that can be so much fun individuals and that can be so much fun also discovering that. So take me also discovering that. So take me through how your uh you know being a through how your uh you know being a parent evolved through all of this. parent evolved through all of this. Yeah, there those are wonderful thoughts Yeah, there those are wonderful thoughts uh Amit and we could talk endlessly uh Amit and we could talk endlessly about all of that because it's something about all of that because it's something that you know has also I have developed that you know has also I have developed my thinking about that you know in the my thinking about that you know in the last 10 20 years and definitely last 10 20 years and definitely initially so you know I initially I was initially so you know I initially I was it was nobody prepares you and they it was nobody prepares you and they should for how awful it can be to be should for how awful it can be to be especially a first time mother when you especially a first time mother when you don't have the blueprint for how you do don't have the blueprint for how you do that when you are in a nuclear family that when you are in a nuclear family when you don't have all the support that when you don't have all the support that you know women used to have with you know women used to have with extended families with you know that extended families with you know that kind of support system which takes over kind of support system which takes over for you when you can't do anything. So for you when you can't do anything. So firstly you have the loss of the firstly you have the loss of the integrity of your body as you knew it. integrity of your body as you knew it. You know your body overnight has You know your body overnight has changed. It will never be the same changed. It will never be the same again. So you have to come to terms with again. So you have to come to terms with that loss pretty early on. You know you that loss pretty early on. You know you could be a very young woman and say okay could be a very young woman and say okay I'm never going to be the way I was I'm never going to be the way I was before. But secondly, it just takes over before. But secondly, it just takes over all the time you have, all the energy all the time you have, all the energy and the patience. And I found that and the patience. And I found that really challenging, you know, and I have really challenging, you know, and I have been saying that whenever I have been been saying that whenever I have been questioned about it because I don't questioned about it because I don't think we say it enough. You were think we say it enough. You were mentioning how motherhood is valorized mentioning how motherhood is valorized to the extent that it is meant to be the to the extent that it is meant to be the end all of a woman. That is meant to be end all of a woman. That is meant to be her goal. Uh and we really need to push her goal. Uh and we really need to push back against that. There are many ways back against that. There are many ways of being happy as a woman, of being of being happy as a woman, of being fulfilled, of having, you know, fulfilled, of having, you know, productive life without having children. productive life without having children. I think we need to say that say this I think we need to say that say this much more especially in our society. Um much more especially in our society. Um but for me personally so my you know the but for me personally so my you know the early years I was very keen to put into early years I was very keen to put into practice all my feminist ideals and I practice all my feminist ideals and I had two girls so this was perfect. So I had two girls so this was perfect. So I remember uh me and my friend in the remember uh me and my friend in the neighborhood we had the same sort of neighborhood we had the same sort of thinking. So we said okay we are going thinking. So we said okay we are going to give them genderneutral toys. So she to give them genderneutral toys. So she had a son and a daughter. I had two had a son and a daughter. I had two daughters. So we tried to give all the daughters. So we tried to give all the children the same sort of toys. So we children the same sort of toys. So we gave them trucks and we give them cars gave them trucks and we give them cars and we put the dolls in the background and we put the dolls in the background you know and didn't encourage the use of you know and didn't encourage the use of dolls. We used all these kind of things dolls. We used all these kind of things wondering how they would you know how it wondering how they would you know how it would work out. We did not want to would work out. We did not want to impose our expectations of how they impose our expectations of how they should be as little girls and it was so should be as little girls and it was so hilarious because my girls at least hilarious because my girls at least completely ignored the trucks and the completely ignored the trucks and the you know steamrollers and all the other you know steamrollers and all the other such things went straight for the dolls such things went straight for the dolls and started telling stories but so did and started telling stories but so did her son you know. So it was interesting her son you know. So it was interesting to know that small children like to know that small children like storytelling and because dolls represent storytelling and because dolls represent human beings they were able to use them human beings they were able to use them in all sorts of situations and ways in all sorts of situations and ways right um so that was very interesting right um so that was very interesting for me to note and then I used to you for me to note and then I used to you know keep encouraging them to be know keep encouraging them to be whatever they wanted to be I would say whatever they wanted to be I would say you know uh why not be astronauts you you know uh why not be astronauts you know something which is always at least know something which is always at least you know when they were small considered you know when they were small considered typically male and like girls you can be typically male and like girls you can be astronauts I'm behind you we will you astronauts I'm behind you we will you know let you study whatever you want to know let you study whatever you want to study till one day when they were like study till one day when they were like eight or nine they turned around and eight or nine they turned around and said mama this terrifies us the idea of said mama this terrifies us the idea of going into space please stop telling us going into space please stop telling us that we can be astronauts we will never that we can be astronauts we will never be astronauts so you know I realized be astronauts so you know I realized that I was also in a sense putting my that I was also in a sense putting my own expectations even if I thought they own expectations even if I thought they were feminist ideas were feminist ideas and I was like okay I have to stop doing and I was like okay I have to stop doing this I have to just present to them an this I have to just present to them an even playing field uh you know and even playing field uh you know and encourage them to be whatever they want encourage them to be whatever they want to be uh and from then on I think it to be uh and from then on I think it worked it worked pretty well and I have worked it worked pretty well and I have always had the thought like you were always had the thought like you were articulating is that I have not created articulating is that I have not created my daughters you know I feel that really my daughters you know I feel that really strongly is that they have come through strongly is that they have come through me yes but they are their own people you me yes but they are their own people you know they are that slice of divinity or know they are that slice of divinity or whatever you want to call it that that whatever you want to call it that that that spark of life it's not something I that spark of life it's not something I could have done done intentionally so I could have done done intentionally so I do relate to them as individuals in do relate to them as individuals in their own right who are in my care for a their own right who are in my care for a while you know they have been uh you while you know they have been uh you know bestowed upon me for a while to know bestowed upon me for a while to look after as best I can but they are look after as best I can but they are really fundamentally their own human really fundamentally their own human beings and they can later on uh choose beings and they can later on uh choose to do with that what they will um so so to do with that what they will um so so that has been my journey and it has been that has been my journey and it has been very fulfilling in that sense but I have very fulfilling in that sense but I have understood the enormous pressure that understood the enormous pressure that comes comes with people like myself so comes comes with people like myself so people like myself who are people like myself who are perfectionists who like to do everything perfectionists who like to do everything really well we are very educated ed really well we are very educated ed privileged you know so we want to do we privileged you know so we want to do motherhood in the same way want to do motherhood in the same way which means that it taxes us to the which means that it taxes us to the extent that we have nothing left to give extent that we have nothing left to give apart from that and if I were to do it apart from that and if I were to do it again I would tell my younger self it again I would tell my younger self it doesn't matter if for doesn't matter it doesn't matter if for half the day you actually leave them half the day you actually leave them with somebody else who is caring they with somebody else who is caring they will not remember it at age 2 3 4 5 they will not remember it at age 2 3 4 5 they really won't but you will have had time really won't but you will have had time to do something else with your life to do something else with your life which will have you know fulfilled you which will have you know fulfilled you as as a human being. Um so that is as as a human being. Um so that is almost society's way of acting against almost society's way of acting against very educated high performing women like very educated high performing women like myself to sort of amongst women we will myself to sort of amongst women we will tell each other oh you know are you tell each other oh you know are you using a maid no I will not use a maid using a maid no I will not use a maid because I want to do everything I want because I want to do everything I want to change every last nappy and I was to change every last nappy and I was like if I can go back I would be like like if I can go back I would be like leave the damn nappies let somebody else leave the damn nappies let somebody else if you are lucky enough do that and you if you are lucky enough do that and you do the chatting you do the storytelling do the chatting you do the storytelling especially as they're growing up you especially as they're growing up you know um so that is the sort of I field know um so that is the sort of I field dichotomy that we are stuck in dichotomy that we are stuck in sometimes. sometimes. sometimes. Let me think aloud now and ask you uh a Let me think aloud now and ask you uh a question that I haven't really ever question that I haven't really ever considered in this context. When I sort considered in this context. When I sort of um talk about discipline and how I do of um talk about discipline and how I do my work and all of that, I refer to my work and all of that, I refer to something called the Eisenhower matrix. something called the Eisenhower matrix. Have you heard of it? No, I haven't. Have you heard of it? No, I haven't. Yeah. So, the Eisenhower matrix, you Yeah. So, the Eisenhower matrix, you must have seen it. It's all over popular must have seen it. It's all over popular culture. Is basically u a matrix of four culture. Is basically u a matrix of four quadrants where you have important on quadrants where you have important on one axis and urgent on the other axis. one axis and urgent on the other axis. Okay. And uh I for example am 90% of the Okay. And uh I for example am 90% of the time I'm doing things which are not time I'm doing things which are not important not urgent and 10% of the time important not urgent and 10% of the time I do important and urgent. But the place I do important and urgent. But the place where I would love to spend my time where I would love to spend my time which I think is uh the most important which I think is uh the most important for us to grow as people is important for us to grow as people is important but not urgent. You know things like but not urgent. You know things like reading a book, learning a musical reading a book, learning a musical instrument, uh even watching good world instrument, uh even watching good world cinema. All of it falls into important cinema. All of it falls into important but not urgent but we tend to but not urgent but we tend to procrastinate because hey it's not procrastinate because hey it's not urgent. And I wonder in the context of urgent. And I wonder in the context of parenthood like just now you uh said parenthood like just now you uh said that uh you don't have to change nappies that uh you don't have to change nappies all the time right nappies would really all the time right nappies would really fall into not important but urgent and fall into not important but urgent and you are supposed to delegate those you are supposed to delegate those assuming you have the privilege of assuming you have the privilege of course to be able to do that. So and I'm course to be able to do that. So and I'm thinking aloud when I ask this question thinking aloud when I ask this question it may have no correlation to motherhood it may have no correlation to motherhood itself but if I ask you also to think itself but if I ask you also to think aloud with me what do you think are the aloud with me what do you think are the things which are important but not things which are important but not urgent uh and important and urgent like urgent uh and important and urgent like important and urgent would be oh she's important and urgent would be oh she's ill she's got a fever you got to take ill she's got a fever you got to take her to the doctor that's important but her to the doctor that's important but urgent or you've got to uh she's got a urgent or you've got to uh she's got a school exam coming up and you got to school exam coming up and you got to help her out with that that's important help her out with that that's important and urgent but important but not urgent and urgent but important but not urgent would be stuff which um you know neither would be stuff which um you know neither you or her may realize uh at the time is you or her may realize uh at the time is is important but plays a part in shaping is important but plays a part in shaping a person. So, so I think uh a person. So, so I think uh it's uh it's a tough one but for me as a it's uh it's a tough one but for me as a parent what has been important parent what has been important uh I suppose not urgent in the in the uh I suppose not urgent in the in the terms that we are describing but terms that we are describing but important important important uh uh has been developing a sense of I uh uh has been developing a sense of I think compassion uh in the girls you think compassion uh in the girls you know um and I think that takes a know um and I think that takes a lifetime to cultivate you know it lifetime to cultivate you know it doesn't come overnight Right? Some doesn't come overnight Right? Some people are born a certain way. So, you people are born a certain way. So, you know, but others have to cultivate, I know, but others have to cultivate, I think, these habits of compassion, think, these habits of compassion, empathy, empathy, empathy, even a word like nice, which is so even a word like nice, which is so underrated in today's world, you know, underrated in today's world, you know, just being willing to go out there and just being willing to go out there and and and just spread some positivity. I and and just spread some positivity. I think that has been something which has think that has been something which has always kind of always kind of driven some of the stuff that I do with driven some of the stuff that I do with them which may not be you know urgent at them which may not be you know urgent at all on a day-to-day basis but things all on a day-to-day basis but things like that's why I think reading books is like that's why I think reading books is important. I think reading certain types important. I think reading certain types of books actually cultivates compassion of books actually cultivates compassion because you learn to put yourself in because you learn to put yourself in somebody else's it is the ultimate act somebody else's it is the ultimate act of giving up of your own selfhood and of giving up of your own selfhood and putting yourself in somebody else's putting yourself in somebody else's shoes. Right? So reading good books uh shoes. Right? So reading good books uh that is something I never compromised that is something I never compromised on. We read together when they were on. We read together when they were small and then they read on their own. I small and then they read on their own. I met made sure that they did that. Uh I met made sure that they did that. Uh I was an extremely unpopular mother in was an extremely unpopular mother in their early teenage years because I their early teenage years because I controlled the number of hours they'd controlled the number of hours they'd spend on their phones, you know, because spend on their phones, you know, because phones had just come into the thing. I phones had just come into the thing. I think I was the only mother who was you think I was the only mother who was you know doing that because I saw the know doing that because I saw the dangers of you know young kids getting dangers of you know young kids getting onto yeah social media and all of that onto yeah social media and all of that thing. So that was not urgent at that thing. So that was not urgent at that point. A lot of mothers were like it's point. A lot of mothers were like it's okay it keeps them quiet. Put on lagalo okay it keeps them quiet. Put on lagalo you know some laptop something or the you know some laptop something or the other. I'm like, "No, no, no. It's hard other. I'm like, "No, no, no. It's hard graft." But if they can't sit and talk graft." But if they can't sit and talk to me about their day or we can read to me about their day or we can read something together or discuss something, something together or discuss something, it'll be so easy, you know, to just give it'll be so easy, you know, to just give in and let them uh get their phones, in and let them uh get their phones, chat to their friends or do whatever it chat to their friends or do whatever it is that they do on social media. So, so is that they do on social media. So, so urgent but not urgent but important has urgent but not urgent but important has been a lifelong thing for me with the been a lifelong thing for me with the girls you know is in inculcating these girls you know is in inculcating these sort of ideas which you know not just sort of ideas which you know not just the um the academic stuff the academic the um the academic stuff I really try to push on the back stuff I really try to push on the back burner because you know I figure they're burner because you know I figure they're clever girls they'll do what they have clever girls they'll do what they have to do so I really tried not to be that to do so I really tried not to be that hovering mother who's making sure that hovering mother who's making sure that you know they're doing their homework I you know they're doing their homework I always told them leave your homework you always told them leave your homework you know marks don't matter. It really know marks don't matter. It really doesn't matter. Especially in the Indian doesn't matter. Especially in the Indian system, we know how it's done. So system, we know how it's done. So fighting against that tendency and fighting against that tendency and instead maybe broadening their horizons. instead maybe broadening their horizons. I think those are important things to I think those are important things to do. There's possibly no generation in do. There's possibly no generation in human history where a parent's childhood human history where a parent's childhood was so different from a child's was so different from a child's childhood because so much has changed. childhood because so much has changed. And I want to ask you a little bit about And I want to ask you a little bit about that also because when we were growing that also because when we were growing up in the 70s and ' 80s, um uh you know, up in the 70s and ' 80s, um uh you know, we obviously didn't have the internet. we obviously didn't have the internet. We didn't have all these ways of We didn't have all these ways of entertaining ourselves. I'm guessing we entertaining ourselves. I'm guessing we were both privileged enough to have were both privileged enough to have plenty of books at home. But apart from plenty of books at home. But apart from that, you had to spend a lot of me time that, you had to spend a lot of me time forcibly. Uh you know, that's that's all forcibly. Uh you know, that's that's all you kind of had. And the rhythm of life you kind of had. And the rhythm of life was much slower. Whereas today, the was much slower. Whereas today, the rhythm of life is choppy. Despite the rhythm of life is choppy. Despite the great good fortune of having all art, great good fortune of having all art, all entertainment, all music, all cinema all entertainment, all music, all cinema available to them at the click of a available to them at the click of a button, the rhythm of life has become button, the rhythm of life has become very scroll scroll swipe swipe. Jonathan very scroll scroll swipe swipe. Jonathan hate once pointed out that uh 90% of the hate once pointed out that uh 90% of the content we consume uh has been produced content we consume uh has been produced over the last 3 days. Uh oh my god. You over the last 3 days. Uh oh my god. You know that's the kind of that's the know that's the kind of that's the rhythm of our lives. Yes. So when you rhythm of our lives. Yes. So when you see when you contrast your childhood see when you contrast your childhood with the childhood that your kids have with the childhood that your kids have and how they grew up and what their and how they grew up and what their rhythms were. Uh how do you feel they rhythms were. Uh how do you feel they were different? What are the pros and were different? What are the pros and cons? I mean the pros obviously are that cons? I mean the pros obviously are that everything is available to you in in everything is available to you in in terms of knowledge and information. We terms of knowledge and information. We are in a postcarity world. whatever can are in a postcarity world. whatever can be there in bits is there but there are be there in bits is there but there are cons also like attention spans and so on cons also like attention spans and so on and so forth so give me a sense of the and so forth so give me a sense of the differences you've observed so I'll tell differences you've observed so I'll tell you um the thing that I've observed the you um the thing that I've observed the most with you know being a parent so most with you know being a parent so firstly I think what I experienced as a firstly I think what I experienced as a child and you may have Amit I don't know child and you may have Amit I don't know how much uh is a very precious thing how much uh is a very precious thing which was boredom I was allowed to be which was boredom I was allowed to be bored so if I was hanging around the bored so if I was hanging around the house kicking my heels and saying, "Oh, house kicking my heels and saying, "Oh, I don't know what to do with my myself." I don't know what to do with my myself." My mother would be like, "Too bad." You My mother would be like, "Too bad." You know, figure it out. Either go look for know, figure it out. Either go look for a friend somewhere, find a book, draw a a friend somewhere, find a book, draw a picture, you know, do something. So, you picture, you know, do something. So, you were left to your own devices, right? were left to your own devices, right? With with none of this obviously the With with none of this obviously the entertainment that is available to our entertainment that is available to our children. So we had to create children. So we had to create entertainment and uh I remember you know entertainment and uh I remember you know uh with my friends just you know putting uh with my friends just you know putting up theater horrible things no doubt up theater horrible things no doubt imposing these on our parents having to imposing these on our parents having to come and watch all of this doing little come and watch all of this doing little shows finding ways to entertain shows finding ways to entertain ourselves sometimes often doing very ourselves sometimes often doing very little you know just just scuttling little you know just just scuttling around the place at the park whatever around the place at the park whatever was available and then reading a lot. So was available and then reading a lot. So my kids were very rarely bored is what I my kids were very rarely bored is what I found you know and they had low found you know and they had low tolerance for boredom. So sometimes they tolerance for boredom. So sometimes they would be like okay we finished this one would be like okay we finished this one book there's this much time before the book there's this much time before the next activity because yes they had many next activity because yes they had many activities you know uh what do we do we activities you know uh what do we do we are bored and I'd be like you know wow are bored and I'd be like you know wow that's you know my entire childhood that's you know my entire childhood seemed to be one long boredom and you seemed to be one long boredom and you were complaining about half an hour. So were complaining about half an hour. So that's the big difference. The other that's the big difference. The other main thing I think being especially the main thing I think being especially the mother of girls is how much anxiety mother of girls is how much anxiety social media puts upon young girls you social media puts upon young girls you know. So for example in our childhoods know. So for example in our childhoods me as a girl if I made a mistake one day me as a girl if I made a mistake one day I wore something which was not I wore something which was not flattering or I said something stupid. I flattering or I said something stupid. I got into a fight with somebody. People got into a fight with somebody. People would talk about it for one day. Maybe would talk about it for one day. Maybe if they were bothered by the next day if they were bothered by the next day they had forgotten they'd gone on to they had forgotten they'd gone on to something else. These kids from school something else. These kids from school age if some one thing happen the most age if some one thing happen the most minor thing happens oh my god your minor thing happens oh my god your kajill has you smudge on your face it kajill has you smudge on your face it will be news on social media it will go will be news on social media it will go to the other schools all the schools in to the other schools all the schools in Delhi will know about it they will be Delhi will know about it they will be talking about it something happens with talking about it something happens with a boy the whole world knows you know a boy the whole world knows you know what I mean there's no space for making what I mean there's no space for making mistakes we made all our mistakes we did mistakes we made all our mistakes we did all our foolishness as young people we all our foolishness as young people we you know made the wrong choices we drank you know made the wrong choices we drank too much perhaps we went out with the too much perhaps we went out with the wrong people. Whatever we did was within wrong people. Whatever we did was within bounds. Nobody would be bothered too bounds. Nobody would be bothered too much about it. Maximum you had one love much about it. Maximum you had one love letter to show for it, right? Which you letter to show for it, right? Which you could tear up and throw away. These could tear up and throw away. These kids, especially the girls, are examined kids, especially the girls, are examined and scrutinized with a scientific and scrutinized with a scientific forensic intensity which is frightening. forensic intensity which is frightening. They can make no mistakes. They have to They can make no mistakes. They have to be thin. They have to be beautiful. They be thin. They have to be beautiful. They have to be charming. They have to be not have to be charming. They have to be not too loud. They have to not offend the too loud. They have to not offend the boys. They have to be willing to go out boys. They have to be willing to go out with boys but not go out with the wrong with boys but not go out with the wrong boys. I cannot tell you the scrutiny boys. I cannot tell you the scrutiny amit. It is relentless. So it makes them amit. It is relentless. So it makes them very anxious. You know that's why I very anxious. You know that's why I really wanted to control the time they really wanted to control the time they spend but even so and now most parents spend but even so and now most parents can't do that. So you have to really can't do that. So you have to really watch out and and I'm sure boys have you watch out and and I'm sure boys have you know all kinds of issues coming around know all kinds of issues coming around that but it is the anxiety arising that but it is the anxiety arising around the sense of being constantly around the sense of being constantly surveiled talked about gossiped about surveiled talked about gossiped about and that this information will remain in and that this information will remain in the ether forever. This is the huge the ether forever. This is the huge difference uh that I can say. difference uh that I can say. Yeah. Jonathan Hay talks about this Yeah. Jonathan Hay talks about this actually with uh you know particular actually with uh you know particular reference to teenage girls today and and reference to teenage girls today and and you know the fact that you are you know the fact that you are constantly on Instagram comparing your constantly on Instagram comparing your real life with the projected lives of real life with the projected lives of others and it just um impossibly hard others and it just um impossibly hard but uh thankfully that wasn't there in but uh thankfully that wasn't there in our times and we kind of escaped it. So our times and we kind of escaped it. So I'm going to take you back to your I'm going to take you back to your times. Um you mentioned that you're a times. Um you mentioned that you're a perfectionist and I'm guessing that perfectionist and I'm guessing that that's something that comes naturally to that's something that comes naturally to you. It's evident in your books and the you. It's evident in your books and the rigor of your research and all that. I rigor of your research and all that. I wonder to what extent your 5 years of wonder to what extent your 5 years of scientific training helped you in what scientific training helped you in what you were to do subsequently like uh is you were to do subsequently like uh is it something that uh you know fit the it something that uh you know fit the way that you naturally were in terms of way that you naturally were in terms of the perfectionism and um the the care the perfectionism and um the the care that you took over the small things or that you took over the small things or um did it enhance those qualities and um did it enhance those qualities and make you a better historian? make you a better historian? I I think it did actually Amit I think I I think it did actually Amit I think it helped me become a better historian it helped me become a better historian and you know for a long time uh after I and you know for a long time uh after I had done my studies after I had worked a had done my studies after I had worked a little bit when I had that you know little bit when I had that you know decade of not doing a great deal later decade of not doing a great deal later on I would I would think back on it and on I would I would think back on it and I would be um you know dismayed I would be um you know dismayed sometimes that you know I've had an sometimes that you know I've had an expensive privileged education I was not expensive privileged education I was not able to use it you know what have I done able to use it you know what have I done with that um I have wasted you know uh with that um I have wasted you know uh good opportunities but Then when the good opportunities but Then when the chance came around to write um history chance came around to write um history especially I really seized upon that and especially I really seized upon that and I feel that it it has definitely given I feel that it it has definitely given me that rigor that ability to do me that rigor that ability to do research you know in libraries in research you know in libraries in museums uh analyze manuscripts museums uh analyze manuscripts understand peer reviews understand what understand peer reviews understand what it means to have a reliable source all it means to have a reliable source all those things really came in handy to me those things really came in handy to me and that's when I realized that no hard and that's when I realized that no hard work actually ever goes wasted you work actually ever goes wasted you always do use it in some way or the always do use it in some way or the other and in my case um I think it other and in my case um I think it worked out perfectly as I think it does worked out perfectly as I think it does for many people in the end sometimes you for many people in the end sometimes you don't see the sense of it when you don't see the sense of it when you actually going through the process but I actually going through the process but I do think that things work out for the do think that things work out for the best eventually so I was able to in my best eventually so I was able to in my writing of history able to con to writing of history able to con to combine the two great loves that I had combine the two great loves that I had which I would not have been able to if I which I would not have been able to if I had followed a traditionally scientific had followed a traditionally scientific career. So I had the rigor uh you know career. So I had the rigor uh you know the research which I do love doing but I the research which I do love doing but I also had the chance to use my love of also had the chance to use my love of literature so that I can write history literature so that I can write history uh almost lyrically so that I can create uh almost lyrically so that I can create you know beautiful worlds that people you know beautiful worlds that people can immerse themselves into. So I was can immerse themselves into. So I was able to combine science and literature able to combine science and literature finally in writing narrative history. So finally in writing narrative history. So I think you know it worked out for the I think you know it worked out for the best for me. And did it help that you best for me. And did it help that you weren't actually a trained historian? weren't actually a trained historian? Because I I think it can often be a bug Because I I think it can often be a bug if you study history and you come up in if you study history and you come up in the academia because there are certain the academia because there are certain frames that become fashionable, certain frames that become fashionable, certain fashions you have to follow. You have to fashions you have to follow. You have to write in a particular way to be uh to write in a particular way to be uh to get published in the journals and so on get published in the journals and so on and so forth and academia can be a big and so forth and academia can be a big trap. And there's this lovely phrase trap. And there's this lovely phrase coined by the writer Jan Ganesh called coined by the writer Jan Ganesh called partial outsider where he says that you partial outsider where he says that you need to be an outsider to uh to be able need to be an outsider to uh to be able to do great work because then you are to do great work because then you are not bound you don't take for granted and not bound you don't take for granted and normalize the conventional thinking of normalize the conventional thinking of the day uh and question his flaws but at the day uh and question his flaws but at the same time you can't be a complete the same time you can't be a complete outsider because then you won't be able outsider because then you won't be able to get anything done and I'm I'm just to get anything done and I'm I'm just wondering if you were a partial outsider wondering if you were a partial outsider in the sense that you wouldn't weren't in the sense that you wouldn't weren't trained in history but you were from trained in history but you were from that elite speaking social class in that elite speaking social class in India where if you wrote a book you India where if you wrote a book you could meet a publisher and people would could meet a publisher and people would take you seriously. Yes, you are take you seriously. Yes, you are absolutely right. Uh in fact I've felt absolutely right. Uh in fact I've felt like a partial that's a very good phrase like a partial that's a very good phrase and I felt like a partial outsider and I felt like a partial outsider almost to my life in India you know almost to my life in India you know because of my background. It wasn't because of my background. It wasn't quintessentially Indian. So I always had quintessentially Indian. So I always had this feeling of looking in from the this feeling of looking in from the outside on people's lives. Um and as a outside on people's lives. Um and as a writer of history that has definitely writer of history that has definitely been the case. Um I have certain been the case. Um I have certain privileges which are undeniable. I have privileges which are undeniable. I have access uh I can travel I can get to access uh I can travel I can get to museums I can get to those spaces at the museums I can get to those spaces at the same time not being trained within the same time not being trained within the silo of you know historical thinking silo of you know historical thinking means that I approach everything with means that I approach everything with wideeyed wonder each time uh each time I wideeyed wonder each time uh each time I have that amateurs amazement at have that amateurs amazement at something and that desire to share it something and that desire to share it with the world and be like hello hello with the world and be like hello hello hello can do you know that this is what hello can do you know that this is what happened can we talk about this can we happened can we talk about this can we examine it through this lens you know um examine it through this lens you know um so I think that has worked out for me in so I think that has worked out for me in that sense in that um I take nothing for that sense in that um I take nothing for granted when I read history I'm I am granted when I read history I'm I am constantly amazed that things have not constantly amazed that things have not been said things have not been done um been said things have not been done um that certain angles have not been looked that certain angles have not been looked at uh you know when I wrote daughters of at uh you know when I wrote daughters of the sun there was Rubila's work but the sun there was Rubila's work but there was very little around that about there was very little around that about talking about women it was people came talking about women it was people came up to me saying we had not thought about up to me saying we had not thought about this historians whom I approached before this historians whom I approached before writing daughters of the sun told me writing daughters of the sun told me don't waste your time there's nothing on don't waste your time there's nothing on women nothing on mughal women you know women nothing on mughal women you know uh so I'm amazed constantly that I am uh so I'm amazed constantly that I am able to enter this space at a time and able to enter this space at a time and place in which it is possible to place in which it is possible to discover new things so I'm constantly discover new things so I'm constantly filled with that joy and that amazement filled with that joy and that amazement which I think translates into my work as which I think translates into my work as well which perhaps if I was you know a well which perhaps if I was you know a trained historian would not be the case trained historian would not be the case but you didn't start with history you but you didn't start with history you started with what was ostensibly fiction started with what was ostensibly fiction where you mentioned that your daughters where you mentioned that your daughters were growing up and uh you were bringing were growing up and uh you were bringing your feminist lens to uh bear on uh uh your feminist lens to uh bear on uh uh you know the Mahabharata and then you you know the Mahabharata and then you wrote Song of Draadi which came out wrote Song of Draadi which came out later but was the first book you wrote. later but was the first book you wrote. So tell me a little bit about that like So tell me a little bit about that like why fiction? How do you arrive at why fiction? How do you arrive at finding a voice? Uh you know who were finding a voice? Uh you know who were your role models in a sense and and it's your role models in a sense and and it's an audacious task because it's not only an audacious task because it's not only the Mahabharata through the eyes of the Mahabharata through the eyes of Draati but also various other women Draati but also various other women within that book and um uh you know and within that book and um uh you know and what a wonderful way to retell that what a wonderful way to retell that story. So take me through how that came story. So take me through how that came to be. to be. to be. Um so that came to being um again when Um so that came to being um again when my daughters were quite young uh and uh my daughters were quite young uh and uh it suddenly you know looking around for it suddenly you know looking around for role models and for stories that I could role models and for stories that I could tell them to sort of counter the western tell them to sort of counter the western narrative to have something a little bit narrative to have something a little bit you know u more steeped in Indianness you know u more steeped in Indianness let us say um I found that we have this let us say um I found that we have this bizarre thing in India where we treat bizarre thing in India where we treat mythology as history and yet we are uh mythology as history and yet we are uh constantly you deriding historical constantly you deriding historical figures themselves. You know, we will figures themselves. You know, we will somehow um nullify their their their somehow um nullify their their their effect in our lives. We don't talk about effect in our lives. We don't talk about them. We don't talk about real them. We don't talk about real historical people. But mythology is, you historical people. But mythology is, you know, quintessentially sick. It is know, quintessentially sick. It is there. It is to be followed. We are to there. It is to be followed. We are to follow the examples of these people and follow the examples of these people and we are, you know, it becomes very much we are, you know, it becomes very much part of everyday life in India, you part of everyday life in India, you know, in one way or the other through know, in one way or the other through the rituals that shape our seasons uh the rituals that shape our seasons uh and our lives constantly. I found okay and our lives constantly. I found okay you know so we don't talk about the you know so we don't talk about the historical aspect of it there aren't historical aspect of it there aren't many women figures that I can find out many women figures that I can find out there to talk about but but look there's there to talk about but but look there's sitta being you know shown to us all the sitta being you know shown to us all the time there's the Ramayan told to us all time there's the Ramayan told to us all the time this is the way to be even for the time this is the way to be even for the men uh this is the perfect man and the men uh this is the perfect man and so on and so forth so on and so forth so I had been also reading um you know so I had been also reading um you know books like Hillary Mantel who of course books like Hillary Mantel who of course um uh fiction but it is historical um uh fiction but it is historical fiction fiction which is really steeped fiction fiction which is really steeped in as much authenticity as it is in as much authenticity as it is possible to bring into writing and I was possible to bring into writing and I was very admiring of that ability you know very admiring of that ability you know uh I was reading of course I read uh uh I was reading of course I read uh Iravati carve's book uh Uganda and I Iravati carve's book uh Uganda and I started uh reading alternative ways of started uh reading alternative ways of writing myths in different countries writing myths in different countries there's Pat Barker I think who has there's Pat Barker I think who has written silence of the girls about Greek written silence of the girls about Greek mythology so I started to realize that mythology so I started to realize that there are other ways to tackle this there are other ways to tackle this initially I thought this is not possible initially I thought this is not possible you know it's not it's completely beyond you know it's not it's completely beyond u my ken and how can I aspire to such a u my ken and how can I aspire to such a thing when I saw that other people had thing when I saw that other people had done this in other genres in other done this in other genres in other countries I thought perhaps we can countries I thought perhaps we can actually sincerely look at the way the actually sincerely look at the way the mahabharat has been brought down to us mahabharat has been brought down to us but also perhaps what it was at its core but also perhaps what it was at its core because you know I was troubled by the because you know I was troubled by the fact that it it is all somehow it seems fact that it it is all somehow it seems at the end of the day uh like a big at the end of the day uh like a big battle over property rights uh you know battle over property rights uh you know two waring brothers two waring brothers uh cousins who are fighting over one uh cousins who are fighting over one property, you know. Um and I thought property, you know. Um and I thought what if we invert that gaze who is what if we invert that gaze who is paying the price for those battles whose paying the price for those battles whose bodies are being fought over and through bodies are being fought over and through to get to justice, you know, and I to get to justice, you know, and I realized it was the women all along. It realized it was the women all along. It was the women. They were never they were was the women. They were never they were rarely asking for war, but they were the rarely asking for war, but they were the victims of war. They were the bodies victims of war. They were the bodies through whom war was carried out. uh through whom war was carried out. uh right from Ganga if you start with Ganga right from Ganga if you start with Ganga and Satyavati Counti uh Ambam Balika all and Satyavati Counti uh Ambam Balika all these fascinating women so I set myself these fascinating women so I set myself that challenge of saying let us uh turn that challenge of saying let us uh turn the lens around you know if you are the lens around you know if you are looking through a telescope let's look looking through a telescope let's look through the other end instead let's put through the other end instead let's put the war in the background and let's put the war in the background and let's put the human drama front and foremost the human drama front and foremost instead and see what the women are instead and see what the women are saying to each other what are they saying to each other what are they thinking what is actually their life. thinking what is actually their life. What does it mean when you say that uh What does it mean when you say that uh you know count you know Pandu couldn't you know count you know Pandu couldn't have children? What is going on? have children? What is going on? Invoking the you know a mantra. What Invoking the you know a mantra. What probably happened was instead that you probably happened was instead that you know um know um know um they had a system wherein if somebody they had a system wherein if somebody was barren, a man was barren, you could was barren, a man was barren, you could have a you a sadhu or somebody who was have a you a sadhu or somebody who was considered you know very virtuous come considered you know very virtuous come and impregnate your wife and that child and impregnate your wife and that child would be yours. You would adopt it like would be yours. You would adopt it like yours. So I figured this is probably yours. So I figured this is probably what happened instead. Draati, what what happened instead. Draati, what happens to her? She was going to marry happens to her? She was going to marry one man. Suddenly she's marrying five one man. Suddenly she's marrying five men and she has to adjust to that men and she has to adjust to that terrible reality. How do you do that? So terrible reality. How do you do that? So this fight over women's wombs is what this fight over women's wombs is what seems to me the crux of the Mahabharat. seems to me the crux of the Mahabharat. And how do women control bring any sort And how do women control bring any sort of agency in their life when when their of agency in their life when when their wombs are constantly being fought over wombs are constantly being fought over by elite men. Um so that was the sort of by elite men. Um so that was the sort of you know challenge I set myself and by you know challenge I set myself and by looking at as early a text as possible looking at as early a text as possible in the mahabharat you know there has in the mahabharat you know there has been work done on this to show uh which been work done on this to show uh which are the later redactions using uh the are the later redactions using uh the study of language uh and which are the study of language uh and which are the earlier verses that remain in the earlier verses that remain in the mahabharat and from that you see a very mahabharat and from that you see a very different picture. You see women who different picture. You see women who articulate their thoughts, their articulate their thoughts, their emotions, their anger. Uh and also they emotions, their anger. Uh and also they are much more manipulative than we are much more manipulative than we realize. People like Satyawati for realize. People like Satyawati for example, she knew what she was doing. example, she knew what she was doing. She wanted to ensure her lineage would She wanted to ensure her lineage would survive, you know. Um so you can bring survive, you know. Um so you can bring out remarkable women and get away from out remarkable women and get away from that uni-dimensional sitha figure that that uni-dimensional sitha figure that we have been given this homogenized we have been given this homogenized sanitized white literally whitewashed sanitized white literally whitewashed because today if you look at Sitha in because today if you look at Sitha in popular culture she is this impossibly popular culture she is this impossibly fair woman uh with the jewelry which is fair woman uh with the jewelry which is a sign of domestication with you know a sign of domestication with you know always impeccably dressed so we are to always impeccably dressed so we are to counter that I wanted to give a messy counter that I wanted to give a messy woman like Draadi uh angry women like woman like Draadi uh angry women like some of the other women of the some of the other women of the Mahabharat unconstrained undomesticated Mahabharat unconstrained undomesticated women, women who spoke their minds and women, women who spoke their minds and uh women who would be better role models uh women who would be better role models I felt for young women in the 21st I felt for young women in the 21st century. The interesting thing about the century. The interesting thing about the Mahabharata and the Ramayana is how many Mahabharata and the Ramayana is how many versions there are. So it's not just a versions there are. So it's not just a snapshot of how a society was at a snapshot of how a society was at a particular point in time but it shows particular point in time but it shows you the evolution of that. So what did you the evolution of that. So what did your readings really tell you about your readings really tell you about Indian society? Like the point you made Indian society? Like the point you made about so much of the fighting being over about so much of the fighting being over the control of women's wombs? Uh you the control of women's wombs? Uh you know that's been controlling women's know that's been controlling women's sexuality has been a common theme sexuality has been a common theme through um uh through the last 2,000 through um uh through the last 2,000 years especially since the cast system years especially since the cast system really kicked in and you had cast really kicked in and you had cast endogamy and u you know that played into endogamy and u you know that played into it obviously. Um so including that but it obviously. Um so including that but also apart from that what do you learn also apart from that what do you learn about Indian society and how it's about Indian society and how it's changing and the multitudes it might changing and the multitudes it might contain uh from the different versions contain uh from the different versions and how the different stories have and how the different stories have evolved because while it is true that evolved because while it is true that you did have Sitha and so homogeneous you did have Sitha and so homogeneous and um you know such a big figure you and um you know such a big figure you also had Dropati doing all the things also had Dropati doing all the things she did with her wild hair and so on. So she did with her wild hair and so on. So give me a sense of that. So you know give me a sense of that. So you know Amit what interested me was you know not Amit what interested me was you know not simply academically looking at all these simply academically looking at all these versions. It was really looking at the versions. It was really looking at the 21st century uh and seeing what are we 21st century uh and seeing what are we being told today. Yes we have all these being told today. Yes we have all these examples. We also have historical women examples. We also have historical women which which I then discovered through my which which I then discovered through my first publish work you know who are very first publish work you know who are very different from the versions that are different from the versions that are presented to us from Mirab to Rani presented to us from Mirab to Rani Lakshmi by Hazat Mahel. They are they Lakshmi by Hazat Mahel. They are they have been completely altered. What have been completely altered. What interested me was this interested me was this uh this sort of uh cauldron that uh this sort of uh cauldron that happened in the 21st century in which happened in the 21st century in which all these women from Mirabay to Amraali all these women from Mirabay to Amraali to Sitha have all ended up looking and to Sitha have all ended up looking and behaving a certain way. You know I behaving a certain way. You know I wanted to examine the forces the wanted to examine the forces the patriarchy or whatever you know however patriarchy or whatever you know however you want to examine it or talk about it. you want to examine it or talk about it. What are the forces that are bringing What are the forces that are bringing about this homogenization in the way we about this homogenization in the way we are presented women's lives and what is are presented women's lives and what is the purpose behind that? You know the the purpose behind that? You know the purpose being that we still require purpose being that we still require women to be a certain way despite the women to be a certain way despite the fact that in the past 50 years we have fact that in the past 50 years we have made so many uh changes so much progress made so many uh changes so much progress has been made for women. Now it seemed has been made for women. Now it seemed that there is a push back against those that there is a push back against those prog against that progress and therefore prog against that progress and therefore there's almost in a sense like you were there's almost in a sense like you were saying yes there are different ways of saying yes there are different ways of even looking at sitha there are even looking at sitha there are different versions of sitha right which different versions of sitha right which show her quite different from just this show her quite different from just this pati you know bhagavitra woman and who pati you know bhagavitra woman and who is you know accepting her husband's is you know accepting her husband's every decree she is challenging him she every decree she is challenging him she goes into the forest she raises her sons goes into the forest she raises her sons but why has all of this been written but why has all of this been written written out of the let us say the written out of the let us say the standard text what we are given in in standard text what we are given in in the urban cities today. Why is that in the urban cities today. Why is that in Bollywood we are only being given one Bollywood we are only being given one version? version? version? So that is really what the focus of my So that is really what the focus of my examination was. Whereas you are examination was. Whereas you are completely right in that there are completely right in that there are different versions of the Mahabharat. different versions of the Mahabharat. Through the centuries there have been Through the centuries there have been different versions. People in the south different versions. People in the south have been telling the story differently have been telling the story differently different uh because there are so many different uh because there are so many multitudes in the Mahabraat. So many multitudes in the Mahabraat. So many anecdotes. You can keep reading into anecdotes. You can keep reading into each anecdote and seeing things each anecdote and seeing things differently, right? Uh so for example differently, right? Uh so for example that uh that episode of um Behim going that uh that episode of um Behim going into the forest and meeting Hima and into the forest and meeting Hima and Himi, you know, I thought about this a Himi, you know, I thought about this a long time and I thought, okay, so these long time and I thought, okay, so these were probably tribal folk living in the were probably tribal folk living in the forest and when they came upon these forest and when they came upon these valley dwellers, they they they perhaps valley dwellers, they they they perhaps attacked them and the the pandiffs then attacked them and the the pandiffs then massacred the the men, right? and massacred the the men, right? and abducted and raped the women. How else abducted and raped the women. How else can you see this, right? Then you say can you see this, right? Then you say that they are demon, they are this and that they are demon, they are this and they are that. So these are they are that. So these are interpretations that have come about interpretations that have come about much more recently. Early on there was a much more recently. Early on there was a lot of space for resistance. There was lot of space for resistance. There was space for push back. There there was a space for push back. There there was a space for a multiplicity of voices. But space for a multiplicity of voices. But what has interested me is the way in what has interested me is the way in which those have been denied. How which those have been denied. How certain cast norms seems to have become certain cast norms seems to have become even more rigid. there is a refusal to even more rigid. there is a refusal to address those issues, gender norms and address those issues, gender norms and why that is happening and the ways in why that is happening and the ways in which we can challenge that today. So, which we can challenge that today. So, so really that is more the crux of my so really that is more the crux of my work. And one more thing that at some work. And one more thing that at some level this naturally takes you to a level this naturally takes you to a desire for writing non-fiction now. So, desire for writing non-fiction now. So, did that was that at the back of your did that was that at the back of your mind all this time or did it happen when mind all this time or did it happen when you took Song of Draati to your you took Song of Draati to your publisher? Tell me about how that publisher? Tell me about how that transition began to happen. So it took transition began to happen. So it took it happened when I took Song of Draadi it happened when I took Song of Draadi to to my publisher and uh so David you to to my publisher and uh so David you know he eventually went on to publish know he eventually went on to publish five of my books um and he was wonderful five of my books um and he was wonderful um and he said look I've given it to my um and he said look I've given it to my editors and they love it and we love editors and they love it and we love your writing but they had just had that your writing but they had just had that uh you know unfortunate incident with uh you know unfortunate incident with Wendy Donner's the Hindus where when it Wendy Donner's the Hindus where when it was published first in India it was Alf was published first in India it was Alf who published it and it it it faced so who published it and it it it faced so much controversy that they had burned much controversy that they had burned the books and the you know fledgling ALF the books and the you know fledgling ALF company almost went under because of the company almost went under because of the pressure of that controversy and so pressure of that controversy and so naturally enough David was like look in naturally enough David was like look in today's and it came as a complete shock today's and it came as a complete shock to me Amit to be told in this was about to me Amit to be told in this was about 15 years ago right to be told oh you 15 years ago right to be told oh you can't just write anything you want to do can't just write anything you want to do because I was raised to to believe that because I was raised to to believe that you could say anything you know a you could say anything you know a Bengali father who was also a human Bengali father who was also a human rights activist he would be like you can rights activist he would be like you can say what you want to say let them come say what you want to say let them come women arrest me if they dare and my for women arrest me if they dare and my for all its faults India never arrested my all its faults India never arrested my father and God knows he said many father and God knows he said many outrageous things about the ruling outrageous things about the ruling parties. Um so I was raised with that parties. Um so I was raised with that thinking and I was so shocked, so taken thinking and I was so shocked, so taken aback uh because you know I really aback uh because you know I really honestly believe that in India uh you honestly believe that in India uh you could still say what you wanted to say could still say what you wanted to say right you still had a a space in which right you still had a a space in which ideas could be discussed alternative ideas could be discussed alternative views could be you know aired quite views could be you know aired quite freely. That was the first time that I freely. That was the first time that I came up against censorship in this form came up against censorship in this form when my my my publisher said listen when my my my publisher said listen right now is not the time we can do it right now is not the time we can do it you know later perhaps why don't you you know later perhaps why don't you think of writing history I think you think of writing history I think you have the potential you are able to you have the potential you are able to you know understand people's lives try and know understand people's lives try and put your mind to you know whatever put your mind to you know whatever subject you want to write women if you subject you want to write women if you if that interests you but try writing if that interests you but try writing history it'll be easier to publish you history it'll be easier to publish you know um and that's how I wrote heroins know um and that's how I wrote heroins my first published book and The Song of my first published book and The Song of Dropi was fourth to be published. Yeah. Dropi was fourth to be published. Yeah. And we discussed both Heroins and And we discussed both Heroins and Daughters of the Sun in our last Daughters of the Sun in our last episode. So I'll spend a bit more time episode. So I'll spend a bit more time on the uh other books. But first, let's on the uh other books. But first, let's talk about how you began to learn how to talk about how you began to learn how to do history like how does one read, how do history like how does one read, how does one research, how does one even does one research, how does one even find sources? You've described yourself find sources? You've described yourself elsewhere as a medieval detective. You elsewhere as a medieval detective. You know what does that mean? It sounds like know what does that mean? It sounds like so much fun, but what does it mean? What so much fun, but what does it mean? What does it involve? does it involve? It is fun. It is just the It is fun. It is just the most fun uh one can have I feel. Um so most fun uh one can have I feel. Um so is yes. So how to do I'm asked this is yes. So how to do I'm asked this constantly and um of course first you constantly and um of course first you read you know and you make sure your read you know and you make sure your sources uh are uh absolutely you know uh sources uh are uh absolutely you know uh as unbiased as possible. Although it's as unbiased as possible. Although it's in informative to read the biased in informative to read the biased sources as well to see what they're sources as well to see what they're saying. But you you try and find saying. But you you try and find academically sound uh secondary academically sound uh secondary research. You know PE historians who research. You know PE historians who have already been writing about the have already been writing about the period you're interested in then in period you're interested in then in their bibliography in their end notes their bibliography in their end notes they will tell you where to go and find they will tell you where to go and find the primary sources. If you are able to the primary sources. If you are able to follow those tracks, go to the primary follow those tracks, go to the primary sources because it always makes a big sources because it always makes a big difference if you're able to, you know, difference if you're able to, you know, access primary sources instead of the access primary sources instead of the interpretation of historians because interpretation of historians because there already you have um a a layer of there already you have um a a layer of uh subjectivity coming in no matter how uh subjectivity coming in no matter how honest and sincere the the writer. honest and sincere the the writer. So try tracking down primary sources. So try tracking down primary sources. Then there's there is so much that Then there's there is so much that informs the writing of history informs the writing of history especially I find where women are especially I find where women are concerned it is not so simple as to find concerned it is not so simple as to find a written source because you know 99% of a written source because you know 99% of written history concerns the lives of written history concerns the lives of men and that is simply a fact around the men and that is simply a fact around the world right so you are looking for that world right so you are looking for that 1% that 1% you may find not in a in a 1% that 1% you may find not in a in a regular history of the times but you regular history of the times but you might find it in a collection say of uh might find it in a collection say of uh rulings of edicts so I found a lot of rulings of edicts so I found a lot of Mughal women's edicts in justest a Mughal women's edicts in justest a collection of edicts of their times. You collection of edicts of their times. You know, one by one all the edicts are know, one by one all the edicts are listed. Another really important source listed. Another really important source is architecture. Now the books may say is architecture. Now the books may say one thing then you go out and you see a one thing then you go out and you see a piece of architecture that has been piece of architecture that has been built by a woman and that can be very built by a woman and that can be very surprising. That's what happened to me surprising. That's what happened to me when I was looking at uh daughters of when I was looking at uh daughters of the sun is I came about in Delhi. Now the sun is I came about in Delhi. Now I'm you know a Delhi woman uh grown up I'm you know a Delhi woman uh grown up all my life in Delhi and there are all all my life in Delhi and there are all these buildings I never knew were built these buildings I never knew were built by women. So I was doing a uh tour you by women. So I was doing a uh tour you know just a walking tour of Delhi one know just a walking tour of Delhi one day um and we came upon upon this day um and we came upon upon this building called um it's Maham Anga's uh building called um it's Maham Anga's uh Madrasan mosque complex. It is just Madrasan mosque complex. It is just close to Humayou's masjid and I wanted close to Humayou's masjid and I wanted to find out more about it. It was in a to find out more about it. It was in a derelict condition even though it's it's derelict condition even though it's it's an amazing building. When I found out an amazing building. When I found out more about it, turns out that one of more about it, turns out that one of Agbar's milk mothers, foster mothers, Agbar's milk mothers, foster mothers, right, had built this what in its time right, had built this what in its time was a spectacular mosque and madrasa was a spectacular mosque and madrasa complex in a very um um politically complex in a very um um politically significant zone which was next to significant zone which was next to Humayou's mosoleum which is really the Humayou's mosoleum which is really the center of you know at that time it was center of you know at that time it was the center of Mughal buildings. It is the center of Mughal buildings. It is next to Nisamuin Oya's uh da which was next to Nisamuin Oya's uh da which was also a spiritually very significant also a spiritually very significant area. So you have this woman who has no area. So you have this woman who has no important husband or son at that time uh important husband or son at that time uh who is building this monument in her own who is building this monument in her own name because there is an inscription in name because there is an inscription in Persian that proclaims her name and Persian that proclaims her name and that's really rare to have a woman that's really rare to have a woman having it written out on her building having it written out on her building saying it is I Mahamanga under the saying it is I Mahamanga under the blessings of Akbar I am building this blessings of Akbar I am building this building. So I had been told till then building. So I had been told till then there's nothing on Mughal women and here there's nothing on Mughal women and here I find a foster woman having built a I find a foster woman having built a whole structure which is clearly whole structure which is clearly something which was very significant and something which was very significant and potent in its time now it has been potent in its time now it has been forgotten. So buildings like that the forgotten. So buildings like that the fact that Janara built a huge sway of fact that Janara built a huge sway of territory in what we call old Delhi territory in what we call old Delhi today in Shajahanabad that was destroyed today in Shajahanabad that was destroyed by the British you know little by little by the British you know little by little you have to almost tease out elements of you have to almost tease out elements of his that's why I call it medieval his that's why I call it medieval kind of detective work and then you look kind of detective work and then you look at the paintings. You look at the at the paintings. You look at the paintings but with a different gaze. You paintings but with a different gaze. You count how many women are listen you know count how many women are listen you know are painted in an entire album. In an are painted in an entire album. In an entire album you will have four or five entire album you will have four or five women painted where you have hundreds of women painted where you have hundreds of men painted right. So clearly there's an men painted right. So clearly there's an attempt to physically write them out of attempt to physically write them out of uh not just the writing but also the uh not just the writing but also the paintings. Then you the ones that remain paintings. Then you the ones that remain they must have been very powerful to they must have been very powerful to remain that to to resist that remain that to to resist that censorship. So you look at them, you censorship. So you look at them, you reinterpret them, you try and find a reinterpret them, you try and find a name for them, you find out what they've name for them, you find out what they've done because clearly they are done because clearly they are significant. So you work backwards significant. So you work backwards sometimes you know uh so it requires a sometimes you know uh so it requires a enormous curiosity and an openness of enormous curiosity and an openness of mind thinking okay I might find my mind thinking okay I might find my information in the most unlikely sources information in the most unlikely sources so I'm going to go out and look for it. so I'm going to go out and look for it. Objects sometimes you have objects that Objects sometimes you have objects that remain with us which can tell us so much remain with us which can tell us so much more than you know reams and reams of more than you know reams and reams of writing. So Jangir's you know his jade writing. So Jangir's you know his jade cup drinking cup you know with all the cup drinking cup you know with all the inscriptions on it such a powerful inscriptions on it such a powerful symbol that you know is that remains symbol that you know is that remains with us the rubies the textiles very few with us the rubies the textiles very few remain but you can you know almost remain but you can you know almost imagine the person in it so when I imagine the person in it so when I recently went to the VNA great mughles recently went to the VNA great mughles exhibition I looked at Shahan's armor exhibition I looked at Shahan's armor they had Shahan's actual armor with they had Shahan's actual armor with beautiful Persian inscriptions on it and beautiful Persian inscriptions on it and I looked at it I stood before it and I I looked at it I stood before it and I saw how large it was you know because saw how large it was you know because they had actually displayed it as it they had actually displayed it as it would have been on him and I remember would have been on him and I remember that I had seen in the sea uh uh in in that I had seen in the sea uh uh in in Mumbai the the the museum there I had Mumbai the the the museum there I had seen Akbar's armor when I was writing seen Akbar's armor when I was writing Akbar and I remember when I saw Abar's Akbar and I remember when I saw Abar's armor I was struck by how small he was armor I was struck by how small he was right he was not a very tall man he was right he was not a very tall man he was large you know he has broad shoulders large you know he has broad shoulders which even his son writes about but he which even his son writes about but he was not tall because he was Turkish was not tall because he was Turkish origin so central Asia origin so central Asia smaller, broad shouldered, you know, he smaller, broad shouldered, you know, he was band-legged also. Shajahan tall was band-legged also. Shajahan tall trapping man. Why? Because he is 3/4 trapping man. Why? Because he is 3/4 Rajputs. Um, so it really brought home Rajputs. Um, so it really brought home the fact that Shajahan was a different the fact that Shajahan was a different man physically, genetically from his man physically, genetically from his father through the women who married father through the women who married into the house. So an object can bring into the house. So an object can bring that home with so much greater force that home with so much greater force than just reading about. I knew than just reading about. I knew academically I knew of course you know academically I knew of course you know three quarters his mother is wal Rajput three quarters his mother is wal Rajput but here I was struck by the fact that but here I was struck by the fact that he was a physically very different man he was a physically very different man to his father as well. Um so you have to to his father as well. Um so you have to be open to uh receiving these influences be open to uh receiving these influences from many different sources before you from many different sources before you can sit down and write and and then can sit down and write and and then bring together these various threads to bring together these various threads to create something. That's such a lovely create something. That's such a lovely observation about the armor and you know observation about the armor and you know him being threequarters Rajbut. Tell me him being threequarters Rajbut. Tell me about how Delhi changed for you because about how Delhi changed for you because at one level you know when you're at one level you know when you're growing up there it's this city it's got growing up there it's this city it's got wide roads it's got cool buildings it's wide roads it's got cool buildings it's very hot etc etc but then you realize uh very hot etc etc but then you realize uh what I think Rana Safi would call the what I think Rana Safi would call the nine cities of Delhi that were there nine cities of Delhi that were there before it and they all become a presence before it and they all become a presence in your life the more you kind of go in your life the more you kind of go through it and everything suddenly then through it and everything suddenly then begins to have more meaning and can be begins to have more meaning and can be so much richer and um you know and I so much richer and um you know and I just wish I live my life like that where just wish I live my life like that where I can imbue meaning to everything and I can imbue meaning to everything and kind of get because all of us are so kind of get because all of us are so jaded. We take everything around us for jaded. We take everything around us for granted. Half the time everything is granted. Half the time everything is literally unseen to us. We are just literally unseen to us. We are just walking through the world like zombies. walking through the world like zombies. So tell me about Delhi that relationship So tell me about Delhi that relationship with Delhi and how that changed as the with Delhi and how that changed as the history of Delhi became so real for you. history of Delhi became so real for you. Oh my goodness. Yes, absolutely right. Oh my goodness. Yes, absolutely right. And Rana is so right as well. Um and as And Rana is so right as well. Um and as as you were saying the the Delhi I grew as you were saying the the Delhi I grew up in was the Delhi of um firstly in the up in was the Delhi of um firstly in the 70s and 80s of you know wide avenues 70s and 80s of you know wide avenues very little traffic uh being chauffeered very little traffic uh being chauffeered everywhere you know uh leafy avenues everywhere you know uh leafy avenues club culture we used to go to the IIC club culture we used to go to the IIC very gentile uh but modern you know so very gentile uh but modern you know so this was modern Delhi this was Latians this was modern Delhi this was Latians Delhi um the villas the bungalows you Delhi um the villas the bungalows you know all of that you know postc colonial know all of that you know postc colonial nostalgia that Delhi was built in uh and nostalgia that Delhi was built in uh and I knew nothing of anything else because I knew nothing of anything else because uh my father felt that all of that was uh my father felt that all of that was far too dangerous. Old Delhi was you far too dangerous. Old Delhi was you know very crowded and messy and a source know very crowded and messy and a source of many diseases no doubt and he was of many diseases no doubt and he was certainly not going to send his certainly not going to send his cherished daughter anywhere close to cherished daughter anywhere close to that. Um and then as I started writing that. Um and then as I started writing and started visiting and I discovered and started visiting and I discovered Shajahanabad, Old Delhi and to my great Shajahanabad, Old Delhi and to my great delight uh there is a tube stop right delight uh there is a tube stop right outside my house uh in Delhi which go in outside my house uh in Delhi which go in Guranga which goes and you can get off Guranga which goes and you can get off uh you know challen 45 minutes you sit you read a book or 45 minutes you sit you read a book or you chat to your neighbor because in the you chat to your neighbor because in the ladies compartment everybody's always ladies compartment everybody's always ready to chat. You get off and you have ready to chat. You get off and you have gone back 300 years. You have gone back gone back 300 years. You have gone back 400 years. It is such a privilege, a 400 years. It is such a privilege, a wonder and uh I don't know where in the wonder and uh I don't know where in the world in another city you can do world in another city you can do something like this. You can go from a something like this. You can go from a glittering 21st century uh city to one glittering 21st century uh city to one that was created in 16 uh in the 1650s. that was created in 16 uh in the 1650s. I mean where can you do that? And so I I mean where can you do that? And so I go and now I with what I've learned go and now I with what I've learned about history, I look at the Jama, I about history, I look at the Jama, I look at the Red Fort, I look at just the look at the Red Fort, I look at just the Hav the little gullies, uh the little Hav the little gullies, uh the little houses that still exist, the little gen houses that still exist, the little gen temples, you know, what does it tell us temples, you know, what does it tell us about society in those days, all those about society in those days, all those bazars, those markets, the marketplaces bazars, those markets, the marketplaces often uh endowed by women. Um and I have often uh endowed by women. Um and I have completely changed the way I look at completely changed the way I look at Delhi. I I often go also now to Delhi. I I often go also now to Nisamuin's Nisamuin's Nisamuin's Nisamuin Oya's Dara and that has been an Nisamuin Oya's Dara and that has been an absolutely absolutely absolutely mind-bending experience to go to their mind-bending experience to go to their dar to see the ecstasy that surrounds it dar to see the ecstasy that surrounds it at all times of the day, night, any time at all times of the day, night, any time of the year to see the kinds of people of the year to see the kinds of people Hindu, Muslim, Shia, everybody comes to Hindu, Muslim, Shia, everybody comes to the dar, Christians, Europeans, the dar, Christians, Europeans, everybody comes to seek the blessing. everybody comes to seek the blessing. this living source of blessing and this living source of blessing and divinity uh syncric across all culture divinity uh syncric across all culture that has been living for centuries you that has been living for centuries you know uh I find it the most marvelous know uh I find it the most marvelous thing in the world u and New Delhi with thing in the world u and New Delhi with its you know with its wonderful new its you know with its wonderful new restaurants and cafes and pubs holds no restaurants and cafes and pubs holds no allure for me the half a chance I have allure for me the half a chance I have I'm going to go to you know one of these I'm going to go to you know one of these places and there are many many whom I places and there are many many whom I tomb I've conducted now tours over there tomb I've conducted now tours over there you know to talk about women's influence you know to talk about women's influence in whom dome. So it has completely and in whom dome. So it has completely and I'm so grateful to history because it I'm so grateful to history because it has completely changed the way I have has completely changed the way I have seen my own city and I wish we were seen my own city and I wish we were taught history like this a little bit at taught history like this a little bit at least in school as well so that we we we least in school as well so that we we we learn it as we are growing up you know learn it as we are growing up you know so that we don't have to by chance so that we don't have to by chance stumble upon the enormous legacy of stumble upon the enormous legacy of history that we have. history that we have. I want to ask you sort of two questions I want to ask you sort of two questions in one now uh because they're kind of in one now uh because they're kind of related and one is about getting related and one is about getting comfortable in your own skin as a comfortable in your own skin as a historian like when we start out uh historian like when we start out uh especially since you didn't have a especially since you didn't have a formal training in it there would have formal training in it there would have been a little bit of the imposter been a little bit of the imposter syndrome and women anyway suffer much syndrome and women anyway suffer much more from the imposter syndrome than men more from the imposter syndrome than men do so there would have been a sense of do so there would have been a sense of do I know how to do this am I doing this do I know how to do this am I doing this right will they take me seriously and uh right will they take me seriously and uh gradually as your books proceed it's gradually as your books proceed it's like very obvious that today you totally like very obvious that today you totally own the face and uh you are uh own the face and uh you are uh completely um uh you know those completely um uh you know those insecurities if any have vanished. And insecurities if any have vanished. And my second question is about the my second question is about the communities that one builds around one communities that one builds around one in the writing journey because writing in the writing journey because writing is deeply deeply solitary. But at the is deeply deeply solitary. But at the same time when I just look at the same time when I just look at the acknowledgements of your books for acknowledgements of your books for example you know I think in the lion and example you know I think in the lion and the lily you mentioned Rana Safi and the lily you mentioned Rana Safi and what a help she was to you and and I what a help she was to you and and I wonder if there is some kind of wonder if there is some kind of solidarity that comes over time with solidarity that comes over time with fellow travelers who know the space who fellow travelers who know the space who are also they could be historians or are also they could be historians or they may just be history enthusiasts or they may just be history enthusiasts or whatever you know what role does that whatever you know what role does that play in the life that one lives because play in the life that one lives because writing books is terribly solitary and writing books is terribly solitary and can even feel torturous at times. So can even feel torturous at times. So what has that been like for you? Yeah, what has that been like for you? Yeah, that's a great question, Amit. And um uh that's a great question, Amit. And um uh imposter syndrome is very much uh you imposter syndrome is very much uh you know part of one's life. I feel at least know part of one's life. I feel at least I speak for myself. I shouldn't I speak for myself. I shouldn't generalize. Uh I still have it uh to a generalize. Uh I still have it uh to a lesser extent. It's not necessarily bad lesser extent. It's not necessarily bad in the beginning because it makes you uh in the beginning because it makes you uh just that much better. You know, you just that much better. You know, you want to be that much more prepared than want to be that much more prepared than anybody else. You want to be doubly anybody else. You want to be doubly triply sure. So you want to look at triply sure. So you want to look at three sources maybe four sources to make three sources maybe four sources to make sure that what you are saying is sure that what you are saying is absolutely correct to the extent that absolutely correct to the extent that you can you can have it being be you can you can have it being be correct. Um so that was definitely there correct. Um so that was definitely there uh you know in my first books uh you know in my first books especially. Um then as time goes by as especially. Um then as time goes by as you say there is you begin to develop you say there is you begin to develop this community of writers and travelers this community of writers and travelers which is really essential because you which is really essential because you know I can't overstate how solitary you know I can't overstate how solitary you are. You know you uh obviously are very are. You know you uh obviously are very aware of this but not everybody is that aware of this but not everybody is that writing is solitary not just physically writing is solitary not just physically because we lock ourselves up in our because we lock ourselves up in our spaces. We have to to be disciplined. spaces. We have to to be disciplined. You have to shut the door and tell the You have to shut the door and tell the gas walla he'll have to come another day gas walla he'll have to come another day and tell the you delivery man that too and tell the you delivery man that too bad the you know package will have to bad the you know package will have to stay outside. So you are literally stay outside. So you are literally physically uh you know cordoning physically uh you know cordoning yourself out from normal human yourself out from normal human interaction but also intellectually in interaction but also intellectually in your mind you are making arguments with your mind you are making arguments with yourself. You're following thoughts uh yourself. You're following thoughts uh down certain passages by yourself. You down certain passages by yourself. You know you are very much in your own head know you are very much in your own head uh as it was. So it is really important uh as it was. So it is really important from time to time to reconnect with this from time to time to reconnect with this uh community of people which I have uh community of people which I have found uh you know you can look at from found uh you know you can look at from my the list of uh you know my the list of uh you know acknowledgements that I give has been acknowledgements that I give has been getting longer and longer. Um it has getting longer and longer. Um it has been absolutely absolutely um uh you been absolutely absolutely um uh you know essential for my writing. I do not know essential for my writing. I do not think I could write the way I do if I think I could write the way I do if I didn't have that backup of people who didn't have that backup of people who have my back. people like Rana Savvi who have my back. people like Rana Savvi who have been so generous uh with their time have been so generous uh with their time with their connections with their with their connections with their access. So when I was researching the access. So when I was researching the lion and the lily uh I know nothing lion and the lily uh I know nothing about luck now you know I had never been about luck now you know I had never been there beforehand before I started all my there beforehand before I started all my work which took almost more than 4 years work which took almost more than 4 years but she said look I'm from luck now I've but she said look I'm from luck now I've lived there many years I will take you lived there many years I will take you there you do your field work and um you there you do your field work and um you know we you will learn what you need to know we you will learn what you need to learn and she and through her all her learn and she and through her all her friends adopted me as if I was a friends adopted me as if I was a longlost cousin who had come back to longlost cousin who had come back to Lucknau they extended that same Lucknau they extended that same generosity and support that she uh you generosity and support that she uh you know showed them uh that okay this is my know showed them uh that okay this is my friend show her everything they hosted friend show her everything they hosted banquetss like I cannot tell you like a banquetss like I cannot tell you like a visit like visiting royalty I was visit like visiting royalty I was received in people's homes you know the received in people's homes you know the kind of food laid out they even invited kind of food laid out they even invited miras the very last band of singing miras the very last band of singing women you know to entertain to show me women you know to entertain to show me what it would have been like to have had what it would have been like to have had a you know singing troop entertain you a you know singing troop entertain you um they little and large humble and you um they little and large humble and you know um elite they all took me into know um elite they all took me into their home. So, so for me it is an their home. So, so for me it is an extension of Rana's protection uh you extension of Rana's protection uh you know and her love for me that I am able know and her love for me that I am able to do things like that and whenever I to do things like that and whenever I ask her for something like that she is ask her for something like that she is you know always willing to to do things you know always willing to to do things like this as is true for a number of like this as is true for a number of other women and I do uh I particularly other women and I do uh I particularly do say women because I have found a do say women because I have found a solidarity within women that is that is solidarity within women that is that is definitely tangible you know uh uh women definitely tangible you know uh uh women in the field will often look out for in the field will often look out for another woman so Ruby Lal has been very another woman so Ruby Lal has been very kind to me. Katherine Scoffield the kind to me. Katherine Scoffield the musicologist always answers my queries. musicologist always answers my queries. Kavita Singh before she passed away. She Kavita Singh before she passed away. She was one person who told me because I was one person who told me because I once asked her a question and I said once asked her a question and I said listen I don't know if I'm entitled to listen I don't know if I'm entitled to say this one thing you know I'm writing say this one thing you know I'm writing this book and she said stop it. You can this book and she said stop it. You can now put aside your imposter syndrome. now put aside your imposter syndrome. You are you know well equipped. Look at You are you know well equipped. Look at the work you have done on Akbar. From the work you have done on Akbar. From now onwards you can say what you want to now onwards you can say what you want to say. I I trust you know your research say. I I trust you know your research process. And for me that was invaluable process. And for me that was invaluable you know that sort of blessing that I you know that sort of blessing that I got from Kaveta. Um and in fact the very got from Kaveta. Um and in fact the very highlight I think even today of my highlight I think even today of my academic work in terms of say what academic work in terms of say what anything has to do with um um art anything has to do with um um art history is the fact that I once showed history is the fact that I once showed her an image and so she has this her an image and so she has this wonderful interpretation of what we are wonderful interpretation of what we are calling um let us say the terrace calling um let us say the terrace paintings of Lucknau. There was a whole paintings of Lucknau. There was a whole series of paintings that came about in series of paintings that came about in the late 18th century showing these the late 18th century showing these beautiful imaginary terrace uh scenes. beautiful imaginary terrace uh scenes. You know the row upon row of terrace, You know the row upon row of terrace, beautiful sparkling white terraces beautiful sparkling white terraces within a palace uh you know um almost an within a palace uh you know um almost an earthly paradise and women are singing, earthly paradise and women are singing, they are dancing, they are performing they are dancing, they are performing acrobatic feats, men are listening to acrobatic feats, men are listening to music um impossibly beautiful scenes music um impossibly beautiful scenes clearly showcasing the nawabs of Aad and clearly showcasing the nawabs of Aad and how you know wonderfully they had how you know wonderfully they had created the city of Fzabad and then created the city of Fzabad and then Lucknau. Kavita Singh had this marvelous Lucknau. Kavita Singh had this marvelous interpretation where she showed that in interpretation where she showed that in the background in tiny figures. So you the background in tiny figures. So you almost have to sort of blow up that bit almost have to sort of blow up that bit of the image to see it. There will be a of the image to see it. There will be a marching line of soldiers. There will be marching line of soldiers. There will be a figure who looks like the emperor a figure who looks like the emperor Shaalam II. There will be uh you know Shaalam II. There will be uh you know battles happening far in the background battles happening far in the background which probably relate to the fact that which probably relate to the fact that in 1764 the battle of Bak Bakar in 1764 the battle of Bak Bakar happened. uh Ashuja Dullah the Nab of happened. uh Ashuja Dullah the Nab of Aad was defeated and from then on he Aad was defeated and from then on he would never get involved in Delhi would never get involved in Delhi politics in this manner. So Kavita said politics in this manner. So Kavita said that listen I believe that the forefront that listen I believe that the forefront tells us something about pleasure using tells us something about pleasure using Mughal tropes and the the distance shows Mughal tropes and the the distance shows us danger using Mughal tropes. So all us danger using Mughal tropes. So all the people doing things like washing and the people doing things like washing and cleaning and digging and construction cleaning and digging and construction activity are in the background and you activity are in the background and you have this marching line of soldiers. have this marching line of soldiers. And I told her I said could it possibly And I told her I said could it possibly be related also to the fact that one of be related also to the fact that one of the ladies Nawab you know Beum uh and the ladies Nawab you know Beum uh and then uh before her another lady had been then uh before her another lady had been insulted you know by the mogul and so insulted you know by the mogul and so you know they didn't want anything to do you know they didn't want anything to do with with the mogul anymore. They were with with the mogul anymore. They were pushing them in the background and she pushing them in the background and she said yes that could be a possibility. So said yes that could be a possibility. So for me that was like wow I have come up for me that was like wow I have come up with something you know that an art with something you know that an art historian is willing to take on board. historian is willing to take on board. So she was so generous in her praise for So she was so generous in her praise for me. Uh other you know people similarly me. Uh other you know people similarly have you know done have been a source of have you know done have been a source of moral support which is absolutely moral support which is absolutely essential. You cannot endlessly keep essential. You cannot endlessly keep your self-confidence your belief in your self-confidence your belief in yourself going without that support. You yourself going without that support. You can do it to a certain extent but can do it to a certain extent but eventually it falters. So if a writer eventually it falters. So if a writer you know doesn't have that kind of you know doesn't have that kind of community of other writers, thinkers, community of other writers, thinkers, travelers, I mean even travelers like so travelers, I mean even travelers like so many uh I know uh you know like afi who many uh I know uh you know like afi who does uh you know tours around Delhi. He does uh you know tours around Delhi. He similarly you know always encourages me similarly you know always encourages me tells me of certain books that I have tells me of certain books that I have not heard about and I will go out and not heard about and I will go out and seek them because he sees Delhi through seek them because he sees Delhi through a different angle through you know a a different angle through you know a regular historian for example would not regular historian for example would not see Delhi in the way he does. So this see Delhi in the way he does. So this entire community has been absolutely entire community has been absolutely essential for me. It keeps growing essential for me. It keeps growing thankfully because my work seemed to thankfully because my work seemed to become more and more unwieldly and become more and more unwieldly and require all sorts of support and you require all sorts of support and you know the contact of more and more know the contact of more and more people. So I'm very grateful for that. I people. So I'm very grateful for that. I mean the world is complex so all good mean the world is complex so all good work must be unwieldy. Um so I I I want work must be unwieldy. Um so I I I want to dig into uh uh you know the solitary to dig into uh uh you know the solitary part of this like I want to understand part of this like I want to understand what are sort of your um daily rituals what are sort of your um daily rituals how do you get down to uh writing how do how do you get down to uh writing how do you discipline yourself and especially you discipline yourself and especially in the context of the fact that you're in the context of the fact that you're also a wife and a mother like there's also a wife and a mother like there's this guy called Mason Curry who had this guy called Mason Curry who had written a book called daily rituals and written a book called daily rituals and it was about the daily rituals of it was about the daily rituals of artists and writers but all men mostly artists and writers but all men mostly men and then he got sounding criticized men and then he got sounding criticized for that and credit to him he then came for that and credit to him he then came out with a book called daily rituals out with a book called daily rituals women at work where he focused on just women at work where he focused on just women. So it is uh radically different women. So it is uh radically different uh for women uh than it is for men uh for women uh than it is for men because you know you have to then call because you know you have to then call up the delivery guy and say you have to up the delivery guy and say you have to coordinate with the cook and you have coordinate with the cook and you have those two kids who need your attention those two kids who need your attention and you can't just lock yourself up in and you can't just lock yourself up in the study. So give me a sense of what the study. So give me a sense of what your what the texture of your life was your what the texture of your life was like and how you built up to uh uh you like and how you built up to uh uh you know what kind of routines you managed know what kind of routines you managed to uh put together for yourself. Yeah, to uh put together for yourself. Yeah, that that's that's a really really valid that that's that's a really really valid and important point is that for women to and important point is that for women to do work like writing is entirely do work like writing is entirely different you know from from men. uh and different you know from from men. uh and to begin to change that we have to start to begin to change that we have to start putting the onus of caregiving, of putting the onus of caregiving, of homekeeping, of child raising. We have homekeeping, of child raising. We have to share this equitably with men. There to share this equitably with men. There is just no way around that you know uh is just no way around that you know uh unfortunately I think I read a report a unfortunately I think I read a report a UN report. So globally 3/arters of UN report. So globally 3/arters of unpaid care work falls on women. So unpaid care work falls on women. So whether we are talking about child whether we are talking about child rearing but also looking after elderly rearing but also looking after elderly parents also looking after your parents also looking after your community you know somebody who's ill it community you know somebody who's ill it all falls on women and they literally all falls on women and they literally prop up uh systems where there should be prop up uh systems where there should be you know social services to do this sort you know social services to do this sort of work. So women are constantly time of work. So women are constantly time poor uh and this is an absolute real poor uh and this is an absolute real reality unless and until the time where reality unless and until the time where men are you know stepping in to take men are you know stepping in to take over some of that burden. So for me how over some of that burden. So for me how that translated was that um even though that translated was that um even though I you know I am privileged and I do have I you know I am privileged and I do have help in the in the home to do some of help in the in the home to do some of the you know harder work but the child the you know harder work but the child rearing as I was telling you because I rearing as I was telling you because I was a perfectionist I worked against was a perfectionist I worked against myself and said like for the first 10 12 myself and said like for the first 10 12 years I want to do everything for my years I want to do everything for my children myself something I am telling children myself something I am telling women out there please don't do this women out there please don't do this there's no need uh but I did that so say there's no need uh but I did that so say when my till my kids were about 12 13 when my till my kids were about 12 13 till they started going to middle school till they started going to middle school and then high school there was no and then high school there was no question of my writing uh per se what I question of my writing uh per se what I was doing was thinking so you know I was was doing was thinking so you know I was thinking about what happening in the thinking about what happening in the world what are the influences what are world what are the influences what are what is shaping women's lives so I was what is shaping women's lives so I was doing that sort of work it was really doing that sort of work it was really only when the when my kids became able only when the when my kids became able to do their homework on their own they to do their homework on their own they go to school they come back they do go to school they come back they do their homework I talk to them for half their homework I talk to them for half an hour when they come back from school an hour when they come back from school but then I let them get on with their but then I let them get on with their homework with their activities I no homework with their activities I no longer felt the pressure to oversee longer felt the pressure to oversee every bit of their lives myself uh and every bit of their lives myself uh and so then I was begin I was able to bring so then I was begin I was able to bring in a routine and the routine is really in a routine and the routine is really strict for me Amit because I find that strict for me Amit because I find that is the only way to resist uh the many is the only way to resist uh the many many incursions we have on our lives many incursions we have on our lives right so I begin my working day like right so I begin my working day like pretty early um by about 8:30 latest 9 pretty early um by about 8:30 latest 9 I'm at my work table uh I work till I'm at my work table uh I work till lunch you know um uh after lunch I lunch you know um uh after lunch I continue working I read for a little continue working I read for a little while something other than um my work uh while something other than um my work uh After lunch, I work again uh till about After lunch, I work again uh till about 7:00. So that's a pretty standard uh 7:00. So that's a pretty standard uh fixed thing. fixed thing. fixed thing. I try to do it through the weekend. So I I try to do it through the weekend. So I have explained to my husband that just have explained to my husband that just because he is around doesn't mean I'm because he is around doesn't mean I'm there to chitchat, to gossip, to you there to chitchat, to gossip, to you know uh poor guy, he is extremely know uh poor guy, he is extremely extremely uh you know understanding and extremely uh you know understanding and very proud of my achievements. So that's very proud of my achievements. So that's great. Not every woman has that. Um but great. Not every woman has that. Um but initially I wouldn't do that obviously. initially I wouldn't do that obviously. So when he was around because he has So when he was around because he has long working days I would also be around long working days I would also be around you know to be there for him. But now you know to be there for him. But now I'm like okay now I am being selfish. I'm like okay now I am being selfish. Everybody has grown up everybody is Everybody has grown up everybody is capable of looking after themselves. Uh capable of looking after themselves. Uh so instructions you know I in India so instructions you know I in India luckily I have someone to look after all luckily I have someone to look after all of that. So I've told them you will when of that. So I've told them you will when my door is shut whatever is happening my door is shut whatever is happening whatever delivery whoever you know if whatever delivery whoever you know if you've run out of whatever it is uh I'm you've run out of whatever it is uh I'm not interested the the as long as the not interested the the as long as the the house is continuing running don't the house is continuing running don't disturb me outside of these hours disturb me outside of these hours because I find that otherwise uh there's because I find that otherwise uh there's so much work required for you know so much work required for you know non-fiction uh if you start giving into non-fiction uh if you start giving into the temptation of a cup of coffee with a the temptation of a cup of coffee with a friend occasionally uh you know uh going friend occasionally uh you know uh going out a lot or attending this event that out a lot or attending this event that because that's also something that because that's also something that starts coming up once you are writer starts coming up once you are writer you'll be asked to come for a launch you'll be asked to come for a launch asked to come for this thing which may asked to come for this thing which may seem to you that it is uh work adjacent seem to you that it is uh work adjacent but it is not it is time uh you know uh but it is not it is time uh you know uh consuming uh so I have found that the consuming uh so I have found that the only way that works for me at least only way that works for me at least individually you know other people do individually you know other people do things differently um is to be extremely things differently um is to be extremely disciplined about the time that I spend disciplined about the time that I spend on my work so I'm going to ask you are on my work so I'm going to ask you are two different kind of balances and the two different kind of balances and the first is um the balance between the first is um the balance between the necessity of leading a solitary life to necessity of leading a solitary life to actually get writing done and also the actually get writing done and also the importance of being out in the world importance of being out in the world like I had done an episode of my YouTube like I had done an episode of my YouTube show on this phrase I love which I had show on this phrase I love which I had discovered the surface area of discovered the surface area of serendipity and the argument there was serendipity and the argument there was that the more you expand your surface that the more you expand your surface area of serendipity the more you're area of serendipity the more you're likely to get lucky in terms of meeting likely to get lucky in terms of meeting interesting people being exposed to interesting people being exposed to interesting ideas and conversations and interesting ideas and conversations and being an extreme introvert I decided being an extreme introvert I decided that I have to make a little bit of an that I have to make a little bit of an effort to get out there and meet people. effort to get out there and meet people. So if someone calls me to a conference, So if someone calls me to a conference, I'll generally go because I'll just get I'll generally go because I'll just get to meet people and uh that's something I to meet people and uh that's something I should do more of otherwise it is very should do more of otherwise it is very solitary. But at the same time is really solitary. But at the same time is really important to say no to a lot of that important to say no to a lot of that stuff especially as you grow older stuff especially as you grow older because there is work to be done and uh because there is work to be done and uh you know so how do you balance this and you know so how do you balance this and does it sometimes frustrate you that does it sometimes frustrate you that your friends are out they're having a your friends are out they're having a good time and here you are stuck at home good time and here you are stuck at home in front of an empty page. in front of an empty page. So uh okay let me not get carried away So uh okay let me not get carried away also I do a lot of fun stuff as well but also I do a lot of fun stuff as well but I think um I think um uh in a writer's life in India uh in a writer's life in India especially uh what marks the seasons of especially uh what marks the seasons of our writing is when a book comes out and our writing is when a book comes out and then we have all the literary festivals. then we have all the literary festivals. Uh so what like what's happened uh with Uh so what like what's happened uh with the lion and the lily is that there are the lion and the lily is that there are festivals now in India that start in festivals now in India that start in November and end in end February. So for November and end in end February. So for four months if you want to you can go four months if you want to you can go from town to town, city to city you know from town to town, city to city you know attending many literature festivals and attending many literature festivals and I know a lot of writers do that even I I know a lot of writers do that even I do that though I will be um perhaps do that though I will be um perhaps curating the festivals going forward um curating the festivals going forward um like Manu tells me that it's an like Manu tells me that it's an important part of his writing life is to important part of his writing life is to go to the festivals meet the people you go to the festivals meet the people you know um so we do that every 3 or four know um so we do that every 3 or four years if that is the pace of your book years if that is the pace of your book every three or four years you will have every three or four years you will have you'll be immersed in this huge you know you'll be immersed in this huge you know tide of humanity where you meet your tide of humanity where you meet your write readers but not only you meet write readers but not only you meet other writers which is so important other writers which is so important because you get ideas you know from because you get ideas you know from other writers. Um, another space where I other writers. Um, another space where I meet people is during the research meet people is during the research process as well, you know, because I I process as well, you know, because I I do only uh a fraction of it online, you do only uh a fraction of it online, you know, doing archival work. Then I'm out know, doing archival work. Then I'm out in the museums themselves and then I'm in the museums themselves and then I'm out doing field work because all of my out doing field work because all of my obviously, you know, all of my work is obviously, you know, all of my work is to do with places where people have to do with places where people have lived. So, I try and examine those lived. So, I try and examine those places as much as I can as well. So I'll places as much as I can as well. So I'll go with another writer friend go uh to go with another writer friend go uh to those cities to those monuments speak to those cities to those monuments speak to the people around it to get a sense of the people around it to get a sense of what is happening. Uh so there is that what is happening. Uh so there is that happening as well but you are right in happening as well but you are right in the sense that it often does tie back to the sense that it often does tie back to my work. I am you know more indulgent of my work. I am you know more indulgent of going out and meeting people if I feel going out and meeting people if I feel like somehow it will help in some way like somehow it will help in some way with the book I'm writing. So I just with the book I'm writing. So I just find that for me at least uh being very find that for me at least uh being very narrow-minded in that sense being very narrow-minded in that sense being very focused on what I'm writing is what focused on what I'm writing is what helps me get the work done. you know it helps me get the work done. you know it helps me get my books written in time helps me get my books written in time without because you know it can become without because you know it can become otherwise otherwise otherwise extremely long-winded you know we can extremely long-winded you know we can spend years looking at a particular spend years looking at a particular subject there's so much out there things subject there's so much out there things are so complex in India so to be able to are so complex in India so to be able to withstand that sort of uh the beguiling withstand that sort of uh the beguiling uh you know danger of going down certain uh you know danger of going down certain routes endlessly then you kind of tell routes endlessly then you kind of tell yourself okay I will go down only this yourself okay I will go down only this much and then I have to start the much and then I have to start the writing itself And to be able to do that writing itself And to be able to do that then you have to be very strict with then you have to be very strict with where you're going to spend your time where you're going to spend your time even in terms of meeting people. That's even in terms of meeting people. That's actually the second kind of balance I actually the second kind of balance I wanted to ask about the balance between wanted to ask about the balance between doing the research and getting down to doing the research and getting down to writing. Like one, the reason you do writing. Like one, the reason you do this is the reason um uh people in the this is the reason um uh people in the world of ideas and writing books do all world of ideas and writing books do all of this is just the sheer joy of jumping of this is just the sheer joy of jumping down a rabbit hole and you're finding down a rabbit hole and you're finding out more and more and more and that's out more and more and more and that's the fantastic part of it and often it the fantastic part of it and often it doesn't even seem like work. But there doesn't even seem like work. But there is a danger of taking it too far. Uh so is a danger of taking it too far. Uh so how how how how do you decide like is it how how how how do you decide like is it something that you know when you reach something that you know when you reach that stage that you have enough and you that stage that you have enough and you should start do you just know it or do should start do you just know it or do you have dialogues with yourself and you have dialogues with yourself and keep going further? How do you uh you keep going further? How do you uh you know find that particular balance know find that particular balance between uh getting the dope and writing between uh getting the dope and writing it down? Yeah. So that's a that's a it down? Yeah. So that's a that's a great question and I think uh that that great question and I think uh that that you are able to hone more and more as you are able to hone more and more as you write more books and you are able to you write more books and you are able to tell yourself stop you know uh because tell yourself stop you know uh because otherwise especially on topics like art otherwise especially on topics like art history you know I can research a thing history you know I can research a thing endlessly. So for the lion and the lily endlessly. So for the lion and the lily I have folders and folders of I have folders and folders of information on art history which I have information on art history which I have never you know used in my book. What I never you know used in my book. What I am doing is using it occasionally now am doing is using it occasionally now when I have lectures or presentations when I have lectures or presentations about it. But I even went for a 3-day about it. But I even went for a 3-day conference in Germany on the manuscripts conference in Germany on the manuscripts produced by one particular Frenchman who produced by one particular Frenchman who was living at the court of the Nawabs of was living at the court of the Nawabs of Aad in the late 18th century. Absolutely Aad in the late 18th century. Absolutely excessive amount of you know research in excessive amount of you know research in that area. Not required at all. Partly that area. Not required at all. Partly done also for my own satisfaction done also for my own satisfaction because I do enjoy it so much. Another because I do enjoy it so much. Another thing that I have got but you know it thing that I have got but you know it can also lead to another idea for a can also lead to another idea for a book. So for example when I was uh book. So for example when I was uh studying the lion and the lily there is studying the lion and the lily there is this um part of culture at that time this um part of culture at that time which was commanded by the cortisans by which was commanded by the cortisans by the tawas you know um and they had this the tawas you know um and they had this extraordinary impact on music and poetry extraordinary impact on music and poetry and dance uh you know in India which we and dance uh you know in India which we have forgotten and we have instead um have forgotten and we have instead um taken it and given it onto the male taken it and given it onto the male ustads and we figure that the ads are ustads and we figure that the ads are the ones who have been gatekeepers of the ones who have been gatekeepers of Indian culture. culture whereas the Indian culture. culture whereas the tawas for many centuries were the ones tawas for many centuries were the ones who were practicing it. That became very who were practicing it. That became very fascinating for me. I looked at fascinating for me. I looked at Sabadan's documentary. I read the tawi Sabadan's documentary. I read the tawi nama I did uh I read durosh's um sex and nama I did uh I read durosh's um sex and the family in in colonial India and all the family in in colonial India and all sorts of books and then I was like sorts of books and then I was like listen stop because how much is your listen stop because how much is your reader going to be interested in this reader going to be interested in this one particular aspect of nabi culture one particular aspect of nabi culture when you are pretending that you are when you are pretending that you are writing a book on the French influence writing a book on the French influence as well. Right? So make up your mind. So as well. Right? So make up your mind. So then I stopped myself and I was like then I stopped myself and I was like okay if I want to go further down this I okay if I want to go further down this I will write a separate book you know and will write a separate book you know and that is perhaps something that I'm going that is perhaps something that I'm going to uh integrate into my next book. But to uh integrate into my next book. But now I have a much better idea. It's it's now I have a much better idea. It's it's almost like an alarm that goes off in my almost like an alarm that goes off in my head when I'm like okay this is head when I'm like okay this is self-indulgence. You are doing this self-indulgence. You are doing this because you're enjoying it too much. because you're enjoying it too much. makes very little difference to your makes very little difference to your reader whether the art in this period reader whether the art in this period was more you know in this shade of color was more you know in this shade of color or whether they were using more of those or whether they were using more of those shadows and nobody cares a lay reader shadows and nobody cares a lay reader doesn't care so now I often ask myself doesn't care so now I often ask myself does a lay reader care about this line does a lay reader care about this line that I'm following how much will a lay that I'm following how much will a lay reader care how much does it add to reader care how much does it add to their knowledge that they're willing to their knowledge that they're willing to take on more than that is take on more than that is self-indulgence they don't have the time self-indulgence they don't have the time to read an enormous uh unwieldly book uh to read an enormous uh unwieldly book uh so it's becoming much easier I recognize so it's becoming much easier I recognize in myself uh uh the time when I am in myself uh uh the time when I am beginning to obsess and endlessly go beginning to obsess and endlessly go down a route which will not find its down a route which will not find its place in my book which I'm doing simply place in my book which I'm doing simply because I'm enjoying it. So now there's because I'm enjoying it. So now there's a third kind of balance I want to ask a third kind of balance I want to ask you about because these questions just you about because these questions just keep popping up as you speak which is keep popping up as you speak which is about the balance between creating about the balance between creating something that will satisfy others and something that will satisfy others and creating something that where you are creating something that where you are just following your heart. Like one just following your heart. Like one piece of advice that I give both my piece of advice that I give both my writing students and creators everywhere writing students and creators everywhere is that be inward driven. Start with is that be inward driven. Start with what you love and then work on that what you love and then work on that because if you're just going to uh try because if you're just going to uh try to see what is trending or what do to see what is trending or what do people want, you're chasing the lowest people want, you're chasing the lowest common denominator. Everyone's doing common denominator. Everyone's doing that. That's a sure part to mediocrity. that. That's a sure part to mediocrity. So you got to start where you are. Like So you got to start where you are. Like if I started asking lay listeners how if I started asking lay listeners how long should a podcast be? Uh I I would long should a podcast be? Uh I I would never kind of end up with this. Uh so at never kind of end up with this. Uh so at some level you have to follow your some level you have to follow your heart. But at some level you can't also heart. But at some level you can't also be self-indulgent. You want your work to be self-indulgent. You want your work to find an audience. You want your stories find an audience. You want your stories to be heard by others because uh and to to be heard by others because uh and to come alive not just in your own heart come alive not just in your own heart but um uh in the minds of others. So how but um uh in the minds of others. So how do how does one kind of think about do how does one kind of think about that? Like a related question of a that? Like a related question of a fourth kind of balance is of course fourth kind of balance is of course about u uh you know readability uh and about u uh you know readability uh and uh rigor. Uh though that's perhaps a uh rigor. Uh though that's perhaps a separate question. So let's go for this separate question. So let's go for this first that h how do you handle this that first that h how do you handle this that one approach a writer could have is I one approach a writer could have is I will write for an audience of one that will write for an audience of one that person is me I will write the kind of person is me I will write the kind of book I would like to read if I want to book I would like to read if I want to spend 100 pages talking about the wives spend 100 pages talking about the wives I will jolly well do that and personally I will jolly well do that and personally speaking as a reader I would really speaking as a reader I would really appreciate that also in fact I would appreciate that also in fact I would appreciate that more but the other kind appreciate that more but the other kind of balance is that listen I I I I'm not of balance is that listen I I I I'm not I'm not uh you know Robert Kero I can't I'm not uh you know Robert Kero I can't write a thousandpage book uh I'm you write a thousandpage book uh I'm you know I got to do what I got to do and I know I got to do what I got to do and I I have these constraints. So how do you I have these constraints. So how do you think about that? How do you manage think about that? How do you manage that? Yeah. So that is uh something that that? Yeah. So that is uh something that I am thinking about I think more and I am thinking about I think more and more because see you know at the end of more because see you know at the end of the day of course I am first writing for the day of course I am first writing for myself that it is just an intensely myself that it is just an intensely selfish and self-absorbed activity is to selfish and self-absorbed activity is to write. I feel you know uh I am writing write. I feel you know uh I am writing because I love words and I'm writing because I love words and I'm writing history because I love bringing those history because I love bringing those people and those times back into the people and those times back into the modern era. I love to be able to for me modern era. I love to be able to for me it is almost like um alchemy you know I it is almost like um alchemy you know I am creating something which a witch am creating something which a witch would have done in the past magic you would have done in the past magic you know I am bringing to the 21st century know I am bringing to the 21st century alive a person who lived in the 16th alive a person who lived in the 16th 17th 18th century so for me that is 17th 18th century so for me that is intensely satisfying and I could do that intensely satisfying and I could do that as you say I could write a 100 pages on as you say I could write a 100 pages on the wives but now also I want to be read the wives but now also I want to be read you know uh I'm like I'm doing this you know uh I'm like I'm doing this important important work. I do think it important important work. I do think it is important. I do think the things I'm is important. I do think the things I'm bringing out are worth reading. I'm bringing out are worth reading. I'm doing it for a purpose. I do want to be doing it for a purpose. I do want to be read. I do want to be read as much as read. I do want to be read as much as my, you know, my male counterparts or my, you know, my male counterparts or other writers. Why not? You know, so I other writers. Why not? You know, so I do know now pragmatically speaking that do know now pragmatically speaking that people will not read beyond a certain people will not read beyond a certain amount. Uh unless you are, you know, amount. Uh unless you are, you know, obviously a certain kind of writer, very obviously a certain kind of writer, very talented, all of that. But people have talented, all of that. But people have constraints on their time, how much constraints on their time, how much money also they want to spend on a book. money also they want to spend on a book. So I want to be able to write reasonably So I want to be able to write reasonably lengthy books but not too lengthy. Uh lengthy books but not too lengthy. Uh not over requiring a knowledge of not over requiring a knowledge of certain areas whether it's art history certain areas whether it's art history or others. I want to make all of this or others. I want to make all of this accessible to people you know. Uh I am accessible to people you know. Uh I am not an academic. I am not writing for not an academic. I am not writing for only historians in a silo where I could only historians in a silo where I could be indulgent and write you know the 100 be indulgent and write you know the 100 pages on the taw. Um so now I do balance pages on the taw. Um so now I do balance out what I'm doing with a sense of now out what I'm doing with a sense of now apart from myself now I do have my apart from myself now I do have my invisible reader alongside a very good invisible reader alongside a very good invisible reader who is willing to you invisible reader who is willing to you know indulge me quite a bit but know indulge me quite a bit but nonetheless maybe a young person who nonetheless maybe a young person who doesn't have that much money is not doesn't have that much money is not going to spend a thousand bucks on a going to spend a thousand bucks on a book is difficult for them and I want to book is difficult for them and I want to reach a young readership as well you reach a young readership as well you know so there are those pragmatic know so there are those pragmatic concerns that come into uh one's mind concerns that come into uh one's mind when you're writing for a while I don't when you're writing for a while I don't want to go on endless lessly on one want to go on endless lessly on one subject which is of great interest to me subject which is of great interest to me at the expense of say another point at the expense of say another point which does need to be said as well and I which does need to be said as well and I tend to write more and more complex tend to write more and more complex books because the world you know now I books because the world you know now I think when you write history you're not think when you write history you're not just writing the story as used to be just writing the story as used to be early on this king did this and then his early on this king did this and then his son became king then that king did that son became king then that king did that now you're writing about the cultural now you're writing about the cultural context you're almost writing also context you're almost writing also geography because you're writing about geography because you're writing about how climate is impacting certain events how climate is impacting certain events you're writing about so sociology you're you're writing about so sociology you're writing about so many different aspects writing about so many different aspects to create a rich and vivid lived world. to create a rich and vivid lived world. So if I'm going to do all of these So if I'm going to do all of these things well then I can't afford to be things well then I can't afford to be going down those rabbit holes to the going down those rabbit holes to the extent that I would want to do it. So I extent that I would want to do it. So I am I think I I'm now able to judge that am I think I I'm now able to judge that much more cannally than I would have much more cannally than I would have done before. um and pragmatic concerns done before. um and pragmatic concerns are now alongside the artistic desire to are now alongside the artistic desire to write the best obviously the best book I write the best obviously the best book I want to write. Uh I also have notions of want to write. Uh I also have notions of how long how much how you know how much how long how much how you know how much to go on about certain things much more to go on about certain things much more clearly. I have an orthogonal question clearly. I have an orthogonal question that actually emerges from this which is that actually emerges from this which is that how do we know what readers want that how do we know what readers want like the conventional wisdom is that like the conventional wisdom is that readers are not going to read too much readers are not going to read too much and etc etc. And I realized a few years and etc etc. And I realized a few years ago that the conventional wisdom about ago that the conventional wisdom about other forms of the arts like whether it other forms of the arts like whether it is audio, whether it is podcast, whether is audio, whether it is podcast, whether it is YouTube is all wrong. Every little it is YouTube is all wrong. Every little bit of it is wrong. Everything they say bit of it is wrong. Everything they say about shorter, everything they say about about shorter, everything they say about short attention spans, people want short attention spans, people want shallow uh you know don't go on for too shallow uh you know don't go on for too long. You got to hook them early. All of long. You got to hook them early. All of it is wrong. Actually, the engaged it is wrong. Actually, the engaged reader craves depth. They want to go reader craves depth. They want to go deeper and deeper. I mean, you and I are deeper and deeper. I mean, you and I are readers also. And when we read, uh if readers also. And when we read, uh if something is good, we just want more of something is good, we just want more of it. We don't want less. You know, one of it. We don't want less. You know, one of my uh great discoveries in the podcast my uh great discoveries in the podcast space was Dan Carlin's hardcore history space was Dan Carlin's hardcore history where I discovered Blueprint Farmer where I discovered Blueprint Farmer Gdon, which was his series on World War Gdon, which was his series on World War I. And that was five episodes of about 5 I. And that was five episodes of about 5 hours each, something like that. 25 26 hours each, something like that. 25 26 hours of just him talking solo. No sound hours of just him talking solo. No sound effects, no music, nothing. And it was effects, no music, nothing. And it was so reveting. It was so amazing. And my so reveting. It was so amazing. And my sense is that, you know, a lot of the sense is that, you know, a lot of the classic history books are uh long and classic history books are uh long and deep and so on and so forth. ditto with deep and so on and so forth. ditto with for example crime fiction where you have for example crime fiction where you have the fashion for 400page 500page uh the fashion for 400page 500page uh books. So I I wonder how do we know this books. So I I wonder how do we know this stuff or is it just conventional wisdom stuff or is it just conventional wisdom that everyone just takes for granted that everyone just takes for granted because hey this is what we've always because hey this is what we've always believed. What is your sense because you believed. What is your sense because you actually interact with your readers on actually interact with your readers on the festival circuit and so on. I do uh the festival circuit and so on. I do uh I do and I feel that um up till now I I do and I feel that um up till now I think I have fooled people into thinking think I have fooled people into thinking when they're reading my books that they when they're reading my books that they are able to to read them even if they are able to to read them even if they have not too much time on their hands have not too much time on their hands even if they are you know not setting even if they are you know not setting out to read a big book I think I break out to read a big book I think I break things down my chapters are really quite things down my chapters are really quite small I find that an easy trick to use small I find that an easy trick to use you know um my chapters are almost you know um my chapters are almost standalone things I you know I started standalone things I you know I started that with Abbar as well. You could read that with Abbar as well. You could read one chapter of Akbar and then go away, one chapter of Akbar and then go away, do other stuff and come back to him and do other stuff and come back to him and not feel like there was uh you know a not feel like there was uh you know a break in the story. Uh and yet each break in the story. Uh and yet each chapter was adding in layers to your chapter was adding in layers to your knowledge about the man, about the time, knowledge about the man, about the time, about the people, the women and all of about the people, the women and all of that stuff. So I have been quite um that stuff. So I have been quite um careful to do that. Uh and I think it careful to do that. Uh and I think it helps people get through a pretty dense helps people get through a pretty dense material if you present it to them in a material if you present it to them in a certain way. Uh also I'm very careful certain way. Uh also I'm very careful about how I write because you know we about how I write because you know we were talking about the research process. were talking about the research process. So I spend 50% of my time uh on a book So I spend 50% of my time uh on a book doing the research and a full 50% doing the research and a full 50% writing because I want it to be as writing because I want it to be as perfect literarily as possible. I it perfect literarily as possible. I it would it has to be the kind of book I would it has to be the kind of book I would pick up you know and I only read would pick up you know and I only read literary fiction uh when I write read literary fiction uh when I write read fiction. So I want it to be a fiction. So I want it to be a beautifully constructed book. I want the beautifully constructed book. I want the words to be the best words I can use. I words to be the best words I can use. I want the sentences to be perfect. You want the sentences to be perfect. You know, I will fight with my editor know, I will fight with my editor endlessly on syntax and the framing of a endlessly on syntax and the framing of a sentence because the rhythm is wrong. sentence because the rhythm is wrong. Supposing she makes a change to it. It's Supposing she makes a change to it. It's incredibly important to me that it read incredibly important to me that it read correctly, you know. Um, so that is very correctly, you know. Um, so that is very important to me. I think it is what has important to me. I think it is what has kept readers faithful to me because they kept readers faithful to me because they feel they don't get a sense of reading a feel they don't get a sense of reading a very dense and heavy book because they very dense and heavy book because they say it flows really well. we are pulled say it flows really well. we are pulled into the time and you know so that my into the time and you know so that my job is done uh but beyond a certain job is done uh but beyond a certain length and complexity of book then then length and complexity of book then then you have to really be a master crafts you have to really be a master crafts person to be able to go beyond that and person to be able to go beyond that and I don't know if I can do that you know I don't know if I can do that you know without losing the central thread of without losing the central thread of what I am trying to say so already with what I am trying to say so already with Akbar and the lion and the lily I think Akbar and the lion and the lily I think you know 300 350 pages is a fairly dense you know 300 350 pages is a fairly dense book I would not want to go beyond that book I would not want to go beyond that because then I feel you're going into a because then I feel you're going into a different category of writing. Uh and I different category of writing. Uh and I want to also write as many books as I want to also write as many books as I can. I started late. I have, you know, can. I started late. I have, you know, to catch up on a lot of time. So I want to catch up on a lot of time. So I want to write I have many ideas. Every book to write I have many ideas. Every book leads me to many many other ideas. And I leads me to many many other ideas. And I want to write several more books that I want to write several more books that I think are important. So to be able to do think are important. So to be able to do that, I can't write an endlessly long that, I can't write an endlessly long book and endlessly self-indulgent book. book and endlessly self-indulgent book. So that is also one of the concerns that So that is also one of the concerns that uh keeps me honest. uh keeps me honest. Wise words, but you're absolutely a Wise words, but you're absolutely a master craftsman. So I object. I will master craftsman. So I object. I will push back against you're saying you're push back against you're saying you're not this is again imposter syndrome like not this is again imposter syndrome like what by now I thought you'd be past it. what by now I thought you'd be past it. Uh the next question of balance is about Uh the next question of balance is about readability and rigor. your books are of readability and rigor. your books are of course extremely readable but at the course extremely readable but at the same time uh they're pretty same time uh they're pretty comprehensive and uh you know everything comprehensive and uh you know everything is kind of there and how do you sort of is kind of there and how do you sort of balance those two because uh I would balance those two because uh I would imagine that you are only putting in imagine that you are only putting in maybe 10 or 20% of all the research maybe 10 or 20% of all the research you've done there must be so much you've done there must be so much knowledge that you have which is not knowledge that you have which is not kind of there and uh you know when uh I kind of there and uh you know when uh I do whatever I do whether it's my writing do whatever I do whether it's my writing or my podcast I try to make it as or my podcast I try to make it as resourceheavy as possible in the sense resourceheavy as possible in the sense that my show notes tend to be really that my show notes tend to be really long because I will link to everything long because I will link to everything that we might have mentioned so that that we might have mentioned so that everything is just like a click away and everything is just like a click away and all of that. It feels that the journey all of that. It feels that the journey is not just to tell the reader a story is not just to tell the reader a story but also to give them the um the but also to give them the um the resources to actually go deeper if they resources to actually go deeper if they want to which you also do. So uh how want to which you also do. So uh how does one balance that? How do you think does one balance that? How do you think about readability and are there any u about readability and are there any u models? Are there any writers who you models? Are there any writers who you think do it particularly well? think do it particularly well? Um yeah that's a that's a tricky one. um Um yeah that's a that's a tricky one. um 10 to 20% yes for for Akbar probably 10 to 20% yes for for Akbar probably even you know um more than that I think even you know um more than that I think I I probably used 5 to 10% of the I I probably used 5 to 10% of the information I had when writing Akbar you information I had when writing Akbar you know so when certain readers asked me know so when certain readers asked me but there's hardly any fighting in Akbar but there's hardly any fighting in Akbar where all his you know great war was and where all his you know great war was and I'm like dude you know give me a break I'm like dude you know give me a break here like you know Abul Fuzel wrote his here like you know Abul Fuzel wrote his history in like six enormous volumes and history in like six enormous volumes and it's so many uh uh you know battles how it's so many uh uh you know battles how do you choose do you choose Um so for for Abbar it was really a Um so for for Abbar it was really a question of balancing the battles with question of balancing the battles with his you know religious quest and his uh his you know religious quest and his uh cultural influence and the paintings and cultural influence and the paintings and all of that and that was incred all of that and that was incred incredibly hard to do. Um incredibly hard to do. Um it's a good question and I don't have a it's a good question and I don't have a pat answer for for how I do that. You pat answer for for how I do that. You know I think each book is individual. Uh know I think each book is individual. Uh each book is its own journey for me. You each book is its own journey for me. You know I don't have say a blueprint that I know I don't have say a blueprint that I am going to use for my next book. Uh I am going to use for my next book. Uh I think uh it all depends on what is think uh it all depends on what is essential to me in a particular story essential to me in a particular story that I want to tell in a particular time that I want to tell in a particular time frame. So in the lion and the lily uh as frame. So in the lion and the lily uh as I was doing my research I came upon I was doing my research I came upon things that I then I realized I wanted things that I then I realized I wanted to talk about not just the French and so to talk about not just the French and so it became a much broader book than just it became a much broader book than just the French influence. Uh I realized that the French influence. Uh I realized that the 18th century is the time really when the 18th century is the time really when the British started co-opting our own the British started co-opting our own systems you know in that were already in systems you know in that were already in place that our nabs were using other place that our nabs were using other rulers were using like for example the rulers were using like for example the spy system the int intelligence network spy system the int intelligence network we had the nawabs had an extensive we had the nawabs had an extensive intelligence network by posting uh intelligence network by posting uh readers and writers in everybody's readers and writers in everybody's courts um and having them come back and courts um and having them come back and forth to the derbar and and read out forth to the derbar and and read out those in those uh reports the British those in those uh reports the British learned that a little later after they learned that a little later after they had made a catastrophic mistake with had made a catastrophic mistake with Tipu Sultan and were very badly beaten Tipu Sultan and were very badly beaten because they didn't realize that there because they didn't realize that there was help coming for Tipu Sultan. He was was help coming for Tipu Sultan. He was uh getting provisions coming to help uh getting provisions coming to help him. Um and that was very interesting to him. Um and that was very interesting to me. So I thought I would explore the way me. So I thought I would explore the way in which this happened. Initially for in which this happened. Initially for example they were uh they were very example they were uh they were very critical of Indian rulers using what critical of Indian rulers using what they thought was uh the gossip of old they thought was uh the gossip of old ladies. Now you and I know that old ladies. Now you and I know that old ladies have the best gossip in India. ladies have the best gossip in India. They have all the information. They are They have all the information. They are the spy masters, right? Um the British the spy masters, right? Um the British refused to do that. They were like we refused to do that. They were like we will not debase ourselves by having a will not debase ourselves by having a spy in the haram till the day where they spy in the haram till the day where they realized that they jolly well needed a realized that they jolly well needed a spy in the haram if they wanted to know spy in the haram if they wanted to know what was happening behind the scenes. what was happening behind the scenes. And why they wanted to know what was And why they wanted to know what was happening behind the scenes is that they happening behind the scenes is that they wanted to know whether Asafuah was wanted to know whether Asafuah was capable of fathering children. Right? capable of fathering children. Right? right? He was actually a homosexual. So right? He was actually a homosexual. So finally they they realized that they finally they they realized that they would have to debase great you know would have to debase great you know English uh ideas of dignity and justice English uh ideas of dignity and justice by sending by sending by sending uh a spy into the kadasaras the the the uh a spy into the kadasaras the the the great unexuk great unexuk great unexuk zanas. uh and it is during this zanas. uh and it is during this particular time in fact that the whole particular time in fact that the whole process shifts and the British become process shifts and the British become expert at controlling intelligence expert at controlling intelligence networks. So for me that was incredibly networks. So for me that was incredibly interesting. I had not set out thinking interesting. I had not set out thinking I'm going to write about how uh they I'm going to write about how uh they start the British start putting you know start the British start putting you know spies into um use old ladies old crrons spies into um use old ladies old crrons as they call them uh with salacious as they call them uh with salacious gossip as part of the information gossip as part of the information network. So sometimes a book happens and network. So sometimes a book happens and the structure happens as you are writing the structure happens as you are writing it. Um uh and so there is there is no it. Um uh and so there is there is no one blueprint really unfortunately. I one blueprint really unfortunately. I would be a terrible mentor for anybody would be a terrible mentor for anybody you know carrying out uh you know uh a you know carrying out uh you know uh a program to teach people how to write. Um program to teach people how to write. Um but I find that each book writes itself but I find that each book writes itself and you discover the sorts of things and you discover the sorts of things that you want to focus on. uh and if you that you want to focus on. uh and if you are lucky all of it falls into place and are lucky all of it falls into place and makes a cohesive role. And how does one makes a cohesive role. And how does one think about language? Like to me the think about language? Like to me the balance that you found is absolutely balance that you found is absolutely perfect. But it it's sometimes dangerous perfect. But it it's sometimes dangerous for a writer to think about being too for a writer to think about being too simple because they underestimate their simple because they underestimate their audience. And you know, you also want a audience. And you know, you also want a certain rhythm to your sentences and how certain rhythm to your sentences and how they sound matter and you want a certain they sound matter and you want a certain kind of flow. And sometimes it's okay if kind of flow. And sometimes it's okay if there's a long sentence and it's complex there's a long sentence and it's complex and it's packing in a lot because that and it's packing in a lot because that is the demand of the moment. Um so how is the demand of the moment. Um so how did you kind of arrive at your craft did you kind of arrive at your craft like you know in a sense if I was given like you know in a sense if I was given your five books in a vacuum and asked to your five books in a vacuum and asked to guess which is the first one no offense guess which is the first one no offense meant to the book but I would guess it meant to the book but I would guess it was a dropadi book because uh you know was a dropadi book because uh you know since then one can actually see the since then one can actually see the confidence and the progress and the confidence and the progress and the consumate writing style really kick in. consumate writing style really kick in. Uh so give me a sense of that evolution Uh so give me a sense of that evolution of your writing style as it were. Yeah of your writing style as it were. Yeah that's that's something that I really that's that's something that I really enjoy doing is thinking about the enjoy doing is thinking about the writing itself you know uh so one thing writing itself you know uh so one thing that I have you know in mind when that I have you know in mind when writing is that I want it to be very writing is that I want it to be very vivid so I want to create you know it's vivid so I want to create you know it's almost like cinematography I feel you almost like cinematography I feel you know at least I get that sense I get know at least I get that sense I get very vivid scenes in my head that I want very vivid scenes in my head that I want to create for people. uh in terms of to create for people. uh in terms of writing style um writing style um so Hillary Mantel was you know so Hillary Mantel was you know incredibly uh influential for me uh the incredibly uh influential for me uh the way in which she was able to bring way in which she was able to bring things to life but what I feel is things to life but what I feel is important I think she has talked about important I think she has talked about it as well is that even the language I it as well is that even the language I use I feel should reflect should not use I feel should reflect should not like when a reader is writing my books like when a reader is writing my books at for example set in the 16th century at for example set in the 16th century they shouldn't uh come across or stumble they shouldn't uh come across or stumble across a word which snaps them into the across a word which snaps them into the 21st century So it is very important for 21st century So it is very important for me to not use words like say skating me to not use words like say skating across the something because skating is across the something because skating is a modern term it's a modern activity. So a modern term it's a modern activity. So you know I try even down to the word you know I try even down to the word level not use words that have been level not use words that have been created in the 20 20th century onwards created in the 20 20th century onwards say you know I don't want anything to say you know I don't want anything to jar so timeless words let us say I want jar so timeless words let us say I want my writing to be lyrical because that's my writing to be lyrical because that's the sort of writing I like to read even the sort of writing I like to read even if it's history I don't see why that if it's history I don't see why that can't be. So initially there was some can't be. So initially there was some criticism you know uh that this is not criticism you know uh that this is not how historians should be writing. This how historians should be writing. This is almost on the border you know this is is almost on the border you know this is almost uh historical fiction and how can almost uh historical fiction and how can you imagine what a place but even when you imagine what a place but even when I'm imagining what a place looks like I'm imagining what a place looks like and feels like it is based on research and feels like it is based on research so a particular scene I wrote in for so a particular scene I wrote in for example daughters of the sun in which example daughters of the sun in which Jahan Beum is meeting Orurange. I did Jahan Beum is meeting Orurange. I did research. I went back to see what the uh research. I went back to see what the uh climate, what geological conditions, climate, what geological conditions, what the climate was like in that time, what the climate was like in that time, how it had changed, but what it was like how it had changed, but what it was like in that season, in that time. What are in that season, in that time. What are the flora and fauna you would see around the flora and fauna you would see around I I have not created any imagined I I have not created any imagined anything, you know, but I have created anything, you know, but I have created that sense of that world. Uh and for me, that sense of that world. Uh and for me, that's very important. And you know it that's very important. And you know it luckily despite the some push back I got luckily despite the some push back I got back initially I stuck to that because I back initially I stuck to that because I felt that was very important for a lay felt that was very important for a lay reader uh and you cannot expect lay reader uh and you cannot expect lay readers to feel for your the the people readers to feel for your the the people you're writing about if they they can't you're writing about if they they can't connect with them on a human level. So connect with them on a human level. So for me that remains very important. You for me that remains very important. You know each uh sentence structure should know each uh sentence structure should be as perfectly constructed as possible. be as perfectly constructed as possible. At the same time as you are saying in At the same time as you are saying in certain bits of the book I am imparting certain bits of the book I am imparting a lot of information. So sometimes I a lot of information. So sometimes I think uh definitely some of my perhaps think uh definitely some of my perhaps all of my books have bits of it which all of my books have bits of it which are a little too heavy on the are a little too heavy on the information because I've been too wary information because I've been too wary of leaving out important things. You of leaving out important things. You know I'm like okay what if this know I'm like okay what if this historian now criticizes me? What if historian now criticizes me? What if that person because they're always that person because they're always experts in India even if they're not experts in India even if they're not historians right? They'll be experts on historians right? They'll be experts on certain subjects. What if they question certain subjects. What if they question what I've said? So I have tended to what I've said? So I have tended to overcompensate and given it too many overcompensate and given it too many details. Now I am more confident. So I details. Now I am more confident. So I will not be doing that going forward. will not be doing that going forward. And I think Lion and the Lily has less And I think Lion and the Lily has less of that than Akbar had for example. Um of that than Akbar had for example. Um now I feel I I can have it's enough that now I feel I I can have it's enough that I have done the research. I have my I have done the research. I have my files I have my sources. If people want files I have my sources. If people want to look at that they can go and check it to look at that they can go and check it for themselves. I don't have to write it for themselves. I don't have to write it down each time. Um so the writing uh uh down each time. Um so the writing uh uh for me takes up fully 50% of the time. for me takes up fully 50% of the time. Once all my folders are there on my Once all my folders are there on my table and I have all the information, I table and I have all the information, I will play with it in my mind endlessly will play with it in my mind endlessly until like a Lego you know set it falls until like a Lego you know set it falls magically one day into place and in my magically one day into place and in my mind it is already a finished product mind it is already a finished product and then I have to translate that onto and then I have to translate that onto the page and that can be painful and the the page and that can be painful and the only way to fight that really is to only way to fight that really is to write very regularly because it becomes write very regularly because it becomes a habit you know it's almost like muscle a habit you know it's almost like muscle memory the more you write the more you memory the more you write the more you are able to write the more easily it are able to write the more easily it comes comes comes And for me reading good literary fiction And for me reading good literary fiction is very important because I keep you is very important because I keep you know learning new styles of writing. I know learning new styles of writing. I keep coming across people who write keep coming across people who write beautifully who have great structures to beautifully who have great structures to their uh novels or their books. So these their uh novels or their books. So these things go parallel the reading and then things go parallel the reading and then sitting down and finally getting ready sitting down and finally getting ready to write. Sorry to throw jargon at you to write. Sorry to throw jargon at you but what kind of knowledge manage man but what kind of knowledge manage man management system have you come up with management system have you come up with uh for yourself over time? Like for me a uh for yourself over time? Like for me a game changer was just discovering Rome game changer was just discovering Rome research which is which basically uh research which is which basically uh mimics zettle caston the old German mimics zettle caston the old German system of index cards and etc etc with system of index cards and etc etc with you know you you can have nested entries you know you you can have nested entries and all that and that was just a game and all that and that was just a game changer in terms of organizing changer in terms of organizing information. So how do you manage the information. So how do you manage the information you um collect and in what information you um collect and in what form is that information collected like form is that information collected like are you taking handwritten notes on are you taking handwritten notes on notebooks? Are you taking snapshots on notebooks? Are you taking snapshots on your phone camera of old documents? your phone camera of old documents? How's that playing out? How's that playing out? Okay, I'm going to have to have a talk Okay, I'm going to have to have a talk with you after the podcast to to with you after the podcast to to understand how what are these things you understand how what are these things you are using because I have no idea what are using because I have no idea what you're talking about. Um, so yes, it's you're talking about. Um, so yes, it's very laborious for me. Uh, it is going very laborious for me. Uh, it is going to um so the manuscript that I go to to um so the manuscript that I go to museums to get I take snapshots of museums to get I take snapshots of luckily now we can take we allowed to luckily now we can take we allowed to take photographs on an iPhones. So a lot take photographs on an iPhones. So a lot of photographs that I take, I transfer of photographs that I take, I transfer them onto my laptop, make folders and them onto my laptop, make folders and then transcribe them onto word then transcribe them onto word documents, whatever is important. So documents, whatever is important. So note takingaking basically is what I do. note takingaking basically is what I do. Um Um Um uh on the lap all type I don't take I uh on the lap all type I don't take I take very few handwritten notes because take very few handwritten notes because I can't read my own handwriting. So it's I can't read my own handwriting. So it's all photographs and then write typing all photographs and then write typing out the notes. Then once all the notes out the notes. Then once all the notes are typed uh I go go through everything are typed uh I go go through everything I have got as notes. I get rid of I have got as notes. I get rid of whatever is not needed for a book. So I whatever is not needed for a book. So I put that into another folder which is put that into another folder which is like I label it random thoughts or like I label it random thoughts or unwanted for the moment kind of you know unwanted for the moment kind of you know information and I narrow down my information and I narrow down my information into something which is a information into something which is a little bit more manageable little bit more manageable and then I print it all out because I and then I print it all out because I like to have it in front of me because I like to have it in front of me because I like to physically then move those pages like to physically then move those pages around you know almost like you know around you know almost like you know constructing a building. Uh so then I constructing a building. Uh so then I have it on paper in front of me and then have it on paper in front of me and then the last stage is writing notes on the the last stage is writing notes on the papers uh and deciding what the chapter papers uh and deciding what the chapter layouts are going to be like and and layouts are going to be like and and taking it from there. So pretty taking it from there. So pretty old-fashioned but except that now with old-fashioned but except that now with the with the typing and the photographs the with the typing and the photographs we can do things so much faster. You we can do things so much faster. You know lay people often believe that when know lay people often believe that when it comes to doing history there are a it comes to doing history there are a bunch of sources out there. You just bunch of sources out there. You just have to put in the work, figure out what have to put in the work, figure out what those sources are, get access, study those sources are, get access, study those sources, do your note-taking and those sources, do your note-taking and write. And it's never that simple write. And it's never that simple because the sources are madly because the sources are madly complicated. Like uh the lion and the complicated. Like uh the lion and the lily begins with this beautiful image of lily begins with this beautiful image of 1947, the British are leaving and 1947, the British are leaving and there's a p of white smoke above Delhi there's a p of white smoke above Delhi and that white smoke is them burning and that white smoke is them burning documents. And you point out how, you documents. And you point out how, you know, for the colonial power whenever know, for the colonial power whenever they are leaving a place that um is now they are leaving a place that um is now independent. This is common. So I'll independent. This is common. So I'll quote from your book where you write, quote from your book where you write, "Instructions were issued that waste "Instructions were issued that waste from the bonfires was to be reduced to from the bonfires was to be reduced to ashes and the ashes further broken up. ashes and the ashes further broken up. In Kenya, documents were loaded into In Kenya, documents were loaded into crates and dropped into the deep ocean. crates and dropped into the deep ocean. When simply destroying these documents When simply destroying these documents was not enough, Operation Legacy was was not enough, Operation Legacy was implemented in which only civil servants implemented in which only civil servants of European descent would identify of European descent would identify sensitive documents to be removed to sensitive documents to be removed to murky archives in Britain and all trace murky archives in Britain and all trace of their existence was then wiped out of their existence was then wiped out clean in their countries of origin." In clean in their countries of origin." In the history, thieves writer Ian Cobain the history, thieves writer Ian Cobain identifies his need for secrecy as a identifies his need for secrecy as a very British disease and argues that the very British disease and argues that the mass obliteration and hiding of these mass obliteration and hiding of these documents was deemed necessary so that documents was deemed necessary so that quote unquote the British way of doing quote unquote the British way of doing things would be remembered with quote things would be remembered with quote unquote fondness and respect and uh stop unquote fondness and respect and uh stop quote and later you also write about how quote and later you also write about how after the 1857 uprising there's a after the 1857 uprising there's a similar thing that happens and similar thing that happens and documents, paintings, archives are documents, paintings, archives are destroyed in great smoldering masses in destroyed in great smoldering masses in Delhi and Luckno quote unquote. So for Delhi and Luckno quote unquote. So for you finding sources is particularly hard you finding sources is particularly hard because number one we are under the because number one we are under the colonial the sway of the colonial colonial the sway of the colonial narrative of history which you spoke narrative of history which you spoke about in the first half of this episode about in the first half of this episode where this is the British narrative. where this is the British narrative. This is what we've got. The nabs of This is what we've got. The nabs of Aadwar faith and incompetent and etc etc Aadwar faith and incompetent and etc etc all of which you've busted. But then the all of which you've busted. But then the question is that they have destroyed so question is that they have destroyed so many sources. Their sources are all over many sources. Their sources are all over the place. How do you get to the sources the place. How do you get to the sources that u uh give you a broader view? Not that u uh give you a broader view? Not just in the context of going against the just in the context of going against the the the colonial narratives getting the the colonial narratives getting sources from elsewhere but also in the sources from elsewhere but also in the context of figuring out sources in which context of figuring out sources in which women feature in which everything is not women feature in which everything is not male gays male gays male gays or even if male gays male gays male gays or even if it is you at least there is something it is you at least there is something some hints of what life was like for some hints of what life was like for women. So how like this is really like a women. So how like this is really like a four book journey effectively for you in four book journey effectively for you in just doing this investigative work of just doing this investigative work of finding the damn sources to begin with finding the damn sources to begin with before you can note down anything. So before you can note down anything. So tell me about this. Absolutely. Yeah. tell me about this. Absolutely. Yeah. Absolutely. And that's uh that's a fun Absolutely. And that's uh that's a fun and sometimes frustrating part. uh and and sometimes frustrating part. uh and one of the really fun places that I have one of the really fun places that I have found uh to begin with just the British found uh to begin with just the British narrative but from a different point of narrative but from a different point of view um or let us say a differently view um or let us say a differently interpreted uh story is British men's interpreted uh story is British men's letters to their wives letters to their wives wonderful source of uh you know what the wonderful source of uh you know what the British experience was but less curated British experience was but less curated because obviously they're not these are because obviously they're not these are not official letters going back to you not official letters going back to you know Kolkata or to the East India know Kolkata or to the East India Company house in in London So they are Company house in in London So they are they are much more honest and they are they are much more honest and they are more willing to show vulnerability when more willing to show vulnerability when they're writing to their wives. And so I they're writing to their wives. And so I get a better sense and I did this both get a better sense and I did this both for Warren Hastings and for John Shaw for Warren Hastings and for John Shaw both of them were governor generals to both of them were governor generals to uh you know India at the time and I'm uh you know India at the time and I'm looking late 18th century and the things looking late 18th century and the things that John Shaw especially governor that John Shaw especially governor general John Shaw writes to his wife general John Shaw writes to his wife about what he is doing in Lucknau about what he is doing in Lucknau because he comes at the time of Asafola because he comes at the time of Asafola is really quite um uh eyeopening because is really quite um uh eyeopening because whereas he is on one hand you know he is whereas he is on one hand you know he is considered this very austere upright considered this very austere upright honest man, an evangelical Protestant, honest man, an evangelical Protestant, you know, who was part of this clique uh you know, who was part of this clique uh back home in India of uh evangelicals back home in India of uh evangelicals who are fighting against uh you know, who are fighting against uh you know, slavery and all these wonderful things. slavery and all these wonderful things. But when he's writing to his wife, he is But when he's writing to his wife, he is confessing that he is having to behave confessing that he is having to behave in a manner that he would not have in a manner that he would not have thought acceptable. And he says, "Look thought acceptable. And he says, "Look what I'm having to do with Asafal. what I'm having to do with Asafal. Asafala has been a friend of ours. He Asafala has been a friend of ours. He has allied himself with the British. He has allied himself with the British. He has never created any trouble. But look, has never created any trouble. But look, look what I have done. Look how I am, look what I have done. Look how I am, you know, uh almost in amazement at you know, uh almost in amazement at himself and asking for his wife perhaps himself and asking for his wife perhaps to forgive these actions. Uh and I found to forgive these actions. Uh and I found that you know really really uh very that you know really really uh very useful for me. So these are some sources useful for me. So these are some sources that uh you know go a little bit against that uh you know go a little bit against the grain when you're looking at British the grain when you're looking at British sources. Then when you are looking at uh sources. Then when you are looking at uh you know how women what women are doing you know how women what women are doing in their lives for example uh they are in their lives for example uh they are always books amit but it's just that always books amit but it's just that they are ignored. uh we know that now they are ignored. uh we know that now through the history of women in the through the history of women in the world women have been scientists they world women have been scientists they have been a mathematicians we have just have been a mathematicians we have just been told that they have not because been told that they have not because their work has been written out right uh their work has been written out right uh so just like in daughters of the sun uh so just like in daughters of the sun uh because of Ruby Lal's work I had known because of Ruby Lal's work I had known of Gulbadan beam's biography of her of Gulbadan beam's biography of her father uh and brother Baba and Hayung it father uh and brother Baba and Hayung it had just never been used by historians had just never been used by historians until Ruby Lal really examined it right until Ruby Lal really examined it right so the similarly for Bahubam so the similarly for Bahubam uh in fact the same uh you know guide uh in fact the same uh you know guide Delhi based guide Afandel we told me Delhi based guide Afandel we told me about this book written by Fes Muhammad about this book written by Fes Muhammad Baksh was an insider to the Zenana Baksh was an insider to the Zenana because he was an ADC to one of the because he was an ADC to one of the great Kajasaras great Kajasaras great Kajasaras uh and he was operating at the time that uh and he was operating at the time that I was interested in and he writes a I was interested in and he writes a biography of the Kuajasaras and biography of the Kuajasaras and therefore Bahubham and Naw beum. Now therefore Bahubham and Naw beum. Now imagine this. We have a book from within imagine this. We have a book from within the Zenana written by a educated man the Zenana written by a educated man telling us all the goings on that are telling us all the goings on that are happening. You know all the fighting happening. You know all the fighting between the kajasaras, the unag between the kajasaras, the unag uh you know the things that Bahub beum uh you know the things that Bahub beum says. We have things like the language says. We have things like the language she uses. She uses really um sometimes she uses. She uses really um sometimes reminds me of Akbar. She uses you know reminds me of Akbar. She uses you know almost uh uh the the the language of a almost uh uh the the the language of a fish market lady rather than a very fish market lady rather than a very elite you know uh lady of the court. So elite you know uh lady of the court. So she tells somebody uh she tells her she tells somebody uh she tells her brother Salar Jang that oh is he doing brother Salar Jang that oh is he doing this? Is he acting against my wishes? this? Is he acting against my wishes? Beat him with a shoe filled with mud you Beat him with a shoe filled with mud you know filled with filth. So she uses know filled with filth. So she uses really robust languages when giving out really robust languages when giving out orders. All kinds of things I came orders. All kinds of things I came across using this source. Another way uh across using this source. Another way uh in finding out about littleknown things in finding out about littleknown things was looking at the French sources. You was looking at the French sources. You know, so this is something that I set know, so this is something that I set out to do because I knew that the French out to do because I knew that the French were active in India in the 18th were active in India in the 18th century, mid- 18th century onwards. They century, mid- 18th century onwards. They were there in uh Abad. Um and I was able were there in uh Abad. Um and I was able to access sources. So William Dal Rimple to access sources. So William Dal Rimple was very kind enough to tell me about a was very kind enough to tell me about a family archive that is there in uh a family archive that is there in uh a region of France called Shambberi region of France called Shambberi because one of the great adventurers because one of the great adventurers who fought for the Maratas at that time. who fought for the Maratas at that time. but spent some time in Lucknau came from but spent some time in Lucknau came from Shambbury. So through you know William's Shambbury. So through you know William's uh introduction I was able to get into uh introduction I was able to get into those archives and saw the the letters those archives and saw the the letters he wrote to his wife who was a Lucknau he wrote to his wife who was a Lucknau woman. Uh so we have the back and forth woman. Uh so we have the back and forth of these letters between these people. of these letters between these people. So I use those letters as well. Um so So I use those letters as well. Um so there are places and there and then there are places and there and then again as I have done for you know again as I have done for you know daughters of the sun there are the daughters of the sun there are the buildings because they patronized uh buildings because they patronized uh buildings. There are paintings a lot of buildings. There are paintings a lot of paintings. Now for the first time or uh paintings. Now for the first time or uh let us say in the kind of numbers that let us say in the kind of numbers that we see in the late 18th century are we see in the late 18th century are images of women. Uh early on we didn't images of women. Uh early on we didn't see those kinds of images of women. Why see those kinds of images of women. Why are women being shown? How come it is are women being shown? How come it is possible suddenly to have paintings of possible suddenly to have paintings of women to these kind of uh in these kinds women to these kind of uh in these kinds of numbers. So one art historian has of numbers. So one art historian has suggested that it is possibly because suggested that it is possibly because Bahu began was a patron that we don't Bahu began was a patron that we don't know that and there are no records of know that and there are no records of that but maybe elite women were that but maybe elite women were patronizing paintings as well. So I look patronizing paintings as well. So I look at that you know I look at culture how at that you know I look at culture how it came about. Uh I look at poetry it came about. Uh I look at poetry because a lot of poetry came out some of because a lot of poetry came out some of it flattering some of it critical you it flattering some of it critical you know of the nabs. So all of this is is know of the nabs. So all of this is is important but so again you know I do the important but so again you know I do the same kind of medieval detective work same kind of medieval detective work that I did uh earlier but the sources do that I did uh earlier but the sources do exist you know it's a fallacy to think exist you know it's a fallacy to think that there will never be anything found that there will never be anything found on women for example if you're going out on women for example if you're going out to write about women they are there it's to write about women they are there it's just that they have been left by the just that they have been left by the wayside there's this lovely uh line I wayside there's this lovely uh line I love by the by Alan Bennett which I love by the by Alan Bennett which I often tell my writing students in a often tell my writing students in a context of show don't tell where he says context of show don't tell where he says what is history is women following what is history is women following behind with the bucket and just in terms behind with the bucket and just in terms of an image that shows a subsidiary role of an image that shows a subsidiary role women have had to play and how they've women have had to play and how they've had to clean up the mess some men have had to clean up the mess some men have left behind. I mean that just is such a left behind. I mean that just is such a great image. Let's talk about your great image. Let's talk about your books. In both uh both the book on Akbar books. In both uh both the book on Akbar and then the lion and the lily on a and then the lion and the lily on a you've busted simplistic narratives you've busted simplistic narratives which I completely was in thral of which I completely was in thral of because that's all I knew. Uh there's because that's all I knew. Uh there's one sort of common theme that I found one sort of common theme that I found running through them. But before I get running through them. But before I get to that question, I want to to that question, I want to read out a passage from another great read out a passage from another great book of reading. So, uh, for my book of reading. So, uh, for my listeners and for you, there's a listeners and for you, there's a wonderful book called What is Islam by wonderful book called What is Islam by Shahab Ahmed. Have you read this? Oh, I Shahab Ahmed. Have you read this? Oh, I don't think I've read it. I'm going to don't think I've read it. I'm going to make a note of that. Yeah, it's a make a note of that. Yeah, it's a wonderful, wonderful book by a scholar wonderful, wonderful book by a scholar who sadly died of leukemia when he was who sadly died of leukemia when he was 48, died much too young. It was uh 48, died much too young. It was uh presented to me by my friend Omar presented to me by my friend Omar Muhajer and I'll read out uh a passage Muhajer and I'll read out uh a passage from it to get to the point I'm getting from it to get to the point I'm getting at uh where right at the start of the at uh where right at the start of the book uh he writes some years ago I book uh he writes some years ago I attended a dinner at Princeton attended a dinner at Princeton University where I witnessed a revealing University where I witnessed a revealing exchange between an eminent Europe exchange between an eminent Europe European philosopher who was visiting European philosopher who was visiting from Cambridge and a Muslim scholar who from Cambridge and a Muslim scholar who was seated next to him. The Muslim was seated next to him. The Muslim colleague was indulging in a glass of colleague was indulging in a glass of wine. Evidently troubled by this, a wine. Evidently troubled by this, a distinguished Dawn eventually asked his distinguished Dawn eventually asked his dining companion if he might be so bold dining companion if he might be so bold as to venture a personal question. Do as to venture a personal question. Do you consider yourself a Muslim? Yes, you consider yourself a Muslim? Yes, came the reply. How come then are you came the reply. How come then are you drinking wine? The Muslim colleague drinking wine? The Muslim colleague smiled gently. My family have been smiled gently. My family have been Muslims for a thousand years, he said. Muslims for a thousand years, he said. During which time we have always been During which time we have always been drinking wine. An expression of distress drinking wine. An expression of distress appeared on the learned logicians pale appeared on the learned logicians pale countenance, prompting the further countenance, prompting the further clarification. You see, we are Muslim clarification. You see, we are Muslim wine drinkers. The questioner looked wine drinkers. The questioner looked bewildered. I don't understand, he said. bewildered. I don't understand, he said. Yes, I know, replied his native Yes, I know, replied his native informant. But I do, right? And it's a informant. But I do, right? And it's a beautiful passage. And the book overall beautiful passage. And the book overall is about how it is silly to define Islam is about how it is silly to define Islam or look at Islam as some monolithic or look at Islam as some monolithic thing based on a particular reading of thing based on a particular reading of the Quran or one particular holy book the Quran or one particular holy book that instead you have to look at it in that instead you have to look at it in the way people live their lives in the way people live their lives in Muslim countries that in India I would Muslim countries that in India I would say there are as many Islams as there say there are as many Islams as there are Muslims. How do we actually live our are Muslims. How do we actually live our lives? And one uh thread that comes lives? And one uh thread that comes across in both your books on uh Akbar across in both your books on uh Akbar and Aad is that Islam is constantly and Aad is that Islam is constantly shifting and adapting if one may even shifting and adapting if one may even call it Islam is shifting and adapting. call it Islam is shifting and adapting. In fact, in the lion and the lily at one In fact, in the lion and the lily at one point you write the Shiism of Aadu codes point you write the Shiism of Aadu codes that were familiar not only to Muslims that were familiar not only to Muslims but to Hindus too and would unite the but to Hindus too and would unite the population of these cities through the population of these cities through the fervor of the rituals that would come to fervor of the rituals that would come to define them. Whether it was a structure define them. Whether it was a structure of the imamara which would echo that of of the imamara which would echo that of the baradi the moharam processions that the baradi the moharam processions that would recall the Hindu processions such would recall the Hindu processions such as zorguja the jaganat festival and as zorguja the jaganat festival and dasera or the annual ritual fasting and dasera or the annual ritual fasting and the visible demonstrations of piety that the visible demonstrations of piety that would bring together different casts and would bring together different casts and communities. So the sense that I'm communities. So the sense that I'm happening here is that culture is very happening here is that culture is very much an open-source thing and whichever much an open-source thing and whichever religion or whichever outside culture religion or whichever outside culture comes is just naturally fitting into it. comes is just naturally fitting into it. Like I think of Hinduism as an Like I think of Hinduism as an open-source cult open source religion open-source cult open source religion and uh you know Manu in his latest book and uh you know Manu in his latest book has a beautiful introductory chapter a has a beautiful introductory chapter a brief history of Hinduism which I think brief history of Hinduism which I think is like an absolute masterpiece of a is like an absolute masterpiece of a chapter where uh you know that open- chapter where uh you know that open- source aspect of it though that term is source aspect of it though that term is mine I won't blame him for it but that mine I won't blame him for it but that open- source aspect of uh it really open- source aspect of uh it really comes out how in this puranic period of comes out how in this puranic period of 2,000 years every local custom is 2,000 years every local custom is happily being integrated into the larger happily being integrated into the larger uh narrative and um in both your book on uh narrative and um in both your book on Akbar and in the lion and the lily uh Akbar and in the lion and the lily uh you know there are beautiful expositions you know there are beautiful expositions of exactly how this is uh happening in of exactly how this is uh happening in great detail. So tell me a little bit great detail. So tell me a little bit about this because people especially about this because people especially today in these times have a very today in these times have a very monolithic view not just of Hinduism but monolithic view not just of Hinduism but also of Islam. What Islam is? Uh you also of Islam. What Islam is? Uh you know somebody was visiting my home and know somebody was visiting my home and they saw this book what is Islam and he they saw this book what is Islam and he just laughed contemptuously and said I just laughed contemptuously and said I will tell you what is Islam and I'm like will tell you what is Islam and I'm like you know so you know so you know and and your books have such you know and and your books have such nuanced narratives you know both of nuanced narratives you know both of them. So tell me a little bit more about them. So tell me a little bit more about your sense of what you discovered about your sense of what you discovered about this. Yeah, that was really exciting in this. Yeah, that was really exciting in the lion and the lily to to discover the lion and the lily to to discover that myself. Um, you know, because the that myself. Um, you know, because the nabs uh were Shia Persians, you know, nabs uh were Shia Persians, you know, they were immigrants from Persia uh they were immigrants from Persia uh after the 1722 collapse of the Persian after the 1722 collapse of the Persian Empire. And so they come with this sense Empire. And so they come with this sense of um their Shia identity, their Shia of um their Shia identity, their Shia Persian identity, which is which is Persian identity, which is which is obviously something that is important to obviously something that is important to them. But immediately when they come them. But immediately when they come into Hindustan and they see things into Hindustan and they see things around them, they begin to adapt uh uh around them, they begin to adapt uh uh you know to the local conditions. And you know to the local conditions. And very early on we have a sense uh of very early on we have a sense uh of these um uh of these uh nabs now these um uh of these uh nabs now aligning themselves firmly with their aligning themselves firmly with their Hindustani counterpoints and the Hindustani counterpoints and the Hindustani uh you know uh civilian Hindustani uh you know uh civilian population rather than again the population rather than again the outsiders who are coming and going. So outsiders who are coming and going. So for example for example for example uh during when uh Ahmed Sha Abdali uh uh during when uh Ahmed Sha Abdali uh you know invades I think it was the 1761 you know invades I think it was the 1761 excursion he does this many many times. excursion he does this many many times. He appeals to Shujahal to come to his He appeals to Shujahal to come to his side. So does the Mughal emperor and side. So does the Mughal emperor and they both app what is fascinating is they both app what is fascinating is that both the Mughal emperor Shaalam II that both the Mughal emperor Shaalam II and Ahmed Sha Abdali appealed to Shuja and Ahmed Sha Abdali appealed to Shuja saying you must fight the enemy the saying you must fight the enemy the outsider right so Shahalam's emissary outsider right so Shahalam's emissary says listen this Ahmeda Abdali is a says listen this Ahmeda Abdali is a foreigner join us uh Hindustanis foreigner join us uh Hindustanis together we will get rid of him Ahmed together we will get rid of him Ahmed Abdali says the same thing to Shuja says Abdali says the same thing to Shuja says come on my you know my Muslim brother come on my you know my Muslim brother join me and we'll fight the foreigner join me and we'll fight the foreigner who is you know um uh uh who is not the who is you know um uh uh who is not the the true uh Islamic monarch. In the end, the true uh Islamic monarch. In the end, Shuja joins Ahmed Sha Abdali not for Shuja joins Ahmed Sha Abdali not for religious reasons because he wants to religious reasons because he wants to beat the Marat at that point who are the beat the Marat at that point who are the you know big danger but during his in you know big danger but during his in when he is encamped alongside with Ahmed when he is encamped alongside with Ahmed Abdali we get a sense that he is really Abdali we get a sense that he is really troubled by the way uh the Sunni Ahmed troubled by the way uh the Sunni Ahmed Abdali is conducting his life. So he Abdali is conducting his life. So he makes sure to carry out a very noisy uh makes sure to carry out a very noisy uh commemoration of um muharam that is commemoration of um muharam that is going on in front of the tents of Ahmed going on in front of the tents of Ahmed Shab Dali because he is showing him that Shab Dali because he is showing him that hello I'm here with you fighting this hello I'm here with you fighting this battle because it suits me politically battle because it suits me politically but I have nothing to do with your you but I have nothing to do with your you know your religious uh alliances and know your religious uh alliances and affiliations. So very noisily and in affiliations. So very noisily and in fact Ahmed's uh soldiers are so enraged fact Ahmed's uh soldiers are so enraged by this open show of Shia you know power by this open show of Shia you know power that they want to kill their own allies. that they want to kill their own allies. Um after the battle, Ahmeda Abdali wants Um after the battle, Ahmeda Abdali wants to um cut off the head of the fallen to um cut off the head of the fallen fallen Marata leaders and you know send fallen Marata leaders and you know send the heads off back home. And Shuta the heads off back home. And Shuta Udullah tells him this interesting Udullah tells him this interesting thing. He says we local rulers in India thing. He says we local rulers in India have to get on with our Hindu have to get on with our Hindu counterparts. We have to get on with our counterparts. We have to get on with our Hindu brothers and we cannot behave in Hindu brothers and we cannot behave in this manner that you are suggesting. this manner that you are suggesting. please allow them to be buried uh to be please allow them to be buried uh to be sorry to be cremated according to the sorry to be cremated according to the Hindu rights. Um so really an Hindu rights. Um so really an extraordinary statement that is there extraordinary statement that is there and that shows that you know he is and that shows that you know he is adjusting to the uh Hindustani count uh adjusting to the uh Hindustani count uh countryside to the people around him and countryside to the people around him and the Shia commemorations that they bring the Shia commemorations that they bring into Lucknau and Fazabad is completely into Lucknau and Fazabad is completely unique. It is not happening in Iraq this unique. It is not happening in Iraq this sort of procession that is taking place. sort of procession that is taking place. It is more like I was talking you have It is more like I was talking you have quoted from my book like the Jaganat quoted from my book like the Jaganat procession, the Da Puja procession. This procession, the Da Puja procession. This whole idea of a procession is very whole idea of a procession is very indic. It is what we do during indic. It is what we do during celebrations doing rituals doing you celebrations doing rituals doing you know. Um so the maharam in a similar know. Um so the maharam in a similar style is taken out in a procession and style is taken out in a procession and the tazas that they make are also an the tazas that they make are also an indic elaboration. It does not exist in indic elaboration. It does not exist in this way uh you know in Iraq. So in this way uh you know in Iraq. So in India they build these little ephemeral India they build these little ephemeral structures meant to denote the tombs of structures meant to denote the tombs of Imams Hussein and his followers and they Imams Hussein and his followers and they sometimes look like a mughal tomb sometimes look like a mughal tomb sometimes they look like a temple sometimes they look like a temple sometimes they look like a little juggi sometimes they look like a little juggi because they are poor people also adding because they are poor people also adding their little tubit so everybody their little tubit so everybody interprets this little tomb in the way interprets this little tomb in the way that they see fit and this enormous that they see fit and this enormous procession goes through the city uh procession goes through the city uh visiting all the important villages visiting all the important villages sites Sunnis join in the Hindus also sites Sunnis join in the Hindus also take but much to the uh amazement of take but much to the uh amazement of foreign observers who say that this is foreign observers who say that this is very extraordinary but our you know even very extraordinary but our you know even our cook who is Hindu has gone and our cook who is Hindu has gone and joined this moharam procession. So they joined this moharam procession. So they go and they then immerse these to these go and they then immerse these to these little makeshift tombs often into water little makeshift tombs often into water like you would in India instead of like you would in India instead of looking for a carbella. So these you can looking for a carbella. So these you can see how the nawabs are sort of creating see how the nawabs are sort of creating something out of their local environment something out of their local environment out of the culture that surrounds them out of the culture that surrounds them in a way that is acceptable to other in a way that is acceptable to other people so that the Hindus also feel yes people so that the Hindus also feel yes we are part of this procession. Yes we we are part of this procession. Yes we can also take part in it. Yes we can can also take part in it. Yes we can also sing the songs or chant the also sing the songs or chant the elegies. We also uh uh can uh you know elegies. We also uh uh can uh you know there is something in in the Indian there is something in in the Indian ethos that responds to this idea of of ethos that responds to this idea of of the martyrdom of Imam Hussein of a small the martyrdom of Imam Hussein of a small but righteous person dying for what he but righteous person dying for what he believes in by a much bigger force. believes in by a much bigger force. Right? So this idea of justice for the Right? So this idea of justice for the weaker but righteous person a lot of weaker but righteous person a lot of local Hindus as well start to join and local Hindus as well start to join and and become part of these commemorations. and become part of these commemorations. So the nabs are very aware of this this So the nabs are very aware of this this part of it and they are not imposing part of it and they are not imposing something upon a population but instead something upon a population but instead taking markers from different bits and taking markers from different bits and pieces uh of religion and making it into pieces uh of religion and making it into almost uh more than a religious occasion almost uh more than a religious occasion a cultural marker and Hindus will then a cultural marker and Hindus will then go and take some of these structures go and take some of these structures they take some of these objects and some they take some of these objects and some of the ornamentation even and put it of the ornamentation even and put it onto their temples because it is it is onto their temples because it is it is just something which is culturally just something which is culturally familiar. to them. So the for example familiar. to them. So the for example the fish insignia which is the insignia the fish insignia which is the insignia of the nababs of Abad they have been of the nababs of Abad they have been awarded it by the Mughal emperor. It is awarded it by the Mughal emperor. It is a very high status insignia the mahi a very high status insignia the mahi maratib. You find it in little gen maratib. You find it in little gen temples Hindu temples today in Fzabad temples Hindu temples today in Fzabad because it was just it had become a because it was just it had become a cultural marker of the uh high status uh cultural marker of the uh high status uh of the cities. So um I found it really of the cities. So um I found it really fascinating. Um and I would also fascinating. Um and I would also recommend a book called um it's called recommend a book called um it's called the house divided by Barnaby Richardson the house divided by Barnaby Richardson and uh you know it's very interesting and uh you know it's very interesting because it traces the way in which uh because it traces the way in which uh the Shia Sunni uh schism happened right the Shia Sunni uh schism happened right in the beginning and how it has left us in the beginning and how it has left us in the mess that we see around the in the mess that we see around the Middle East today and all of the the the Middle East today and all of the the the various conflicts. Um but in India at various conflicts. Um but in India at least through the 18th century uh it was least through the 18th century uh it was uh a place which was really like a uh a place which was really like a cauldron of different religious markers, cauldron of different religious markers, different cultural markers that became a different cultural markers that became a symbol really of luck. Now symbol really of luck. Now let's talk about the Akbar book now. Why let's talk about the Akbar book now. Why did you decide to write a book on Akbar? did you decide to write a book on Akbar? So the book on Agbar uh I had written So the book on Agbar uh I had written daughters of the sun and I had found daughters of the sun and I had found something very fascinating that happened something very fascinating that happened to Mughal women is that initially uh to Mughal women is that initially uh under Babour and Humayou we have women under Babour and Humayou we have women like Kanzada Beum like Gulbadan Beum uh like Kanzada Beum like Gulbadan Beum uh Dilar Beum you know all these matriarchs Dilar Beum you know all these matriarchs who came in with Babour uh who are who came in with Babour uh who are extremely visible extremely uh extremely visible extremely uh parapotetic They were constantly going parapotetic They were constantly going off on travels on their own, sometimes off on travels on their own, sometimes with the men, sometimes for their own with the men, sometimes for their own reasons. Um they were very politically reasons. Um they were very politically visible, you know, uh Gulbadan wrote a visible, you know, uh Gulbadan wrote a biography. Then during Akbar's time, biography. Then during Akbar's time, they somehow become much more invisible they somehow become much more invisible and at the same time Akbar is a man who and at the same time Akbar is a man who is particularly sympathetic about the uh is particularly sympathetic about the uh the status of women. You know, he writes the status of women. You know, he writes about it. He makes Abul Fazal note down about it. He makes Abul Fazal note down the fact that he wants the marriageable the fact that he wants the marriageable age of girls and boys to be raised to 14 age of girls and boys to be raised to 14 and 16. He says that nobody should be and 16. He says that nobody should be pressured into committing sati. Um he pressured into committing sati. Um he laments the fact that under Islamic law laments the fact that under Islamic law boys get more than girls. He is very boys get more than girls. He is very openly uh you know a feminist in that openly uh you know a feminist in that sense. His own daughters uh when they sense. His own daughters uh when they are born he makes sure that they are are born he makes sure that they are celebrated with the same fastness that celebrated with the same fastness that the boys are celebrated. He wants to the boys are celebrated. He wants to make no difference between his girls and make no difference between his girls and his boys which I feel you know is even his boys which I feel you know is even today it's extraordinary how many you today it's extraordinary how many you know men can say this in today's India know men can say this in today's India that they will celebrate a daughter's that they will celebrate a daughter's birth with the same joy uh and the same birth with the same joy uh and the same ostentatiousness as that of a boy's so ostentatiousness as that of a boy's so in many ways a very forwardthinking man in many ways a very forwardthinking man where women's rights are concerned yet where women's rights are concerned yet they disappear uh so I wanted to they disappear uh so I wanted to understand a little bit about uh the understand a little bit about uh the process that this happens under what is process that this happens under what is the thinking what are the cultural norms the thinking what are the cultural norms that are coming into place. Um at the that are coming into place. Um at the same time my um uh my publisher David same time my um uh my publisher David was very excited about a book on Akbar. was very excited about a book on Akbar. Uh he had long been looking for somebody Uh he had long been looking for somebody who would write a biography of Akbar who would write a biography of Akbar because I mean if we think about it because I mean if we think about it considering he is one of the great considering he is one of the great figures of Indian history there aren't figures of Indian history there aren't that many biographies you know that many biographies you know biographies standalone biographies biographies standalone biographies written about him. uh if we look at written about him. uh if we look at contemporary writings on Elizabeth I for contemporary writings on Elizabeth I for example who is the exact contemporary of example who is the exact contemporary of Akbar there are endless dozens and Akbar there are endless dozens and dozens of books on Elizabeth the uh I dozens of books on Elizabeth the uh I think since 20 uh since the 21st century think since 20 uh since the 21st century there has been a book a year I read there has been a book a year I read somewhere a book a year on Elizabeth the somewhere a book a year on Elizabeth the first Henry VIII loads of books Jon of first Henry VIII loads of books Jon of Arc so many books we don't have the same Arc so many books we don't have the same amount of um contemporary writing on our amount of um contemporary writing on our you know historical figures so David had you know historical figures so David had thought it a good challenge as well to thought it a good challenge as well to write something um about Abbar and the write something um about Abbar and the last reason was again you know coming to last reason was again you know coming to being a child of a parent is that my the being a child of a parent is that my the two great figures in my father's life two great figures in my father's life historically he was a student of history historically he was a student of history uh were Ashoka the great and Akbar uh so uh were Ashoka the great and Akbar uh so he named my brother Ashoke and I thought he named my brother Ashoke and I thought writing a biography on Akbar would be writing a biography on Akbar would be not a bad uh gift for a daughter to do not a bad uh gift for a daughter to do if you were a boy would have named you if you were a boy would have named you Akbar. I hope not. I'm not sure how I would I hope not. I'm not sure how I would have lived with that. But yeah. Yeah. Or have lived with that. But yeah. Yeah. Or even though you even though you you're a even though you you're a girl, you could have named you like Ani girl, you could have named you like Ani Abari. That sounds Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you know what I uh loved about your So you know what I uh loved about your Akbar biography is not only that it Akbar biography is not only that it tells a story in a very accessible way tells a story in a very accessible way that anyone can understand but that that anyone can understand but that despite this it succeeds in bringing out despite this it succeeds in bringing out the multitudes within the man. Right? A the multitudes within the man. Right? A mistake we often make when we look at mistake we often make when we look at historical figures is we imagine we have historical figures is we imagine we have a static image of them in our heads. You a static image of them in our heads. You know we'll do that with Gandhi and we'll know we'll do that with Gandhi and we'll say oh he said this racist thing in 1904 say oh he said this racist thing in 1904 or we'll look at Amitkar and point to or we'll look at Amitkar and point to some other aspect but the point is these some other aspect but the point is these people changed throughout their lives people changed throughout their lives and we are also fortunate that some of and we are also fortunate that some of them like Gandhi and Ambitkar chronicle them like Gandhi and Ambitkar chronicle that writing about writing thinking that writing about writing thinking aloud blogging as it were throughout aloud blogging as it were throughout their lives uh and Akbar is a similar their lives uh and Akbar is a similar character where he is changing character where he is changing throughout he's making mistakes he's throughout he's making mistakes he's looking back on his mistakes and he's looking back on his mistakes and he's saying oh I up I should do this saying oh I up I should do this so obviously you would never use 21st so obviously you would never use 21st century language like that. But uh so century language like that. But uh so tell me a little bit about that process tell me a little bit about that process and also what happens when like and also what happens when like sometimes when you're researching a sometimes when you're researching a character like that, do you also develop character like that, do you also develop an affection for him? The person becomes an affection for him? The person becomes your friend. You have a sense of your friend. You have a sense of protectiveness and ownership towards protectiveness and ownership towards this really nice person you're this really nice person you're discovering. So what was that like for discovering. So what was that like for you discovering Akbar's multitudes and you discovering Akbar's multitudes and then writing about them? Yeah, it was it then writing about them? Yeah, it was it was really extraordinary and um it's was really extraordinary and um it's exactly as you say you know I did not exactly as you say you know I did not want to uh because Akbar is such a want to uh because Akbar is such a talismanic figure for us he is so much talismanic figure for us he is so much part of our consciousness you know our part of our consciousness you know our national consciousness um I I really national consciousness um I I really wanted to not present him as this wanted to not present him as this perfected man which Abu Fazel also you perfected man which Abu Fazel also you know strove very hard to create this know strove very hard to create this perfect man um I wanted people to be perfect man um I wanted people to be able to see how did he yet to be the the able to see how did he yet to be the the man he eventually became. What was his man he eventually became. What was his thinking? Um what were the challenges he thinking? Um what were the challenges he fel fel you know he faced in his own fel fel you know he faced in his own life? The vulnerabilities he had to life? The vulnerabilities he had to overcome perhaps you know um and so it overcome perhaps you know um and so it was very clear in my mind that I wanted was very clear in my mind that I wanted to uh show him what's all if you like. to uh show him what's all if you like. Um it was also a criticism that I got in Um it was also a criticism that I got in when I was writing heroins. uh you know when I was writing heroins. uh you know somebody wrote to me and said or it was somebody wrote to me and said or it was maybe a critique in the papers uh that maybe a critique in the papers uh that they were all they all seemed too they were all they all seemed too perfect the women you know if there was perfect the women you know if there was one critique they could make was that one critique they could make was that they should have been more uh you know they should have been more uh you know false in them we should have seen more false in them we should have seen more weaknesses in the women and I I took weaknesses in the women and I I took that to heart I think that is a very that to heart I think that is a very fair point uh so going forward I have fair point uh so going forward I have tried to do that and in Akbar it was tried to do that and in Akbar it was fascinating because as you say he talks fascinating because as you say he talks about it himself uh he will say um in my about it himself uh he will say um in my misguided youth. I married too many misguided youth. I married too many women. Now I am trying to figure out women. Now I am trying to figure out what to do about that. There are too what to do about that. There are too many women in the haram. You know many women in the haram. You know and he first goes to the moolas and he and he first goes to the moolas and he says what um you know recourse do I have says what um you know recourse do I have under Islam? I have married so many under Islam? I have married so many women. Uh and so the Sunni theologians women. Uh and so the Sunni theologians who are you know pretty foolish men the who are you know pretty foolish men the ones who were there initially they tell ones who were there initially they tell him well it is highly illegal what you him well it is highly illegal what you have done. you know, you can only have have done. you know, you can only have four nika women and uh the rest are four nika women and uh the rest are illegal and uh they should have known illegal and uh they should have known better because they soon found better because they soon found themselves uh in Mecca, you know, um themselves uh in Mecca, you know, um apologizing for their their evil ways. apologizing for their their evil ways. Um and Akbar then decided that under the Um and Akbar then decided that under the Shia system, you have a system of muta Shia system, you have a system of muta marriages, which is actually a marriages, which is actually a contractual marriage for a certain contractual marriage for a certain period of time, but it makes it legal to period of time, but it makes it legal to have many many women in your har. So it have many many women in your har. So it is something that he says he later is something that he says he later regretted that he perhaps he carried regretted that he perhaps he carried that feeling to an excess when he said that feeling to an excess when he said now I look upon all women as my now I look upon all women as my daughters in India because I am their daughters in India because I am their father their king. Certainly as you know father their king. Certainly as you know a youth he wouldn't have felt like that. a youth he wouldn't have felt like that. So he married a number of women. Um he So he married a number of women. Um he also regrets the fact that early in his also regrets the fact that early in his career uh when he was a very young man career uh when he was a very young man he for at the end of certain battles he he for at the end of certain battles he forced certain people to convert to forced certain people to convert to Islam. So we know that that does take Islam. So we know that that does take place. Uh and he regrets that very much place. Uh and he regrets that very much because as he goes forward, as he because as he goes forward, as he marries Rajput women, as he comes into marries Rajput women, as he comes into contact with his great Rajput contact with his great Rajput mansabdars, he sees a different way of mansabdars, he sees a different way of being. You know, he starts interacting being. You know, he starts interacting with Brahmans, with pundits, with Hindu with Brahmans, with pundits, with Hindu theologians. And he comes to this theologians. And he comes to this amazing conclusion which I find even in amazing conclusion which I find even in the 21st century is remarkable is that the 21st century is remarkable is that every religion is either equally true or every religion is either equally true or equally untrue. No one religion can hold equally untrue. No one religion can hold sway over another. If one is true then sway over another. If one is true then so must all the others because everyone so must all the others because everyone those people are believing in it those people are believing in it implicitly. And he tells his governors implicitly. And he tells his governors that to harass somebody over their that to harass somebody over their religious beliefs is very unlawful and religious beliefs is very unlawful and contrary to what uh your your moral code contrary to what uh your your moral code should be. So do not harass anybody for should be. So do not harass anybody for their religious beliefs. Um he comes their religious beliefs. Um he comes around you know he creates the notion around you know he creates the notion oful of universal peace through oful of universal peace through understanding you know uh which again is understanding you know uh which again is a remarkable thing to do to say that uh a remarkable thing to do to say that uh and he questions Islam continuously and and he questions Islam continuously and irritates the moolas endlessly by saying irritates the moolas endlessly by saying that how can a religion which is so new that how can a religion which is so new as Islam you know which came about only as Islam you know which came about only in the seventh century how can you claim in the seventh century how can you claim that it holds sway over older other that it holds sway over older other religion that just doesn't make rational religion that just doesn't make rational sense to me you sense to me you Uh so he uses scientific techniques. He Uh so he uses scientific techniques. He uses uh uh reasoning. Um he does he uses uh uh reasoning. Um he does he conducts extraordinary experiments. For conducts extraordinary experiments. For example, you know, he does this thing example, you know, he does this thing where he sends, it sounds horrifying to where he sends, it sounds horrifying to us today, but he wants to know whether us today, but he wants to know whether there's a universal language that people there's a universal language that people are born knowing and he sends very young are born knowing and he sends very young toddlers into a space uh called Gang toddlers into a space uh called Gang Gong Mahel, I think, where they the the Gong Mahel, I think, where they the the the nurses are not allowed to speak to the nurses are not allowed to speak to them at all. And when he goes after 2 them at all. And when he goes after 2 years, he finds that they are all dumb. years, he finds that they are all dumb. They they can't speak because they have They they can't speak because they have never learned language being spoken. Um never learned language being spoken. Um so it's interesting to see how he so it's interesting to see how he challenges received wisdom constantly. challenges received wisdom constantly. Uh so that was one of the great joys you Uh so that was one of the great joys you know in writing Abbar was discovering know in writing Abbar was discovering him as a human being. He has a very him as a human being. He has a very volatile temper. Sometimes it goes out volatile temper. Sometimes it goes out of hand and he regrets that also. Uh of hand and he regrets that also. Uh when he's a young man he does some when he's a young man he does some pretty violent things uh when he is just pretty violent things uh when he is just uh overcome by anger. Um but it just uh overcome by anger. Um but it just makes him it doesn't make him less great makes him it doesn't make him less great you know in inverted commas. It makes you know in inverted commas. It makes him more human. Um and definitely I felt him more human. Um and definitely I felt very protective about him as I do for very protective about him as I do for everyone I write about. You know it's everyone I write about. You know it's absolutely a part of being a writer of absolutely a part of being a writer of history I think is that in a to a history I think is that in a to a certain extent you fall in love with all certain extent you fall in love with all your characters you know um and you want your characters you know um and you want to do them justice but doing justice to do them justice but doing justice doesn't mean whitewashing them. It is doesn't mean whitewashing them. It is bringing them to life in all their bringing them to life in all their glorious complexity. glorious complexity. glorious complexity. In fact, that insight about religion In fact, that insight about religion that Akbar came to would fit right in that Akbar came to would fit right in with what Richard Dawkins says where he with what Richard Dawkins says where he says that if you believe in one says that if you believe in one religion, you're an atheist in all other religion, you're an atheist in all other religions. So, correct. you know, so religions. So, correct. you know, so when that's that that's uh so similar to when that's that that's uh so similar to that. that. that. I feel like you know what happens with I feel like you know what happens with history is that the people that you hear history is that the people that you hear of um whether or not one believes in the of um whether or not one believes in the great man theory of history, but the men great man theory of history, but the men who history is about are really men who who history is about are really men who were very fortunate to be born into a were very fortunate to be born into a particular family. You're born a prince particular family. You're born a prince of the Mughal Empire. You arise to the of the Mughal Empire. You arise to the throne. You might be mediocre, you might throne. You might be mediocre, you might not be mediocre. And it takes an not be mediocre. And it takes an extraordinary accident of circumstances extraordinary accident of circumstances for someone who is a great thinker to for someone who is a great thinker to also simultaneously be happen to be born also simultaneously be happen to be born in a position that uh history will note in a position that uh history will note he exists at all which is basically in he exists at all which is basically in this case the emperor Akbar. So one do this case the emperor Akbar. So one do you feel that he was an outstanding you feel that he was an outstanding figure like that that it is not just his figure like that that it is not just his position and the innate curiosity which position and the innate curiosity which is perhaps natural to all of us which is perhaps natural to all of us which sets him apart but that he was uh an sets him apart but that he was uh an exalted uh thinker. Um I I I wonder how exalted uh thinker. Um I I I wonder how you would classify the other Mughal you would classify the other Mughal emperors for example in terms of um how emperors for example in terms of um how intellectual they were, how mediocre intellectual they were, how mediocre they were um you know they outstanding they were um you know they outstanding in other ways and I also wonder that how in other ways and I also wonder that how does Akbar arrive at his worldview like does Akbar arrive at his worldview like even today it takes years and years and even today it takes years and years and years when I look at my own case I was years when I look at my own case I was well into adulthood before I had a well into adulthood before I had a solidified sense of what do I believe in solidified sense of what do I believe in what are the frames through which I look what are the frames through which I look at the world and I had all the books in at the world and I had all the books in the world and all the education and all the world and all the education and all of that to enable me to do that in of that to enable me to do that in Akbar's time like I don't know if there Akbar's time like I don't know if there are any books if the printing press is are any books if the printing press is being used widely enough if he's reading being used widely enough if he's reading books who are his influences it then books who are his influences it then becomes a matter of circumstance and becomes a matter of circumstance and serendipity the people you happen to serendipity the people you happen to speak to the people uh you know moving speak to the people uh you know moving through your court so how is he being through your court so how is he being formed the formation of this man formed the formation of this man interests me so both these angles that interests me so both these angles that one would you say that he happened to be one would you say that he happened to be an outstanding man who was born in an an outstanding man who was born in an outstanding position and not just one of outstanding position and not just one of them as one would uh expect uh and them as one would uh expect uh and therefore a happy accident of history therefore a happy accident of history and two what sense do you have of how a and two what sense do you have of how a person is formed where does one's person is formed where does one's beliefs come from where does one's beliefs come from where does one's values come from he's got Sunni priests values come from he's got Sunni priests who are saying one thing uh it it would who are saying one thing uh it it would be so tempting to consider their vision be so tempting to consider their vision of the world which after all does of the world which after all does explain everything as every ideology and explain everything as every ideology and religion does and then just go with that religion does and then just go with that but instead he keeps himself open and but instead he keeps himself open and he's sinking and we'll talk about the he's sinking and we'll talk about the culture of globalization of the court culture of globalization of the court after this but just in terms of the after this but just in terms of the influences coming in and how he's influences coming in and how he's forming himself what's your sense of how forming himself what's your sense of how that happened yeah so that's uh a really that happened yeah so that's uh a really great question again Amit um and you great question again Amit um and you know thinking a lot about this I do know thinking a lot about this I do think that he was um a remarkable man think that he was um a remarkable man with extraordinary resources so that he with extraordinary resources so that he was able to do all that he was able to was able to do all that he was able to do uh one great source that we have um do uh one great source that we have um because if you listen to Abu Alfuz then because if you listen to Abu Alfuz then he did no wrong right uh but luckily we he did no wrong right uh but luckily we have this extraordinary man called Abu have this extraordinary man called Abu Alfad Badayuni you know who was a great Alfad Badayuni you know who was a great theologian uh an intellectual uh theologian uh an intellectual uh extremely educated man uh but he was extremely educated man uh but he was orthodox uh and he was delighted when orthodox uh and he was delighted when Akbar became emperor because he thought Akbar became emperor because he thought at last we have a great uh you know at last we have a great uh you know Mughal emperor a great Muslim emperor Mughal emperor a great Muslim emperor who will lead this country the way that who will lead this country the way that it should be led under, you know, Muslim it should be led under, you know, Muslim king and all of that. When Akbar, you king and all of that. When Akbar, you know, turns out quite different, he know, turns out quite different, he writes a covert biography uh of uh Akbar writes a covert biography uh of uh Akbar which is only printed which only comes which is only printed which only comes to light after his death. Uh but it is a to light after his death. Uh but it is a very useful source because in its own very useful source because in its own way even though it is criticizing Akbar, way even though it is criticizing Akbar, he is meant it as a criticism because he is meant it as a criticism because he's saying that no orthodox Muslim he's saying that no orthodox Muslim ruler should be doing all of these ruler should be doing all of these things. He actually tells us all of the things. He actually tells us all of the things that Akbar is doing which then uh things that Akbar is doing which then uh you know can let us believe some of Abal you know can let us believe some of Abal Fazala's writing that yes Akbar was Fazala's writing that yes Akbar was doing this he was trying to pray to the doing this he was trying to pray to the sun he was learning the thousand1 names sun he was learning the thousand1 names of surya he was uh doing vegetarianism of surya he was uh doing vegetarianism he was forbidding uh Muslim people from he was forbidding uh Muslim people from eating beef he was doing all of these eating beef he was doing all of these things because he did not want to hurt things because he did not want to hurt Hindu sensitivities you know so we have Hindu sensitivities you know so we have a sense of uh Abar being a very a sense of uh Abar being a very remarkable man because all these remarkable man because all these writings about him even the uh Jesuit writings about him even the uh Jesuit missionaries who come there you know missionaries who come there you know they are trying to convert him they they are trying to convert him they write extensively about him and we get a write extensively about him and we get a sense of the sort of man he is they are sense of the sort of man he is they are they are also uh you know absolutely uh they are also uh you know absolutely uh amazed by the energy and the curiosity amazed by the energy and the curiosity the willingness he has to allow Jesuit the willingness he has to allow Jesuit priests to come and attend the ibad priests to come and attend the ibad khana discussion this you know weekly khana discussion this you know weekly discussion that he has set up and say discussion that he has set up and say all kinds of outrageous things about all kinds of outrageous things about prophet Muhammad imagine that 16th prophet Muhammad imagine that 16th century And you have Sunni theologians century And you have Sunni theologians sitting in the same room. But they're sitting in the same room. But they're being allowed to say apparently execable being allowed to say apparently execable things about Prophet Muhammad. So much things about Prophet Muhammad. So much so that somebody has to take them aside so that somebody has to take them aside and gently say, "Please tone down your and gently say, "Please tone down your rhetoric." You know, something will rhetoric." You know, something will happen to you if you carry on like this. happen to you if you carry on like this. But Akbar allows it. Um so But Akbar allows it. Um so what is I think the way in which Akbar what is I think the way in which Akbar does this is he's enormously curious. He does this is he's enormously curious. He is enormously is enormously is enormously um um um interested in the world around him to an interested in the world around him to an extent where he wants to it seems extent where he wants to it seems sometimes become one with that element sometimes become one with that element outside him. So when he encounters for outside him. So when he encounters for the first time um elephants in India, the first time um elephants in India, you know, he's a very young boy, he you know, he's a very young boy, he wants to ride them, but he doesn't just wants to ride them, but he doesn't just want to ride them. He wants to ride them want to ride them. He wants to ride them when they are in the peak of must in the when they are in the peak of must in the must season when they are almost must season when they are almost completely enraged by being in in must. completely enraged by being in in must. And he rides them almost for like he has And he rides them almost for like he has this sense of testing himself to see this sense of testing himself to see what kind of man is he. Is he really the what kind of man is he. Is he really the courageous man he wants to be? How courageous man he wants to be? How courageous is he? What does it mean to courageous is he? What does it mean to be a courageous man? Is that enough? uh be a courageous man? Is that enough? uh so everything he does is like this done so everything he does is like this done to extremes done in a visceral manner so to extremes done in a visceral manner so that he is experiencing that thing. So that he is experiencing that thing. So when we come to his um intellectual when we come to his um intellectual spiritual religious pursuits he does it spiritual religious pursuits he does it in the same way. So initially he has all in the same way. So initially he has all these books read out to him. Okay. So he these books read out to him. Okay. So he every evening he gets the great works every evening he gets the great works and you know the from the time of barber and you know the from the time of barber the mughles have great manuscripts in the mughles have great manuscripts in their library. There's no printing press their library. There's no printing press at this time. So everything has to be at this time. So everything has to be very painstakingly written out by hand very painstakingly written out by hand by calligraphy. So it is a very by calligraphy. So it is a very expensive process but they have all the expensive process but they have all the best thinkers uh and he has all the best thinkers uh and he has all the great books of Persian literature uh great books of Persian literature uh philosophy uh read out to him and he philosophy uh read out to him and he understands it philosophy poetry you understands it philosophy poetry you know all books in that genre but he know all books in that genre but he wants to go further he wants to learn wants to go further he wants to learn about Hinduism so he uses very um about Hinduism so he uses very um unorthodox manners like for example in unorthodox manners like for example in his palace so he has this window from his palace so he has this window from his bedroom where he can lean over and his bedroom where he can lean over and he has a chari put on the ground, a he has a chari put on the ground, a brahman placed on the chari and the brahman placed on the chari and the chari through a system of pulley is chari through a system of pulley is brought up to the his window ledge. So brought up to the his window ledge. So that you imagine this scene in the that you imagine this scene in the evening. Uh Akbar is leaning out of his evening. Uh Akbar is leaning out of his window. This brahman is being pulled up window. This brahman is being pulled up the side of this enormous palace on a the side of this enormous palace on a charai and suspended midair. This charai and suspended midair. This Brahman is being told to expound the Brahman is being told to expound the theory of Hinduism to emperor Akbar. theory of Hinduism to emperor Akbar. Imagine this scene where you cannot Imagine this scene where you cannot invent such a thing. Right? So he learns invent such a thing. Right? So he learns through this source. He learns through through this source. He learns through many other sources. This Ibad Khana that many other sources. This Ibad Khana that we have is in the 1570s. He he we have is in the 1570s. He he institutes this and he has every institutes this and he has every Thursday. So this is not something he Thursday. So this is not something he does once in a while. Every Thursday he does once in a while. Every Thursday he has philosophers come. Initially it is has philosophers come. Initially it is only s Sunni theologians then he calls only s Sunni theologians then he calls the Shia then he calls the Jesuit the Shia then he calls the Jesuit missionary then he calls the the missionary then he calls the the Brahmans then he calls the Jans who also Brahmans then he calls the Jans who also come to his court. So all these people come to his court. So all these people are given a chance to argue. So imagine are given a chance to argue. So imagine it is as if you have once a week every it is as if you have once a week every week for a very long time you have week for a very long time you have witness to the best debates with the witness to the best debates with the best thinkers in your country. Imagine best thinkers in your country. Imagine how much you will learn. You also it is how much you will learn. You also it is he also hear where he becomes a a septic he also hear where he becomes a a septic because they some of them say some very because they some of them say some very silly things. So the Sunni theologians silly things. So the Sunni theologians say things like it is haram to wear gold say things like it is haram to wear gold uh you know ornaments. It is haram to uh you know ornaments. It is haram to wear orange color. And Akbar can see wear orange color. And Akbar can see that it is patently untrue. Nothing that it is patently untrue. Nothing happens to him if he's just wearing happens to him if he's just wearing orange robes. He likes orange robes and orange robes. He likes orange robes and yellow robes. So he gets increasingly yellow robes. So he gets increasingly annoyed. He gets disillusioned. the the annoyed. He gets disillusioned. the the Islamic theologians often end up just Islamic theologians often end up just abusing each other, calling one of them abusing each other, calling one of them accuses the other of having too many accuses the other of having too many hemorrhoids surprisingly. And so this hemorrhoids surprisingly. And so this kind of level of discussion immediately kind of level of discussion immediately makes the scales fall from his eyes and makes the scales fall from his eyes and he realizes if these are the great he realizes if these are the great thinkers of Sunni Orthodox thought then thinkers of Sunni Orthodox thought then clearly something is the matter and this clearly something is the matter and this is not the answer to all the issues in is not the answer to all the issues in the world. this is not uh the very best the world. this is not uh the very best that there can be you know so by being that there can be you know so by being disappointed in certain uh people he disappointed in certain uh people he learns to look further a field um what learns to look further a field um what how does he get access apart from the how does he get access apart from the brahman suspended on the chart how does brahman suspended on the chart how does he get access to some of this thinking he get access to some of this thinking is through this extraordinary is through this extraordinary experimentation of the mahab khana the experimentation of the mahab khana the translation bureau that he brings in in translation bureau that he brings in in the 1580s so this is the first time this the 1580s so this is the first time this happens in the world so he has Persian happens in the world so he has Persian scholars come into uh a space. He has scholars come into uh a space. He has the Brahman Sanskrit has come into the the Brahman Sanskrit has come into the space. He has his best translators also space. He has his best translators also there and the Brahmans are told to there and the Brahmans are told to summarize the great books like the summarize the great books like the Mahabharat and the Ramayan into in Mahabharat and the Ramayan into in simple terms into Persian. uh and the simple terms into Persian. uh and the Persian scholars are listening to these Persian scholars are listening to these ideas that are being told to them ideas that are being told to them explained to them the philosophical explained to them the philosophical ideas around all of them and the ideas around all of them and the translators are sitting and writing down translators are sitting and writing down these ideas into the Persian version of these ideas into the Persian version of these texts. The Razam Nama for example these texts. The Razam Nama for example which is the Persian translation of the which is the Persian translation of the Mahabharat. These have to be presented Mahabharat. These have to be presented to Abbar every evening and read out to to Abbar every evening and read out to him before he approves of it because by him before he approves of it because by then he has a pretty um you know robust then he has a pretty um you know robust knowledge of these texts. So he approves knowledge of these texts. So he approves or disapproves of the texts and they or disapproves of the texts and they eventually become these foundational eventually become these foundational texts of the Mahabharat and the Ramayan texts of the Mahabharat and the Ramayan and various other books translated into and various other books translated into Persian. So he is doing the hard graft Persian. So he is doing the hard graft of getting these books out into his of getting these books out into his court so that all the Persian speakers court so that all the Persian speakers can also have access to the same can also have access to the same thinking. So so these are the ways in thinking. So so these are the ways in which you know sometimes that the which you know sometimes that the Europeans come by and they say oh Europeans come by and they say oh there's a haram. Oh, Abbar has 5,000 there's a haram. Oh, Abbar has 5,000 women in his haram. He spends all his women in his haram. He spends all his time with women. And I think imaging, time with women. And I think imaging, how much he's doing in terms of never how much he's doing in terms of never mind battles, in terms of culture, in mind battles, in terms of culture, in terms of religion, in terms of his terms of religion, in terms of his thinking. If he was spending all his thinking. If he was spending all his time with the women, where was the time time with the women, where was the time to create the great empire that he left to create the great empire that he left us with, right? So, he is a man who is us with, right? So, he is a man who is extremely disciplined in his thinking, extremely disciplined in his thinking, in his use of his time. you know he in his use of his time. you know he really doesn't fritter it away on you really doesn't fritter it away on you know Tik Tok and other such activities know Tik Tok and other such activities he is really putting in the hard graft he is really putting in the hard graft to make himself a better person and to to make himself a better person and to gain all the knowledge that he possibly gain all the knowledge that he possibly can before coming to a rational can before coming to a rational conclusion that satisfies him I'm just conclusion that satisfies him I'm just wondering what would have been a Tik Tok wondering what would have been a Tik Tok of his time like earlier we spoke about of his time like earlier we spoke about how the cinema of his time was someone how the cinema of his time was someone telling him these stories and the big telling him these stories and the big paintings of the Hamza Nama come in paintings of the Hamza Nama come in front so Tik Tok might be like one front so Tik Tok might be like one Mughal miniature at a time very quickly Mughal miniature at a time very quickly you know uh just going uh just being put you know uh just going uh just being put in front of his face and I'm thinking in front of his face and I'm thinking you know if David Dhavan made a film on you know if David Dhavan made a film on Akbar and Govinda played the title role Akbar and Govinda played the title role of Akbar there is a song for the scene of Akbar there is a song for the scene of the Brahman being raised in the of the Brahman being raised in the charoy which is Saro Katya if you've charoy which is Saro Katya if you've ever heard it but here's my next here's ever heard it but here's my next question you know in in in the my next question you know in in in the first half of this episode we spoke first half of this episode we spoke about the Hamza Nama and about how uh about the Hamza Nama and about how uh Mughal art is now expanding by taking in Mughal art is now expanding by taking in these influences because he's getting these influences because he's getting these Rajasthani artists and other Hindu these Rajasthani artists and other Hindu artists and he's kind of looking inward. artists and he's kind of looking inward. At the same time in this book you At the same time in this book you beautifully describe how he's also beautifully describe how he's also looking at the outside world. You have looking at the outside world. You have the Jesuit priest coming and you have the Jesuit priest coming and you have thinkers from everywhere coming till the thinkers from everywhere coming till the court is basically the intellectual hub court is basically the intellectual hub of the world and I think one might say of the world and I think one might say the intellectual hub of the world the intellectual hub of the world because you know people in the west because you know people in the west would look at Akbar as some exotic would look at Akbar as some exotic figure in a farway country but um you figure in a farway country but um you know Akbar's empower know Akbar's empower was far greater than his contemporary was far greater than his contemporary Elizabeth Duan as you've pointed out. So Elizabeth Duan as you've pointed out. So he was in a sense the big leader of the he was in a sense the big leader of the world in um one manner of speaking. I I world in um one manner of speaking. I I want to ask you about how this changed want to ask you about how this changed the culture of the time. Like a popular the culture of the time. Like a popular like a like a belief that I have about like a like a belief that I have about society today is that politics is society today is that politics is downstream of culture. Um in the sense downstream of culture. Um in the sense that political parties are just supply that political parties are just supply responding to demand and the big changes responding to demand and the big changes happen in the culture first. But this happen in the culture first. But this only holds true in a democracy. If you only holds true in a democracy. If you are a monarch in older times, it the are a monarch in older times, it the influence is not just one way where you influence is not just one way where you of course are adapting to the local of course are adapting to the local culture and as you pointed out all of culture and as you pointed out all of these guys did that the nabs and the these guys did that the nabs and the emperors but also you can shape the emperors but also you can shape the culture as well. It's a two-way process. culture as well. It's a two-way process. And I'm thinking that if Akbar is doing And I'm thinking that if Akbar is doing all of this where he's getting thinkers all of this where he's getting thinkers from around the world where he's you from around the world where he's you know letting ideas have sex as matter know letting ideas have sex as matter would say uh you know where the Sunni would say uh you know where the Sunni theologian is going up against uh the theologian is going up against uh the Jesuit priest. Uh then to what extent Jesuit priest. Uh then to what extent did that percolate down into the broader did that percolate down into the broader culture of the day in such a way that a culture of the day in such a way that a later Orurange can't really change that later Orurange can't really change that the changes happened because Akbar did the changes happened because Akbar did some things. So what what's your sense some things. So what what's your sense of this? of this? of this? So that's that's a a super interesting So that's that's a a super interesting question. Um yes, I think you know to question. Um yes, I think you know to begin with I think we forget how begin with I think we forget how extraordinary these uh you know extraordinary these uh you know religious experiments were these religious experiments were these gatherings. Uh when we think of as you gatherings. Uh when we think of as you were saying his exact contemporary were saying his exact contemporary Elizabeth I was prosecuting uh Catholics Elizabeth I was prosecuting uh Catholics in her own country you know from within in her own country you know from within the same Christian fold. um her sister the same Christian fold. um her sister Mary was prosecuting uh and killing Mary was prosecuting uh and killing Protestants as being heretics. Um Europe Protestants as being heretics. Um Europe was in the throws of those religious was in the throws of those religious wars and that prosecution uh persecution wars and that prosecution uh persecution uh I'm sorry. But at the same time, uh I'm sorry. But at the same time, Akbar is in a space where he is allowed Akbar is in a space where he is allowed for all of these people. You know, the for all of these people. You know, the Christians are allowed to build their Christians are allowed to build their churches. They told go ahead and convert churches. They told go ahead and convert people if you want. Imagine that. Right? people if you want. Imagine that. Right? Uh so all of this has become very much Uh so all of this has become very much part of the Mughal royal culture. Uh but part of the Mughal royal culture. Uh but he also takes practical uh measures to he also takes practical uh measures to make it also part of this administrative make it also part of this administrative mansabari structure. So we know that mansabari structure. So we know that when first Babu came into India there when first Babu came into India there were obviously there was a huge central were obviously there was a huge central Asian Turkey element to his uh you know Asian Turkey element to his uh you know to his great generals to his warlords. to his great generals to his warlords. Um but very soon he realizes that he is Um but very soon he realizes that he is vastly outnumbered in India and so you vastly outnumbered in India and so you know there are obviously soldiers who know there are obviously soldiers who will be Hindustani. But what Abar does will be Hindustani. But what Abar does is that he realizes that having a very is that he realizes that having a very strong Turkey element or later a very strong Turkey element or later a very strong Persian element because there are strong Persian element because there are a lot of Persian immigrants who keep a lot of Persian immigrants who keep coming into India as well is very coming into India as well is very dangerous that each of these elements dangerous that each of these elements has to be balanced with the other so has to be balanced with the other so that no one element becomes in a that no one element becomes in a position of excessive power and becomes position of excessive power and becomes to be oppressive to the places that they to be oppressive to the places that they are governing. and he is now bringing on are governing. and he is now bringing on for the first time uh Rajput into the for the first time uh Rajput into the mansabdari system. So he is co-opting mansabdari system. So he is co-opting them into the system so that they are them into the system so that they are equal stakeholders in the Mughal Empire. equal stakeholders in the Mughal Empire. all his great Rajput uh generals Man all his great Rajput uh generals Man Singh you know Bhagwan Singh Bhmal they Singh you know Bhagwan Singh Bhmal they all become part of the mansabdari system all become part of the mansabdari system and little by not little by little very and little by not little by little very quickly the Rajput element uh to the quickly the Rajput element uh to the mansabdari system is equal in balance to mansabdari system is equal in balance to check with the Turkey element and the check with the Turkey element and the Persian element. So all of these three Persian element. So all of these three constantly balance each other out so constantly balance each other out so that no one side can claim precedence that no one side can claim precedence over the other. No one side can say we over the other. No one side can say we are the original are the original uh folk we came with barbers so uh folk we came with barbers so therefore you must give us uh that kind therefore you must give us uh that kind of prestige. Uh Akbar is completely of prestige. Uh Akbar is completely against that. He wants to make it a against that. He wants to make it a system where all of these people are system where all of these people are equal stakeholders. equal stakeholders. equal stakeholders. These mansabdars are then sent out as These mansabdars are then sent out as governors into all the subhas of the governors into all the subhas of the empire. You know all of India is divided empire. You know all of India is divided into subas. As more land is uh into subas. As more land is uh incorporated into the Mughal Empire, it incorporated into the Mughal Empire, it is made into a subha and the same is made into a subha and the same mantablari system is then uh set up in mantablari system is then uh set up in place in those uh districts. Uh so the place in those uh districts. Uh so the same thinking and the same way of same thinking and the same way of evolving is also spread to all the evolving is also spread to all the different corners of India which is all different corners of India which is all of which is part of the Mughal Empire. of which is part of the Mughal Empire. So we have a system at the end of So we have a system at the end of Abbar's rule where there are as many Abbar's rule where there are as many Rajputs as they are Persian origin Rajputs as they are Persian origin people say or or central Asians. So this people say or or central Asians. So this is something which each succeeding is something which each succeeding emperor holds on to even Orurange Ze who emperor holds on to even Orurange Ze who we know you know has to react in certain we know you know has to react in certain ways. So one reaction of Akbar's ways. So one reaction of Akbar's experimentation and the amount he puts experimentation and the amount he puts the uh orthodox Muslims under strain the uh orthodox Muslims under strain is that there is a push back after his is that there is a push back after his death. these uh you know the OMA who death. these uh you know the OMA who used to be this the Muslim clerics who used to be this the Muslim clerics who used to hold power in the time uh before used to hold power in the time uh before Akbar uh they react after Akbar's death Akbar uh they react after Akbar's death and so each successive emperor has to and so each successive emperor has to adjust for that unhappiness amongst the adjust for that unhappiness amongst the Muslim clerics um they have not become Muslim clerics um they have not become part of this wonderful experimentation part of this wonderful experimentation they have not embied the spirit of Sulle they have not embied the spirit of Sulle they want to regain their their they want to regain their their ascendancy uh and so Orurange especially ascendancy uh and so Orurange especially tries is to give in to a much greater tries is to give in to a much greater extent to the Muslim clerics. Uh he extent to the Muslim clerics. Uh he brings back the Jiza for example which brings back the Jiza for example which is something that they really wanted is something that they really wanted brought back. But even Orurange Ze has brought back. But even Orurange Ze has uh he is the uh in fact the emperor who uh he is the uh in fact the emperor who has the most number of Rajput manabdars has the most number of Rajput manabdars in his uh mantabari system. He in his uh mantabari system. He incorporates even more uh you know Hindu incorporates even more uh you know Hindu elements into the empire. So all of them elements into the empire. So all of them pragmatically realize that this is the pragmatically realize that this is the way to keep a stable empire is to co-opt way to keep a stable empire is to co-opt all these different religions, all these all these different religions, all these different uh you know areas of India different uh you know areas of India into the Mughal Empire. into the Mughal Empire. Wonderful. Um you know I'll leave it to Wonderful. Um you know I'll leave it to our listeners to go and pick up all of our listeners to go and pick up all of these books uh including Akbar uh um I these books uh including Akbar uh um I mean we could speak for another 9 hours mean we could speak for another 9 hours and not do it justice but we won't. Uh and not do it justice but we won't. Uh you know let's talk about the lion and you know let's talk about the lion and the lily. What fascinates me about the the lily. What fascinates me about the lion and the lily is that so you know lion and the lily is that so you know there's this piece of advice that Peter there's this piece of advice that Peter the gives to people who want to do the gives to people who want to do startups and he says that do something startups and he says that do something that would not happen without you like that would not happen without you like for example the scene and the unseen for example the scene and the unseen would not happen without me because only would not happen without me because only I can be mad enough to do 12-hour I can be mad enough to do 12-hour conversations right uh so and it seems conversations right uh so and it seems to me that the lion and the lily is in to me that the lion and the lily is in that sweet spot that only you could have that sweet spot that only you could have written it because you happen to know written it because you happen to know French you happen to be uh Indian and uh French you happen to be uh Indian and uh knowing French is a critical part of knowing French is a critical part of writing that book because so many of writing that book because so many of your sources were actually French that your sources were actually French that you had to bring that gaze to it because you had to bring that gaze to it because it's a gaze that has fundamentally been it's a gaze that has fundamentally been erased uh for reasons we'll come to but erased uh for reasons we'll come to but so give me a sense of how that book so give me a sense of how that book happened and how you got down to you happened and how you got down to you know reading about it so um I guess if know reading about it so um I guess if Akbar was um to a little extent Akbar was um to a little extent a gift for my father uh then the lion a gift for my father uh then the lion and the lily I had my mother in mind. Um and the lily I had my mother in mind. Um so my mother when she came to India you so my mother when she came to India you know we were talking about it in the know we were talking about it in the first half she had never traveled any first half she had never traveled any place south of uh the Kudazir. Um so she place south of uh the Kudazir. Um so she in her mind she thought okay so India in her mind she thought okay so India will be like the Kudazir like the Rivier will be like the Kudazir like the Rivier French Riviera a little warmer and with French Riviera a little warmer and with maybe more palm trees you know that was maybe more palm trees you know that was her reckoning of what India was going to her reckoning of what India was going to be like a rude awakening when she be like a rude awakening when she arrived in Kolkata. Um but through her arrived in Kolkata. Um but through her uh and through my exposure to France uh and through my exposure to France because you know we were sent to France because you know we were sent to France every summer and people know when they every summer and people know when they heard that we were from India you know heard that we were from India you know they had a certain very exoticized idea they had a certain very exoticized idea about what India was like. So they would about what India was like. So they would ask me whether I went to school on ask me whether I went to school on elephant bag uh whether there were elephant bag uh whether there were tigers everywhere you know or or then of tigers everywhere you know or or then of course uh the idea that India was a very course uh the idea that India was a very poor place. Um there was no absolutely poor place. Um there was no absolutely no understanding of India and yet France no understanding of India and yet France had had an empire and that empire had had had an empire and that empire had included bits of India you know uh at included bits of India you know uh at one point I I vaguely knew that but I one point I I vaguely knew that but I didn't know more than that I was just didn't know more than that I was just astounded by the lack of knowledge and astounded by the lack of knowledge and also in India when I started asking also in India when I started asking people around that people were like what people around that people were like what we had the French in India we didn't we had the French in India we didn't know people have really forgotten both know people have really forgotten both in France and in India so I thought that in France and in India so I thought that that would be a very interesting ing that would be a very interesting ing angle. Uh it would allow me to finally angle. Uh it would allow me to finally bring a bit of knowledge that another bring a bit of knowledge that another Indian historian may not have had access Indian historian may not have had access to. You know, because I've always felt I to. You know, because I've always felt I don't speak Persian. So, it is very don't speak Persian. So, it is very unfortunate for to write Indian history. unfortunate for to write Indian history. You really should be able to access You really should be able to access primary material in Persian. Um though primary material in Persian. Um though now increasingly far fewer people do uh now increasingly far fewer people do uh you know speak Persian even amongst you know speak Persian even amongst historians. But I felt okay here finally historians. But I felt okay here finally I will be able to use my French uh you I will be able to use my French uh you know my French skills know my French skills and of course like we were uh discussing and of course like we were uh discussing a little earlier I did some you know get a little earlier I did some you know get a bit weighed by other issues which came a bit weighed by other issues which came up uh during the the study uh the up uh during the the study uh the research I was doing but being able to research I was doing but being able to access some of those French language access some of those French language sources so they were books which aren't sources so they were books which aren't translated at the time of my writing the translated at the time of my writing the book for example uh a history by a book for example uh a history by a character called the K de Mudav character called the K de Mudav who was a French aristocrat and a who was a French aristocrat and a soldier uh and he was traveling through soldier uh and he was traveling through India uh in the 1770s and he meets Rujaw India uh in the 1770s and he meets Rujaw Dala. He writes an extraordinary book Dala. He writes an extraordinary book because he's very educated. He's a very because he's very educated. He's a very intelligent man but as his biographer intelligent man but as his biographer has written he fails spectacularly at has written he fails spectacularly at everything he does. Uh he ends up uh you everything he does. Uh he ends up uh you know in poverty and he dies in India but know in poverty and he dies in India but he has a very insightful gaze and he he has a very insightful gaze and he writes about Indians with a lot of writes about Indians with a lot of sympathy. He writes about the nabs. He's sympathy. He writes about the nabs. He's furious at the British. He is frustrated furious at the British. He is frustrated that the Indians cannot make out the that the Indians cannot make out the difference between a British man and a difference between a British man and a French man. He's like what nonsense is French man. He's like what nonsense is this? Because when he goes to people in this? Because when he goes to people in uh Delhi and he is expecting everybody uh Delhi and he is expecting everybody to be talking about the battle of Placi to be talking about the battle of Placi at that point say this is uh you know at that point say this is uh you know after 1757. So he's like everybody after 1757. So he's like everybody should have been talking about Robert should have been talking about Robert Clive and what he has done to Bengal. Clive and what he has done to Bengal. Instead they laughed at him and said Instead they laughed at him and said isn't he your bhanja your uncle your isn't he your bhanja your uncle your somebody or the other they think it is somebody or the other they think it is one big family of whites right so there one big family of whites right so there are these extraordinary documents uh are these extraordinary documents uh several of them uh many of the several of them uh many of the characters I have developed in the book characters I have developed in the book the Jean Baptist janti for example who the Jean Baptist janti for example who was 12 years at the court of nabu jawah was 12 years at the court of nabu jawah and has an extraordinary collection one and has an extraordinary collection one of the three great collections of late of the three great collections of late 18th century art was patronized by a 18th century art was patronized by a Frenchman so I was able to use these Frenchman so I was able to use these untransated ated document and it was you untransated ated document and it was you know a source of great joy because so it know a source of great joy because so it is not the British point of view it is is not the British point of view it is yet a European point of view but it is yet a European point of view but it is different from the British as well you different from the British as well you know they view India differently that know they view India differently that was a revelation for me uh the French u was a revelation for me uh the French u at least post mid 18th century never at least post mid 18th century never were aiming for a territorial empire were aiming for a territorial empire they were wanting to trade uh and when they were wanting to trade uh and when they saw the inroads that the British they saw the inroads that the British were making they wanted to help local were making they wanted to help local Indian rulers to withstand that pressure Indian rulers to withstand that pressure from the British. They found it from the British. They found it outrageous that a country as evolved as outrageous that a country as evolved as India should be uh one that the British India should be uh one that the British were trying to take over you know. So so were trying to take over you know. So so they were wrong in many ways. They they were wrong in many ways. They thought India was the great unchanging thought India was the great unchanging India with you know this eternal India India with you know this eternal India the idea of the eternal unchanging the idea of the eternal unchanging India. They had a very romanticized idea India. They had a very romanticized idea of Indian philosophy and uh you know of Indian philosophy and uh you know religion and so on and so forth. But religion and so on and so forth. But they were very respectful and admiring they were very respectful and admiring of the pro of what India was and uh they of the pro of what India was and uh they found it outrageous that the Britain was found it outrageous that the Britain was trying to just simply conquer it trying to just simply conquer it territorially. territorially. territorially. So that for me was a very interesting So that for me was a very interesting angle uh to bring into uh you know uh to angle uh to bring into uh you know uh to bring into a book so that people could bring into a book so that people could access that and also you know add to the access that and also you know add to the conversation that we know about conversation that we know about colonialism and postcolonialism. colonialism and postcolonialism. Um so so that was um I think that is Um so so that was um I think that is something that uh I I have brought in something that uh I I have brought in the book but through that was also a the book but through that was also a realization is that India was a very realization is that India was a very cosmopolitan place in the 18th century cosmopolitan place in the 18th century you know uh and what we think of as you know uh and what we think of as French and British and Indian they were French and British and Indian they were not such straightforward um uh not such straightforward um uh identities that people were willing to identities that people were willing to borrow uh to exchange to wear for a borrow uh to exchange to wear for a certain season and then discard certain season and then discard something for a certain season. So there something for a certain season. So there was a lot of crossovers and changes that was a lot of crossovers and changes that happened and there's a great book happened and there's a great book actually around this period which is actually around this period which is Maya Jasanov's Edge of Empire. Uh she Maya Jasanov's Edge of Empire. Uh she talks about the great collectors uh of talks about the great collectors uh of the 18th century. the 18th century. Um and we do have uh this sense of the Um and we do have uh this sense of the of these Europeans coming into India and of these Europeans coming into India and collecting objects willy-nilly you know collecting objects willy-nilly you know even unto their own body. So they will even unto their own body. So they will wear certain clothes at certain time. wear certain clothes at certain time. They will wear the turban and the jama They will wear the turban and the jama and sit and listen to a nach you know uh and sit and listen to a nach you know uh and try and uh live that experience of and try and uh live that experience of being a local nab and they make these being a local nab and they make these huge collections which they then take huge collections which they then take back to to Europe and which changes back to to Europe and which changes Europe forever. You know these objects Europe forever. You know these objects which return these Indian nabs which which return these Indian nabs which return uh to Europe change you know return uh to Europe change you know those countries forever. So that was those countries forever. So that was very interesting for me to realize uh very interesting for me to realize uh that there is this group of people that there is this group of people around the courts of the Nab of Aad who around the courts of the Nab of Aad who are not simply British or French there are not simply British or French there are something in between uh and Indian are something in between uh and Indian as well and they are all willing to as well and they are all willing to exchange and meet over common grounds if exchange and meet over common grounds if you like. So, so yes. So, it was really you like. So, so yes. So, it was really really a fun experience to be able to really a fun experience to be able to use um the French for the first time and use um the French for the first time and coming across like I was mentioning coming across like I was mentioning earlier some of those letters written in earlier some of those letters written in French as well was was and knowing that French as well was was and knowing that they had never been seen by sometimes they had never been seen by sometimes even scholars in India let alone uh a even scholars in India let alone uh a lay person was was very moving. Yeah. lay person was was very moving. Yeah. Yeah. And imagine if they had colonized Yeah. And imagine if they had colonized us. The counterfactual, you know, we'd us. The counterfactual, you know, we'd be speaking French in a hyani accent, be speaking French in a hyani accent, for example. for example. for example. But if that's even possible, I think But if that's even possible, I think better to leave that to the imagination better to leave that to the imagination only. Yeah. Yeah. The the the brain only. Yeah. Yeah. The the the brain explodes. Nothing wrong with either explodes. Nothing wrong with either nothing wrong with either French or Hani nothing wrong with either French or Hani accents. accents. accents. You know one of the things one realizes You know one of the things one realizes reading beautifully nuanced books like reading beautifully nuanced books like the lan and the lily is that even the the lan and the lily is that even the monolithic view that we sometimes have monolithic view that we sometimes have of the colonialists are actually false of the colonialists are actually false like on like they have many many like on like they have many many motivations every English man doesn't motivations every English man doesn't want the same thing every English man is want the same thing every English man is not a French man every French man not a French man every French man doesn't want the same thing either at doesn't want the same thing either at one point you point out about how this one point you point out about how this gentleman named uh Dupé uh you know gets gentleman named uh Dupé uh you know gets um a letter from the French company the um a letter from the French company the from the directors where they are saying from the directors where they are saying we don't wish to become a political we don't wish to become a political power in India we only want a few small power in India we only want a few small factories no victories no conquest just factories no victories no conquest just a lot of trade goods and dividends stop a lot of trade goods and dividends stop quote and they might well have added quote and they might well have added chill out dude and uh Dup's Dup is chill out dude and uh Dup's Dup is recalled back to France where he invents recalled back to France where he invents the twotory luxury apartment I made that the twotory luxury apartment I made that up no but uh but I wonder how that got up no but uh but I wonder how that got its name and if he had something to do its name and if he had something to do with it uh so so give me a sense of the with it uh so so give me a sense of the multiplicities of multiplicities of multiplicities of uh sort of incentives that are playing uh sort of incentives that are playing through here as well that all these guys through here as well that all these guys want different things and not all of want different things and not all of their urges are nationalistic like in a their urges are nationalistic like in a different interview you've pointed out different interview you've pointed out that it's not so hard and fast that you that it's not so hard and fast that you think of yourself as fighting for think of yourself as fighting for England you know these are like IPL England you know these are like IPL teams you could just go on either side teams you could just go on either side and um and that's a beautiful analogy and um and that's a beautiful analogy that you used u so well done for that you used u so well done for bringing the 21st century into at least bringing the 21st century into at least this uh so and for for bringing sport, this uh so and for for bringing sport, which I can assure you I never watch, which I can assure you I never watch, but I brought sport into the 18th but I brought sport into the 18th century. Well done. I mean, I that's century. Well done. I mean, I that's probably not a gift to your mom or your probably not a gift to your mom or your dad. Maybe your kids if any of them play dad. Maybe your kids if any of them play sport, but or your husband perhaps, but sport, but or your husband perhaps, but well done bringing Not even not even. well done bringing Not even not even. Okay. So, so uh so give me give me a Okay. So, so uh so give me give me a sense of what's happening here with how sense of what's happening here with how all of these English men and French men all of these English men and French men look at it and as you point out happen look at it and as you point out happen stance of what's happening in Europe in stance of what's happening in Europe in that century and in America change the that century and in America change the French outlook substantially because French outlook substantially because they lose a seven-year war in uh Europe they lose a seven-year war in uh Europe and their sort of their colonial and their sort of their colonial ambitions therefore go on the downswing. ambitions therefore go on the downswing. They help the Americans win the American They help the Americans win the American war of independence. All those dynamics war of independence. All those dynamics are also playing themselves out. So give are also playing themselves out. So give me a sense of what's happening. What do me a sense of what's happening. What do the Frenchmen want? And how do they see the Frenchmen want? And how do they see the Englishmen? And what do the the Englishmen? And what do the Englishmen want? And how do they see the Englishmen want? And how do they see the Frenchmen? And how do they all see each Frenchmen? And how do they all see each other? It's like a three-way turnoff, other? It's like a three-way turnoff, right? Is that film with John Trabolta right? Is that film with John Trabolta where they all pointing a gun to each where they all pointing a gun to each other's heads? Yeah. other's heads? Yeah. So, exactly. So, it's very interesting So, exactly. So, it's very interesting because um from the mid 18th century, because um from the mid 18th century, especially after they lose the especially after they lose the seven-year war, as you were saying, seven-year war, as you were saying, their ambitions change entirely. So, their ambitions change entirely. So, they have to sign peace. You know they they have to sign peace. You know they France overall loses but they they win France overall loses but they they win in terms of the global territories they in terms of the global territories they are given. You know they divide the are given. You know they divide the world according to British and French world according to British and French empires. Uh but in India all their empires. Uh but in India all their factories the British lose no time in uh factories the British lose no time in uh destroying all their factories chandagar destroying all their factories chandagar ponder all of that. So all of the great ponder all of that. So all of the great generals that you had till then a lot of generals that you had till then a lot of the soldiers adventurers that you had the soldiers adventurers that you had till then in the French factories are till then in the French factories are now at a loose ends. they're now looking now at a loose ends. they're now looking um for uh you know what to do in their um for uh you know what to do in their career, how are they going to manage, career, how are they going to manage, what are they going to do. So many of what are they going to do. So many of them now go to the great Indian rulers them now go to the great Indian rulers because they're like okay the mughals because they're like okay the mughals are up to nothing you know we don't want are up to nothing you know we don't want to join a side like the muggles in Delhi to join a side like the muggles in Delhi uh who who is the rising power now and uh who who is the rising power now and so they go to tip sultan they go to the so they go to tip sultan they go to the nawabs of aad um uh and aad especially nawabs of aad um uh and aad especially attracts um a lot of French people attracts um a lot of French people has met Jeanapti janti at the battle of has met Jeanapti janti at the battle of bakar already uh so he brings him with bakar already uh so he brings him with him back to lucknau know uh and Jean him back to lucknau know uh and Jean Bapti Janti brings a lot of Frenchmen Bapti Janti brings a lot of Frenchmen along with him and he you know he along with him and he you know he revolutionizes the Nab's army along revolutionizes the Nab's army along French lines and all of that uh so a lot French lines and all of that uh so a lot of these men now from now on because of these men now from now on because France's ambition has changed they will France's ambition has changed they will be freelancers free booters so you have be freelancers free booters so you have somebody like Benoa Dubo who um who then somebody like Benoa Dubo who um who then joins the uh let me not get this wrong joins the uh let me not get this wrong he joins the Maratas uh and he becomes a he joins the Maratas uh and he becomes a great leader for their Hindustani great leader for their Hindustani brigade that he he raises for them. Um brigade that he he raises for them. Um wins many great battles for them. Uh wins many great battles for them. Uh somebody will join the Jats. Remadec somebody will join the Jats. Remadec joins the Jats because they are also a joins the Jats because they are also a force in North India. So whoever is force in North India. So whoever is willing to pay for French expertise, willing to pay for French expertise, French generals, French soldiers, you French generals, French soldiers, you know the French are willing to go there. know the French are willing to go there. We still have um a governor general in We still have um a governor general in uh Chandanagar called um what is his uh Chandanagar called um what is his name? Um Chaveveli Jebati Shavevelier. name? Um Chaveveli Jebati Shavevelier. and he is still desperately trying to and he is still desperately trying to rally his forces. So he knows that one rally his forces. So he knows that one battle has been you know lost the seven battle has been you know lost the seven years war but he figures that this war years war but he figures that this war is a long one and he keeps writing is a long one and he keeps writing letters to all these various adventurers letters to all these various adventurers and tells them my plan is one day to go and tells them my plan is one day to go to Bengal which has been usurped by the to Bengal which has been usurped by the British at this point you know after British at this point you know after class and Bakar and get back Bengal for class and Bakar and get back Bengal for the Indians give it back to the Mughal the Indians give it back to the Mughal emperor and kick these wretched Britons emperor and kick these wretched Britons out of India once and for all. you know out of India once and for all. you know he he has recognized them for the he he has recognized them for the potentially dangerous nuisance that they potentially dangerous nuisance that they are. Uh and he will occasionally write are. Uh and he will occasionally write to all these men who are fighting for to all these men who are fighting for the Maratas, fighting for the Jat and the Maratas, fighting for the Jat and say be ready. Uh I may call on you. I am say be ready. Uh I may call on you. I am you know I am trying to develop a plan you know I am trying to develop a plan where we will go to Bengal. So a lot of where we will go to Bengal. So a lot of them write back and they are a little them write back and they are a little perplexed because you know they are perplexed because you know they are making good money with the JS, they're making good money with the JS, they're making good money with the Maratas and making good money with the Maratas and the Nabs of Awat. They're like okay fine the Nabs of Awat. They're like okay fine if ever it comes to that uh you know my if ever it comes to that uh you know my sword is yours and we will do that. Of sword is yours and we will do that. Of course it never does come to that then course it never does come to that then they never do mount a counter offensive. they never do mount a counter offensive. It never it just never happens that that It never it just never happens that that is politically feasible because France is politically feasible because France no longer wants to have any such thing no longer wants to have any such thing in India. France is reeling towards the in India. France is reeling towards the 1789 revolution. So is in no position to 1789 revolution. So is in no position to do that. But these characters so uh you do that. But these characters so uh you know it is not so simple as saying this know it is not so simple as saying this is a Frenchman. He will fight for the is a Frenchman. He will fight for the French cause. So you have someone like French cause. So you have someone like uh Antoan Pier for example. So Antoan uh Antoan Pier for example. So Antoan Pouier is what we would have called Pouier is what we would have called perhaps a Frenchman. You know he is perhaps a Frenchman. You know he is French-speaking. He comes from a French French-speaking. He comes from a French origin family but this family has moved origin family but this family has moved to Loausan in Geneva today. Uh so they to Loausan in Geneva today. Uh so they feel that they are a little bit feel that they are a little bit different and they have converted to different and they have converted to Protestantism. So when Antwan Puli Protestantism. So when Antwan Puli arrives in India as a very young man arrives in India as a very young man he's only 15 or 16. He realizes that he's only 15 or 16. He realizes that France is actually on a losing wicket. France is actually on a losing wicket. He changes his name to Anthony Puli to He changes his name to Anthony Puli to make it more anglicized and joins the make it more anglicized and joins the the English East India Company and he the English East India Company and he said okay I speak English as well. He's said okay I speak English as well. He's actually quite a polymath and a actually quite a polymath and a polyglot. He learns English. Um he polyglot. He learns English. Um he speaks fluent English. He joins the speaks fluent English. He joins the British. Uh he fights for them. Uh but British. Uh he fights for them. Uh but at a certain time he's an also an at a certain time he's an also an engineer and an architect but his grade engineer and an architect but his grade in the army goes no further than I think in the army goes no further than I think colonel. And he's very unhappy about colonel. And he's very unhappy about that. And he writes uh to say that that. And he writes uh to say that because I am a Frenchman. So he he still because I am a Frenchman. So he he still considers himself a Frenchman though he considers himself a Frenchman though he is fighting for the British speaks is fighting for the British speaks English has changed his name. Because I English has changed his name. Because I am a Frenchman they will never consider am a Frenchman they will never consider me one of their own. So I want to now me one of their own. So I want to now work for the Nab of Aad. So he tells work for the Nab of Aad. So he tells Hastings who is a friend of his to send Hastings who is a friend of his to send him to the Nab of Aad as an archite him to the Nab of Aad as an archite architect and a surveyor which Hastings architect and a surveyor which Hastings does. And then Antoan Puli comes to the does. And then Antoan Puli comes to the NAB finds that the lifestyle around him NAB finds that the lifestyle around him is extremely agreeable. Uh takes on all is extremely agreeable. Uh takes on all the accutramos and the style and the the accutramos and the style and the fashion of an Indian nav including fashion of an Indian nav including having a haram. Um he also sets up an having a haram. Um he also sets up an atalier like a mughal elite person would atalier like a mughal elite person would do. Patronizes the second biggest do. Patronizes the second biggest largest commission of books and largest commission of books and paintings by a Frenchman. we will paintings by a Frenchman. we will technically call him a Frenchman at this technically call him a Frenchman at this point and lives a life of enormous ease point and lives a life of enormous ease and luxury in Avat um while having once and luxury in Avat um while having once been part of the East India Company and been part of the East India Company and the Nabs are happy enough to have him the Nabs are happy enough to have him there doing little odds and jobs there doing little odds and jobs building buildings for them and you know building buildings for them and you know looking after looking after looking after various bits and pieces for them. So you various bits and pieces for them. So you see that people actually are do not have see that people actually are do not have to abide by uh a very black and white to abide by uh a very black and white system of how you can be you can you system of how you can be you can you also have some of these writers telling also have some of these writers telling the uh the telling their you know bosses the uh the telling their you know bosses that okay fine we will fight for you but that okay fine we will fight for you but don't make us fight against the French don't make us fight against the French supposing they are French origin they'll supposing they are French origin they'll be like we'll fight everybody else but be like we'll fight everybody else but it looks a little bad if we are fighting it looks a little bad if we are fighting against the French so don't make us against the French so don't make us fight against the French we'll do fight against the French we'll do everything else you see so you can see everything else you see so you can see that their all their sense of loyalty that their all their sense of loyalty is pretty loose. you know they are is pretty loose. you know they are pretty flexible in terms of who they're pretty flexible in terms of who they're willing to fight for, who they're willing to fight for, who they're willing to spy against and for because willing to spy against and for because that is also one of their jobs is to that is also one of their jobs is to take notes about what is happening and take notes about what is happening and maybe tell the governor general uh the maybe tell the governor general uh the French governor general or tell the French governor general or tell the British East India Company which is the British East India Company which is the case that happens far more often case that happens far more often especially Antoan Pulier is often especially Antoan Pulier is often sending back lots of notes back to sending back lots of notes back to Kolkata to tell uh the governor general Kolkata to tell uh the governor general what's happening at the court of Aad and what's happening at the court of Aad and putting in his two bit of putting in his two bit of recommendation. recommendation. recommendation. Um so you have this entire gamut of Um so you have this entire gamut of people who are hovering around the nabs people who are hovering around the nabs because of the wealth of the nabs trying because of the wealth of the nabs trying to get a piece of that action a lot of to get a piece of that action a lot of them it has to be said are doing it for them it has to be said are doing it for the money in at the end of the day uh of the money in at the end of the day uh of a career advancement so that's why a career advancement so that's why Antoan Pier goes over to the English Antoan Pier goes over to the English because it's he thought he had better because it's he thought he had better career advancement um uh and it is often career advancement um uh and it is often very pragmatic considerations like those very pragmatic considerations like those ones very little to do with loyalty ones very little to do with loyalty towards a country, love of a country, towards a country, love of a country, patriotism in that sense. The British on patriotism in that sense. The British on the other hand um have a more cohesive the other hand um have a more cohesive idea of what it is that they are doing idea of what it is that they are doing in in India. Uh you know we were talking in in India. Uh you know we were talking in the first half as well about how they in the first half as well about how they are able to at this time bring about a are able to at this time bring about a certain understanding of what it means certain understanding of what it means to be a British elite man. uh they make to be a British elite man. uh they make it uh more acceptable uh because they it uh more acceptable uh because they have had excesses like Robert Clive, have had excesses like Robert Clive, they have had you know uh controversies they have had you know uh controversies around Rowan Hastings. So now they want around Rowan Hastings. So now they want their leaders in India to be uh you know their leaders in India to be uh you know above suspicion, above corruption. So above suspicion, above corruption. So they say everyone going there now must they say everyone going there now must be upright, honest, austere and conduct be upright, honest, austere and conduct their lives in a certain way. So they their lives in a certain way. So they and and they uh position this as and and they uh position this as opposite to French excess, French opposite to French excess, French corruption, French uh you know just corruption, French uh you know just general Frenchness. Um so they have a general Frenchness. Um so they have a clearer idea of what they think the clearer idea of what they think the French are and how they might French are and how they might differentiate themselves from the differentiate themselves from the French. Um so you have a little less of French. Um so you have a little less of exchange have happening with the British exchange have happening with the British uh officers in India. uh officers in India. I'm I'm tempted to pirate your book and I'm I'm tempted to pirate your book and add a couple of pages where I describe add a couple of pages where I describe why Anuan Pulier changed his name to why Anuan Pulier changed his name to Anthony because the Hani guy couldn't Anthony because the Hani guy couldn't pronounce it properly which is I think pronounce it properly which is I think very plausible or we could make AI say very plausible or we could make AI say make you say that on video say yeah I'm make you say that on video say yeah I'm I'm going to do that just to irritate I'm going to do that just to irritate you u so here's an orthogonal question you u so here's an orthogonal question you spoke about how their loyalty was you spoke about how their loyalty was loose and I think that that can be loose and I think that that can be interpreted as both a bad thing and a interpreted as both a bad thing and a good thing it can be interpreted it as a good thing it can be interpreted it as a good thing because nationalism being so good thing because nationalism being so toxic if you're not ruled by faulty to toxic if you're not ruled by faulty to one of these nationalistic powers that's one of these nationalistic powers that's surely not a bad thing but at the same surely not a bad thing but at the same time you do need something to be loyal time you do need something to be loyal to and presumably there's no set of to and presumably there's no set of values guaranteeing that either it's values guaranteeing that either it's just whoever's making you the best paid just whoever's making you the best paid mercenary so what what's your sense of mercenary so what what's your sense of that is that a good thing or a bad thing that is that a good thing or a bad thing again you can have both because um for again you can have both because um for example Jean Baptisti who works for the example Jean Baptisti who works for the NAB Right? So he's being paid by the NAB Right? So he's being paid by the NAB. So he's doing it for money, but NAB. So he's doing it for money, but somewhere in his mind he's reconciled uh somewhere in his mind he's reconciled uh the idea that the NAB could the idea that the NAB could theoretically theoretically theoretically oppose the British, right? So he could oppose the British, right? So he could be working for France's benefit. Yeah. be working for France's benefit. Yeah. So he somehow in his mind justified uh So he somehow in his mind justified uh his post in Aad uh and he's making his post in Aad uh and he's making enough money but not excessive amounts enough money but not excessive amounts of money. He's making just decent of money. He's making just decent amounts of money. amounts of money. So in his mind it is quite clear he's So in his mind it is quite clear he's still serving France's cause. He's not still serving France's cause. He's not doing anything that is disloyal to doing anything that is disloyal to France. Uh even if he's not able to you France. Uh even if he's not able to you know convince Shuja that there has to be know convince Shuja that there has to be a great war against the British. He also a great war against the British. He also continues to have very good relations continues to have very good relations with British generals. He sees nothing with British generals. He sees nothing wrong with parlaying with British wrong with parlaying with British generals. You know it's not something generals. You know it's not something where you have to be enemies on the where you have to be enemies on the ground. On the other hand, you have a ground. On the other hand, you have a character like uh Clo Makta who will be character like uh Clo Makta who will be more familiar to you know lay readers more familiar to you know lay readers because he is a famous man in Laknau. He because he is a famous man in Laknau. He founded the la schools. Uh now he is a founded the la schools. Uh now he is a man whose actions are so egregious that man whose actions are so egregious that they are really at the end of the day they are really at the end of the day they become only about money uh only they become only about money uh only about acceptance into a certain society about acceptance into a certain society and to do that he is willing to change and to do that he is willing to change any amount of sides to betray any amount any amount of sides to betray any amount of people. Um so he is someone who comes of people. Um so he is someone who comes to India he's a Frenchman French-sp to India he's a Frenchman French-sp speakaking Frenchman Catholic he comes speakaking Frenchman Catholic he comes to India as a soldier but he immediately to India as a soldier but he immediately defects uh after the first defeat he defects uh after the first defeat he defects over to the East India company defects over to the East India company and joins them uh and his entire career and joins them uh and his entire career is spent trying to advance his cause is spent trying to advance his cause with the East India Company with the with the East India Company with the least amount of trouble to himself. So least amount of trouble to himself. So he remains in Lucknau for decades while he remains in Lucknau for decades while still technically being part of the East still technically being part of the East India Company getting his salary from India Company getting his salary from the East India Company also getting a the East India Company also getting a salary from the NAB because he is put in salary from the NAB because he is put in charge of the armory and uh you know uh charge of the armory and uh you know uh ammunitions. So he's getting a huge ammunitions. So he's getting a huge salary from the NAB. He keeps trying to salary from the NAB. He keeps trying to get more and more money from the NAB by get more and more money from the NAB by selling him all kinds of dubious goods selling him all kinds of dubious goods uh you know meant to be luxury items uh uh you know meant to be luxury items uh bad paintings, glassware, all kinds of bad paintings, glassware, all kinds of thing. He tries to fool the nabs into thing. He tries to fool the nabs into parting with their money. Um at the same parting with their money. Um at the same time is writing pretty vicious letters time is writing pretty vicious letters about the nabs to the East India Company about the nabs to the East India Company telling them these people are terrible telling them these people are terrible and how can they rule their you know and how can they rule their you know country you must come and take over. I country you must come and take over. I mean he is just the most vile of men. Um mean he is just the most vile of men. Um and the only loyalty he has is is and the only loyalty he has is is towards himself and towards his wealth. towards himself and towards his wealth. He dies one of the wealthiest men. I He dies one of the wealthiest men. I don't want to misquote definitely in don't want to misquote definitely in Hindustan but but broader than that he's Hindustan but but broader than that he's an enormously wealthy man despite having an enormously wealthy man despite having no children nobody to leave all of this no children nobody to leave all of this wealth too he seems to be enamored by wealth too he seems to be enamored by wealth for the sake of wealth itself so wealth for the sake of wealth itself so so it depends uh uh to come to your so it depends uh uh to come to your question it depends on the kind of human question it depends on the kind of human being we are you know encountering to being we are you know encountering to say whether it is a good or a bad thing say whether it is a good or a bad thing to not have that sense of loyalty to a to not have that sense of loyalty to a nationalist sense of loyalty nationalist sense of loyalty So my um third last question, see I've So my um third last question, see I've planned this so well. My my third last planned this so well. My my third last question, I've taken so much of your question, I've taken so much of your time already. My third last question is time already. My third last question is about the other big uh like on the one about the other big uh like on the one hand your book of course deals with this hand your book of course deals with this beautiful triangle, the French, the beautiful triangle, the French, the British and the uh local folks. But the British and the uh local folks. But the other big revelation for me was about other big revelation for me was about the nawabs because in popular culture the nawabs because in popular culture that beautiful film chhatranski kilari that beautiful film chhatranski kilari onwards uh the nabs of award have been onwards uh the nabs of award have been painted as faith people who are painted as faith people who are interested in culture but they don't interested in culture but they don't really get politics or real politic or u really get politics or real politic or u you know warfare and all of those things you know warfare and all of those things and much credit to them for creating the and much credit to them for creating the lucknovi culture the adab the ganga lucknovi culture the adab the ganga jamunatzib all of that but that's all jamunatzib all of that but that's all they are basically they were wimps and they are basically they were wimps and frankly I would rather be an fate nab frankly I would rather be an fate nab who's a wimp and some kind of warrior uh who's a wimp and some kind of warrior uh killing hundreds of people. Except that killing hundreds of people. Except that these nabs were men of culture who did these nabs were men of culture who did create uh the Laknovi culture and the create uh the Laknovi culture and the Ganga Jamunati partly to set themselves Ganga Jamunati partly to set themselves apart from the Mughals but they were apart from the Mughals but they were also warriors, they were thinkers, they also warriors, they were thinkers, they were strategists. um you know they were strategists. um you know they contain multitudes and uh obviously contain multitudes and uh obviously winners write the history so colonial winners write the history so colonial history as even in those times the history as even in those times the British would have to paint them in that British would have to paint them in that negative way so they could justify negative way so they could justify taking over their empires. Uh but they taking over their empires. Uh but they were actually pretty remarkable men. So were actually pretty remarkable men. So tell me a little bit about how you tell me a little bit about how you discovered this. Did you know this from discovered this. Did you know this from the start? Did you know this going in or the start? Did you know this going in or you know how it unfolded and uh what the you know how it unfolded and uh what the reality is? Yeah. Yeah. No. So I didn't reality is? Yeah. Yeah. No. So I didn't know this at all. Um I had the same idea know this at all. Um I had the same idea that perhaps you did you know watching that perhaps you did you know watching Shatran Kiladi having this certain uh Shatran Kiladi having this certain uh you know notion romanticized exoticized you know notion romanticized exoticized idea of the the nawads and their court. idea of the the nawads and their court. Um but there was this talk I heard by Um but there was this talk I heard by Vina Oldenberg and she says that um the Vina Oldenberg and she says that um the uprising of 1857 it continued in Avad uprising of 1857 it continued in Avad for far longer than in any other country for far longer than in any other country in the world that was opposing the in the world that was opposing the British Empire. So that right there British Empire. So that right there tells you something about what was tells you something about what was happening in Awad and that it was happening in Awad and that it was something quite extraordinary. She also something quite extraordinary. She also said that I think two-fifths of the the said that I think two-fifths of the the great buildings of uh Lucknau were great buildings of uh Lucknau were destroyed by the British after the destroyed by the British after the takeover uh after 1857. So for me a takeover uh after 1857. So for me a great sign of how powerful a place has great sign of how powerful a place has been is by the quantum of the violence been is by the quantum of the violence enacted upon it by the British. So if enacted upon it by the British. So if the British really come down hard on a the British really come down hard on a place like they did on Shajahanabad, place like they did on Shajahanabad, uh it means that this was a huge symbol uh it means that this was a huge symbol of resistance and power to them. So Aad of resistance and power to them. So Aad clearly was that with two-fifths of its clearly was that with two-fifths of its b of its places destroyed, replaced by b of its places destroyed, replaced by churches and conements and clubs. Um and churches and conements and clubs. Um and by the fact that for 17 months the by the fact that for 17 months the resistance continued in some form of the resistance continued in some form of the other. As we know Hazwat Mahel was other. As we know Hazwat Mahel was unbeaten and she went on to Nepal and unbeaten and she went on to Nepal and never uh never uh you know compromised never uh never uh you know compromised and never accepted a peace deal. Um so and never accepted a peace deal. Um so something extraordinary was happening in something extraordinary was happening in Awad. I just didn't know exactly what Awad. I just didn't know exactly what was going on. Um but it turns out that was going on. Um but it turns out that as you were saying these nabs right from as you were saying these nabs right from the time of the founder Sadash Khan and the time of the founder Sadash Khan and then Sabda Jang whom you know Dilliwalas then Sabda Jang whom you know Dilliwalas will know because he is buried in in will know because he is buried in in Delhi and there the famous mausoleium in Delhi and there the famous mausoleium in his name and then his son Shuja Dullah his name and then his son Shuja Dullah these were really the great warriors of these were really the great warriors of their time in India. There was nobody their time in India. There was nobody else to compare. Uh so when Sha Alam else to compare. Uh so when Sha Alam needed uh to be rescued when he needed needed uh to be rescued when he needed help the first person he came to was help the first person he came to was Shuja Dalah when it was Shuja Dalah's Shuja Dalah when it was Shuja Dalah's time Sabda Jang was considered the great time Sabda Jang was considered the great military general of Delhi he and his military general of Delhi he and his wife Nawa Beum were the it couple of wife Nawa Beum were the it couple of Delhi you know like Brad Pitt and Delhi you know like Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie of their day like it they Angelina Jolie of their day like it they were the last you know in style but also were the last you know in style but also in power. in power. in power. So extremely powerful military men. So extremely powerful military men. Shuja Dala also very charismatic Shuja Dala also very charismatic somebody who inspired loyalty and somebody who inspired loyalty and confidence. Even the French people confidence. Even the French people visiting him the K Mudav met him and visiting him the K Mudav met him and said you know what an extraordinary man said you know what an extraordinary man the only man capable it was thought of the only man capable it was thought of standing up to the British. He was the standing up to the British. He was the only man uh whom they thought capable of only man uh whom they thought capable of doing that when he was defeated at the doing that when he was defeated at the battle of Buxer battle of Buxer primarily because you know he hadn't primarily because you know he hadn't been tested to an to that extent been tested to an to that extent certainly by a European trained force certainly by a European trained force and so what Indian armies were like what and so what Indian armies were like what Mughal armies were like at that time was Mughal armies were like at that time was a a a sort of amalgamation of disparate a a a sort of amalgamation of disparate groups. So you would have one group led groups. So you would have one group led by the goss you know the aesthetic by the goss you know the aesthetic chieftains then you had one group led by chieftains then you had one group led by some shik zada from some talugda you had some shik zada from some talugda you had some other group led by some mules you some other group led by some mules you know so you had this disperate group of know so you had this disperate group of people who were answering to different people who were answering to different chieftains so there was no organized chieftains so there was no organized response to an action so realized that response to an action so realized that his forces were just about defeated they his forces were just about defeated they were defeated by a sliver u and when he were defeated by a sliver u and when he came back to luck fzabad After the came back to luck fzabad After the debacle of Buxer, he poured his energy debacle of Buxer, he poured his energy instead. The same amount of, you know, instead. The same amount of, you know, military uh uh uh news that he had, the military uh uh uh news that he had, the finesse that he had, he poured into finesse that he had, he poured into buildings. He poured into creating a buildings. He poured into creating a culture. He also poured into defense. He culture. He also poured into defense. He had a whole series of strategic forts had a whole series of strategic forts lined up to be built by French people. lined up to be built by French people. He retrained his army completely. He He retrained his army completely. He disbanded all the elements who had disbanded all the elements who had performed badly at Bxer. He used French performed badly at Bxer. He used French uh you know soldiers to train his new uh you know soldiers to train his new army. Completely changed the ammunition, army. Completely changed the ammunition, the arms, armory, everything along the arms, armory, everything along modern lines you know. So he was quite a modern lines you know. So he was quite a visionary man. A man willing to learn visionary man. A man willing to learn from his mistakes. He was only in his from his mistakes. He was only in his late 20s at this time. A man willing to late 20s at this time. A man willing to learn from his mistake. A man who had learn from his mistake. A man who had till then. So one British uh uh officer till then. So one British uh uh officer who travels there at this time is very who travels there at this time is very dismayed and horrified and he writes dismayed and horrified and he writes back to Kolkata and he says this man who back to Kolkata and he says this man who up till now had been reared in the lap up till now had been reared in the lap of luxury who used to spend his time of luxury who used to spend his time hunting only swimming company of women hunting only swimming company of women enjoying nach enjoying tawas. He has enjoying nach enjoying tawas. He has transformed himself and has become this transformed himself and has become this incredibly energetic man who is becoming incredibly energetic man who is becoming alarmingly powerful in his suba. He's alarmingly powerful in his suba. He's like this is something that we should like this is something that we should wake up to. This man is now very wake up to. This man is now very dangerous. We thought he would continue dangerous. We thought he would continue to be like an typical Indian ruler, you to be like an typical Indian ruler, you know, sink into luxury, sink into know, sink into luxury, sink into decadence. He is not doing that, you decadence. He is not doing that, you know. Uh it is a matter of surprise. know. Uh it is a matter of surprise. Unfortunately, he lives only 10 years Unfortunately, he lives only 10 years and he dies in 1775. But he leaves a and he dies in 1775. But he leaves a very robust system in place. Um very robust system in place. Um uh and he uh he leaves it to his eldest uh and he uh he leaves it to his eldest son Asafua. son Asafua. son Asafua. And when I was doing my um field uh And when I was doing my um field uh research uh in Lucknau, you know, a few research uh in Lucknau, you know, a few years ago, that's the first time that I years ago, that's the first time that I was told um that listen, okay, you're was told um that listen, okay, you're looking as Azafua and Shuja, but do you looking as Azafua and Shuja, but do you know, I hope you will talk about the know, I hope you will talk about the fact that he was homosexual. And I was fact that he was homosexual. And I was like, okay, I had no clue that he was like, okay, I had no clue that he was homosexual, but if that's what I find in homosexual, but if that's what I find in my research, of course, I will write my research, of course, I will write about it. Um and you kind of see it about it. Um and you kind of see it obliquely when the British are talking obliquely when the British are talking about him because they are entirely about him because they are entirely flumxed by Asafuah. So they want to flumxed by Asafuah. So they want to write about him in demeaning terms write about him in demeaning terms because that is just a strategy they because that is just a strategy they followed whenever they had the aim of followed whenever they had the aim of eventually taking a workplace is to show eventually taking a workplace is to show the leader to be ineffectual and you the leader to be ineffectual and you know know know uh incapable of rule. So they start uh incapable of rule. So they start writing about Asafu Dola and say oh he writing about Asafu Dola and say oh he spends his time with the women again he spends his time with the women again he is always in the zenana he is a debosed is always in the zenana he is a debosed man he is you know uh he just loves the man he is you know uh he just loves the company of women then they are clearly company of women then they are clearly automatically writing this without much automatically writing this without much proof and then later on when things get proof and then later on when things get a little more garbled they are unable to a little more garbled they are unable to really spell it out for their for their really spell it out for their for their uh for the authorities back in Kolkata uh for the authorities back in Kolkata and they say there are things happening and they say there are things happening at the court which we cannot even bring at the court which we cannot even bring ourselves else to write. It is that ourselves else to write. It is that shocking. So clearly by then they have shocking. So clearly by then they have realized that perhaps it is more young realized that perhaps it is more young boys that are attending his court than a boys that are attending his court than a lot of women. So yes um you know then we lot of women. So yes um you know then we have Asafua coming um and yes he is a have Asafua coming um and yes he is a homosexual. homosexual. homosexual. Yes he creates this you know everything Yes he creates this you know everything that we now know as Laknawi began with that we now know as Laknawi began with Sujawa. the love of tawi, the the you Sujawa. the love of tawi, the the you know uh patronizing tawifi culture, the know uh patronizing tawifi culture, the music and the dance, attracting poetry, music and the dance, attracting poetry, attracting the best poets from Mughal attracting the best poets from Mughal Delhi, the best painters. He establishes Delhi, the best painters. He establishes you know at encourages other people to you know at encourages other people to do so as well. All of this begins with do so as well. All of this begins with Shujah who was also a a warrior in his Shujah who was also a a warrior in his time. It is continued under Asafala. Uh time. It is continued under Asafala. Uh and Asafodala um also tries very hard to and Asafodala um also tries very hard to be military militarily up to uh you know be military militarily up to uh you know facing a British onslaught. He knows facing a British onslaught. He knows he's very canny. He is somebody who is he's very canny. He is somebody who is extremely shrewd, extremely intelligent extremely shrewd, extremely intelligent and uses the limited resources he has in and uses the limited resources he has in terms of uh you know political might. He terms of uh you know political might. He knows that now things are circumscribed knows that now things are circumscribed to a much greater extent than they were to a much greater extent than they were during his father's time because he's during his father's time because he's made to sign new treaties when he made to sign new treaties when he becomes nab. But he is extremely canny becomes nab. But he is extremely canny um and diplomatically very suave. Uh and um and diplomatically very suave. Uh and he uses all those skills to keep the he uses all those skills to keep the British at bay. So that it is really British at bay. So that it is really only by 17 uh98 upon his death and when only by 17 uh98 upon his death and when Wazer Ali becomes uh then the next nab Wazer Ali becomes uh then the next nab and then after that Saddat Alihan um and then after that Saddat Alihan um that they are made to sign treaties that they are made to sign treaties which really give up a lot of their which really give up a lot of their independence and that's where I stopped independence and that's where I stopped my book because up till time he refuses my book because up till time he refuses he is put under tremendous pressure and he is put under tremendous pressure and every time uh the British have to back every time uh the British have to back down because he is so firm he stands by down because he is so firm he stands by what uh uh by what he has been promised what uh uh by what he has been promised early on. He's so steady in that and he early on. He's so steady in that and he plays them off against each other. He plays them off against each other. He uses whatever he can, all his resources uses whatever he can, all his resources and he is never made to sign a treaty and he is never made to sign a treaty that is truly truly disabling. that is truly truly disabling. It's a a wonderful book. Uh if it was a It's a a wonderful book. Uh if it was a web series, who would you have play the web series, who would you have play the role of Shoja Dalah? role of Shoja Dalah? Oh, tricky one. Who has the best Oh, tricky one. Who has the best mustache in town? That's your question. mustache in town? That's your question. um um um somebody who would it be as it is I was somebody who would it be as it is I was they cast Vit Roshan as Akbar and I had they cast Vit Roshan as Akbar and I had my doubts about that you know when you my doubts about that you know when you think about Akbar as short and stocky think about Akbar as short and stocky and uh um I don't know who would you and uh um I don't know who would you cast at Shura Ranir Singh would cast at Shura Ranir Singh would the mustache would look good and he the mustache would look good and he would have that charisma and you know would have that charisma and you know all of that you're right you're right he all of that you're right you're right he would be moving on to my would be he would be moving on to my penultimate penultimate penultimate So uh which is what are you working on So uh which is what are you working on now? now? now? So I am working on um loosely the So I am working on um loosely the biography of beam samu who was a late biography of beam samu who was a late 18th century early 19th century 18th century early 19th century character. She was a taw because I told character. She was a taw because I told you I got fascinated by taw. I listened you I got fascinated by taw. I listened to sabadan. I was like how can I write to sabadan. I was like how can I write about all of this? Um so here we have a about all of this? Um so here we have a taw uh in the mid 18th century who taw uh in the mid 18th century who marries an Austrian adventurer. He dies marries an Austrian adventurer. He dies quite soon. She inherits his lands and quite soon. She inherits his lands and his army and she goes on to lead them in his army and she goes on to lead them in battle and also rule her uh you know battle and also rule her uh you know constituency or her suba of sardana constituency or her suba of sardana outside Marriott. She converts to outside Marriott. She converts to Catholicism. Uses the fact that she is Catholicism. Uses the fact that she is now a Catholic ruler to be able to now a Catholic ruler to be able to parlay with British men and European parlay with British men and European men. um and remains an independent ruler men. um and remains an independent ruler till the end of her very long life. So I till the end of her very long life. So I feel that you know we need to talk about feel that you know we need to talk about her more. I enjoyed talking about her her more. I enjoyed talking about her with Sabad Ivan in the episode that we with Sabad Ivan in the episode that we did together and I who would play the did together and I who would play the title role uh here. Oh wow. You know, title role uh here. Oh wow. You know, she's a fascinating character because she's a fascinating character because despite the fact that she must have been despite the fact that she must have been very beautiful when she was young and very beautiful when she was young and she was a taw and she was uh courted uh she was a taw and she was uh courted uh by important people, a very fair woman by important people, a very fair woman uh very petite with beautiful hands and uh very petite with beautiful hands and feet. But she controlled her she cured feet. But she controlled her she cured her image so well that we only have her image so well that we only have images of her as an elderly matriarch. images of her as an elderly matriarch. So clearly she saw her youth and her So clearly she saw her youth and her beauty not as a source of power or beauty not as a source of power or rather as a power that she had once used rather as a power that she had once used was now done with. Now she had far more was now done with. Now she had far more than that. And so she was willing to be than that. And so she was willing to be portrayed as the wise powerful old woman portrayed as the wise powerful old woman that she now was. And I think you know that she now was. And I think you know we we talking about having to be we we talking about having to be beautiful and thin even for today's beautiful and thin even for today's young girls. This is an old and and the young girls. This is an old and and the British right you know very derogatory. British right you know very derogatory. Oh she's a wizard prune of a woman and Oh she's a wizard prune of a woman and this and that. So they don't realize this and that. So they don't realize that she's asserting her power of being that she's asserting her power of being painted like that. She's saying yes this painted like that. She's saying yes this is who I am and I am powerful. You are is who I am and I am powerful. You are coming to my court. Um so who would be coming to my court. Um so who would be cast uh to play her who has that kind of cast uh to play her who has that kind of gravitas while yet hinting at earlier gravitas while yet hinting at earlier beauty. you know, I don't want to uh you beauty. you know, I don't want to uh you know, forever make myself unpopular with know, forever make myself unpopular with any Bollywood um any Bollywood um uh player but um though she's of course uh player but um though she's of course much much younger Vidya Balan somebody much much younger Vidya Balan somebody like that perhaps even though she is like that perhaps even though she is much younger I was once really struck by much younger I was once really struck by Louis Bunwell's last film that obscure Louis Bunwell's last film that obscure object of desire and one of the things object of desire and one of the things in that which he did was he had multiple in that which he did was he had multiple actresses playing the uh role of the of actresses playing the uh role of the of the main female protagonist. So I think the main female protagonist. So I think you know the I think that's a good idea. you know the I think that's a good idea. The old Beum Samru could easily be like The old Beum Samru could easily be like I would just think of Shabbana as me or I would just think of Shabbana as me or Zinatan for the old one and for the Zinatan for the old one and for the young one you I mean I don't follow young one you I mean I don't follow Bollywood that well to be able to have Bollywood that well to be able to have an opinion on that today but for the old an opinion on that today but for the old one you know Taboo also as a middle-aged one you know Taboo also as a middle-aged one. Oh yes yes yes she would be great. one. Oh yes yes yes she would be great. That's it. That's done. I'm going to That's it. That's done. I'm going to write to all of them now. Done deal. write to all of them now. Done deal. Give me 1% of your 1% commission. Give me 1% of your 1% commission. So uh uh last question uh for me and my So uh uh last question uh for me and my listeners. Give us recommendations for listeners. Give us recommendations for books, films, music that you love so books, films, music that you love so much that bring you so much happiness. much that bring you so much happiness. You want to share them with everyone. You want to share them with everyone. Uh books. Uh let me tell you about Uh books. Uh let me tell you about books. I have some here. So I really books. I have some here. So I really like Helen Garner. I don't know if like Helen Garner. I don't know if you've read her. She is an Australian you've read her. She is an Australian journalist who then started uh recording journalist who then started uh recording some of the great sensationalist cases some of the great sensationalist cases that she was following and then went that she was following and then went back and wrote great books about them. back and wrote great books about them. You know, exploring the humanity of the You know, exploring the humanity of the people in all of these stories. This people in all of these stories. This house of grief, this house of grief and house of grief, this house of grief and Joe Chinquay's consolation are the two Joe Chinquay's consolation are the two that yeah that I really really loved. Uh that yeah that I really really loved. Uh Joan Ddian is always a joy you know the Joan Ddian is always a joy you know the year of magical thinking. H is for hawk year of magical thinking. H is for hawk of course by Helen McDonald. Um, grief of course by Helen McDonald. Um, grief is the thing uh is a thing with feathers is the thing uh is a thing with feathers I think by Max Porter was also um I think by Max Porter was also um something I really really loved. Then I something I really really loved. Then I really love this style which is really love this style which is so it's not a historical non-fiction but so it's not a historical non-fiction but it is based on historical facts. So it is based on historical facts. So there are these writers who write about there are these writers who write about important historical events but fiction important historical events but fiction fictionalized so that you know they fictionalized so that you know they really examine those kind of very really examine those kind of very important moments. So you have a thing important moments. So you have a thing like um there was this book called like um there was this book called burial rights by Hannah Kent and she burial rights by Hannah Kent and she examines the very last couple the very examines the very last couple the very last people to be executed I think in last people to be executed I think in Iceland for for murder. Uh it's a man Iceland for for murder. Uh it's a man and a woman. So it is in the early um and a woman. So it is in the early um sometime in the 19th century they sometime in the 19th century they executed by you know the head being executed by you know the head being chopped off and they have to wait till chopped off and they have to wait till the spring till the weather is right the spring till the weather is right because then they have to bury them. So because then they have to bury them. So they have to wait for the land to thaw they have to wait for the land to thaw before they can carry out this before they can carry out this execution. So this poor woman is kept execution. So this poor woman is kept for this entire winter, this long dark for this entire winter, this long dark winter in a farmstead which is looked winter in a farmstead which is looked after just by a farmer and his daughter. after just by a farmer and his daughter. So she examines and imagines this long So she examines and imagines this long winter that this woman is waiting to be winter that this woman is waiting to be executed and it is a beautiful lyrical executed and it is a beautiful lyrical uh um masterpiece. uh um masterpiece. Who else has written? Uh I do like Maya Who else has written? Uh I do like Maya Angelou a lot. Um I like uh Tony Angelou a lot. Um I like uh Tony Morrison a lot because just because they Morrison a lot because just because they challenge the way in which English you challenge the way in which English you know can be written that there are other know can be written that there are other ways to write in as well. Um along the ways to write in as well. Um along the theme of historically important uh uh theme of historically important uh uh events is something called um the wonder events is something called um the wonder by Emma Donahghue I think. So she looks by Emma Donahghue I think. So she looks at this phenomenon that happened in at this phenomenon that happened in Europe where young boys and girls mostly Europe where young boys and girls mostly girls were starving themselves in in a girls were starving themselves in in a fit of religious ecstasy. You know, I fit of religious ecstasy. You know, I guess we have the same thing with Jens guess we have the same thing with Jens who allow young girls sometimes to who allow young girls sometimes to starve unto liberation or unto, you starve unto liberation or unto, you know, starvation by death, whichever know, starvation by death, whichever way. So the same things were happening way. So the same things were happening in Europe. And she examines this whole in Europe. And she examines this whole process in this book called the wonder process in this book called the wonder very beautifully. What drives what drove very beautifully. What drives what drove possibly young girls to do this uh you possibly young girls to do this uh you know to embibe this religious fervor and know to embibe this religious fervor and to stop eating? Why did they stop to stop eating? Why did they stop eating? You know, all of those complex eating? You know, all of those complex thoughts. A very beautiful book. So I thoughts. A very beautiful book. So I really really love that. Kavita Singh uh really really love that. Kavita Singh uh real birds in imaginary garden even a real birds in imaginary garden even a non historian non-art historian can non historian non-art historian can access access that book it's it's a real access access that book it's it's a real to the force you know with an art to the force you know with an art historian just exposing through a few historian just exposing through a few paintings the complexities that existed paintings the complexities that existed in Mughal art so for a lay person you in Mughal art so for a lay person you know we just look at these paintings and know we just look at these paintings and think huh you know what is the meaning think huh you know what is the meaning in them when you read a book like this in them when you read a book like this it changes the way forever you will you it changes the way forever you will you know look at um examine these miniatures know look at um examine these miniatures so that's that's a wonderful book I also so that's that's a wonderful book I also really liked in terms of history really liked in terms of history writing. There's a book called when writing. There's a book called when Monteuma met Cortez by Ma Matthew Monteuma met Cortez by Ma Matthew Restol. Uh so he again does this trick Restol. Uh so he again does this trick where he is turning the gaze around and where he is turning the gaze around and instead of looking at Cortez is uh you instead of looking at Cortez is uh you know capture and conquering of of know capture and conquering of of Monteuma and his peoples, he turns it Monteuma and his peoples, he turns it around to see how Monteuma and his around to see how Monteuma and his people must have reacted to somebody people must have reacted to somebody like Cortez. What did they think? How like Cortez. What did they think? How did they react? what were these actions did they react? what were these actions that they took which were interpreted in that they took which were interpreted in a certain manner by the by the Europeans a certain manner by the by the Europeans what it must have meant in their own what it must have meant in their own culture so it is a fascinating book culture so it is a fascinating book which teaches you to look at um history which teaches you to look at um history in a different way so that's another in a different way so that's another book that I would recommend in terms of book that I would recommend in terms of movies um anything earth shattering I movies um anything earth shattering I did like um did like um uh the the great Indian kitchen which I uh the the great Indian kitchen which I mentioned uh you know earlier on the the mentioned uh you know earlier on the the Malali version I think the first one Malali version I think the first one that I found really really mind-blowing. that I found really really mind-blowing. Um, and something that I watched re Um, and something that I watched re recently that I liked um a lot was recently that I liked um a lot was stolen I think it's called where um a stolen I think it's called where um a little a little baby is stolen uh at the little a little baby is stolen uh at the railway station. She's sleeping with her railway station. She's sleeping with her mother and she's stolen from the arms of mother and she's stolen from the arms of her mother. And then you know this the her mother. And then you know this the whole story carries on from there where whole story carries on from there where this mother is trying to find her child this mother is trying to find her child back and she tries to enlist the help of back and she tries to enlist the help of these two uh you know middle-class men these two uh you know middle-class men who are who get caught up in it and it's who are who get caught up in it and it's a very fastm moving uh narrative um a very fastm moving uh narrative um which exposes you know many truths about which exposes you know many truths about Indian society even today which is which Indian society even today which is which is really worth so I really like liked is really worth so I really like liked watching that as well. Fabulous. Thank watching that as well. Fabulous. Thank you so much. Before you go, I must uh you so much. Before you go, I must uh make you promise to come on my show make you promise to come on my show again 30 years later. That will be our again 30 years later. That will be our best episode. Ask why? Why? Because old best episode. Ask why? Why? Because old crrons tell the best stories. crrons tell the best stories. So that's a So they do. I'm going to use So that's a So they do. I'm going to use that as a strap line from now on. Yeah, that as a strap line from now on. Yeah, you're not old enough. See you in 30 you're not old enough. See you in 30 years. Thank you so much. This was years. Thank you so much. This was great. Thank you. This was so much fun. great. Thank you. This was so much fun. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. If you enjoyed listening to this If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes, enter episode, check out the show notes, enter rabbit holes at will. Ara's work is rabbit holes at will. Ara's work is incredible, so head on over to your incredible, so head on over to your nearest bookstore online or offline and nearest bookstore online or offline and buy all her books. You can follow a on buy all her books. You can follow a on Twitter at makotti. And you can follow Twitter at makotti. And you can follow me at amitwarma amit tb. You can browse me at amitwarma amit tb. You can browse past episodes of the scene and the past episodes of the scene and the unseen at seen unseen. And every podcast unseen at seen unseen. And every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of The Scene Did you enjoy this episode of The Scene and the Unseen? If so, would you like to and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You support the production of the show? You can go over to seen ununseene.in/support can go over to seen ununseene.in/support and contribute any amount you like to and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.