================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: c-CsqX9rEL4
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c-CsqX9rEL4
TITLE: Ep 428: The Solitary Writer Meets the Impossible Man
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-06
DURATION: 4h 24m 27s
VIEWS: 721
LIKES: 15
COMMENTS: 1

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Writing biographies is solitary and difficult -- even when the subject is way more interesting than anything you could make up. Narayani Basu joins Amit Varma in episode 428 of The Seen and the Unseen to discuss writing, friendship, hustling, ageing, intentionality and the subject of her latest book, the impossible KM Panikkar.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Narayani Basu on Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and Amazon.  2. A Man For All Seasons: The Life Of KM Panikkar -- Narayani Basu. 3. VP Menon: The Unsung Architect of Modern India -- Narayani Basu. 4. Allegiance: Azaadi and the End of Empire -- Narayani Basu. 5. India’s Greatest Civil Servant — Episode 167 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Narayani Basu). 6. Kavitha Rao Chases Chatto and Roy -- Episode 416 of The Seen and the Unseen. 7. When Harry Met Sally -- Rob Reiner. 8. Can men and women be just friends? — The Economist. 9. Malini Goyal is the Curious One — Ep 377 of The Seen and the Unseen. 1
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 45,211

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Writing a book can be such a desperately lonely process. You embark upon a journey. You can't always see the road ahead. Often there is none and you are walking through fog in a forest. No one else is on quite the same trip as you. You are always alone when the work gets difficult as you battle the demons in your head. Writing one book after another is a series of sours. And so is life. Life can sometimes be the hardest project of all as you end up far from wherever you thought your destination was. You're still not sure where you're going to next. Sometimes you think the journey is great, but other times it absolutely isn't. And there is every chance that no one understands what you're going through because sometimes you don't understand it yourself. My god, I just made it sound so grim. Thankfully, my guest today isn't quite so gloomy about the prospect of writing books or indeed about life itself. Yes, all of it is solitary, but you can find joy in the work and make friends along the way, including some who will come and help when your geyser isn't working. Narani Basu is a fantastic biographer, but what I admire most about her is not the considerable thought she has put into the lives of others, but the intentionality with which she lives her own life. Welcome to the seen and the unseen our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral science. Please welcome your host Amit Buma. Welcome to the scene on the unscene. My guest today is Narani Basu who has been on the show once before in a fantastic episode called India's greatest civil servant about her wonderful book on BP Manon. She's recently released a man for all seasons, a biography of KM Paneker, once described quite aptly as the impossible man. Paniker worked closely with Gandhi and Neru, was a founder editor of the Hindustan Times, was a professor, a historian and a novelist, a minister for princely states, an ambassador to foreign countries, a public intellectual who straddled fields who wrote treatises in English and poetry and novels in Malalam. Basically like Forest Gump, but more unbelievable despite actually existing. Narani is a fantastic storyteller. This is a rollicking book with both insights and entertainment just like her previous work. Only the second half of this episode is about the book and about panikar. Though in the first half we chatted about Narani's own life and learnings with many meditations on themes like friendship, finding connection, finding purpose, the travailes of writing, understanding that adulting is always just winging it and the importance of intentionality. I love the first two hours of this conversation. In fact, all of it. and I know you'll enjoy it, too. But first, let's take a commercial break. Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant Ajay Sha. We've called it Everything is Everything. Every week, we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about, from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma amit v a r ma. The show is called everything is everything. Please do check it out. Narani welcome to the scene and the unseen. >> Thank you so much Amit. It is the second time that I'm back so I'm very happy. >> It's not the second time you're back. It's your second episode. Is the first time you're back >> in what sense? >> In the sense uh the first time you came on the show, you weren't back. >> This is the first time you're back >> at this time. >> But I'm veryantics. >> Very happy to uh have you on the show today. So, you know, I was reading your wonderful book uh on Mr. Paniker and I was thinking we going to have such a great conversation about Mr. Paniker. He's such a great man. But then today morning I spoke to a mutual friend of ours uh who I just described as my favorite na and possibly yours also and she told me such amazing things about you that I said okay forget Mr. Panik though I'm joking we'll come to Mr. panicle at some point but I want to talk about Narani today and this is Supria Nay right >> one of my favorite nays also >> one of your favorite nays also yeah she's she's a pretty awesome naire as ners go though I must say my sample size of ner friends is one people with that name but she's the best and the worst in that sample size uh and I was chatting and I said hey I'm recording with Narani and is she your friend and she said oh yes so I said okay uh tell me about her and uh the first thing she said was she's such a girl and then she elaborated on that by saying that Narani is someone who loves deeply, lives fully. She throws herself into everything that she does. She's retained her curiosity. She's vulnerable and curious and um you know she gives herself to her friends, writes the most amazing love letters to her friends, nurtures her friendships deeply and all of these things and many many more things uh which uh I won't go into and I wanted to ask about that because the one time that we did meet and did record an episode my impression was you're a scholarly uh serious kind of person and I really want to sort of get behind that mask and not a mask because you are a serious ious kind of person when it comes to your scholarship but u uh today I want to know a bit more about you that uh you know and this is you know she's such a girl the way she started and when she described all of it I said hey I want to be such a girl so uh but tell me a little bit about that that it's one thing to have that jaw vivra and the desire to throw yourself into life when you're 20 or 21 it's another thing to actually maintain it after the world has it way with you so uh tell me a bit about that that you know what is the approach approach that you bring to the world and is the description accurate otherwise we shall demote her to one favorite. >> No, please don't demote her. I don't look the whether the description is accurate or not depends on people who know me. So I'd like to think Supria knows me and I'm really glad that this is what she knows because it's lovely to hear. It's made my whole month and possibly the rest of my year. Um so Supria, if you're listening, thank you so much. But um I don't know because honestly what what I have tried to do is and and I'm an only child. Um I have chosen to do a very solitary line of work. My craft is a solitary one. Um and I spend my days sort of time managing between doing freelance work and what I truly love to do because what I truly love to do doesn't pay the bills. So, in doing all of that, while I've been doing all of that, I've managed somehow to find a community of very solid friends. Um, some of whom have moved to the position of, you know, chosen family almost. And I've been really lucky in that sense because if you are um a scholar or a writer, researcher in any sense of the word, I think you are deliberately choosing to be lonely during your professional life. And I think it's very important to have a community whom you can lean on and know that okay if you need someone at 2:00 in the morning you can call and somebody will come and I think my friends have showed up for me in ways that I genuinely never expected anybody to do. And I think that has kept me going a lot really because to know that okay I can vanish for a time into whatever my work demands of me. Sometimes the editing is intense and I fall off the map. Sometimes you know I'm writing and it's intense and I fall off the map. People will hold space and I know that sounds really woke and 21st century but honestly they do hold space. they do um choose to be there when I surface. There is no questioning of the vanishing. There is no questioning of anything really. And I think the little ways in which people have showed up and the little ways in which they've shown me that they care that's helped me to stay I mean Supria says vulnerable and curious but it's also helped me to stay very grounded because most of my friends are not from the space that I work in. Um that has really really helped. It helps me to stay grounded in who I am. It helps me to stay grounded in the values that I have and it also helps me stay grounded being real and I couldn't have done this without them being there. So I think that is something that I have to give all the credit to is the people who I have been lucky enough to find. I'm just thinking aloud and I'm thinking that sometimes there's a feedback loop between personality and behavior that you are a particular way and then that goes into your behavior and there's a feedback loop but sometimes also it can work the other way that you choose to be intentional about some values and you behave in that way and without your knowing it that kind of shapes your uh personality. Um and I wonder how that's played out with you like in a sense uh you know what were you like as a kid because when you're young you're open and trusting and you give yourselves freely to people and I have noticed that as we get older we get more and more guarded and um uh you know we have bad experiences and we stop doing that but at the same time if you intentionally decide that look people are important people are what make life worth living and I'm going to nurture friendships >> then that again plays into the way that you uh treat the world. >> So how is that with you that is this sort of um nurturing of friendships and thrusting yourself into life? Um how much of it is intellectual realization that I need this to live a good life given that it's a solitary profession and how much is it the way you always were like as a kid how were you for example >> I was absolutely opposite I was a very shy child I u during my kindergarten days and my very young school days I was a bit of a naughty child so I would gravitate towards the and I generally sometimes would be the troublemaker in class that sort of went away as I grew older because suddenly you have like peer pressure and you have different kind you have puberty and you have adolescence and you have you know different academic groups forming and clicks forming within high school and all of that and sometimes high school can really take it out of you in terms of bullying and in terms of you know where where you are also on the popularity ladder of things and somewhere in my teens I became a very shy child and that stayed right through college. Um, we used to I studied in a convent school and I still remember my house teacher at the time. We used to have these extempor speaking competitions and she used to be at her wit's end because I couldn't speak on a stage to save my soul. I used to freeze and no words would enter my brain. And she often used to tell my mother you know she's one. And at that point I was class 10 and I was already aiming to do history at some point. Um because I even at that age I loved reading I was reading a lot of historical fiction at that point and I loved reading it and I wanted to study more about it. Um I remember she used she told my mother she said look she wants to uh study history and she wants to go you know obviously go to college etc. She will be asked to speak publicly at some point if she can't speak in an exto house competition. What is going to happen to her in college? And you know I think my mother just let me be because she said sometimes children take their time to develop. And as it turned out it took me a few more years because I remember undergrad I barely opened my mouth. I don't think anyone really remembers me from undergrad in college because I was a very quiet girl. Um I didn't open my mouth at all. Largely backbenture, very happy to bunk very much that style like I paid attention to my studies but I was not any superb personality. I think it started to develop somewhere in Ma is when I started to realize that okay people do like me and I don't have to be a certain way. I think it also depends largely on where you are in college also and I was I I am from St. Stevens and at that point I was very much a misfit in undergrad. Um I did my masters and my male from Delhi University and I felt much easier somehow and I felt more at ease with who I was becoming. I still had very little clue that okay one day I'm going to end up writing books etc. That would take its own time. But I found it easier to make friends. I found it easier to talk to people. And I began to see that people enjoyed talking to me. Also, I think the fullness of that realization came much later when I was trying to figure out how to be a historian because that's one thing I think and I know this is a derailment from what we were talking about but um I think people don't teach you in this country that you can be a historian if you follow an unconventional track record as far as your qualifications. And as far as where you are in life is concerned and it was only when I was researching VP Menon and this was some years ago this must have been 15 16 is when I actively discovered that okay people wanted to know more about what I was thinking not just about what I was working on but also about everything around that. They wanted to know what made me me. And I began to realize that I like knowing what makes people them. And I began actively just pursuing that because I do genuinely now I do enjoy people. It's taken me a while to get to this point. So, what you see on maybe social media is a product of how long it's taken to get to this point where I actively really like people and I really enjoy getting to know people and getting to find out what makes them tick. And I think that has been a sort of intellectual realization I think is the phrase you used. But I think that's what led me to that intellectual realization that okay I really like people. I don't want to be um or I don't want to lead a life where even professionally if I've chosen a life that is solitary at work. I don't want to not go out and meet people. I don't want to not drop into someone's home and say, "Hey, let's hang out." Um, so now people who know me now see me as this very social, outgoing person. But I was never always this person. It's taken a while to come here, and it's taken a while to realize the value of actually getting to know people, enjoying people for who they are, and really letting them be part of your life. Because I think and I've again I've been very lucky in this respect but I think people like being part of your life if you allow them to be um and they like being there for you. I think that's inherently part of human nature where you want to be connected to somebody and I think I've been lucky enough to allow that to happen and to enjoy that allowing. Also >> there are two simultaneous anxieties we have while growing up and I faced it and it took me much longer to deal with it than >> um it seems to have taken you and one is the anxiety of just finding yourself just figuring out who am I what do I want to do and the other is the anxiety of fitting in because you want to be liked and you want to be popular and all of that and these kind of play out simultaneously and it can sometimes be tor torturous when you're in school or college and it's graying out and neither of them seems to be working out because if you want the validation of people, if you want to be liked, often you u become who you're not because you think that that is what will appeal to people and so on and so forth. Give me a sense of uh what those two journeys both of them were for you because you said that it was a surprising realization to find out um as you went through college that people liked um listening to you that people seem to like you and and you were surprised by this. give me a sense of these two journeys and how they sort of evolved. Like most people I think never reach that phase where they're comfortable in their skins, >> right? And uh uh and and it seems to me that even that first anxiety of finding yourself >> really has two components to it. And one anxiety is how are you with yourself and that's internally directed. And the other is how are you with the world which is which has made you a social person and value friends and all of that. So give me a sense of how the how you dealt with these anxieties and how that evolved. >> I think at some level the anxieties are still there. I think at some point if you have been a certain way all through your childhood it stays with you somewhere. just because I'm a social person now doesn't mean that I don't inherently suffer from the anxieties of what if somebody doesn't like me or you know it it's natural and it's normal and I think that that stays with you somehow and even now I think while I'm certainly a lot more comfortable in my skin than I used to be I think it's still a process I don't think I'd like to think we all reach a point where we're completely chilled out about who we are but I don't know if we managed to get there entirely at some level. That said, I think it it helps to have the sense that okay, there is this community of people around me, whether it's big, whether it's small or medium-sized, who actively don't care too much, right? they they're not looking for a curated version of who I am. They're looking for me essentially and what makes me me. Um, and that said, I also think we all present different sides of ourselves to different people depending on their closeness to us etc. But I think if out of 10 friends, if you have eight friends who see the real you and who respect it, enjoy it and want more of it. I think that helps you become easier with who you are at least. And sure, there may be an argument for okay, you're projecting a lot for external validation, etc. But I think different people help you to uncover different parts of yourself and different people help you to explore parts of you that you didn't know you had, you know. And I think certain people spark different a different kind of humor in you. Certain people spark a different uh way of looking at the world sometimes. I think as much as I enjoy having my friends, I think I've learned a lot from them and their presence in my life in that it's helped me to understand who I am much better rather than um life only teaching me. I think the people in my life have also taught me a lot about who I am and where I'm going and because I feel like you also change from year to year, right? I mean, I'm not the same person I was 5 years ago. None of us are. And I think there are people who stay with you for all those 5 years. There are people who transition in and out of your life depending and that's part of life. But the people who stay and the people who actively um again I go back to the phrase hold space for the different versions of you that are there as you grow up. I think those are the people that make it worthwhile and those are the people that at least I have made the choice to be like okay these are important people in my life and they are people I will make time for, I will invest in and I will um be there for them as much as possible. >> You mentioned that different people spark different aspects of you and uh that you have learned more about yourself through through uh these friendships in separate ways. Can you give me examples of that? I mean whether you take names of people or not is up to you. But just in terms of you know how you grew through a particular friendship or a particular facet of yourself being sparked. >> Um I can give you two. Um one is one of my very dearest friends. She is very much like a sister to me. Um and her name is Lakshina. And she has helped me grow from being somebody who was very reticent, somebody who really didn't like talking about emotions or vulnerabilities or even acknowledging the really dark and twisty parts of yourself to use a very Grey's Anatomy phrase, but to acknowledge that having those parts of you is okay and to acknowledge them to another person obviously based on trust etc is a safe thing to do. So she's helped me grow to become somebody who's far more open to being vulnerable. I was never really open to being vulnerable. I think I still struggle with it a lot but I think being friends with her has helped me grow into that aspect. Um the other has been my friend Deepep whom I met while researching VB man in the archives at the NU memorial museum and library and Deep at the time was studying for his PhD and I was researching my book and we became friends through subjects of common interest. So what we were researching and the archives and stuff like that. And then we began talking a lot more about not just the subjects that interested us but also we discovered I discovered I had a sense of humor that I didn't know existed. Um I discovered that it was okay to let go of a public image so to speak and sometimes just dance to bad Bollywood. you know this is as simple as that. So it's just letting go. I think deep taught me to let go of um a public face among people who are safe and be um who you are inside. So I think both of them speak to me learning to be more open, more vulnerable, more um at ease rather than pretending to be a certain way or to act a certain way. And I think both these friendships have really helped me grow in that. >> And when you say that people are like this that if you let them into your lives, they'll come, they'll also give interest. I wonder if there's a selection effect there because my impression of the world is that most people are actually not curious about other people. Most people are in that main character syndrome. Everything is about them. People are instrumental. I sound very cynical, but you wait till you're my age. Uh and in a sense, it's a lament about my uh uh earlier self as well that most people are just in in a certain sense self-obsessed. And I would imagine that if you start giving yourself to those friendships, the ones that will deepen are from people who are similarly inclined to you, who are willing to give, who are willing to make that space and then you have a virtuous cycle forming. >> Yeah. No, because obviously we do come across main character energy and there is there is that um and I think in certain situations we all have main character energy. But I think you're right in what you say that the the people who actively are the people who stay are the ones who actually see beyond that and who actively are not looking to be the main character in your life. They're looking to support you and they're looking to be on your side and in your corner. And that's through everything, right? There are these friendships that you have that where you text each other every day or you tell each other, you know, minute to minute what's happening. And it's been super helpful in that it's it's so many of my friends have taught me that it doesn't necessarily have to be a romantic partner, for instance, that you talk to every day or that who is a part of your life every day. There are also friends who are there for you every day. Um, and who enjoy hearing about your day. You know, if you're stuck in a jam or if you dropped a bottle on the floor or, you know, there's a leak in the bathroom at home. It's stuff like that, right? So if it's somebody you find who goes through daily frustrations with you and somebody who also is there to cheer for you when you have achieved success um I know that so many of my friends in fact all my friends show up so completely uncomplicatedly to cheer for every success whether it's big small you know they've they've celebrated even things like me submitting a manuscript so it's not just okay it's Narini's book launch and so we'll be there it's every step of the way and whether that comes with you know your daily failures your daily frustrations your daily rejections from various places it all builds into one cumulative spirit I think and if you have that then I think you know it it helps you to feel safe enough to show them who you actually So I I was I was sitting with three of my closest friends, my YouTube co-host Rajesa and the crew we have Nam Sitan Vishnu and I was telling them I was thinking aloud when we were together and I just said that you know people often say you shouldn't take your friends for granted but I feel that sometimes you should take your friends for granted like I want to take you for granted and I want you to take me for granted in the sense that >> then it's unconditional then you'll just be there no matter what happens there's no instrumentality there's no sense of transaction actionalness that you will be a good friend to me if I'm a good friend to you. No, it's okay if I'm not in touch, if I'm grumpy, if I don't whatever, I need to feel that when I'm in those moments, I don't need to be calculative about how I am treating my friends, right? You'll be there for me when it's all over. And I I I I sort of think about different aspects of friendship and what does it even mean because at one level it is so unnatural and it seems that underneath the hold everything must be transactional, right? But at another level it is the one thing that gives life meaning in the sense like of course life is meaningless. We we established that in our conversation before the recording but it's it's it's one thing that actually makes it beautiful because we go through life you know people will say you collect experiences you collect no man you just collect people that's the only thing you collect. So how has your thinking on friendship evolved over the years? I think pretty much in the same way, you know, like I think your um your friend your evolution of friendship evolves from when you're in school and it's determined by in school it's determined by a lot that's superficial, right? I mean like high school clicks and you take sides over who's stolen, who's tiffen and stuff like that, right? But or at least that was my experience. I don't know about anyone else's but in in adulthood I think my experience of it has been that you are not afraid to say okay I know that I can do this activity and know that seven people will show up I know that if tomorrow if there's an illness or if there's some crisis in my family somebody will come to help me possibly possibly more people. I know that if I send somebody a text saying the Giza sprung a leak and you know, oh my god, I'm so frustrated, I'm late for a meeting, I will be heard. You know, it's a stupid thing. But whether it's stupid or whether it's serious, when you know that you have that to fall back on, I think that is very liberating in a sense because then you know somehow that you're not alone. And it's what you said, right? You know, you can take them for granted in that sense of the word. And I think it's in the best sense of the word, right? Like you know that that that you're going to be heard, you're going to be seen, you're going to be supported. It doesn't matter what is the circumstance. It doesn't matter where you are. Um they will show up. And it's that certainty. I think it's certainty. I think more than you know taking someone for granted. I think it's just certainty that wherever you are, you have a home, you have a sofa, you have somebody to listen to when you've had a bad day. somebody to listen to when you've had a mildly good day. You know, it's that it's that ability that extends to something as simple as, hey, are you free to get drinks after work? Um, hey, you know, I don't think I can talk. My dog just died. It's that irrespective of the size of the moments in your life, it's the fact that they are there through it all and they're experiencing that life that you are living with you. Um, and it helps at least it's helped me to give that back in some respect because I think all my friends have cumulatively taught me the importance of giving that back. Um, and also giving it forward, you know, and I know this sounds really preachy, but they have taught me how to give love back, give it forward, and be more curious about people I meet, the word that I encounter. Um, sure. I mean, all of us have gone through our own shares of really awful experiences. But I think that knowledge and that certainty that no matter what happens, I'm not alone and I'm not facing this life alone. I'm not doing it alone. I can give that sense of security back to not just them, but to other people and to be there for other people. I think the end of the day, that's what we're all looking for in friendship. I think that's what I've learned at this point. Like if you you asked me this question today, that's probably my answer to you is that the arc of friendship that I have learned to define is just the certainty of knowing that people are there and that you can give that back to them too. I did a recent episode with Kavita Rahu and we were chatting about how u you know men and women um are fundamentally different in the kind of conversations they have and she had an interesting thought to share where she said that look you know if I call my husband and I say when's your flight landing he'll say or if I call my son and say did you have food he'll say yes but if I call a female friend key when's your flight landing she'll say oh it's landing at 3:00 and by the way do you know what happened that I was sitting on the aisle seat and there was this guy in the middle road and middle row and we had this interesting conversation and then he showed me this on his phone and etc etc. And her point was that for a lot of men conversational becomes a little informational. It's uh instrumental in that sense that you're passing information and you're telling somebody something and that's it. uh whereas for women it's really about connecting and uh building that thing which is also why you know I have I've finally learned to fight the impulse that if a woman is complaining about something I don't need to solve the problem I can just you know shut the up and just listen and no I don't need to solve the problem I think every male has an inclination you know and so there are these fundamental differences and I wonder how this plays out in uh the friendships you have with women and the friendships you have with men Like I look at women and I'm kind of jealous of the strong sisterhoods that they form. >> Whereas with men it's not really like that. There's no brotherhood thing. At the most you have like bro talk and bros before ho locker room talk that kind of But you know shallow talk cricket you know those kind of deep bonds which you nurture over many years and all of that that's not there. Maybe you call a male friend and say hey my geyser is leaking. Ha he'll come over. It's a problem to solve. But you just want to talk in general because you're feeling a particular kind of vibe which is not too sad too happy but you just want to talk and it's a different matter. So what's been your experience with friendships with women and friendships with men? >> I think friendships with women your you know Kavita and you are both right. It is about connection and it's it is about um sisterhood is a great way to put it. You know it's it's it's used so often now there is almost hackne but it's still true. Um I think women have far more space for each other in terms of the kind of support they can offer in the kind of bond they can develop. Uh women are constantly dealing with 55 different crisis, you know, all before lunch sometimes and they get it like if you text them like, "Oh my god, this happened." There is instant understanding and there's instant like wanting to know more and wanting to participate in whatever you're sharing. So yes, that is there. But I think I've also been very lucky with my male friends in that um sure they're not as available on text but when you meet them or when I meet them I can literally fill them if if it's a calamity sure I'll text them and you know they will respond. uh I can't do dayto-day with them because they'll just be annoyed and but when I meet them and when I break it down for them whatever I've been going through over the last say 10 days 2 weeks whatever it's been there is unmitigated attention like there will never be dismissiveness or disinterest there will be full participation like at that point when I'm actively detailing the most mundane nonsense to in person there will be full participation. So in that sense I think I've been super lucky and which is why you know somebody like I I mentioned deep and he's very much like a family member by this point because the support that men and women offer is very different I think basically because of the way men and women are built and conditioned but from both you know male as well as female friends I've just had complete support. Even though it's showed up, it shows up in different ways and it presents itself differently on a day-to-day basis, it goes back to that certainty that I was talking about earlier that I don't really then need a male friend to vent to on a daily basis. It's okay if I meet them every couple of weeks and speak to them, you know. And there's there's one thing that my friends and I have um almost tacitly uh arranged is that we meet each other two every two weeks like irrespective even if they are very busy or traveling once a month definitely and it's not even like a rule that anyone has made. It's just it just is how it is like we all want to touch base with each other in person and you know sit down and talk about it over a meal or a drink or something and I think that connection and that wanting to maintain an in-person connection is also super important I think because it's so easy these days right in a day and age of like FaceTime and voice notes and WhatsApp and all of that so you can just become pen pals also in this day and age I've discovered. But when you meet each other, it's different, right? It's always different. So whether it's going out randomly or whether it's dropping into someone's home, that sense of connection is always there. And that's that's true for both men and women. I've found that both make time for you in very different ways, but they do. I'll ask you to make a a broader observation about friendships in general, not just from your own life. >> Um, you know, the central tension of the film when Harry met Sally was that can there be friendship between a man and a woman that doesn't have that underlying sexual tension somewhere, right? >> And uh, that's also led to this great phrase I came across recently. Someone made an index called the whimsy index. Uh, whimsy standing for when Harry met Sally. And was it the economist? I forget. But Shutti Raj Gopal and my friend pointed me to it and she was very amused by it. And what both of us could not believe is that in that whimsy index which measures how often you talk to unrelated people of the opposite gender, India actually does pretty high and I was kind of surprised by we were both surprised by that. We were like there must be a flaw in the methodology because I think of India as a place where that is famously a problem that men do not know how to talk to women that it it just there is our society is so repressed it it is just such a problem here and I think one of the fundamental things about wrong with our society is that the relationships are just not normal in that sense that you just these normal friendships seem um particularly hard. uh what are your sort of observations in this because in your self- selected circles I guess it's not an issue but outside of that from what you see and you live in Delhi so from what you see uh you know what are your observations >> I think it's easier to fall into the thing of saying that okay men and women can't be friends without some underlying sexual tension particularly since we do live in a very app dominated society at this point. Like everything is shopping online. Whether you're looking for a date or whether you're looking for a hookup or looking for a pair of shoes, everything is online. So I think it's it's easier to go with that. I think obviously I mean attraction depends on so many different things and so does friendship and in a society like ours and this is irrespective of where you live. I think it largely comes from your or the Indian family setup which is conditioned to very sort of set norms right like girl and boy will at some point get married and then we'll move on to set up a family and a life together I think particularly and I can only speak for the metropolises because I mean I don't know anything about the uh second year towns and about rural India as well. Um, but from whatever I've seen in Delhi, it's it's something that I think more people are exploring like you're e it's easier to be friends. And again, a lot of this is selective, right? I don't think many people u find it easy to do, particularly if you're a woman. It's very difficult to develop a friendship with a man that is organic because at the back of your head you're always wondering what is happening and that sometimes hampers the development of a friendship. So that is that is there like particularly in a city like Delhi. Um and again I can't speak to any other cities in this country but in Delhi per se it's hard because you know you are not used to also I think meeting people off the app and organically I think that sense of organic connection has gone somehow because it's it's all like if you are dating then you have to be on the apps right you can't you people look at you completely in bewilderment moment when you say that you're not on the app because how else does one find love and emotional connection except on the app. Um I think it's pretty much the same when it comes to friendship, right? Like if you meet somebody organically at say a friend's place and you start talking to them, then automatically the question in especially a woman's head is okay, what's going on? you know um and it takes a while for that that sort of inner tension to resolve itself and a lot of that depends on how a man approaches the situation and I think because because so much of how we are approaching um developing a relationship and this is whether it's protonic non-protonic gets lost in uncertainty because everyone's not looking to have hard conversations right off the bat or discuss things right off the bat. You, you know, which is why so many of us end up in situationships etc. because it's just easier to go with the flow and the flow leads you into some murky area where you're not sure whether one person is a friend, one person is not a friend. What what does it mean? I think that honesty is gone. the honesty of the organic connection and the honesty of what a particular connection can mean that has somehow got tarnished. Um for me it's been easier to make certainly female friends uh than it has been for me to make male friends. So when it comes to my self- selected circle which is all you know people who think like me and was basically an echo chamber honestly I suppose you can call it I've still found it easier to make friends with women rather than straight men. It's it's still difficult. So I think a lot of that goes back to how a man approaches it also apart from how you approach it as a woman. Um, and if you do it with honesty and clarity about what both your intentions are and both your feelings may be towards each other, I think it becomes easier. But >> again, that's very selective. I think >> I did an episode with Malini Goyel who had written a book on Bangalore. I don't know if you've read it. No. >> Um, so in that there's one chapter which is great. It's about dating in modern Indian cities. And what she did was uh she did a combination of a quantitative and a qualitative study where she looked at Tinder data and the specific data that she looked at is she looked at three cities uh Bangalore, Mumbai and Delhi and uh she um what she tracked was that if two people connect and one of them goes to the other person's house >> Yeah. Then for that uh cohort of people what is the time gap that it takes for that to happen for the first visit to somebody's house to happen in Delhi it was months low trust etc etc in Bombay I think it was couple of weeks 3 weeks whatever uh in Bangalore it was like almost uh you know so uh you know within a week you're kind of there and then she kind of backed this up by doing qualitative work where she actually spoke to a lot of people who were using the app and were in the dating circles and what she found was that of course number one what you would expect the promiscuity is off the charts but number two everybody's unhappy >> and everybody's unhappy because um you know in the old paradigm which was extremely imperfect and even that equilibrium doesn't work but in the old paradigm you meet someone and then your surface area of serendipity is not that high meeting people all the time so you make it work sometimes right you might have a fight but you go back and you try again but here at the slightest friction or the slightest doubt you've or 10 other options waiting on your app. So, you're seeing a lot of people, but you're dissatisfied. And perhaps the ability to form bonds and form form relationships also goes and you don't know what the to do because outside of the app, you can't do anything and everything like you said is on the app. If you're not on the app, what are you going to do? >> So, what are your observations of this? I mean I have an episode with Samad Bansil and Sanjay Ramchandran also on dating in modern India and they've spoken in some detail about the sort of uh difficulties thereof but what is your observation that you know how much of a struggle is this because it seems to me that friendship is the easy part. >> Yeah >> you know this is mad >> this is insane because I mean look I mean I've never been on the apps never intended to be and nor will be. Um, and I know that that decision alone from many of my friends was met with complete blankness because they were like, "How how how does that work?" And I'm just I don't care. I fundamentally don't care about the apps. Um, I never have because for me, romance or love, it can't be found with 10 options, you I mean, I also don't want 10 different chat boxes open with 10 people saying the same thing. And so, you have to like tailor your answer and be witty and be you I I can't why do I want to put filters and, you know, why I don't want that. Um, and maybe I am reaching for something, you know, that's unattainable, but I'd prefer to stay off the apps. would prefer to look for um a human connection and I think you know I mean sure you say friendship is the easiest bit but honestly how is it different is what I'm also wondering because this is how I made some of my closest friends is you go out you meet them if you like them you meet them again if you like that then you meet again and then from there you progress the Only thing that's different in dating is you're looking to have sex, have a relationship that is a nonplatonic one. This really the only difference. But if you because at the end of the day, what are we all looking for? We're looking for connection. We're looking for support. We're looking for command companionship. We're looking for someone who will come if we call at 2 in the morning. Someone to come home to have dal chow with and watch your favorite Netflix show with. At the end of the day, that's what we're all looking for. It's the same principle that you bring to making a friend because at the heart of love and romance, once you put it aside and you put aside the chemistry and you put aside the hormones and everything, what is there? You're looking for a friend only. No, that's who is going to be part of your life is a friend. Why do people say I married my best friend or I'm with my best friend? because you're looking for a friend. So, it's the same principle really. If you can actively go up to somebody where wherever at a party or wherever you meet them um and you like them enough to continue meeting them, it's the same thing. That's how I've made most of my really close friends today is you stay in touch, you meet, you plan dates, so to speak. You know, it's it's it's connection only, isn't it? At the end of the day, >> I mean, you make it sound like a gradient, but in in my mind, I think what happens is that relationships suddenly come with a ton of expectations and entitlements and then you have to second guess what the other person is thinking and all of that where friendships can just be chilled out and honest and there's none of that tension happening. And in fact, and here I'm thinking aloud that I think friendships can fundamentally be much more honest because uh you're not playing that kind of game that comes with uh some kinds of relationship. And equally like I often say that uh you know in every culture the conservative mind will look at love as something that is worthy and lust as something that should be disdained. And I think it should be the other way around. Lust is completely honest. what you see is what you get often literally. And uh and love is deeply complicated. Is it a facade for something else? What's really going on there? Do you really feel what you think you feel? Not just what you project you feel. >> So um I just felt that the moment you kind of go there, it gets into really complicated territory. But friendships are, at least for me, friendships are just super easy. You know, you can you can just be who you are and they can just be who they are and there's no >> Yeah. But with relationships comes also the fear of rejection, right? So which is what prevents you from being honest and chilled out >> is because you're afraid that if you show them your vulnerable side, you show them what you're looking for, they may say, "Yeah, no, we don't want that." And so you're afraid to show them that. >> Exactly. >> Right. But with a friend, you're not afraid. And frankly, if like if it's somebody who's just a friend and they say, "Yeah, we don't want that." Then you say, "Okay, then you go to hell." Like bye. It's not so easy not to do that in relationships. But which is why I mentioned the fact that the honesty of that connection has gone. If you're able to find someone who you would honestly hang out with as a friend. I think that sure you'd still be afraid. I'm not saying no. I you know I mean I suffer from painful uh fears of rejection myself. I think I think all of us do at some point. Um but I think it comes with knowing that if you say okay hey like this is what I'm afraid of. Can we talk about it? I would be as afraid to mention it to somebody who was a very close friend also. Right? Because I don't want to have conflict with my very close friend. I don't want to say something that might hurt them or that might lead lead to them leaving or breaking the friendship. Um, and sometimes what you're feeling is so vulnerable and it's so scary to articulate that you are afraid sometimes to have conversations with your close friends also. Right? If it's a casual acquaintance, sure you can have whatever conversation because that emotion is not attached to it and you're not attached to that person also. But if it's somebody who's very close to you, then I think you bring some of that fear of rejection to the friendship also because then you're also afraid of talking there. But at the end of the day, if it's somebody with whom you feel safe enough to push past the fear and say, "Okay, I'm really terrified of having this conversation, but I think it would be great if we could sit down and talk about it." And that's somewhere that I have worked very hard to be. I don't think it's I think it's far easier said than done. I think that even in friendships for me, it's it used to be much easier to just pretend something wasn't bothering me or something that I expected hadn't happened or, you know, someone hadn't been there for me the way that I wanted them to be. Um, and I only learned that it was safe to communicate via people like Lakshana whom I've mentioned because they taught me that okay, even if it's scary, if we don't know what you're thinking, how are we going to fix it? How are we going to deal with it? And I think there also at least she taught me a really helpful way to avoid conflict. And um and this is obviously aside from therapy and all of that. Therapy is great and I am in therapy also. But aside from all of that, I think what Laksha really taught me is it's okay to be scared and sometimes you are scared and that's okay. the right people will not desecrate that. They will hold space for that. They will talk you through it. Um, yes, there will be people who trample on it. And yes, there will be people who abuse that vulnerability. I think that's a given with life. I think that's a given in friendship as much as it is in love. Uh there will always be people who uh push your boundaries to the point where they break in half. Um but I think at the heart of it, what friendship has taught me is that even if you're scared, you still show up and say it. And I think when it comes to love and romance, that has helped me also in that it's made me less afraid to say things, you know, and it's made me um able to articulate stuff that, you know, 5 10 years ago I would have shuddered to even think about saying. But in that sense, I think both are for me at least and I'm, you know, the experience of love and friendship for everyone is so subjective and it's so different. But for me, both of them are very closely entwined. And I think you show up for your romantic partner the same way that you show up for your friends and you expect them to show up for you. I think that the heart of it is just that. It's just that certainty of knowing that someone is there. I think that that quality holds true across both friendship and love. >> Yeah. And actually, you know, what you mentioned earlier, the phrase marrying your best friend is actually a great outcome because I'm imagining if someone's your best friend by that time, the fear is already mostly gone and the honesty is already mostly there. >> Uh so uh it can work out well. >> So again, I'll think aloud and I'll think aloud about how we come to thinking about our own lives. Like in many cases like most people are not self-reflective at all but gradually as you go through life like you battle the anxiety of figuring out who you are and then you figure out who you are and then you think about your life >> and then you think about designing your life. You think about the kind of life you want to lead >> and there I find that there are these multiple impulses within us that we come up against. So we are always at war with ourselves. One is we are biologically programmed in certain ways right that whether it is a quest for sex or whether it is a quest for stability all of these instincts are sort of hardwired into us and intellectually you might think that I don't want to give into this impulse now or this is not a good life design etc etc but the impulses are there at the same time there's a lot of social conditioning which may take you in similar or completely different directions where social conditioning will be that Hey, you got to get married and you got to have kids or otherwise, you know, what is the point? What are you doing? Or a different kind of social conditioning may be that no, you have to have a dating life for which you have to be on the apps. What are you even doing, etc., etc. And so there there's all the biological imperative stuff happening uh which can be really strong and at the same time there is all the social conditioning around one which we reflexively find ourselves fitting into without even thinking about it or examining it. And then there is that quiet self who then sits down and thinks how do I want to live my life >> and whatever answer you come up with intellectually it runs up against these two anyway. >> So you know what's been your journey of resolving uh these conflicts >> this is are you talking about personal life or professional life or >> whatever you're comfortable with but in general I'm just trying to understand how people navigate this kind of stuff. I think for me, you know, when I was in school and college, you have a very different sense of what life's going to be, right? Like it's this very idealistic method. Like you don't imagine where you're going to be at 30. And 30 seems miles away, light years away from you. Um when I was 25, I quit my job. Um I was working as a policy analyst at the time. I quit my job. Um and I told my mother, you know, I want to write a book on DP Melon. And she was very supportive. She said, okay, do that, but you're going to have to figure out how you want to finance yourself because we can't do that for you and it's not going to be easy. Um, did I think that I would be jobless at 25 with no money and no real idea of how to get any semblance of a career? I really didn't. Right. When you're 18 and you're thinking of 25, 25 is this really cool age to be, right? You're imagining yourself, at least I was imagining myself holding a job and doing very cool things in the policy world. And I didn't if you'd asked me what cool things I wouldn't have been able to tell you. But that's what I was imagining. And suddenly I was jobless. I you know friends of mine were holding jobs doing well you know progressing as one does. Uh by the time they hit 26 27 28 everyone began either getting engaged or marrying or settling down. Early 30s most people were having kids and stuff. um or they were abroad, you know, doing their PhDs or traveling. None of which was attainable to me right until my early 30s. Um and I had to figure out from scratch what I wanted my life to look like in what sense of the word, you know. And at that point, I didn't have a road map. I didn't have any kind of any of this push and pull that you just said. sounds great because at that point I just had high anxiety because I was like I don't know how to build a financial model for myself. I don't know how to have money coming in at the end of the month. And I think like you're conditioned somewhere in your head to have a certain amount coming in and hitting your account at the end of every month once you hit a working age. I didn't even have that. So I started off by working as a research assistant to various uh professors. Um, a professor of mine was kind enough to give me my first job and what I was paid 20,000 or 25,000 for a month of like being in the archives and researching what they wanted to search for and stuff. And I stayed a research assistant until I got my book deal, which again happened entirely by chance. I was broke for 5 years until uh a friend of mine introduced me well friend of my mother's introduced me to my agent uh Ganeshka Gupta and it was completely by chance and it was it came completely at a time when I had lost all hope. I didn't know how to write a book. I didn't know where to start. All I was focusing on was getting by from day to day and there was a really crippling sense of um low selfworth at that point because you know you had I had friends who were earning I couldn't go out and meet them. I didn't have the money to do it. I there were times where like I either had the money for a metro home or I had money to buy a samosa and chai at the candy. And that's like I'm not even exaggerating. is literally how bad it was at that point. So, by the time I met my agent uh in 2017, I didn't have anything. I didn't have a book. I didn't have an idea. I didn't have anything. And he said, "Okay, just work on it and come back to me with an like a fuller idea." I didn't know what that meant. It took me a few more months of just figuring stuff out about how to write a book, what to do with it. And I went back to him and I said, "Look, I I don't even know how to put chapters together or anything. I haven't done that." Um, and he was like, "Okay, just tell me the idea behind what you want to do." And this was the book on VP Menon. So, I managed to write a a proposal. Um and he explained how to put together a chapter breakdown and all. And I was very lucky in that things then just moved very fast but it was luck. It I didn't know how to get there. You know if you had looked at my life from uh 2012 to 2017 I didn't know even when I was working as a policy analyst I was miserably underconfident. I hated what I was doing. I was so bored. Um, and I just didn't want to do it. I really didn't want to do it at all. And it it none of this has been simple to put this together. So, you know, this push and pull between what I imagined my life to be was simply that that sense of horror that none of this is supposed to be this way, none of this is supposed to be going this way. Um and then when DP Menon came out in 2020, the pandemic hit, which meant, you know, apart from stopping myself and family members from dying in the second wave, there's also um the fact that okay, one book has come out, it has done wellish, which I only knew in retrospect. Like at the time 2020, I had no idea whether the book was doing well. I wasn't even thinking about the book because with lockdown and all of that like what are you going to think about a book? It's so it's stupid. Um and it took a whole period of further reinvention where I asked my agent and he's a very good friend by now but at that point I remember I asked him I said I need work to do because archives are closed. I couldn't be a research assistant any longer. I didn't know what to do. So he gave me my first tint with working with an author of his who required to be mentored through a manuscript. I had never mentored a manuscript my whole life, which is what I said. I said, "I I don't know what to do." And so he said, "Figure it out." So I've had two very key figures in my life telling me, one is my agent, one my mother telling me, "Figure it out. You figure it out." And maybe that is what adulthood is. I don't know whether you know you just have to find a way to figure it out. I just feel like I had to do that like there was no other way to do it. It was a paid gig at the time. I needed the money. There were no other sources of income. And so I figured it out and you know I started I mentored this whole manuscript which is now a book. It's uh by somebody called Aisha Sarvari and the book is called Heart Tantrums and it's available everywhere now and it was a wonderful experience. Again I gained a friend. I've never met her because at the time she lived in Lahore and we only spoke WhatsApp calls and stuff but she became a friend and she's still a really dear friend and it it was something that I just learned to do from scratch. So it's one of the things that I freelance on now today and I found my way here completely by accident one and two uh because somebody said figure it out do it you know um that's how I began editing that's how I began I ghost right as well now and that's how that started also because again my agent brought me a client and said okay this person has no time to do it doesn't know how to do it, you do it. And again, I was like, I I don't know how to do it. And again, my agent was Kaneshka was just like, yeah, but figure it out. So, the maxim from my early 20ies or mid20ies till now has just been me figuring it out. And if I have to look back and say, okay, um, you know, I'm not sure how I got here and I'm not sure, you know, when what I was looking at when I was 18. Did I expect to be 30, 31 in a raging pandemic with a book that was out and I didn't know what to do about the book and I didn't know how to promote? I didn't know anything. And then the world went into lockdown and the world went into co. I had no idea. And now I look back at it and sure I can say okay I built a financial model because then I I discovered p in practical terms that okay I need a certain amount coming in at the end of every month. I cannot work gig to gig with no income in between. I need to have at least one long-term running gig and at least two, three short-term gigs to supplement that. Um, all of which will pay me on a retainer basis. And that's just something that I figured out through sheer trial and error. And all of it, manuscript mentoring, editing, ghostwriting, it's just been a process of trial and edit error. It's never been, okay, this is what I want to do and this is where I want my life to be. Like, I really wish writing books paid, but it doesn't. Um, and and I'm not I'm not ever shy of saying that. I'm not ever shy of um saying that, you know, I'm doing what I love to do and I'm very privileged to do that. But I have zero idea how I got here apart from a mix of people telling me to figure it out and sheer luck. >> When I was a kid, I look at adults and I'll think, "Yeah, one day I'll be an adult and I will be sorted. It'll be fine." And then >> you're never sorted. >> Then you become an adult and you realize that no one's ever an adult adult. Everybody's winging it. Uh you know, recently I told someone, you never grow up, you just grow old. >> And uh and figuring it out, winging it. uh same difference right >> 100%. But at the end of that you know having arrived at a particular place do you then think in terms of a life design like if you think about um you know how you want to live your life I I I I won't say something as audacious as saying where do I want to be 10 years from now anyone who thinks I mean it's futile thinking like that of course life itself is futile but uh but just in terms of what is my ideal day you know how would I like to build a day what is getting in the way of my having that day tomorrow how and uh things get better and I mean the day in not just in terms of the work that you do, the writing that you do but the whole gamut of things, friendships, relationships, how how we look at that, you know, in our minds there is a figure of an ideal life on that ideal day. Uh but at the same time, you know, reality is in the way of that. So you know do you feel that the state you are in is that you'll just figure out as things go along because the world is so unpredictable and you can't plan anything anyway or have you arrived at a sort of quietitude where you have a sense of okay these are the things I want I'm working towards them and I have some of them now and and that's how I want to live. >> I think in my personal life I'm quite sorted. I'm I'm I'm very happy with where I am at right now. I'm very happy with knowing um that I have this set of people that I have and I think as far as that's concerned yeah it fits very much and much more in fact than I had ever expected. So that part is that part you know touchwood is good. Professionally I really would like to be more selective of the kind of freelance work I take on. It's a lot of hustle. It's a lot of daily grinding. It's a lot of and anyone who follows me on Instagram will always say Nani you're running around you're always working because I am always working and I would really really and this sounds so mundane but I would really like to not hustle so much. Uh there are parts of it that I truly enjoy. Um I like working on certain projects. I like working on some uh of the ghost writing projects that I do. Do I want to have five gigs running side by side? I would like to reach a point where I don't need to have five gigs running side by side. Um I love what I do. Um but and I love the fact that I am at a point where okay I can deal with the time management of this and I can still have time left over for myself. And those are the two things that I really uh went very hard on for myself was I will have office hours. So 9 to 5:36 and no working on weekends at all. And it's something that I've managed to maintain in like a decade of freelancing. I've managed to maintain that. Um so I'm very proud of that. But do I wish that I was at a place where I didn't need to have five projects running simultaneously? I kind of wish that. Um, so I think that part needs to be revisited and revamped a bit. Um, which is something that I will be focusing the next couple of years on doing. uh and finding a way to do that because I think you know it is a privilege to do what I do. I'd like to not just do only what I love to do. I'd like to continue working because I think I wouldn't know what to do with myself if I wasn't also hustling a little bit but not to this point. One of my favorite quotes is u how you do the small things is how you do the big things right and u you know when I do things that are outside of my labor of love collection though today everything I do is kind of a labor of love but when I do things outside of that I try to bring that ethic ethic to the thing and it's not even an ethic it's just a personality trait that I I will just get obsessive and I will try to do everything well no matter how it is except hustling I do zero hustling because I just that's not me I hate that screw do that. So you I keep telling people a good product is the best marketing. I I just do 0% of that >> So what's the approach you take towards that? Like uh you know you're doing five things. You don't want to be in a position where you have to do all five. >> But once you are doing them do you put heart and soul into them and just try to solve them as best as you can? >> I do. I do. And that's irrespective whether it's my work or my freelance work because I I genuinely feel like if I'm being paid by somebody to produce a product for them, then it has to be topnotch. It can't be anything less. Um and sometimes that can be very exhausting. Like for instance, I could be writing my own book side by side along with two ghost writing projects. So in in a sense, I'm writing three books across three different genres at the same time. And you can't ghost. >> And you know, I I can't ghost who I'm writing for and vanish on them. >> Ghost, I mean ghost. >> I can't coast either. Uh because I can't not show up for the clients who have hired me on good faith. I can't do that. So it's it's taxing because you know you have to then keep your mind alert across three different genres which require three different parts of your mind to be functional and on any given day and you know it sounds really cool sure but it's it's really not after a point because it's very exhausting. Um, so I' I'd really like to not do that. That to me is something that drains me, but I can't not put my heart and soul into it and I can't not >> do like I can't do a substandard job either way. So >> I uh recorded yesterday and day before with Gcharandas and Gcharanji introduced me to this uh um a really interesting framework where he was chatting with someone in the US I think and that person told him about the distinction between solemn and serious. He asked him are you a solemn person or a serious person and the definitions there were that a solemn person takes himself seriously and or takes herself seriously and a serious person takes her work seriously. Now uh to me it is evident from your work that you are a serious person. Uh you know it's all no I I mean it as a compliment actually and I'm going to double click on that a little bit later just how good your books are. Um that you are a serious person. You take your work seriously and you're obviously not a solemn person. I I I want to and and that's a great thing and and men find it much harder to overcome their solemnness because the male ego and all of that is just heartbre seriously. that is the one thing you take seriously and uh it takes a lot of time to get past that as well. But in your case um what was that sort of journey between uh giving up the solemnities uh so to say what was that like because I would imagine that at one level the hard knocks of life made that just come to you if you weren't earning as much as your friends if you had to choose between a commute and a samosa chai then obviously beyond the point the danger is that you lapse completely in the opposite direction and have tremendous imposter syndrome and self-doubt and all of that and we'll talk about that as well But did the solemnity go? Because even when you come into history, I guess you come into history with this self-image of yourself in mind where at that moment where the work hasn't begun, you are taking yourself seriously. You're saying I will be a historian. and I will stand on podiums and give lectures and win awards and but eventually it is a work like um I I wasn't at all surprised where you said that after the men and book came out during co you didn't think of the book at all because I imagine for you the reward would be the writing of the book and not the reception of the book necessarily out in the world right which is a mark of a serious person so tell me about this journey because it also involves dealing with your ego your sense of selfworth and you can you know like a pendulum you can swing from one side to the other. >> I mean so much of it is characterized by imposter syndrome also and also by um feeling nervous about the kind of work that I have produced. Um, you know, I mean, I remember when I did when I completed VP and put it out there, I was just completely numb for a while because I I could a I couldn't believe what I'd done. Uh, b um and people who followed my work for a bit will remember this huge political uh storm that occurred. Um and that also terrified me because you know it drove home to me the fact that in this country history is taken seriously and possibly way too seriously sometimes. Um, and it drove home to me the importance of believing in your work and also not taking yourself so seriously that you lose yourself entirely in your work and your identity in air quotes. Uh, yes, I'm a historian, but you know, I mean, so much in this day and age requires to be curated for public consumption also. So if you look at I've never bothered you know being curated on social media whether it's Instagram or Twitter because after a point I find it incredibly taxing like sure I'll do the required tweets about my work etc because I do want my work to be seen and heard by people but I will never make it only about the work and I you know I've always thought of that as maybe a flaw especially in a day and age that is governed so much by public perception. Um, and you know, you can build a brand just based on social media alone. I've never aimed to do that either because for me, life is so much also more than that. I feel you know I find I find my identity is only defined somewhat by my work. I'm very proud of my work, but it's not me. Like, it's not entirely me. It's just part of me. Me is who I am also outside the library and the archives. Me is also, you know, a friend, a daughter, whoever I am. And whatever I'm showing up as for other parts of my life, that is me honestly. And I don't think um I think social media sometimes honestly pushes you to take yourself way too seriously sometimes. Uh so that's one aspect. Uh the other is I remember you know one of the reasons that I chose to do a book like paneker was because so many people thought uh that I wrote the VP Menon book because oh great granddaughter or VP Menon so it's a family history so um and this is you know obviously there was praise for the book etc but that was a perception that has been hard to shake And in a sense I think I unconsciously chose because I wanted to challenge myself. I wanted to prove myself and that I think is the part of me that was taking it seriously where I became incredibly ambitious about the my next project which was paneikar and I you know I wanted to prove to myself more than anyone else that I am someone who can produce a work that is good. I think somewhere along the way, you know, in the pandemic, I wrote this essay on CB Mutama for Supriya's portal for 52. I think that also played such a huge part in making me more confident about the kind of work that I wanted to do. Um, and in that sense, I think Supria was so fundamentally instrumental in helping me put a voice that I liked out there. with VP. I was still very unsure because it was my first book. I think CB Mutama and and a lot of this is obviously editors play such a crucial role and she was absolutely fabulous and so was Vikram um and so was Maida who was the fact checker on that piece um that I really enjoyed putting that out there. It was this biographical sketch of CB Mutama, but it spoke to a larger scope of um what the IFS was like at the moment of transfer of power, how gendered it was, how difficult it was for women to succeed in the IFS. Um and that was the first moment at which I actively began thinking okay this is something I can do because what putting the VP Menon book out there did at a time when it happened which is pandemic plus political controversy. Um I put that book aside completely because there were bigger things to focus on at that point. So I you know I became also scared because I received a lot of online abuse. I received a lot of uh hate. Um and I had reached a point where I was afraid to put my work out there. I think writing the CB Mutama piece really sort of pulled me up from that feeling of oh my god okay I can't I can't I don't want to anymore. I think Supria and her team was so encouraging and they were so excited by what I had to say in that piece that it made me feel excited about my work again. And I think that gave me the confidence to say okay I want to pick up Paneker. By this point I had already encountered Paneker in the archives. I was toying with the idea of the book. I didn't think that I would go ahead with it. And then when I when we published the 52piece on CB Mudama, it was a the reception was great. B I liked how it was reading. I liked the work I put into it. I liked the story that it became once I did the work around it. And I enjoyed crafting that story. I enjoyed understanding where we were as a country at that point, where the IFS was at wasn't at that point. Um, I enjoyed it. And I think what I hadn't uh discovered in all the years of doing VP Men and in the runup to publishing VP Menon was enjoyment. Because I'd been hustling so much, I'd been so anxious about how am I going to finance myself? What is going to happen? How will I write this book? Will it be a good book? Oh my god, it's a pandemic. Oh my god, there's a political controversy. There was so many things that were blocking me from actively enjoying what I do that I think you I needed some kind of bridge to get back to realizing that okay, I like what I do, you know. And then Supria came back and said, you know, we want to do an ebook on the INA trials and we want you to do it. And I was like okay sure. Um and it was a measure of the trust that she had in my work. It was also a measure of um you know the trust that she had in me as a historian as well. And it helped to know that it I think it always helps to know just a little that you are good at what you do and some for someone to remind you that you're good at what you do. And I enjoyed putting that ebook together. It was a it was a big risk to take because it was you we didn't know that model at all. We didn't know whether it would succeed, whether it would work. But at that point they wanted to take a chance and they said look will you take the chance and I loved working with them so much and I loved how much enjoyment to my craft they brought that I said I said yes without thinking twice. um zero regrets because it was such a great thing to work on and to experiment with and to also put together. It was a short little thing. It was 100 pages at max and it's called um allegiance and it's on Amazon uh and will be available on Kindle. But it was such a lovely thing to do both these both these things and these were you know 2021 2022. So in a sense a when you look back at just the numbers of my career in terms of years it looks like I kept up a spate of constant writing which looks great on a CV but behind that CV is a lot of anxiety is a lot of stress is a lot of constant am I on the right trajectory am I on the right path um do I still enjoy what I do I still like you know the way that I'm working I think I needed the CB matama piece I needed the allegiance to reassure myself that okay this is something I enjoy doing I'm glad that I chose this and I don't mind the hustle around it >> one of the things I've tried to internalize and that I advise my writing students and young creators on is that don't be outward focused be inward focused like let everything be the work don't think about what people think of you or how they're going to respond and etc etc which is why I feel it's kind of heartbreaking for me to hear that even after the WP book came out that you had so much self-doubt that you felt that you needed to prove yourself and maybe panicker was a way to prove yourself and part of that I understand proving yourself to yourself but the other part is tragic proving yourself to others because uh and and when you look back at that impulse and and of course you said you overcame it as this journey happened and you fell in love with the work again. But do you feel regretful that you had that impulse at all to begin with? Do you feel bitter that you had to have it like some of it I understand some of the looking out was forced by circumstances. You had to hustle to make a living. There was a controversy which forced you to you know and that kind of thing when a Twitter war breaks out can just be horrible. >> I know. So uh >> who doesn't actually? >> Yeah. As anyone who puts themselves out there knows what do you feel when you look back on that and I is that phase over forever that you don't have to worry about the outside world so much apart from the obvious angles of earning a living and the hustle that involves but apart from that uh you know you can just do the work and not think about that stuff. No, I don't think it's tragic, you know, because I feel like every one of us goes through periods where we do doubt what we do and we do doubt where we're going and how we're going and if we're going about it in the right way, you know, are we doing the right thing? Is there a better way to do what we're doing? >> But I mean the doubt can be internal on is the work good enough which is healthy. We should all go through that. But the when it's external that what are other people saying about it? Do they take me seriously? That's where I feel it can really get toxic and mess with your head. >> Yes. I But I think that's also a part like I think that's something if you have a public facing career there will be a part of your brain that does put weight on that you know because it's not just strangers who are reading your work. It's also people you love and care about whose opinions you value the people you respect in your field. So there will be some element I think where you are wondering what they think. I don't think any one of us can be entirely divorced from it. Uh, I think that would be ideal if we were divorced from it, but I don't think at least I'm not like I wouldn't put 90% or even 99% of the weight of what are people thinking. Yes, there will be some amount of wondering whether you know has you know x-redded you know like when I sent panikar to be blurbed by shankar men and I was very nervous because you know he is somebody I deeply look up to and respect and his judgment of the book when it came it meant a lot that he enjoyed the book that he enjoyed reading it so I think you know I mean When I wrote this and I showed the first draft to my mother, I was freaking out because she is somebody who's always read the first drafts of what I write. And usually her opinion, her opinion can be brutally honest, but it's usually the opinion that is one of the anchoring ones in my life. Um, and it depends, right? Like when you when I'm showing it to my mother, I want her to enjoy what she's reading. I want her to like it. I think that that's that's just human. I think I I wouldn't necessarily say that it's tragic. I think that it's important that you put value in what at least the people you love and respect feel about your work. >> Let's go back in time to when you first started doing history. Like you fallen in love with history. You decide this is what I'm going to do. So you won't be you know a public policy scholar at a big think tank uh you know coming on TV and being in a little rectangle there uh giving opinions but that you're going to immerse yourself and uh you know Supa said something like at the age we were all sitting on walls drinking beer uh Narayani was in archives slaving away so I want you to take me through the journey of falling in love with history and deciding that you want to do history and actually finding out what the damn thing involves. you know what was that journey like and did that lead to different kinds of uh self-doubt or did that leave lead to your falling even deeper in love because hey endless rabbit hole so fascinating etc etc what was that like >> I think I began loving history in school and that was largely due to a class teacher of mine Mrs. is Rose Jacob and she was fabulous in that she taught history like it was a story. She didn't teach it like it was this roll caller of dates and names and you know wars that were fought. She taught it to us like it was like a movie happening and I loved it and I began reading a lot of history when I was in college. I began reading a lot of non-fiction when I was in college. a lot of historical fiction. I was already reading uh you know Jean Play and stuff like that when I was in school. Then I began reading historical non-fiction because I was a history undergrad. You had to do it as part of course work. And then I branched out into reading a lot of non-fiction in general, you know, mostly biographies, autobiographies, um biographies of events and wars and moments in time. and I began enjoying it. I didn't enjoy, I have to say, studying history in college because it's one thing to love history in the abstract sense of the word. It's a whole other thing to actually study history in the academic sense of the word. So when I began studying history in college, yeah, I hated it because it was just so dense and so overwhelming in the concepts and in the uh periods of time that you were taught. You were taught periods of time in blocks of years. Um and it it was not fun at all. add to that, you know, your own personal awkwardness at being a teenager and being, you know, a misfit and all of that. And it was fairly nightmarish. I think I began loving history and reading the biographies and all that I was talking about in my 20ies and enjoying it and enjoying learning what different biographies and stories tell you about different people and tell you about different personalities. Um, I began enjoying learning more about that because I found that if you read particularly biographies, autobiographies, my favorite genre, you get to know exactly what the quarks are in in an individual's personality that makes them make certain decisions that may lead to wars, that may lead to governments falling, that may lead to, you know, intense love affairs that can derail the trajectories of history. You know, that to me was fascinating and that's when I began loving history and that's when I began wanting to understand more about how history happened. Um I think so much of that was encouraged by also my mother who is a great reader herself encouraged me to always read and so the more I loved history was because I was reading a lot and to date I think it's one of my uh callbacks you know even when I'm not reading anything heavy I'm reading something like a social biography of 1930s England or something right like it sounds very heavy but to me this is just fun and I'll enjoy reading that and that I think fed into how I wanted to tell history and how I wanted to write it. Um I just had to figure out a way in which to do that because I think it takes it takes a bit before you find I know finding your voice sounds really too much but it takes a while. I don't think you immediately find a style or if you do you're very lucky and it's a gift but it it took me a bit to understand when I began writing history and sort of researching in the archives etc what I wanted to write like um and this is beyond navigating the archives which is a whole other mess because you know you're not taught this in college it's only now that you're beginning to be taught this which is great because when when I in college and when I finished and started going to the archives etc was this maze because you just didn't know where to start. You didn't know what to look for. You didn't know what entries to look for. You didn't know what indexes to pick up. And the National Archives is this well labyrinth where you basically have to figure out which index to look at, which subheading under those indexes to look at, which cross reference to look at. The file that comes up can either be uh NT which is the nightmare of every national archive scholar which is not traceable or not transferred depending um or it's just not there or it's um been taken by monkeys which is a thing um or it's it's it's a mess right you have to figure out or you know you could get like a file with nothing in it like they'll be like hi file hair, but it's Kali. There's nothing in there. And then you're just like, what do I do with this? You know, and it could have possibly been the key to unlocking the greatest question you have at that point, but there's just nothing there. So, there are 25 dead ends you have to deal with on a daily basis. Uh then there's the question of how to sift and parse through all the research that you manage to gather. There's also the question of when do you stop researching? where do you draw the line? Uh there's also a question of what do you leave out? What do you put in? None of this was taught at at when I was in college. So, you know, when you get out of college and then you're just like, you know, and I I don't have a PhD. So, for me, I had to really learn from scratch. I didn't know how all of that learning and sort of putting together the jigsaw puzzle of which piece of information goes where and what do you incorporate what do you not incorporate I had to take decisions on you know when I went to soass in 2016 and I found the uh recordings Harry Hodson recordings in his private collection where he'd spoken to VP men you know and I heard VP men speaking that's when I knew and I was already what 2 years into researching it. That's when I knew that okay, I want his voice to fe feature prominently in the telling of the story. Otherwise, you know, I had never encountered oral history. I didn't know how to deal with oral history. It was at that moment that I realized the importance of oral history. So, pretty much all of my craft, I suppose, if you can call it that, though I feel like it sounds deeply pretentious when one does. Um, it's it's just been learned on the job really. It's it's it's always been a matter of trying to figure stuff out, which I feel like has been the mantra that has ruled my life until now. >> So, you mentioned Ro Jacob and she would tell you uh stories from history as if they were movies. So, on on our YouTube show, AJ and I will once in a while do an episode called stories that should be filmed. So, in one of our episodes, we spoke about VP men and I referenced your book. In fact, I think the thumbnail was a boy setting a school on fire, which is of course a it's it's so cinematic. It's such a great way to start. It's a great moment. Yeah. He's out on the banks and I think he finds an empty bottle and Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I the the the way that played out in my head, it's like, man, this is great cinema. So, if producers are listening to this, they should get in touch with you and just buy the rights. Uh everything is uh there and then you don't have to do like like these five simultaneous uh freelance projects. Uh but tell me about learning how to write >> because it's one thing dealing with and I'll ask you about knowledge management also. Uh all of these little things you mentioned are actually pretty big questions. How do you deal with all the knowledge coming at you and all that but we'll come to that but I'm also interested in learning how to write because with the paneer book I mean I love the VP manon book but with the paneer book especially the pros is so bloody elegant and the research is so rigorous. I'm seriously telling you like this is why I will just kind of um >> uh like it is so good and how did you arrive at this like how how did you arrive at a style? What were your models? What are the kind of principles that you started framing for yourself? Because the danger if you're reading history is that a lot of history especially in academia is number one it is so turgid it's just written in bad pros and to me bad writing is an indication of bad thinking and also there's the academia trap of having certain lenses which are fashionable and other lenses which are not. So, how did you navigate all of this? Arriving at your own ethic of doing history number one and then your writing style and uh developing that like I don't think it is >> at all pompous to use phrases like voice and craft and all of that. You're a writer. This is what you do. This is what we want to learn from you. So uh yeah >> I think at the heart of it I think Rose ma'am taught me one very simple thing which is essentially that you're telling a story to people and I think that somewhere became something that I internalized irrespective of what I write and who I write on my main aim is I need to tell the story of this person I need to tell the story of the time they were living in uh what kind of home they grew up in, what kind of mother did they have, what kind of father did they have, was their childhood stormy, were they naughty in school, um were they particularly considered stupid? You know, u all of that shapes you also as a person. So then as a person, what are the times you're living in? What are the people you're surrounded by? Are you a lonely person? Are you a friendly person? Is your marriage bad? Is your marriage good? Um, if your marriage is good, has your wife been a support? Have you been a support to your wife? What kind of father are you? All of that builds into what who you are and what you bring to what you do. What I found with most of the people that I have worked on is that history is sometimes created behind the scenes. All the people that I have worked on so far are people who have been very much uh part of a certain period of our history which we associate with the big the big guns right Nu Gandhi Patel but yet you have people like a Mutama who never really got what she was due yet she took the government of India to court Yet her case was the one that overturned the ruling that lady officers couldn't get married, lady officers couldn't get promoted. You could get married then right after and you could join the IFS without signing the undertaking that she had to sign when she joined saying that she wouldn't get married otherwise she would have to leave the service. That simple act of having the courage to take the government of India to court changed everything for people like Anerup Pamaro for instance, right? So in in that sense it made history. VP Minan behind the scenes did the paperwork that was required to pull together an entire independence movement and crystallize um the transfer of power in law. bring together 565 princely states onto the map of modern India. Um Kim Panekar you know again behind the scenes as part of the chamber of princes led the push for federalism which was doomed but he led it nonetheless. Um continued to write hugely important trackcts on foreign policy, history, nationalism many of which are still important today. Um and what are these? These are very simple things right like VP Menon was never a bureaucrat in that in the typical ICS sense of the word and yet he became you know one of our top civil servants in that sense of the word right a CB Mutama did what she did you history is made by people who do something driven by what they believe in and sometimes that leads to sloganering on the streets sometimes that leads to active politics and political parties. Most times, most of us are behind the scenes in our daily lives doing what we're doing. And sometimes you start a juggernaut that leads to something else altogether. And for me, it became important to tell the story of how they managed to do what they did, what did they grow up believing. And so CB Mutama, for instance, had a mother who was fiercely feminist, fiercely wanted her daughter to stand up for herself against men in general. and the patriarchy in general and take on the world like that. Those were the ideals she gave her daughter. That's what her daughter grew up believing and therefore was unafraid to do something like taking the government of India to court. A VP manon runs away sets his school on fire uh goes to work in Kolar in the gold mines etc. but is too proud and too stubborn to go back and say, "Okay, I screwed up." You know, would prefer to make it on his own rather than going back home at all. Right. Uh Kim Paneker, again, deeply ambitious. Um knew he wanted to be in politics. again took a very unconventional hopscotch way to get to maybe not active politics but definitely a top political role in a country that was beginning to form itself. These were people who were driven by certain things you know like uh Banikar had Banaker grew up in a India that was changing. He went to college in a world that was changing all of that shaped his view of the world and of where India should be in that world. So I think the more you focus on what drives a person and that's irrespective of uh his own personal beliefs because his personal beliefs are shaped by the kind of environments he grew up in the kind of friends he had all of that it's simple stuff but it makes you who you are and I think that's something that it along with Rosem it was also the kind of biographies I was reading the kind of uh autobiographies I was reading. The best ones are the simplest ones. The best ones are the ones that have lots of color, lots of, you know, little focuses on personal quirks, etc. >> Like which ones stand out for you? >> Um, like Peter Clark's biography of Stafford Crips for instance, which gives a beautiful in-depth look at his political career, but also highlights the fact that for instance, he had a great poncha for knitting and nudity. You know those are things that stand out to to me stuff like that you know because then the person as well as the personalities imprinted in your brain and that's what you want with history particularly I have now written two biographies so I guess biographer is also what I am you know and that's what I want to take away once I put down a book on someone I want to know the overall context in which they were living the overall ways in which they felt compelled to contribute to those context sex and what drove them internally, you know, what petty jealousies did they have, what kind of rivalries did they have at work, you know, stuff like that is what I want to know because it helps me to understand history a lot better. So that's one thing that I brought that I wanted to bring to writing and the other thing was quite simply that I wanted it to be accessible. I didn't want it to be I I wanted none of my books to be academic in that sense of the word. I think when you tell stories is the best way in which people remember times and people that have passed. Um I think uh and this is no disrespect to acade academia at all but I just think that when when I'm telling history what I want it to be is something you can pick up irrespective of who you are and you can read about it and you can learn from it and you can put it down and take a story away with you and know and be able to retell that story, recount that story, bits of that story will stay with you always. I think that to me is the most important thing when you read any book and that's what I wanted with my books as well. >> I also want to know how you decide on what you're going to write about and what you're going to write about it. Like my favorite sentence from your book is this. The Maharaja of Alvar for instance may have been a charmer and a pedophile and a man capable of setting his polo pony on fire when it didn't perform as he wanted it to. But he was also acutely aware of his constitutional rights based on the government of India act 1919. Now there are three books in this one sentence right it's just uh so mind-blowing and this is something that I uh like Manupil also does this excellently well that every book of his is basically game of thrones into 100 that there are so many things happening madcap characters eccentricities etc etc and I would you know like they say you know which story do you tell because they are so incredibly amazing so one how did you arrive at these two people and when you arrive And like you know you I I think we discussed in our last conversation you didn't actually know VP me was your great-grandfather when you started. So it's not like a family thing. So how do you arrive at these subjects and what I'm curious about is what is it about these subjects that uh fascinated you because they are not among the uh like the front page heroes in a sense people everybody talks about they are doing things behind the scenes and at the same time they're deeply complicated in their relationships with women for example none of these are particularly admirable men there's all kinds of stuff going on there um they are great men and They're also limited men and they're all kinds. So what fascinated you about them and compelled you to go deeper and when you go deeper then what is the stuff that you're looking at? How do you dis you know because every decision that you make of what to put in is also a decision of what not to put in and you know how is all that playing out. >> I think for me you know like like you said I didn't know VP Menon was my great-grandfather. So that was something that was just driven by me discovering that he was my great-grandfather. Me discovering that there was nothing on him at all that I could reference uh apart from the two books that he did write and me wanting to simply say okay I want to put this together somehow. Um so for me that was about as limited as that and limited or expensive as as the case may be. Paneker I had come across when I was working as a policy analyst in his capacity as ambassador to China. Um and I read his work uh on two China. I read about him in China and then I moved on to the next assignment. I didn't really think about him thereafter. I came across him again when I was working on VP Menon and then this time I encountered Paneker in a totally different capacity in the chamber of princes and I was very intrigued because I didn't know enough about Paneker and I thought okay that's weird it was a rabbit hole I didn't go down it immediately because I was still finishing VP there was there was stuff to be done audits and all of that I began sort of looking into it more when we were in lockdown and I discovered obviously anyone who has read a little bit about panikar will know that he was a prolific writer across like I said foreign policy history nationalism very complex subject so all of that was there but I didn't there wasn't anything about him uh there was one well there were two limited biographies that I found on archive.org work which were very loyary and which basically spoke about his life as a series of milestones and this year he did that and that year he did this which didn't tell me what I wanted to know you know and what I want to know about a person is always much deeper like I said you know what was their childhood like what were they like as kids all of that so I began I had the time I began digging around a bit I began trying to figure out and it was about this time that uh social media came in super handy and a mutual on Twitter actively introduced me to a relative of Paneker who then put me in touch with his granddaughter who is now a dear friend of mine and um she put me in touch with his last surviving daughter who was in uh Madras is still in Madras in fact and I began a series of email conversations with her with uh Radha ma'am who is in Madras and um she was very forthcoming and very gracious and she said yeah I'll write she's very email savvy and all that and she said yeah I'll write you a series of emails telling you what I remember and then obviously that became greater conversations as you know there there always more questions to ask and all of that and her memory was excellent and she was not at all shy about speaking about her father his granddaughter was not at all shy about her memories. Um so by this point I was properly intrigued and once the archives opened and once I went back and looked um at at the material that was available I found that okay this is somebody who has literally been and this is much he lived longer than he lived around the same time as VP but his life was a very different trajectory but again both these men played such vital roles in the Indian independence movement in very different capacities but you know for Paneker he was very active from 1915 to 1963 you know and he was he was everywhere he was a historian he was a lawyer he was a nationalist he was an anarchist he used to write fiction he was a poet he was an administrator he was you know you my mind was blown by the scope of his career alone forget anything else >> he was Forest Gump of the intellectual world >> you know and he You know he was member of the states reorganization commission. He was ner's man in China and in Egypt and in France. He was uh he worked with Kashmir and Patiala and Bikanir. He asked Sir Oralstein to come in and start looking at the you know what became the lost Indosali civilization. This was somebody who completely like the range of his mind fascinated me because that mind contributed so much to everyone of modern India's milestones that it took me by surprise and you know I was very intrigued that that's what brought me to panicker um because apart from you know unconsciously looking for a subject that would challenge me I mean if that was my subconscious uh objective I certainly fulfilled it with this one because I you know when I began pulling this book together in terms of research also it was sprawling all over the place because of the kind of work he did and the kind of man this was who just he wouldn't sit down he wouldn't shut up. It was it was uh madness trying to be his biographer because you know there were times at which I felt I couldn't keep up with him. Um because he was just churning out milestone work after milestone work and I just I just wanted to say you know just sit down and just breathe for 5 minutes. No why why why are you doing so much? But at the end of the day when you look at his career alone this is such a fascinating mind to deal with and in that sense it was a harder um book to put together than VP Menon also because um this was a mind that ranged across so many different spheres of um India's story that it took me a back because there was you know you you couldn't keep up with him really speaking and it was his mind that actually contributed so much um to what India should think of itself as especially as a postc colonial nation and it was also very interesting to watch both him and VP in action because especially when you take on the princely states both he and VP men come in almost as bookends to that whole process of integration right because he panicker comes in in the mid 1920s when you know the states are just beginning to stand up and say okay what about us and there's this whole like concept of pulling princely state together with provinces and this becomes this whole federal tussle that will happen throughout the 1930s and you can see VP on the sidelines right like when Banikar goes to the round tables to present the prince's case for federation you can see VP Menon on the sidelines and he's this young typist you see VB Menon later when the government of India act 1935 comes into being the prototype of the instrument of accession which is drafted by VP and then obviously VP comes in much later during the transfer of power and integration has been there throughout this entire process. Both of these men have contributed in very different ways but you see I think that is a great example of uh showcasing how different people can contribute towards the same cause uh in a different way. You don't always have to be doing the same thing. I think you can be doing diametrically opposite things and still pulling together to contribute towards one great cause which for all of these guys was eventual transfer of power, eventual emergence of India as a stable entity in the eyes of the world. And I think it highlights stories like this highlight to me how you needn't be doing what everyone expects you to be doing. You needn't be uh an active politician. You needn't be actively out there sloganering etc. If you want to that's great and it's important but if you are if your personality is not thus inclined if you feel you can contribute in other ways you can and you should both these men are great examples of how two different people can do exactly the same thing >> you know earlier I was talking about how the VP men and things should be a film what I had actually pitched was a web series and now I'm thinking that season 1 can be VP men and season 2 can be KM Panikar and they both play parts in each other's roles. So you're saving money on the actors also. You shoot it like one thing and uh uh you know works like that. >> Earlier you spoke about how sometimes you go to the archives and uh something in a file would be missing and one of the options you gave for that is it's taken by monkeys and until I realized that you mean literal monkeys. I I thought you meant senior historians and I want to ask about that and and this is a serious question because when I look at the intellectual world around me, right? I feel extremely mad and frustrated because um our elites come out of a really small incestuous group of people. They get great degrees. They get credentials. They build their name. But the whole ecosystem is so mediocre that you can you know mediocrity is enough to get you to the top and then you're a respected name and the place is full of midwits and sometimes I'll just look at you know the books being written and uh the commentators out there in the public and I'll you know the words that are coming to my mind are not fit for a family show so I won't take them here but I'm like what the is this even and I'm guessing as an actual player in the game it must have been harder for you Because you're a young woman coming into a field where there will be a lot of >> older male historians with awesome credentials who are simply not going to take you seriously especially because the subject of your first book happens to be your great-grandfather and it must be so frustrating for you especially because many of them would also be full of crap and not good at all. Now I I know we have good historians and I know that uh some of them may have uh been supportive as well but basically ecosystem and I'll just use the word sub right so was this a frustration that you faced right I'm not being taken seriously enough because it it would be particularly hard for a young woman at the start of her career because women tend to also suffer from the imposter syndrome a bit much on top of that you have this credentialism you have an ecosystem of already established names. What was it like for you to navigate this world and you know arrive at that self-belief and being taken seriously is a separate thing entirely. I wouldn't even want to be taken seriously by these jokers but what was your um journey like? >> No, I think you know when you when I first came into this it was with um a lot of hope that I would be taken seriously. I think by and large yes I have been taken seriously. Of course there there are uh you know people who don't um and I think that's the case with everyone but I feel like there were moments where I did feel that okay I'm not being taken seriously because this is my great-grandfather. Um I have been to events where nobody showed up. Um I have I've done all all of that. So in in a sense in many ways the VP men book was also a great baptism by fire almost because events just worked out that way and I think it's easier to write off somebody who has written a book about a family member rather than taking her or him seriously as a historian which is why I'm glad I went on to work on the projects that I did thereafter because I think that was important for me to do in order to consolidate the fact that I am a historian and that is what my career is going to be. I think in this field you especially if you are a woman you kind of have to grow a thick skin. I think it's sad that you have to but I think especially more if you are a woman you have to grow a thick thicker skin to deal with the kind of comments that may come your way or the kind of feedback in air quotes that comes your way. And this is this is in my case it's been a handful minority. It's not been the massive majority that have treated me with dismissiveness. I think the majority you know especially now is that yes this is a good book and yes you know when it came out there was just too much happening at that point for even me to process. I think in that sense, the fact that it came out on the 12th of February and a month later we went into lockdown. Um it it was too many things at the same time. And I think that gave me um the ability to sort of crouch away from social media, the ability to sort of distance myself emotionally from whatever was happening politically at that point. And it also gave me the sense of, and I think this would probably be an automatic reaction. I think it gives you the sense that you want to be able to prove your critics wrong, and you want to be able to prove people who've been writing you off as mistaken. That's something that, you know, was really born at that point. And I think at that point it became very clear to me that I want to be able to enjoy what I do but I also want to be respected in what I do. Um and that became something that drives me even today you know even when I put out something like a paneka it's it's done with great care because I do want to be taken seriously um and because I am serious about what I do but I think that journey for me happened at a time when the world was in such a moment of flux that I don't think I had the chance to process it Even a lot of my processing was done in retrospect. A lot of it was not done at that point. Um and I think when that happens like when you are looking back at something rather than processing it as you are going through it um it gives you a little bit of distance. It gives you um a little bit of remoteness from what you may have been feeling at that point. a lot of which had nothing to do with the book, right? Because the pandemic at that point just swamped everything. So I don't think I processed whatever was happening around the book. And that was also a year if it was a year of controversy. It was also a year where the book went into reprints where people were buying despite it being a lockdown. So good things were happening. It's not that it was not happening but because you know your mind was just distracted by what the hell is happening and why what is happening. Um I wasn't able to sort of grasp what that had done to me you know in terms of um emotions and emotionally facing whatever I was going through. I think now in retrospect, yes, it was a really brutal sort of initiation into my line of work. But this is not to also take away from the fact that there were, you know, there were good things happening. There was, if for every critic, there were two admirers of the kind of work I was doing. Um, there were people who were sending me messages and DMs going like, "Okay, we really enjoyed this book." There were people who were saying okay come and teach our class we want you to speak about VP men and that was that was a great sort of stabilizer for me. It was a great sort of anchoring moment because when bad things are happening to you it's it's also easy to hold on to the bad things rather than look at the good things. And in retrospect when I look back at it there's there was also that you know that level of growth also happening where lit f well as many litfests as as could be held before we went into lockdown invited me and you know I spoke and again it was a huge moment because I had always been such a bad public speaker on stage that to date I'm just very happy whenever I speak well on stage or in public. Um so it was also a moment of great learning personally and a moment of great learning to um understand how I want to project myself also in public and professionally. >> You mentioned feedback in air quotes. You have have any example? That's a great phrase feedback in air quotes. Do you have any examples? >> None that I want to put on air quotes. >> Okay. No air quotes in the air on air. Before we go into the break and after the break we'll get to your book and talk about paniker. uh before we get that one sort of final question that you know two aspects to this one is co that during co you mentioned that you weren't well and it it was a struggle in different ways and I I think for all of us if you were in India if you went through that period >> uh it was just a struggle for everyone uh in different ways either you fell in yourself or you uh lost someone who didn't >> and uh so one there would have been that happening which was a big wakeup call to the world and a shock and two there is just the passage of time. >> You know, like as I have gone through my life, I have increasingly gotten more and more frustrated at how bloody fast the years go by. Uh you know, the days are long, the years are uh short. >> Yeah. >> Um uh they just whip by. And I wonder how your journey through your 30s led you to recalibrate what you're doing and think of it like uh a writer friend of mine said he was speaking to another writer friend of his who gave him the advice that you know be very careful about what your next book is because he said I have figured out my rhythm. It takes me 5 years to write a book and therefore I can't be flippant. I can't have 40 projects and choose one at random. I I know I have a limited number of books in my life and those are the ones that I have to do and etc etc. And similarly whatever you were envisaging as your career or your writerly life say 10 years ago >> you would probably have learned by now that a lot of it is actually not going to happen that you have to pick and choose and prioritize and uh etc etc. So what has that journey been like for you? Again, a lot of it has been figuring it out, right? Like I mean, you choose you choose to write one biography. I didn't think when I started that biography that I would be writing another one. Um, if you had asked me while I was writing VP men and what I intended to write next, I wouldn't have known. Uh, this just happened because I got interested and went down a research rabbit hole and then got fascinated by it. And I'm also very lucky that you know I found uh publishers who were interested in this story because you know with VP Menon it was there was an overt political hook right like this was Sar Patel's right-hand man he did the whole task of integration along with Siddhar Patel etc with Panekal I always felt it was a very niche uh personality even because you know when you look at his career What stands out to you is the ambassadorship in China. You don't really or you tend not to think of panikar in any other sense of the word unless you're very specialized in say uh constitutional law then you know about his uh career with the princely states and federalism. Um and likewise like if you are specialized in certain parts uh of his that would relate to his career then you would know uh some parts of Paneker's career. You wouldn't know the whole overarching arc. And so I thought I I don't know who would be interested like I'm interested. I don't know who who else would be interested. Um, so I'm lucky enough to have found publishers who said, "Okay, he sounds really interesting and we are as fascinated as you are." Um, I I don't know. See, because the the the easiest thing to say is you want to choose a sexy subject that sells, you know. Um, I think I've established by now that I don't really write sexy subjects. I tend >> it's a sexy book. >> I tend to choose uh men and women who are you know if not they're not solemn but they're certainly serious and they're behind the scenes and they're not really people that many have heard of or know too much about. That is somewhere where I think I've landed and that's somewhere where I think I'm very fascinated in learning what happens behind the scenes of a big moment in history. Um, and I think because that is my driving uh curiosity because I think my next one will also be somebody who was working behind the scenes. Well, my next one is uh a co-authored uh book on deation who was very much not behind the scenes or anything and was very very very out there. Uh but my next solo project will likely be yet another person that um we haven't heard of, much less me knowing too much of. So I I don't know, you know, I I don't have a strategy where in my head I'm thinking, okay, but my next book has to be the kind of book that has a subject that everyone will pick up and everyone will read because I think it's quite clear that I don't tend to gravitate towards those subjects. So I don't know what my next book is going to be. I I don't have a game plan or a strategy. I certainly never had a game plan to do um to choose Paneker. I really didn't. And even with VP, it stemmed purely from wanting to know more. I think both these men I chose because I wanted to know more. And then I just got really fascinated and was like, "Okay, everyone should know more about these guys." So, I don't know who the next one is, but it is likely going to be someone who we do not know more about. >> You should fully make up someone and build a biblical story and see if someone notices. You know, by the time it comes out like 3 years later, you can plant a lot of fake things about that person in LLM. So, everyone's going to go to chat GPT and they'll be like, "Oh, who is Muri Rao Ingalwari?" And there'll be tons of material. >> Who how does that make me different from like a WhatsApp university then? I'm totally kidding. You should absolutely not do that. Don't be like me. Be like you. Let's take a quick break. Long before I was a podcaster, I was a writer. In fact, chances are that many of you first heard of me because of my blog India Uncut, which was active between 2003 and 2009 and became somewhat popular at the time. I love the freedom the form gave me and I feel I was shaped by it in many ways. I exercised my writing muscle every day and was forced to think about many different things because I wrote about many different things. Well, that phase in my life ended for various reasons and now it is time to revive it. Only now I'm doing it through a newsletter. I have started the India uncut newsletter at indiaunut.substack.com where I will write regularly about whatever catches my fancy. I'll write about some of the themes I cover in this podcast and about much else. So please do head on over to indiaun uncut.substack.com and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign up, each new installment that I write will land up in your email inbox. You don't need to go anywhere. So subscribe now for free. The India uncut newsletter at indiaun uncut.substack.com. Thank you. Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still with Narani Basu. Historians have infinite patience. She is not going anywhere. Uh so let's talk about your book on paneker first and the book begins in such a fascinating way by going into his prehistory as it were right where you speak about his grandmother kungji pilgori and uh her brother Arai Kesawa who is also such an awesome guy he reclaims land from the mighty womenard lake as you put it and uh you know it's seen as a rare feat of engineering and he's also you know diverted did the course of a river and it's a technical marvel and etc etc and again you paint a picture of him as an extraordinary kind of man his grandmother's extraordinary the uncles are extraordinary and I was just thinking that you you know today there a lot of people can potentially be a panicker but in that age there's a very tiny group of families and people that someone like that can emerge from that ark is very unusual you have a really small bunch of elites with the learning and the wealth and all of that and then from there this guy happens to emerge and everything and of course he's extraordinary uh in his own right but all of this kind of falls into place. So tell me a bit more about that about uh you know at one point he was even looked at as a black sheep of the family. you speak about how his brother was a much better student but he couldn't pass matrix because he wasn't good at arithmetic which is something I totally uh sympathize with so uh so tell me a bit about uh you know any of these other people who fascinate you because when I read about Kasawa kjipori it feels like they could also be subjects of biographies in their own right like they're mad people the kind of they're doing you know so like you've you've described Kesova's A schedule where you say quote to meet Ravi Quesawa you had to be patient. He would interrupt his schedule for nobody. First he would bathe in ice cold water. Then his servants would solemnly hand him his daily pellet of opium which he would swallow before eating his customary handful of roasted grain stop coat. Like first of all where did you get it from? And also paint me what what does the opium do exactly? What's going on there? >> I have no idea. I got this from uh Paneker's memoir. M >> this is how he remembers his uh grandmother's brother and this is how he remembers his grandmother and it's very clear that these are the standouts for him in his childhood and he has this collection of memories about all of these people. So Krishna Quesawa comes across as this domestic tyrant whom everyone was a little afraid of. He was very brilliant in his own right but he was also somebody who ruled the household with a rod of iron. His grandmother is this very gentle figure almost maternal in his memory. She was the one who used to tell him stories. They used to play games together. She taught him the Mallayalam alphabet, you know, when he was naughty and he was um tied up to this pillar by his by his tutor because he wrote a love poem for >> because he wrote a love poem for a local girl. Uh she used to sneak out and untie him and you know he quickly once the tutor was supposed to be back he used to be tied up again. They had this little secret camaraderie going on and his mother is this very disciplinarian figure uh rather than maternal warmth. That's the sense you get from his memoir that she was a very strong intelligent capable woman who was um a much more um discipline oriented woman than anything else. um of his father we don't know much at all beyond the fact that you know he mentions him in these couple of lines where he's mentioned as uh a man of great conscience and you know nothing more is said about him he doesn't recur again in the memoirs um much of his early years when he recounts them and you know the early chapters in this book uh particularly of his childhood are almost exclusively taken from his memoir because his memories of them were so clear um you know and he's not a particularly um sporty child. He likes to be immersed in his books and his you know his dreams and all of that. Um and that's really something that he would much rather be doing. I think you see uh a much greater exposure that happens for him when he goes uh to Travandram uh to stay with his mother's brother and his own brother both of whom are in Travandram for their respective uh studies at the time and this is you know in the early years of the 20th century it's not just Travandram that's going through a period of great social and economic change it's also the country and his uncle's house Again, uncle is a very strict man. Rules the house again with a rod of iron. The boys aren't allowed to uh loiter on the way home. They're not really allowed to make friends. And you get really um weirdly touching insights into what Paneker's childhood must have been because he's caned very often and sometimes for no reason at all. And he grows up, you know, almost defending corporal punishment in his memoir. But his uncle's home is also this place where it's open house for journalists, for local politicians, for writers, for poets. Um, everyone is dropping in and out and the boys aren't really prevented from sitting in and listening to conversations on nationalism, on where India's uh, national movement is at that point. And this is the point post the Sudeshi movement and the partition of Bengal and you know the Sudeshi movement has united this country in a wave of fury that has taken the empire back. Um the Congress is very much on the scene at this point and you also have a split in the ideology of the Congress at this point. So you have stories of you know the scenes on the Tapi River with shoes and chairs being flung about the split between the extremists and the moderates. So you have all this happening and it's almost it's almost a time of really feverish change and it's the first time Paneker is as a young boy exposed to currents of nationalism that are happening across the country. After that is a brief period where he hopscotches between schools and he's really not a good student and his family despaires of him because you know they are really hoping that he somebody one of the two boys is going to take over from the grandmother's brother and from the uncles who are running the show at this point. Uh clearly it's not going to be him. And there you know it's it you see um a much younger panaker who is very sensitive who can hear and understand what is being said about him and who is hurt and who is upset and you know he's always wanted to just be with his books and spend his days reading and writing and he wishes that there could be a way for him to do that. And there's this moment also where he tries to commit suicide. No one knows how he got hold of a bottle of chloroform, but you know, the next thing he knows, his grandmother is over him, and tears are running down her cheeks. And it's this portrait of this young boy who knew that he wasn't good enough for his family intellectually and wanted to better himself. Um, and I think that began driving the young man that he was growing up to be. um when he goes to Oxford and he goes to Oxford in 1914 his brother basically has gone ahead of him and sends word back home and says look send him out you know I'll take care of him and he comes to England on when the world is on the cusp of war and there's immense unrest in England at this point you know there's labor unrest there is uh huge class disparity uh there is unemployment There is immense political tensions. The suffragette movement is raging. Home rule is being uh you know very stormyily passing through parliament at this point. Uh there are concepts of universal adult franchise. There are there's war clouds on the horizon. And when Paneker goes to Oxford, he meets a group of young men who who bring it home to him that he may have been exposed to nationalism etc. in a limited sense at home, but he really didn't know the bigger issues of the day and he didn't know enough. And again, you see that flicker of self-doubt and selfworth, uh, low selfworth coming in because he goes back to his brother and he says, you know, what do I do? I'm, you know, can I read up more about this? And his brother actually says, yeah, you can and you should. And it begins this pattern for Paneker where he would automatically start reading more in order to learn more about something he felt unsure of. Um and that defined the adult that he was going to be because he would always take refuge in learning more. um in college once he's sort of mingling with uh his peers and taking part in debates and participating in the Oxford majus which was this debating club at that point uh which had members from Burma from Salon from India all discussing their own individual countries aspirations for nationalism and by this point the war has broken out the world is at war India is at war you know in 1915 there are more changes in the country also. Dilak and Ani Basant have formed the home rule league. Mahatma Gandhi has arrived in India. Um and you have this young man in Oxford beginning to write on subjects that you know when I was researching this I was a gasast because I couldn't imagine myself writing the kind of subjects that he was writing about. He was writing about citizenship. He was writing about diaspora rights. He was writing about immigration, identity, where would India be after the war? What would the national movement mean? What did it mean to be a subject of the empire versus a citizen of your own country? And citizen obviously in those days didn't have the constitutional codification that it came to have. It just was a sense of belonging to your own country. What did that mean? Uh what did it mean to be Indian? And that is it's now actually in 1915 1916 when he begins writing and it's a process of writing that never stops until the day he dies because for him his greatest weapon was apart from his mind was his pen and he wrote on subjects uh of increasing complexity all through his life. It became one of his early ways of pushing back against the empire, pushing back against colonialism, of making his voice heard. And his early writings are very raw and they're very angry. You can see how young he was and you can see him pulling together ideas and trying to make sense of these huge concepts that were floating around at this point. And what fascinated me as his biographer was that if you follow the arc of his writings from when he was very young to the day he died um you see that nothing in his writings was ever static. It was always something that evolved as the years passed and I found that really interesting because this was a mind that was beginning to develop alongside the Indian national movement and alongside major global events as well. Which is why for me he was maybe one of our first public intellectuals in that sense of the word. His years at Oxford were marked by constant writing, constantly trying to understand where India would be post the war. And he comes back, you know, after the war and after this really traumatic experience when he's going home and his ship capsizes and he comes back to a country again that's being marked by very significant moments in the national movement, the jelly bug, the non-ooperation movement, the roll acts, all of that. And you know, it's not in chronological order, but you know what I mean. This is somebody who right from the get-go had thought okay I want to be an academic I want to be surrounded by books and he does that right like he marries according to his mother's wishes he joins Aligard where he's a professor of history and for a time it's great because it's exactly what he'd wanted to do but and this is where you know what I was saying earlier about how your context drives you and how your circumstances drive you when you see or when he saw his country being put through or it was being put through at the time between 1919 to 1922 um he wanted to be part of the push back against the empire and that's when he realizes that a life in academia is great but it's not for him and that is when he realizes I want to join politics I don't know how but that's what I want um and it's it's the beginning of a career that would a span the length and breadth of the national movement and the first two decades of us as a postc colonial nation but it also um defined panikar in many senses of the word and in all of this his early years contributed to him wanting to constantly prove himself in throughout his college years and in his university in in his teachings at Aligar he wanted to contribute to a cause that was much greater than him uh in a more concrete sense >> that's a magnificent and valiant sprint through I think the first 22 23 years of his life and I'm I'm going to slow down now and double click on different parts of this and one of the thoughts that struck me when I read about this period that you described is that while he was thinking active actively writing actively about politics and the outside world and so on and so forth. I was wondering what his interior life and the interior world is like and I want to double click on aspects of those and the first aspect is the role of women. Yeah. >> Now in the book at one point you write about the women in Traven where you say to read the Reverend Samuel Mat's account of life in Traven written a decade before Madawa was born is to gain the impression that the lot of the women in Travenor even a high-class woman was deeply unpleasant. According to Matir uh the woman was nearly always uneducated, her birth unwanted, her person unloved and a life devoid almost entirely of anything except domestic chores. A Brahman gentleman was once asked, "What do you think a woman ought to know? She must know two things was his reply. First, she must know the way to the bazar to buy necessities for the house. And secondly, she must know the way from the bazar home again." Stop quote. And there's an echo of this later in the book where after he gets married and I think his wife goes with him to Aliger where she doesn't know the language and uh for you might think that she's bereff but she quickly makes a kitchen and as you point out her whole thing was what she did everywhere was she would first set up the kitchen and then the garden and >> she was happy with that and at Panikar's attitude then was that she's good at that you know that that that she should do that and a third data point about his attitude to women comes from his feelings on education, his thoughts about education and the second of the three points that he makes about education is that it's a great tragedy that half the people aren't being educated, women ought to be educated more but not at the cost of their domestic duties. So now I wonder what's happening here because uh right from that early love letter for which he's right up to a pillar onto uh you know at Oxford you allude that he's known as a bit of a woman's man as it were and uh and also all the some of the guys don't like him and I guess maybe that's part of the reason as well the envy that comes from that >> apart from of course his outspoken uh nature as that evolved on the one hand uh you know he's a woman's man he'sed interested in women but on the other hand it is it appears to be his interest appears to restrict them to certain roles that he's not seeing them as full people in a sense despite the friendships he builds with people like Sarrojani Naidu as you detail in the book but despite that this is kind of how he sees him and obviously we can't blame him because this is a late 19th century to early 20th century and you are a product of the society you're in so what is your sense of how the way he thought about women as attitude ute towards women evolved as his life went on and to what extent did they hinder him just in the thinking >> I think you know and the fact is that much of this much of the quotes that you've quoted also come from his memoir which he writes in 1955 he is by nowtheathered four daughters right um remarkable women have played roles in his life so he his grandmother is one of them. Uh his mother is pretty remarkable in her own right. Um and he discovers through the course of their marriage that his wife is pretty remarkable also. You know she was it was an arranged marriage very quiet uh girl had never been outside Kawalam um only spoke malam had never lived anywhere else and he transplants her to Aligard which where she's really out of her depth. All she knows is how to run a good house, maintain the garden, pay attention to her scriptures, all of that. If you follow the trajectory of their marriage alone, there is a point at which and this is probably in the mid 1920s when he his career is at a standstill and he goes abroad to train as a lawyer and he get his career gets this whole second coming at that point. But it's two years of separation for Paniker and for Gori who is his wife. And it's at this point that she seems to have realized that okay this can't happen again right like if I want to maintain this marriage I'm going to have to adjust as the saying goes right and she does so much more than that you know I really really admired her when I was writing this book because she reinvents herself and she becomes this woman who can speak multiple languages. uh she at a later stage is very into carpentry. Uh she has she begins reading and sort of learning more about the world and about um his world in particular. And it's this remarkable um reinvention of self that takes him back also because he returns from two years in Europe and finds that this shy young woman that he'd married is no longer there. It's this like cheerful, confident woman who has this very dry sense of humor and who um can match him now, you know, and she continues to match him in all through the rest of their lives. And you see that this is a man who is also attracted to strangely, despite the chauvinism in his memoir, he is attracted to strong, intelligent women. Um you see that across through the hints of the affairs that he had through um his marriage through the fact that he encouraged that same quality in his daughters. Uh all of his daughters were um treated as equals intellectually uh by their father. And you know, I genuinely feel like this was one of the paradoxes of his nature where you see a certain early chauvinism, sexism, which he's still harking back to when he's writing his memoir, but he's actually quite delighted by strong women. Um, he's been shaped by them. In fact, his childhood was shaped by them. So, there's no reason for it to be an anomaly as such. The anomaly lay in the chauvinism, right? And as you said, it's a product of the time that he lived in where you know this this was the norm and this was the thing where you it's fine if you educate educate a woman but not at the cost of the family. And you also have to contextualize when he was writing that particular tract from which you've quoted because he was young at that point. He had just got married. Gori hadn't come into her own. much of his writing has a context to the time he was living in and the age he was at and the world he was responding to at the time. So this particular tract was written in the early 1920s. They had just got married. Kori was still very shy, very reclusive. Um he changes his mind. You see him doing that and you see him being very attracted to strong women. Mr. Roshni Naidu herself, you know, his friendship with her, she is a very strong woman. So he is he is very drawn to a strong independent woman. That's something that uh remains true for his entire life. So I think that is also something that keeps evolving but remains an odd paradox when you read it in his memoir which he wrote in 1955. And and I guess memoirs have that quality of it's also what you choose to remember and how you want to be remembered and all of those factors also kind of play into it. >> Yeah. Because I think there are several things in his memoir that actually weren't true for the rest of his life. You know, for instance, he talks about Israel in many other areas of his of the archives. And he was a very dedicated Zionist. It wasn't just um a flirtation with the cause when he chanced upon it in the mid 1920s. This was a cause that he remained very quietly committed to throughout his life. Uh but he knew that when he wrote his memoir that was not the politically correct thing to say particularly he was this was 1955 he was still very much in service. um the Congress had taken a very different very pro Palestine stand. He could not be seen to be espousing a Zionist cause. So these were leanings that he kept undercover. So that's one. His work in Baneer for instance he's very anodine about the kind and work that he did when he was serving the uh Maharaja of Bikanire. Um but it was actively a very wide scope and scale. he doesn't seem to go into too much detail in his memoir. Um, so there are certain areas that he downplays whether it's because of an acknowledgement that it is politically correct to do so and a mix of that generation's way of thinking that okay this was just my job. I went in and did my job. So it does come down to how you choose to be remembered. But the thing is that even with the memoirs you write and the oral histories you leave behind the archives will always tell a different story if there's a different story to be told. >> The first of the two episodes I done with Kavitara was on lady doctors and one of the things that struck me during that episode is that if you were a male doctor in the 1900s in India that was cool. You were probably born to privilege and you made it and it wasn't a big deal at all. If you were a lady doctor, you were bloody extraordinary. It doesn't matter how good a doctor you were or the rest of it doesn't matter. Just by the dink that you made it there despite all the obstacles, you were bloody extraordinary. And I thought of that when I was reading about his wife Gori because it struck me that she is actually more extraordinary than him because she didn't have the early advantages that he did but she had to shape herself by an act of will. >> Absolutely. which I always find remarkable like the economist Jim Hecman had had done these studies a few years ago which really influenced that kids who between the ages of 0 to 5 grow up in households where they are listening to 10 letter words around them and that's of course a proxy for complex conversation will have an extra layer of cognition uh that other kids don't have and you can't make up for it later you can't compensate it for later if you don't have it in those first 5 years you don't have it because that's when her brain cells are exploding and I look at uh panikar's life and you speak about how in the paniker household in travandum you know journalists writers intellectuals social reformers came and went all the time these are your words I'll continue quoting govinda had friends in nearly every field of life and vocation and the discussions ranged across politics and music to religion and books both Padmaha his brother and Madava were allowed to sit in on these discussions to at least listen if not participate uh stop quote and Later you write about how code the paniker her home in Tvandram was crammed with books for all three inhabitants loved reading. Madhava borrowed the books either his brother or uncle were reading fueling a mind that was naturally curious and exploratory. Since both men were much older than he was it was no surprise that by the time he was 14 years old Madaba was reading far ahead of his age and this is just what you're taking in by osmosis. Yeah, >> the conversations and the books and later there is the act of will also like you point out that when he had that crisis of self-confidence in Oxford he was encouraged to go out and buy all the books he could so he as you write quote he buried himself in the works of Ipsson and Shaw and began to learn as much as he could about English politics global geopolitics and India's possible role in all of this stop quote so it's a combination of being lucky enough and if you don't have that luck there's practically nothing you can do about it you simply you know it's much much harder for you and yet there are people who didn't have that luck like Gori like Ambedkar if I think of a standard example whose first 5 years weren't like that who through a force of will managed to bring themselves uh up there. >> Yeah. >> So tell me about how much of a role was the self-doubt that drove him like at Oxford he felt inadequate and therefore he had to go and do all of the reading. Had he not felt inadequate, had you know the environment been slightly different or had he been more cockure and uh assured of himself, he may not have worked so hard. So how much of his life because he was thrown into many different environments whether it is teaching at the Aliger Muslim University the founder editor of Hindustan times negotiating with um the Akali on behalf of Gandhi and Neu um everything that he does for the princely states he's constantly reinventing himself you know he's learning politics he's learning to write he's learning um law he's uh changing the malalum landscape as we'll discuss later so is that a constant feature through his life and for me that just totally sets him apart from most men of that age. Like on the one hand of course he's a Renaissance man and there aren't many of those but also he's actively making himself one. Yes, I think I think that's a very fair description because you see that establishing itself as a pattern in college and while initially it's driven by you know self-doubt and low selfworth I think once he begins making an intellectual name for himself once he begins establishing himself on that landscape that's when you see the first streaks which you know are clear from Oxford itself these streaks of arrogance etc and they are going in duality with the fact that he was a really great friend and that you know if he if you were in his inner circle then he accepted you as you were etc. So there were flashes of smuggness and uh arrogance that were coming in. I think that's natural when you're young and you're getting uh the kind of accolades that he was getting for his intellectual prowess at that point. I think at some point especially once he came back once he was at Aligar once he saw what the country was going through that sort of ebbed into ambition and you see ambition dominating the rest of his life. Uh he wanted to be where the heartbeat of power was. Um and he wanted to contribute towards that in any and every sense of the word. Right? So even when his career is at a standstill in the mid 1920s and he goes to um you know London to train as a lawyer and there from there he goes to Paris and Berlin um and he's dabbling in all kinds of anarchism and anarchist thoughts at this point. uh but he's also opened up to a whole new world of what it means to be an Asian um subject of colonialism because he's meeting people from all farrung colonies of the empire. So he's meeting people from Vietnam from or what was into China then from Indonesia from Algeria from Aabaijan. All of these people particularly those who are from Southeast Asia so to speak have introduced him to the fact that India is a country that is within the region of Southeast Asia. Southeast Asia itself is being shaped by different currents of capitalism, nationalism, uh anarchy. Um it is responding in its own way as are all colonies that are under the empire at this point. Um and it teaches him to become an a sort of um a person who is focused on an Asiaentric f model of independence. It's at this point that he starts emphasizing on the fact that colonialism means nothing if Asia and Africa are not free. Uh especially within Asia, India and China share a civilizational ethos and history which will make them the natural dominators of this region. These are the moments where he's adapting to where he is, learning from where he's at and taking that forward. Um and you see that again when he's coming back to England and when he encounters um you know Kalash Hakar who is uh in the Maharaja of Kashmir's court and is representing the case of the princes um in their sort of quest for more rights under the Raj that he reinvents himself yet again and presents a case for federation. So there's a constant sense of wanting to not just better himself but also to adapt to different circumstances in which he's finding himself right and he's keeping up this stream of writing alongside which you know is staggering in its output because he's continuing to write about across literature. He's continuing to write across history. is continuing to try and answer his own questions of where India should be at this particular point in time and you see a a mind that is developing to take on board both princely state and province at this point and this is this is apart from his stint as a journalist right because he's already done a stint uh at saraja in Madras he's already been the founding editor of Hindustan times um he's already decided that journalism is not for him. So he's already done that. Now he's working to be an administrator um and also a lawyer in representing the chamber of princes. And it's it's remarkable because you keep seeing him do that as he progresses throughout his career because right after the decade uh in which he serves the princes and this is concurrently with serving the chamber of princes he's in the courts of Kashmir, Patiala and Beacon right so he's serving them these three states in his in individual capacities as well. So this is somebody who isn't afraid to reinvent himself. He's ambitious enough to do that. He's ambitious enough to take on what he's getting at a particular point in time and he's also ambitious enough to get what he wants, right? Like I mean he ensures that his copy of um the tract on the princely states reaches Kay and Huxar at the Ritz that he ensures um and he sees to it that he meets Kay and Huxer. He sees to it that you know a conversation happens in which Huxer offers him a job in the court of Kashmir. So all of that is stuff that he makes that happen for himself even when he is Gandhi's emissary in Amritser that is also something that he makes happen for himself where Gandhi basically is trying to resolve the Kali problem in Amritsur and wants to send an emissary there uh asks Paneker if he's up for the job and Paneker knows this is a make orb breakak moment if he can bring himself to the notice of Gandhi and Nu and you know I've gone backwards in time. This is now 1924. Um but he knows that if he comes to the attention of Gandhi and Nero then okay somewhere in the political periphery he'll be and he can make something happen from that. When it fails and when NU says okay why don't you write a history of the non-ooperation movement. Vaneka knows that's not what he wants. He wants to do something bigger and better and from that the Hindustan times is born. So you see him taking an opportunity and also reashioning it into something that will serve him and will serve as a stepping stone to a possible next step. Even if it ends in failure, he repurposes the failure which is something that I deeply admire as his biographer because you see him constantly failing. Even when Federation fails, there's a sense of bitter disillusionment and a sense of real resentment because he's put his heart and soul into working and then again he has to reinvent himself after that. So you're right, his life is marked by a constant process of reinvention >> in that uh whole um uh Akali period. Uh the fun part was how at one point he started ghosting Neu when Neu wanted to ask him hey what's happening to my book and I can just totally imagine if they had WhatsApp in those days you know you turn that blue tick thing off the scene thing off I can imagine yeah Panik would have kind of done that with Nu and then he politely writes to him a while later and Nu is like what the dude >> tell me about so I want to ask a bunch of different questions about the importance of writing in the shaping of panikar And one of the things that struck me >> is that what he chose to write about like sometimes somebody would ask him to write something and he was interested in something already and he would just write about that. >> But a bunch of times what he wanted to write about emerged from the publication in the audience that he was writing for. For example, you talk about how PB Krishna Warrior asked him to write an essay for Bhasha Vasam which was the annual number of this magazine he called Kavana Kamudi and he ended up writing this essay called Malalam poetry in Sanskrit verses where he made an argument for the Dravidian meter instead of Sanskrit which had you know become the norm by then and it was a hugely influential essay and then he you know got into a discussion on this with the poet Walthal and said hey why don't you test my thesis by writing something in Dravidian meter which Walthal was able to do and therefore something big and seinal in the language comes out of an essay he wrote because this dude invited him to write similarly another classic essay where he is uh sort of expanding on the greater India as it were comes about because he wants to enter an essay competition there's a 100 rupee prize and he's entering the essay competition and the subject has to be about immigration or whatever and then he writes it and I'm thinking wait what is that about like if the contest wasn't there maybe he wouldn't have written it even if you know the fledgling thoughts were there because you can have a 100 fledgling thoughts but when you choose to write on one you fractify it and there's a part dependence to that then you know it can shape all your other thinking that follows and I'm looking at that at the landscape of the writing that he's doing uh in those years in his early 20s like right from Oxford onwards 1915 onwards to the early 20s and so much of it. It's not like there's a vibrant ecosystem where he can decide who to write for. It's not like there's a toi that gives him a column and he can write whatever the hell he wants. You know, people are inviting him and he's then figuring out uh uh you know what to write about depending on the audience and all of that partly. And uh how much did those sort of happenstances of invitations and subjects uh sort of shape the directions that he went in? I think at that point he was also when he first started out he he pitched like you normally pitch and then once those first slew of articles were accepted then it became like okay this is a young man and a young voice whose voice is important for us to take on board. So Annie Basin starts publishing him. You know he's published all over whether it's the modern review, you name it, his name was in those journals. Um and after a point it wasn't so much about the invitations but what he was choosing to write about. And I think um as far as his nationalism went, I think there in that quest for Indian identity and you mentioned the greater India school of thought. I think that was one thing that he stayed very true to throughout his writing career. Um when he first writes about nationalism, uh it's grounded in um a core of Hinduism. It's grounded in the fact that Hinduism is the civilizational foundation on which our country exists and this is the crux on around which we exist as a country and our commercial spiritual cultural influence has been present across Southeast Asia for centuries before the British Empire came along and in that sense the greater India school of thought in the 20th century was two things. It was one a transimperial very endocentric body of uh thought which allowed nationalists like paneker to push back against empire and say hey we were here before you. It could also be repurposed in the other sense of the word in a far more muscular militant sense of hindutwa uh which focused on a a kand bat that extended all the way to Southeast Asia. Um where Paneka differed from that is that he emphasized on the fact that India was a land of many religions of many cultures of many languages um Hinduisms and he uses the word vagueness is generous vagueness is the phrase he uses and he says that allows it to be inclusive rather than exclusive. Um so it's never a sectarian um view of nationalism. It's never based on a sense of majoritarianism. It's always based on a sense of inclusion. And he keeps to that all through his life. Um and I think that is the one area in which you know he is using that and it's irrespective whether he's writing books or whether he's writing commentaries. He's his quest for nationalism is based on his quest of what it means to be an Indian in different changing times in different circumstances in different contexts. So where you know you have one argument in 1915 that was changing in 1922 that was changing in 1935 and in 1945 1955 and until he died he never stopped writing about that because I think that was a subject that was very personal to him. That was the one subject I think and and Indian history and Indian nationalism were the subjects where he you can almost see him searching for answers to questions. You can almost see him uh refining those answers as the years passed and as India's circumstances changed as the world's circumstances changed he began to factor in all of that and for him this was one area where he didn't play to a gallery. I think these were very personal areas for him. For the rest of it, yes, like when he was writing about the princely states for instance, he was definitely um playing to the princely gallery in the sense that he was trying to let the world know as well as Indian political leaders know that don't discount the princely states. They are great laboratories for regional identity and and governance. And if they are nurtured and brought on board uh a common bandwagon of nationalist movement, they can actually serve the country better. And you see that even in this sort of puff piece that he writes for foreign affairs in 1943 where it's he's basically not making any point uh that is new or earth shaking. He's basically just reminding the world that the princes exist and in a state of uh where the world and India is in 1943, they cannot be left out of any kind of political or constitutional calculations for India's future. Um you also see him uh playing to the gallery in this sense is the wrong phrase but you also see him projecting uh a sense of India's future when he's writing about foreign policy. So when he's writing about maritime policy and you know he was one of he was the first person who actively put forward what our maritime policy should be as a postc colonial nation and he writes this particular tract um in the mid 1940s when we are still at when the world is still at war when we are still a colony and yet he's looking forward and he is grounding that work in history he's saying that look India truly lost her sense of independence when she lost naval power in the 16th century. Right? Going forward, we have to consider what where our maritime policy is going to be because that's our actual power. We must have a strong seabboard. We must have uh strong sea bases across Singapore, across Yemen, across Sri Lanka. We must have a regional order that looks after our maritime interests particularly in the Indian Ocean. um he was looking at the presence of rivals in the region like China and the United States. Now he's writing all of this much before we were ever free. To me that was also um a a period where he was influenced by watching what was happening during the Second World War. He's writing this tract based on watching Japan developing as this military juggernaut across the Pacific. Japan's at our doorstep in north in the northeast. Um this is now a time where he's thinking okay if Japan can do that what is stopping us from doing it. Um and in a sense it's a sort of reminder particularly to nationalist leaders like NU that it is now time that we start thinking concretely of what it means to be free. Right? It doesn't just mean striking off the shackles of colonialism. It means thinking administratively. It means thinking of us in terms of defense and security and our borders. And it's a great reminder and you see him sort of playing possibly to uh political aspirations of what a free nation should look like. But I think in terms of history and nationalism, those were his personal sort of babies. I'd say >> let let's double click on one of the babies. Does that sound weird? Double clicking on a baby. Let us double click on u the theme of greater India and you know when I was reading about that and uh you made the distinction very well uh between that and the more toxic hindutwa nationalism and I was thinking of sauurka's framing like Sauurka's framing was very exclusionary. It was very clear about who the other is uh for the benefit of my listeners. Sawurka's framing like you know Shri Capillas described uh Sawurka described Sawurker's hindutwa as a theory of violence in search of a history and Saburka's framing basically was that only he can be considered a Hindu if or an Indian if your both your holy land and your land of origin are within India and that is not true of Muslims that is not true of Christians that is true of Buddhists and Jans obviously so it's very clear what you're trying to do here and the the the question that uh is never asked is why why should that be the framing now um panicker's framing for greater India is very different panikar's framing uh takes in the diaspora takes in everywhere where Hindu culture is spread so on and so forth there's no othering per se and he's talk like I I often describe Hinduism as an open-source religion uh you know Manu in his latest book has this great introductory essay a brief history of Hinduism which I think sums up the 20,000 year opishadic period very well where it is open source it's taking everything and that's exactly the kind of Hinduism that panikar is talking about but that battle was lost in the sense it is not the idea of the greater India that won over it was a hindutwa idea it is not the open- source Hinduism which won over even if in a lift practice a lot of it kind of remains but uh the idea that grabbed the political imagination was a very monolithic and aggressive version of Hinduism as it were. And I want to ask you why like what are your theories on why is it that one particular muscular angry exclusionary version won out and the other one simply never got any traction at all you know and this is something that you know the likes of Tor probably foresaw when they said nationalism itself is toxic avoid it you know and and something that I broadly agree with that these sort of efforts to um you know build a positive version of it are just doomed to fail. Uh it simply doesn't work. But what is your sense of why that is? I mean the German theorist Khal Schmidt said in politics you always need the other. You know Saburkar's hindutwa had an other. Here there was sort of no others. So my first question about um uh this is um you know um why do you think it failed or and and do you think it was inevitable or do you think that no it's not necessarily panicker could have won if circumstances were different or rather the set of ideas could have won. Um I think that's a very hard question to answer honestly because see for Paneka he was also operating between 1915 to 1947 if you look at where the country even went there was so many factors to contend with which we sometimes tend to lose sight of. We tend to lose sight of the fact that there was untouchability involved. There was cast involved. There was communalism involved heavily uh and it dominated much of the latter years of the transfer of power. Um in constitutional terms alone there was dominion status, there was federation. Um you know there was for every legislative step forward we took two legislative steps backwards. And in that sense it becomes difficult to pinpoint exactly where things begin going off the rails. Like for instance, Paneker was very disillusioned at the end of the first round table because you know they were tanking purely on the basis of uh communal issues. And this is despite the fact that the huge ambiguity of the roundt agenda itself was staggering because the political parties came with an idea of a dominion status. The princes had come uh with an overall agenda of federation but they were fighting within themselves. The Muslim League was you know extremely pissed off because they wanted safeguards for themselves as well. When you have a country where there are so many stakeholders and so many interests also and this is something that Banikar wrestled with as the years passed is and you see the and you see these questions sort of emerging in his uh work over the years is for instance how does India contend with so many religions, languages, communities uh cultures within its borders. you see you know it emerging when he uh writes to say Mahmud in 1941 saying let us force the idea of a united India um there can only be India and Pakistan from here on out and it's 1941 when he writes this letter you know and this is not to say that he was in favor of partition he absolutely wasn't but that sense of bitterness I think uh had crept in to his bones by then um and I think you see that sense of bitterness and disillusionment amongst everybody who is behind the scenes or at the forefront of the transfer of power uh and of partition at that point. um that in those entire years were marked by um particularly after 1945 when the similar conference fails there's this sense of real fatalism and real disillusionment because I don't think anyone for instance had wanted partition had wanted you know um a divided India and you know when you're talking about things like hindutwa etc these are divisive ideologies these are things that divide a country from within. partition divided you know the map of South Asia but Hindutwa etc divide you from within I I don't know um obviously in 2025 what a modern paneer would have said or thought but I do know that in the later half of his years particularly when India stood free the idea of a greater India which he changed and he changed it to further India it was essentially the same argument but it became further India in is uh writing that to me was definitely problematic because when you're writing of it as further India and you're writing of it at a time when India is standing free India is uh decolonized uh nation in a decolonizing world. Uh the mission is to present the country as a cohesive entity against all uh destabilizing forces whether it's internal or external. uh Neu is very intent on projecting this picture of Asian solidarity in a so-called third world to then write of a greater India or a further India is to run the very real risk and which it does of erasing marginalized communities erasing certain casts and communities that existed and continue to exist. Um it's not a language that suits a decolonized world. It's a chauvinist way of putting things um and a very insular way of putting things because it is fundamentally Hindu revivalist right. So you're running very close to the bone there and that is something that um I keep bringing up throughout the biography because it it is at many points in his thinking about Hinduism in general which become particularly in a postcolonial world problematic because he's suddenly becoming far harder about um the fact that Hinduism is the beating heart of this country and that that is the crux around which we must organize and all of that. It's becoming far more binary than before. And while it doesn't stray into supremacist zones, you do see a sense of bitterness. You do see a sense of uh fatalism that I think gets left over from the transfer of power and partition. Um and it's not really something that somebody like Aneru for instance agrees with. And this is a digression but you know you see and I deeply respect the fact that Neru saw this he didn't like it and he was forced to defend it on several uh occasions when he was questioned about it by international journalist that okay you have a public servant who is who has been a serving ambassador saying these things where what is your take and NU says look in this country we allow freedom of speech and expression everyone is entitled to their own opinion even though I may not agree with it and it speaks to the immense and this is the digression I was talking about is that it speaks to the immense respect that political discourse had intrinsically. I think Nu and Banikar are a great example of that because there was such civility despite the immense differences that both of them had in the later part of their lives and careers particularly when it came to nationalism, particularly when it came to Hinduism, uh when it came to language. Uh those were all tenets on which Neu felt very differently from Panek. it it never uh prevented or it never caused any kind of cancellation of paneker so to speak. >> I think people contain multitudes. I mean the other side of that picture is what Nero did with the first amendment. episode on that where if you look at his arguments with Sham Prasad Mukherj, you would imagine Sham Prasad Mukherji is a great liberal and uh uh Neu is the one who wants to clamp down on free speech which is you know just their words alone uh would be enough to give you that impression. I also want to for a moment stay on the subject of the greater India or rather panicker's feelalty to the theme which he worked on all his life and like you said that this is one subject that he stayed on throughout his life and the thinking evolved a bit as you pointed out in that harder direction >> but what I wondered while reading the book is that how much of the position that he took was tactical in the sense that as you pointed out uh the virtue of the theory was twofold and and the most important one which is which is the purpose he was probably trying to serve is that you're just telling the British that look you didn't civilize us and get us out of nowhere there was a civilization here before this is what it looked like and it served that tactical purpose and the other tactical purpose which I don't know if you would ever have been thinking of because Hindu was not such a threat then is that okay there's a more muscular version that is possible let me give a slightly more benign version at this point in time so how much of it was tactical like did he really believe in it because frankly from my vantage point I find the whole thing a little bit dubious whether you speak of panikar's greater India or the akan bharat or whatever it's all a bit of a force fate and it feels a bit dubious to me so was he in it because he believed in the truth of it or was he in it because you know it was a tactical thing and he believed that this was an important battle to fight >> I think it was a mix of both. I think in the 20th century when he was a young man at Oxford, it was very tactical but it was also something that he believed in. He believed very strongly in Hinduism being the heart of this country and being the uh cultural and spiritual sort of ethos on which our history itself was founded. And you see it you know even when he's talking about things like Bharat Mata for instance it's a it's a very cultural concept that he's propagating. um it's never a territorial uh concept so to speak. It is tactical in the sense that as he as he continues to evolve this theory uh while he sticks to certain tenets of it which become problematic because of his sticking to it um he's also trying to adapt to a changing India and a changing world. Right? So which is why he changes it from greater India to further India because he's trying to adapt it. Later on he drops it all together because he then realizes that okay this is not the time in which to use it. Um so you there is a certain amount of tact sort of tactics and strategy being employed there. But at the heart of it there is also a very sincere belief that um Hinduism is the beating heart of this country's ethos. So my next question about his writing is that one of like a phrase that I uh learned a few months ago and I really love we did an episode of our YouTube show on it is a surface area of serendipity that the more you expand your surface area of serendipity the more likely it is that good things happen to you. So introverts like me should typically go out and meet people but I simply cannot get myself to do that. uh but one way of increasing your surface area of serendipity is obviously reading because then you come across more ideas and uh god knows what may strike you and where that may go. Another way is something that Paneker was doing all the time which was writing right and um that essay that we spoke about that competition was judged by CP Ramas Swami Aayer who in fact wrote the introduction to that essay the problems of greater India and you describe later in the book that at one point uh at the steps of Higgin Botham's bookshop he actually bumps into the man right and then you write quote when panikar met him may had just transitioned into politics joining the congress as a nationalist batabra rapturously put it Ayar was a one star on the Congress permanent flooding the horizon of Indian politics with his radiance. This may have been pushing the envelope a tad but in truth the meetings and madras from Aayer to Banerjee set panikar up with some crucial connections and political networks that would come in handy during his career stop quote. So a dual question one is that how much did writing open doors for him because his writing was obviously being read by people over here. it literally gave him this awesome connection to someone who was a big figure in politics and could introduce him to people. So that's question one regarding the writing opening doors and uh the role it played um in that sense but also how much intentional effort did he actually make to increase that surface area of serendipity like how much did he want it how much did he go to places like when that akali crisis happens as you point out you know he's right there and he agrees to be Gandhi's emissary because this is a golden opportunity and he can actually you know get get in and get the job done so uh what was his approach towards that Did he hustle for for example? >> 100% he hustled. He his life was all it was all hustling but his writing I think honestly in 2025 terms his writing was the greatest hustle that he was doing because he um it opened doors for him like nothing else ever could honestly. Um apart from this meeting with CP Ramas Swami Ayar you know you see his writing coming into play especially when he encounters Gandhi and Nu in Amritsar right and Nu has by this point read Paneker's early works knows enough about Paneka to even offer him the job of writing the history of the non-ooperation movement so there's enough knowledge that this is somebody who can wield a pen and wield it effectively for India's national purposes. says um you see it happening also when he meets Kay and Huxer with his tract on federalism and the princely states. You see it happening all through his career. You see it in um you know 1943 when he goes to Canada to represent India at the IPR the Institute of Pacific Research Pacific Relations which calls him um you know as part of the Indian delegation to discuss what a political future might look like post the war and post the transfer of power. Um you see it in his writing representing the princely states. You see it in his sent being sent to China as ambassador. you know, he's sent to China as ambassador primarily because NU has been tracking his writing on foreign policy, on politics, on nationalism. Uh, by this point, he's built a considerable reputation as a foreign policy um policy wonk so to say, as well as um a journalist of some repute or as well as a nationalist writer of some repute. So, when he's sent off to China in 1948, it's also on the back of his writing. So his writing continues to open doors for him throughout his career. Um and it is obviously layered in with the fact that this is a brilliant mind and it's contributing several stellar ideas for the development of India as a postcolonial nation and is uh on the path to that process. Um, so I think certainly writing not only opened doors but helped him build a network that he needed to build, helped him to get to places that he possibly never would have gotten before without the writing being involved. And to answer the second part of that which was the intentional effort, I think everything he did throughout his life was intentional. There was intent in when he went to Amritsur, there was intent in ghosting NU. There was intent in founding the Hindustan Times. Uh there was intent in how he got his manuscript to be read by Kayan Hakar. How he got himself onboarded to represent um you know the the chamber of princes during India's first push towards federalism. So I think intentional effort really does define Macho Paneker's career because he made sure that he was where he needed to be. He had this sort of very uncanny knack for sensing where he needed to be at the right time. And he made sure that he hustled enough to meet the right people and get his foot into the right doors. And I think that speaks to a lot of intention about where he wanted to go with his career. >> Uh I'll I'll double click on this with a couple of follow-ups. But before that a digression on exactly this point that what about his life was not intentional in the sense that what did he do not because there was something he wanted to get out of it but he wanted to do it for its own sake like Marquez often speaks of the public self the private self and the secret self what was his secret self like his public self was all of this stuff that's in the book all the hustle the writing the politics etc I'm guessing there's a the private self has everything to do with the family and all of that what is a secret self what are the things that are that he's intrinsically passionate about regardless of the world. >> I think his writing in Malayalam was something that he was very passionate about and it's a it's a large chunk of his life and career that I've had to leave out of the book just for sanity's sake. But I think that was where he really unleashed the tender sides of his personality, the softer sides, the more romantic sides, the sides that you wouldn't associate with, you know, the forensic mind of an administrator or a diplomat or a foreign policy mandarin. Those were the sides that he unleashed in his fiction and his poetry. You also see it in how he treats his daughters um in the complete equality he gives them. you know when uh one of his daughters Dwaki falls in love with this rising communist leader MN Ner uh it's when he is uh ambassador in China and he's a very embattled ambassadorship there uh among the many charges is that he himself is a communist and therefore is pro the people's republic of China's leadership and so you know you would think it would be bad optics right but he's very clear about the fact that his daughter's ideologies are her own. Her mind is her own. She's free to do as she wishes to do. And you know, she even comes to China and reports. She writes much to the constellation of the CIA which is watching all of them. She's writing observations on what she sees in communist China etc. And it's remarkable. I think those are parts that speak to his secret self which which he kept very deliberately hidden for obvious reasons from the from the public gaze but I think so much of it also comes out in this volume of essays that many of his friends and colleagues put together to celebrate his 60th birthday where they they made some remarkable observations and in fact one of uh his close friends uh Ishwara Dut who was a journalist called him one of India's impossible men, which I thought was a great way to describe him. Others wrote about his sense of humor that, you know, he he had this very puckish sense of humor where he used a combination of literary references and sort of sliding under someone's skin to sort of get to their inner vulnerabilities to make a joke out of that, but he remained intrinsically kind. Those were the parts of himself that he kept very far away from the public eye. Um, I think you also see it in this very long poem that he writes which I've quoted in the book when he has this stroke in France and it's one of his last ambassadorial postings and he has a stroke and he writes this very long very wistful poem about how he just wants to rest and it's it's there in his poetry and his fiction and his inner world where you actually see the very private paneker which doesn't come out. You see glimpses of it in his public life. I also saw a glimpse of it when um you know in 1959 he's forced to defend his actions in China and he is by then a Rajya Sabha member and he has to speak on the floor of parliament. He's already had a stroke. He's incredibly frail. Um, and he's incredibly incredibly hurt because there's this hail stom of abuse about his actions in China. And he can't stand for too long, but he manages to make this little brief speech defending his time in China. And so, you get flashes of this very private man throughout a very public career. you know, you get flashes of a man who did have a very soft, tender side, a very romantic side, and he would always write about Kerala, for instance, in his fiction. Um, and in the tenderest of ways, in the very, you see it also in the description of his home. In fact, there's a lot of love and a lot of nostalgia for um his home, for the way he was brought up, for even the journey from uh Kutinad to Travandram. That whole journey is described with such vivid detail that I've honestly retained so much of that in the book because the beauty of it and the sheer gentleness of it still stands out. So there was that man underneath the public surface. >> I'll continue double clicking on on this uh theme. Like I was also fascinated by this because like at one point you casually throw in uh this sentence where you write he went on to publish a critically acclaimed translation of King Lear a play based on Nur Jahan and a poem that recreated an episode from the life of Gandhari from the Mahab what the these three things are in one sentence that's a lot of work and you know in my episode with uh Peggy Moan who wrote that masterpiece of her book Wonders Kings and Merchants uh she made the really important point that a lot of Indians might think that they're bilingual or multilingual but actually they're daglosic that it's not that in one context you can use any of two or three languages but that in a in each context you have one language that fits you may go to office and speak in English you may be out on the street and speak in Hindi and at home you might speak in whatever your mother tongue is Bengali or malalam or whatever and I'm wondering if that kind of applies that um you know when it comes to this secret self the feeling self the artistic self it's malalam where he's most at home and for everything else it is uh you know English which is uh which is the outward facing kind of thing. So is that broadly how you would sum it up and in this case what is why have you written one biography because there are two panic right? >> I mean yes I would sum it up exactly like that and I think one biography I mean I know this biography >> I'm kidding I'm not >> no I just I just I know that there's parts of paniker that I haven't even begun to scrape. I think I finished this book uh wishing that I didn't have to leave so much on the cutting room floor because there's there's literally so much in fact I had to leave out this part uh of his life and his work because simply because a I don't have the grasp of Mallayalam or Mallayalam literature to completely sort of analyze the nuances and to sort of go in depth and I'm sure I'm sure work on this has been done by many scholars is much better qualified than me. But um that's a whole aspect of a very sensitive side of panikar that I had to leave out which I'm very sorry about. But um it did exist underneath all of that. And you know that language Malalam was very dear to him. It he never lost his love for his home, for his language, for his people. And that comes out in the works of his Malalam fiction. And this is keeping aside his translations on other very scholarly Greek plays and Shakespeare and all of that that he does but I think he reserves his tenderest emotions for Mallayalam for any writing that he did in Mallayalam. And is that his true self or are both the cells his true self or like what were your feelings when you read his tenderest work? His poetry is fiction, >> you know? I mean that just leads me to the to the question of do we ever really know what a true self is? Because you know, especially when you're writing about a public facing figure, what is the true self? And how far do those lines get blurred between who you really are and who you have to be at a particular point? Um and that is something I think I grapple a lot with as a biographer whether I'm writing about VP Menon or whether I'm writing about Panikar is how far is one personality the real personality that is actively at play. Um, which is also why I don't subscribe to the whole great man theory, right? Because you can be great at what you do and absolutely limited in other areas of your life. Uh, and vice versa. Um, and I think for somebody like Paneker, this was I'd say um, a lot of his writing does reflect much of what he thought. um especially in the early years of his writing because that is I think the rawest form of his writing particularly because he was so young and he was so angry and you can see the rage jumping out at you when you're reading it and you can see it in you know the speeches he gives you can see it in the lectures he gives in random remarks that he drops you know like he will tell a group of orientalists he will tell them you know I'm not a pacifist I am an extreme nationalist, you know, and that's something that he held to also all his life. Um, and you see flashes of this coming out and you see flashes of who he was. I don't know whether every biography captures who a person truly was. I don't think any biography really does which is why I don't like you know biographies that market themselves as the comprehensive biography of X because you can't be comprehensive when you're talking about a person I >> I don't think even a person himself is truly himself at any one point in time so it's >> so I I think at best what you can do as a biographer is try and understand what what you have in front of you from the archives plus what they are saying plus what their families have left behind. Sort of to sift through all of that. I think somewhere in between the lines is where you find the real person. >> So moving away from this digression back to what we were saying about writing and hustling. So I have a couple of uh follow-ups on that which is one um was writing a fantastic form of hustling for that particular era in which case can you think of other people who hustled so effectively with their writing as it were? I mean one can say NU achieved a lot and whatever but it wasn't really a hustle per se. It was uh you know I mean some of it was a hustle inventing the idea of India through the discovery of India or whatever but uh who would you consider the other great hustlers of that era that's question one and um or what figures come immediately to mind the writing hustlers and two I am guessing that a writing hustler is not possible today but then what is the equivalent form of it I mean it's obviously not podcasting but >> I don't know I mean also to like dismiss it as a hustle also I feel is is too reductivist because I feel like these were men and women who were also through their writing were trying to figure stuff out like you and I are sitting here thinking aloud over microphones these guys were thinking aloud with their pens and they were sort of thinking about what India should look like what it should be and what it even meant at that point you know >> so yeah just to clarify then I'm not diminishing the writing. The writing of course has all of these. You're shaping yourself. You're clarifying your thinking. But at the same time, it is acting as an amazing hustle. It is your uh so you know >> because it was also playing the role of you know you could do so much with writing. You could do journalism. You could do you could be uh a very active uh political fighter as well. You could be doing public relations for India on the international scene. All of that was done via writing in those days. that was the greatest medium through which you put your opinion out and it counted for something. Uh in those days even you know something like journalism was seen to be an act of patriotism because you were actively your magazine or your newspaper actively espoused a certain cause. Um and when you wrote for that particular magazine you were seen to be espousing that cause um and standing up for that cause. Um so I think writing in those in those days and in that time meant um a sort of process of figuring yourself out in terms of who you were in relation to to an empire in relation to an idea of India which was evolving at that point and I think all writing at that point was contributing to a much greater idea. I think you were also very aware of that idea. I certainly think Paneker was very aware of the fact that he was contributing to not just a personal sense of understanding who he was as an Indian but also to a much greater cause. I think NU was also aware of that. I think there was a great sense of self-awareness when these people wrote also. So I think largely for them writing fulfilled certain parts of their minds which they were also trying to figure out as far as their own personal journeys as Indians and their own public journeys as public facing figures as politicians as whoever they were at at given points in time what it meant. It was just this process of thinking out loud. Honestly, >> let's talk about journalism. You spoke about journalism also as in a sense an act of politics and you know the Hindustan times started with him as founder editor as an act of politics. It was Yakali Dal's face to the world as it were and uh it was based in Delhi mainly because that's what Paneikar insisted on and uh so he's the founding editor. Now a question that I often have about journalism is that sometimes people like me will romanticize journalism as if there is a particular dharma to journalism whether it is speaking truth to power or comforting the afflicted afflicting the comfortable blah blah blah all of that high fallutin stuff at the same time there is a commercial in incentive that look it's it's a business you got to be responsible to your shareholders your stakeholders etc etc you there supply and demand you give the public what they want and the question then becomes Right? How do you reconcile this? Is there a set of higher values? If there is, if you are insisting there is a set of higher values, then how do you answer the why behind that? And uh the political question is particularly interesting because there are so many outlets today on either side of the fence that are incredibly partisan that act more as activists rather than journalists. And and I don't want to get into normative issues of what should it be and how do we justify that. I think those are questions beyond uh beyond my pay grade. But what was the landscape of journalism then? What were journalists doing then? To what extent are you supply responding to demand? Uh and if so, what is a demand like? Uh to what extent is it a vehicle for politics? And to what extent is there a thinking coming about that there is like like there was in the west certainly at that time for a few decades uh that there is something higher there is something noble about this. I think in that point journalism was um really in a state of great flourishing at that point. There was also vernacular there there was also a flourishing vernacular press as well as um you know the rise of English dailies as well and and you know you had panicker sort of figuring out that in order to reach politics journalism was a great stepping stone. Many people thought that. Many people thought that okay if you um either are a journalist or you found a newspaper or you found a magazine it's one way to get to an act space of active politics because like I said in those days you joined journalism as an act of patriotism. It was a way of uplifting your voice to the national cause or to whatever cause that you were currently espousing. I think for Paneker when when he does this and you see this across uh his stint with Saraja as well as when he was a founding editor of the Hindustan Times in Saraja in particular and Saraja was this sort of crowdfunded magazine that was being run in Madras at the time and um you know this is the early 1920s and he's looking to sort of um find some kind of stepping stone to joining active polit politics. He doesn't know how to do it. He feels journalism will be the way to do it. It's poorly paid. It's crowdfunded. He begins doing things that the Saraja's founder who is uh Trakasum absolutely was not on board with. You know, Paneker begins dabbling in local politics. Paneker begins taking on the state administration and corruption and training his guns at the governor. Um none of which is what Deep Prakasam wants. And eventually panicker is let go of. Um and he's very again he's very disillusioned. He's very bitter. It has not gone the way he wants it to go. um when he gets a second chance to do this with the founding on the Hindustan times he tries to do it very differently in that he has you know cart blanch from uh Lahalpuri as well as Mangal Singh that you run it how you want to run it because he's insistent that it should be in Delhi and all of that and once he's committed to it he can't also pull back from it so he has to go ahead and do it so he comes to Delhi sets up you know finds a place on burn bastion road brings in two presses. There's one room for the editorial staff and he begins running the Hindustan Times as this sort of um vehicle for nationalism and what it's supposed to be. Um his greatest coup is he gets Gandhi to come in and inaugurate it. And this is 1924. Gandhi has no desire to do any such thing because there are communal riots across North India at this point. And the last thing he's wanting to do is to inaugurate a paper. But he comes he's he's also committed to panicker. So he comes inaugurates the Hindustan times and he tells them that you know the basis should be that you don't suppress facts and you don't publish false truths. And for a time you can see paneker doing exactly the kind of journalism that he's always wanted to do. So it's you know the Hindustan time is run is running editorials about how India should stay united in the face of communalism. um how the Congress should uh begin considering the princely states as part of its manifesto. Uh it's also training its guns on corruption in state governments on lacks administration. It's running its fair share of gossip columns and all of that also because knows how to cater to what people want to read. So there's a judicious mix of politics and gossip and fun stuff, but you also see this sort of realization dawning that this isn't something that he's going to end up in as a field, right? Because at some point the Hindustan times begins incurring losses. The Akali are now seeing it as this kind of white elephant. They want to get rid of it. uh there is talk that the management is going to shift to a far more right-wing agenda. Paneker wants nothing to do with that and eventually you know you have this set of circumstances being set up where he's forced to leave. Um and then you have a much newer younger board coming and GD Bila is on the board and all of that and it's a great learning curve for Panikar because he realizes that this isn't the kind of uh stepping stone he thought it would be into politics. But what he has learned is what propaganda can be and what and how it can be used effectively to push a national movement or to sty a national movement depending on who's running a paper, what the what voices they're encouraging, what agenda they're encouraging. Uh that is his greatest takeaway from journalism at this point. I think he gets a much freer hand with journalism when he is in Europe in the mid 1920s and he's writing articles for all kinds of international journals and papers at this point. Um, and he's essentially doing much of what NU was doing also in the mid 1920s which is letting the world know what India's national movement was about and what India was aspiring towards. And that is the kind of you know really angry patriotic journalism that he's always wanted to do. But he discovers that you know when you are functioning within a certain national framework and a certain political framework you're expected to tow certain lines which he was not willing to do and I think journalism taught him that. I think um after this that was his last the Hindustan Times was his last active stint as a journalist which I think is interesting because he keeps up a spate of journalism across many subjects abroad and indeed in India. So while he's not an active journalist anymore and he realizes why he doesn't want to be one, he keeps up a spate of journalism which is interesting to see. remains a public intellectual and the interesting thing about this is that this man is founding editor of the Hindustan Times and he's basically 30 years old. >> Yeah. >> Right. Is so young and and has to reinvent himself. Before I get to the reinvention and what happens after 1925, um let's stick with that period for a moment or rather the 10 years leading up to that period and give me a sense of how his thinking evolved in terms of thinking of what we today call India visa v the British Empire right because today it's very easy to look at the lines on the map and think all this was inevitable etc etc but you're sitting there within the British Empire sedition has a different meaning from what it does Today there are all kinds of concepts floating around like dominion status, home rule etc etc. There are all kinds of possible futures that are possible and it's not that there is one India there is the issue of the princely states and again a subject like federalism is a complicated subject that he starts grappling with while he's a student in Oxford itself right where he's writing about it. So take me through how he's thinking on this particular issue of this land visav the empire and what are the possible futures and what are the possibilities and what should be done and what is possible how that is evolving in all of these years. >> I think like you said it starts evolving when he is in college um and it is con at that point it's being shaped largely by war by what he's seeing also at home. um it's being shaped by what he sees when he comes back from the war and sees that the country is facing inflation, unemployment, the Spanish flu. Um you know Traco is at that point undergoing a famine at that point. All of that is beginning to build into figuring out what India is visa v the empire. So which is where the greater India school of thought comes in which is where his own idea of nationalism begins taking root. You have a sense of citizenship beginning to evolve particularly in the aftermath of the war. You have panikar following debates on federation and the commonwealth which are ongoing at this point particularly in against the backdrop of the bo war. And you have Paneker constantly figuring out what it means to be a subject of the empire, what it means to be a citizen of your own country, particularly in the aftermath of a global war. At the Treaty of Versa in 1919, he watches Beacon being one of the signitaries to the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. He uh reads of Beaconire saying, you know, we have to remind the world that India represents 1/5if of the of the human race. And it's this hugely magnetic moment for him. He's from a princely state himself. And he's beginning to see the princes now, especially after the first world war, beginning to sit up and say, "Okay, we want to be counted for what we have done for the empire." Um, you have a chamber of princes being created in 1920. It's largely a consultative advisory body. Doesn't really mean anything. And the princes have been in this constant tug of war uh with the Raj you know since 1858 you know when their their treaties have been defined there are treaties for different states there's a different concept of paramounts and sovereignity for each different state and so there's this constant reinvention of the princely states relationship with the empire also as you go through the years paneka is now becoming aware of the fact that the princely states will at some point need to be counted wanted and he's seeing this throughout his career right so he's seeing it even as Gandhi's emissary in Amritsur he's seeing it in travel with the temple entry movement and Gandhi's and the congress's ambiguity towards getting involved with that movement because they don't want to interfere with the Maharaja's autonomy you see it in his pieces in the Hindustan times when he is editor and he's saying that the Congress needs to be not non-ambiguous about supporting uh getting the princely states on board the national movement So you see Paneeker constantly sort of bringing together different threads and different narratives that he sees uh across the span of the national movement. You also see Paneekar in immensely influenced by global events. Um so the first world war while while that sort of invited him to think about what it meant to be a subject versus a citizen as he progresses through his career as he moves to Europe in the in between 1925 and 27 and begins sort of dabbling in anarchism begins sort of interacting with Southeast Asian intellectuals and uh freedom fighters and freedom fighters from across the colonies of the empire. he begins to understand that you know any sense of freedom has to be for India has to be Asiacentric not euroentric. So his his ideas for India are not just developing within the framework of a national movement but within the concept of an entire world that is changing. So when you look at paneker's trajectory of quest of what it means to be Indian, it is not just within the bounds of this country. It is actively a zooming out to look at where India is in a map of the world and what that is going to look like for us with an eventual transfer of power. And these are all, you know, balls that are all up in the air at this point. the 1920s30s this all incredibly communally fluid time politically fluid ideologically fluid everybody is looking for what an idea of India is it's not just panikar panikar is just one of the many ideas that is contributing towards what an India should look like um and obviously you everyone knows the major milestones of the national movement but you see panicker's mind sort of adapting to changes in political circumstance and constitutional circumstance. So what he's thinking of in 1919 is radically different to where he's at in 1939 and bitterly disillusioned with the failure of federation. It's very different to what it is in 1945. Uh when he's thinking about maritime policy and he's thinking about foreign policy in general, he's thinking about, you know, how the Second World War has changed the concept of what it means to have natural barriers like the Himalayas, for instance. They're no longer an impregnable barrier. Air power has changed everything. So now you need to think about not just naval power but air power. You need to supplement your naval power with air power in order to be you know counted as as a power that can defend itself. You see him progressing towards representing us uh on the global stage and constantly and this is not to say that there is not derailment along the way. Certainly China was an area where he did get derailed, you know, but you have him being brought back as member of the state's reorganization commission to to contribute yet again to what an idea of India should be. And this is now in the aftermath of partition. It's in the aftermath of transfer of power. It's in uh the presence of a prime minister who really doesn't want the country to be reorganized uh along the ter along the lines of language. Um and he goes ahead and says uh and you know he and his co-members submit a report which says that okay yes it's not ideal but we feel that it should be in the interests of federal unity be reorganized on uh the basis of linguistic borders. Um again this is this is a contribution to an idea of India in a postc colonial world. Right? This is now a man who previously before he joined the state's reorganization commission had been on the same page as NU and had felt that if you encourage regional and linguistic nationalisms what it will do is undermine the overall sense of patriotism and nationalism that we have and that we need to hold on to in the aftermath of partition. But when he actively tours the country along with the states the other members of the state's reorganization commission he realizes that in the interest of federal unity this is something that he will have to do and in fact he puts together a 10-page descent note and calls for the bifocation of Uttar Pradesh in the interest of federal unity and that's something that makes both the chief minister Uttar Pradesh and Neu livid because nobody wants that but he goes ahead and puts the note in there anyway. Okay. So his idea of India is something that is fascinating because you can see that evolving right from when he is a first year student in Oxford right to when he dies. It's something where he and you can see the stresses and pulls out the different times that he finds himself living through you know like in the 1960s he he rejects Saman's committee on emotional integration which is basically calling for a standardization of education it's calling for uh nationalization of textbooks and you have to sing the national anthem and his is a mind that has been so fluid for all these years you know he's never had to standardize anything and in all of his writings you find a real stress on uh the fact that India is a heterogeneous it's not a monolith it's a heterogeneous body of many cultures and languages and uh religions and it must be so in order to stay so um so he rejects some punan then he says no I I won't I don't approve of this and you know it shocks nan because this is something that is there's a great push towards that at that point and he desents and he says no you know this is not something that I believe India should be pushing towards so there's this whole stress and pull between what he thinks India should be parts of which become problematic in postc colonial uh in the postcolonial world and parts of which are true right and when you put this together it's it's it's the it's the portrait of a mind that is very much in evolution it never stops evolving and it never stops seeking answers to some of the greatest questions of his life. >> That's such a great summary of how his thinking of the idea of India evolved. How did his idea of himself and his role in it evolve? Like what were his personal ambitions? What did he want to be? Like if you look at the arc at what you might see a certain part of his life and say oh he wants to be a writer or he wants to be a public intellectual or he wants to uh be a a big media figure and at different parts you might say oh he wants to be a politician he wants to be you know up there with Gandhiu and oh he wants to be an administrator when he's with the princely states and he's doing all of that and then of course he reshaped himself much later into a foreign policy uh thinker and uh etc etc. So how like what is the feedback loop between these the ideas that he's deeply concerned about and what he wants to do and the ideas that he then indulges in because all of the foreign policy stuff does that lead to his being an ambassador and his you know that particular career or you know what is the loop between those and what did he really want to be like? Did he want to be a player? Did he want to be influential? Did he want to be famous? you know did he ever think to himself in a dark and lonely night I could have been a contender what's what's happening there >> I think you know there's this one line in his memoir where he says that you know there were many times at which I look back upon my life and I asked myself could I have done something better or could I have been better um and I think that was something that you know the private paneer sometimes wondered um and you see certain senses of disillusionment coming out because there were certain causes that he espoused that sometimes came to grief like when Federation went off the rails he was very very disillusioned and he is very bitter about it um you know in several letters that he writes also where he uh basically says that I have long wanted to serve my country but instead I ended up serving the princess um and it's a moment of anger and it's a moment of disillusionment but you get a sense of a man who was constantly frustrated in an attempt to serve um a developing idea of the country. I think that was his greatest goal was to contribute in some way to understanding his country better and to understanding where his country should be after an empire exited. Uh I think that was his greatest his greatest quest. I think if you layer that in with a man who was very ambitious and a man who definitely wanted to make a name for himself and a man who ensured that he was where he needed to be at certain points in his career, I think you would have a sort of sense of what this man was actually like. This was not a man who liked being behind the scenes in any way. This was a man who liked to make his voice known and liked to make his voice heard. He had opinions. He wasn't afraid to share those opinions. Um, and he really wasn't afraid to stick to an opinion once he had it. And you see him constantly reinventing himself through various stages of his career because he felt that at that moment it was where he needed to be. like when he for instance becomes uh secretary to the chamber of princes it's because he genuinely felt very passionately about the cause of federation that was something that he felt the larger goal was to bring the princely state on board with the provinces of India of British India and um that was his larger goal right so he felt that okay if I can serve that larger goal by being here then I'll be Right. And you see that throughout his career. So I think the unconventionality of his career just speaks to the many ways in which he wanted to serve that idea of India better and to contribute to it better. >> Before we kind of wind up, I want to ask about two of the major sort of themes of his life and the journeys that took him on simultaneously. And one is federation. >> Like what was that journey like through the 1930s? what was happening. Give me a sense of how the ideas evolved and how uh he journeyi evolved and how then they ended. >> So this goes back to the end of the first world war, right? The princely states have contributed men and material uh to the war effort. Now they are saying okay we deserve to be recompensed in some way. U beacon has taken things to a whole different level by being a signary to the treaty of Versailles. Now the Raj is uncomfortably aware that the princely states will have to be assuaged in some way or another which is why the chamber of princes is created. All through the 1920s you have um many of these princes sort of speaking to the Raj in different capacities making their case for constitutional uh safety um at various points in time and it's it's going parallel to the fact that these are rulers who are very easy to lampoon right I mean you gave a great description of the example of the Maharaja Walwar you heard the Maharaja Patiala whose you know sex life was legendary even in those days. Um you have there were many princes you know who could be written off um and who actually were very erudite articulate men as far as it uh came to the question of their territorial sovereignity their paramount their boundaries privileges. Now they were saying okay we want to be counted. The Raj was consistently saying even as late as 1926 that listen the paramount of the crown is what you will answer to. You we are not going anywhere. Again zooming out is important because again this is in the context of the aftermath of the first world war. The Raj has realized that India strategically is too valuable a colony for any kind of concrete promises to be made. This is when Panika enters the picture. Now he's been writing about the princely state since 1919 and again you see a sort of evolution in his thought towards the princely states at that point also first of all he starts writing very sneering pieces where he dismisses them as being zanana ridden and prone to backter intrigues then he reaches a point in the 20s where he is basically saying okay you can't really uh write them off as states they have to be counted at some point um this is after He's seen the temple entry movement. This is after he's seen um Amritsur. This is after he's seen the Congress ambiguity towards the princely states. All of that. By the time he meets Huxer in the late 1920s, it is at a point where he has written a tract which is basically saying that these are actually good examples of local self-governance. Right? If they can be brought on board the bandwagon of national India, this is actually going to be a plus point for the national movement and in fact it must be done and federation is the means to get there. Now he's by no means a innovator in the idea of federation. Federation has been around for a while now but he is certainly the first to articulate it to the right person. So that is taken forward. The 1930s which are dominated by the first three roundts uh is you know it's as a biographer it made for almost eye crossing reading because the archives are genuinely so full of legal and constitutional uh technicalities that you re I at least really had to sit and really pass through them repeatedly multiple times because these were also rulers who while being erodite and articulate on all of that were actively many of them didn't like each other many of them had egos the size of Brazil many of them had personalities that were too big uh many of them like the nisam of Hyderabad just said no we don't want to be part of the of any federation we will do our things our own way and you know how dare you consider us you had to take all of these things on board and it's at this point that you see panicker actively emerging as a diplomat of sorts behind the scenes because he had to deal with so many different personalities, so many egos. Um, you know, you had people like Patiala and Baconer didn't like each other and then there was an election in the Chamber of Princes which was completely rigged by Beacon so that Bopal became chancellor. Patiala didn't like that. So he basically flounced off to the other end of the federation spectrum and said no now federation sucks and I am espousing uh the complete opposite of that. And so there was chaos at any given point in time. And for advisers like Panikar, it was harrowing to live through that level of intrigue and that level of massination which he had to contend with at any given point towards the end of the 1930s. uh you know you have the government of India act coming into play in 1935 and paneker knows that this is as much as the princes are going to get it at that point right and it's a significant step forward um but the princes are by this point so caught up in their own fears and their own suspicions you know they don't like the sound of an instrument of excession they don't know what that means as far as laps of paramount is concerned what does that mean as far as their privileges go what does that mean as far as their boundaries So do that treaties with the crown lapse? If so, what does that mean as far as any national government is concerned? They're so caught up in all of this that eventually there is no hope for federation. Right? Add to which you have the second world war and you have the viceroy who is Lind Co at that point sending the country to war. You have congress ministries resigning. You have also the rise of popular movements within the states at this point and this has been happening since the 1920s which is also making Banikar very well aware of the fact that the writing is on the wall as far as the princely states are concerned they have to sit up and do their best to get on board a cohesive idea of India and this is you know a shift that you see in him in the 1940s by this point he's in Baconire he's sick and tired of the chamber princess he's very glad sad that he's out of all of that. By this point, he is firmly of the point that popular democratic politics is the order of the day. The princes have to sit up. They have to get on board and the national movement has to take them on board. And it's at this point that he starts writing these PR pieces for foreign affairs and all of that. But this is a sort of two decade evolution where he reaches the point of complete frustration where he says that okay the day of the princely states is over you know the writing is on the wall and I think the last steps towards that like the actual bringing them on board was done by Sar Patel and VP Menon but this whole arc of his thinking is is very interesting to see because you see him all through the 20s30s and 40s trying to make this happen and knowing that it's not going to happen. >> Yeah, it almost feels like a relay race that he's passing the beton on to you know VP Menon and suddenly for just a moment both your biographies are holding hands. The next phase he was a serious sinker in foreign policy as well. The maritime policy stuff especially is pretty pioneering. Uh and he also of course uh you know served as a diplomat in China. His last gig was in France where he got his stroke and etc etc. So take me through that period of time like uh was he writing about foreign policy from a long time before this? Uh how did his thinking on that evolve and what was going on there? >> So his writing on foreign policy basically begins evolving from the 1920s onwards when he's writing books like Malabar and the Portuguese, Malabar and the Dutch. It's all grounded in history. It's all grounded in a reminder of the fact that if we have to articulate a foreign policy as a postcolonial nation, we have to remember who we used to be at one point in time. Um, and you see the first glimmers of an effective maritime policy starting with Mal Malabar and the Portuguese articulated more in Malabar and the Dutch and then going forward driven by his experiences of the Second World War and what he's seeing the Japanese being capable of doing. Um, and by the 1940s, by the early 1940s, you have Paneker being established very much on the scene as a foreign policy thinker. He's caught the eye of White Hall. He's caught the eye of uh I he's always had Nu's eye, but Nu is very much more interested at this point. He's uh caught the eye of foreign journalists also. So he's producing a lot more work uh geared towards modern India's uh defense and security and geopolitical aspirations. Um so by the time he is dispatched to China, he is very much established on the scene as a revisionist historian who thinks of India as Indians should be thinking of themselves. He's established himself as a foreign policy Mandarin. um he's very much on the scene as a commentator of important issues. Um he is sent to China which is his first diplomatic uh posting at a time when you know we've just seen transfer of power. We are uh still dealing with the fallout of partition. We do not have a trained uh diplomatic service. So NU basically has to send men and women that he can trust and whose opinions and dispatches back he can trust. This does result in some strange postings. You have Assaf Ali being sent as an ambassador to Washington DC. You have uh Vijay Lakshmi Pandit being dispatched to Moscow. You have Paneker being sent to China. Now to go into the whole technicalities of his stint in China would be to you know take up another 5 hours of our time here. But there was a mix of things that happened. I think I think Panikar gets a bad rap when it comes to his stint in China. I think there was a mix of factors. One was he was not a trained diplomat. In fact, his first stint in China, which is during the dying gasps of the nationalist regime in China, uh he's actually quite precient because he's in China when the civil war is turning its tide. the communists are looking set to come in and he basically writes to uh Nero and says when the communists come in they will actively do what nationalist China has already set in motion and consolidate you territorial territories that they feel historically have been theirs. So you see him going to China as a sharer of NU's own belief of Asian solidarity. Right? And if you look at Paneker's early trajectory, it's something that he's also believed in and it ties in with NU's vision of an India and China dominating uh new modern Asia so to speak based on civilizational history and all of that. Where he starts to falter is in communist China where you see him visibly and slightly hilariously swept away by his impressions of communist leaders like he dispatches to Nu that you know Cho and Lie has fingers like uh which resemble tender green onion shoots and Mao is the new Moses that will lead his people to the promised land and all of that. He's also in China at a point where New Delhi really hasn't developed a cohesive policy towards Tibet. At this point, we are very ambiguous and you see there's this constant slew of of telegrams and missiles back and forth from New Delhi and Ping with both New Delhi and Paneka trying to figure out policy on the fly. Right? So there is immense scope for a lot to go wrong and a lot does go wrong. You know you have Neu completely bypassing MEA colleagues uh like Girash Shankar Bashbay and KPS men who are saying look what Panikar is reporting from China. You have to take it with a kilo of sort because we need to look at our security interests. Sard Patel is warning of this. They are warning of this. Neu still chooses to listen to Paneker. You also have to take into account the fact that we are now in a world of cold war. The US has entered the picture. We need the US support uh at this point. So there are different considerations for Neu to make as well. Also this is not to say that Paneker's repotage from communist China is not shaky. It was more than shaky because he was saying one thing when it was very clear that that thing was not going to happen. You know he was also guilty of leaving out border negotiations with Cho and Lie when there was a chance for a settlement on the border to have taken place. He just completely omitted that completely. you know he said that okay but on our maps that border is as it is and you know has mentioned it in parliament so why should I take it up I assume the Chinese know that this is the border now if you're the ambassador you can't assume anything on the ground and there were colleagues that were saying why is this happening why is he leaving out the border from negotiations again they were not listen to NU was listening to what he wanted to listen to So there is a lot uh of shared blame I feel here as far as our policy in China and Panekar are concerned. I don't think it's fair to pin decades worth of history on one man alone. Um and you know everything I've said is still a quarter of what actually happens in the book. So you know uh there's there's a lot more uh here than meets the eye. But you have a prime minister who despite the controversy in China, despite all of that, still sends Panikar as our man in Egypt, still sends him there to represent Indian interest to sort of fend off Pakistan and sort of protect Indian interests in the Middle East. Um, and Baniker is present at, you know, crucial moments like the nationalization of the Sewish Canal. is present at uh a moment in Egyptian history where um the free officers revolution has just taken place. Uh Nasser is looking to establish a republic. Nasser is also looking to figure out his own foreign policy. It's a great moment to sort of unite Nu and Naser and this is the beginning of the non-aligned movement. Paneker is very influential in bringing that to pass. Then he comes back and is a member of the state's reorganization commission. His last posting is to France and his brief is basically you know look after some of our defense deals in France and also report back on uh Gimo's uh ideas of what he wants to do in France. Now at this point what has happened with China has left a definite shadow on Paneker's diplomatic career and again it's one of the strange paradoxes of the time and I I'm calling it strange because it it sounds strange sitting in 2025 that somebody can make such grave errors of judgment and still be posted not just to crucial postings but have opinions that are still considered to be very crucial. Um, and I'm, you know, I'm completely leaving out Paneker's role in uh being our in this in the Korean War because that's covered with great detail in the book. This was a man who whose opinion NU valued immensely. And this was despite how irritated he was with Panikar. And by this point he was supremely irritated with Paneker because he had asked Paneker expressly to ensure unity and to not you know make a case for linguistic reorganization of borders and Paneker had not listened. He had he had also you know this was just serving to irritate him further and further because China was still cropping up through the years. He was constantly facing trouble on the ground as far as China was concerned. all went back to Paneker's omissions as far as join and the border was concerned and this was a prime minister who really really did respect Paneker but was also thoroughly irritated with him you know and at some point he just refused outright sometimes to have Panikar's opinion on certain things he never did it to Paneker's face it would always be done writing to some under secretary or writing to his sister saying look just leave Paniker out of this. Don't involve him. Um, and it's it's it's interesting to see as Panikar's career comes to a close, how as both men are nearing the end of ends of their lives, in fact, that each of them begin to diverge as far as their opinions on the country are concerned and as their opinions on where the country should go are concerned. In fact during this whole language debate panikar says you know Hindi should be the national language and you know and it's you know it's a comment that takes NU completely back because Neu says no the India is a country of many languages and you cannot give supremacy to just one language and these are all moments where again Paneker is sort of writing now in a sense of knowing that he's nearing the end of his life and in fact the last years of his life are marked by this really weird sense of knowing that his end was coming. He'd had a stroke. His health was not the same. Um, and he was beginning to talk about death quite a lot. He's beginning to muse about it quite a bit. Um, and I think there was a sense of an ending almost. Um, and I think at that point is where he begins to just write, you know, without thinking about anything because I think he knows that his days are coming to an end. Um and when he does die, you know, it's a moment of great grief personally for Neu also because this is the loss of a man who has stimulated him, irritated him and annoyed him but has been somebody whose opinion he has respected all through the years. >> So is the last act in great lives always a tragedy? like Nu certainly was panikar I can imagine that sense of futility that sense of wistfulness that wow I'm making him sound like me and uh so on so so what is your sense what are his last writings like is it you know is it a tragic life like uh what's his mallayalam writing like during that period >> um I I think he keeps up a spirit of writing that is still very wistful and is still very tender um he is writing in a far more sort of harder way about Indian identity and about Hinduism and about where India should go. He's doubled down a lot about things like Hindi being the national language. Um, it's it's I think it's something to do with knowing that, like I said, it's the sense of an ending, right? He's had this stroke. He knows that his career is more or less in the public gaze is over and he's now writing without thinking about too much. He dies in a I found it sadly poignant. you know it he died he was vice chancellor of Mysore University and he had organized a lecture by Amy Chakravati and um he was very happy he was looking forward to the lecture and all of that. He felt a pain in his heart when he had the poet was on stage and you know the hall was full and people who saw him said that later he didn't say anything was wrong. He just left holding his hat or his heart. Um, and he died, you know, in the car on the way home and by the time he got to the to the house, uh, he had collapsed in the back seat and the driver ran in to get Gori and by the time she ran out, he had gone. Um, so in that sense, I think it was it was a sad end. I think it was a life that was magnificently lived. I think it was a almost uh panoramic life because it was lived against the backdrop of war and revolution and freedom and you know so much more than I think the young Baneka would have ever dreamed of it being. And I think he along the way he loved some good women and particularly one good woman. I think um you know he served the country in many more ways than he would ever have imagined and I think or I'd like to think that if in retrospect he had to sit and sort of take a look back at his life I think he'd be very proud despite everything. I think that uh uh description you quote at the start of your book and which you mentioned of him as an impossible man is uh you know so apt like there's this lovely song I love by Wilco called uh uh impossible Germany like the first two lines are impossible Germany unlikely Japan and I think your two books could easily be called impossible paniker unlikely men so okay so my last question since we are running out of time my last question is back to you you cannot evade the difficult that is coming because I have been warned by knowledgeable N sources of your terrible taste in popular culture and so I'm I I normally ask at the end of my episodes my guests to share for me and my listeners books, films, music that means a lot to them and they want to share with all the world and for you I will include in it the exhortation that please include your guilty pleasures. Um my guilty pleasures would have to be trash Bollywood which is um anything Govinda and anything 1990s. Uh some of which was not trash of course but uh I particularly like the trash. Um >> Katya private. >> Yes. And um yeah I would have to say that would be my absolute guilty pleasure. >> Which are your favorite Govinda films? Don't make me >> No, please >> don't make me do it. >> Okay, fine. Number one. >> So, you can go beyond guilty pleasures if you're feeling embarrassed. Now, books, films, music, art. >> Uh, books is too many. Yeah. Um, I love biographies. So, honestly, I love any good biography. I think and Corsy writes excellent social biographies as well as political biographies. Uh Sonia Pernell her uh books on Winston Churchill's wife as well as um Virginia Hall who was one of Britain's foremost women's spies. Uh she she writes great books. Ben McIntyre is a great favorite. I love his work. Um, yeah, those would be my those are your top authors, I think. And movies would be anything that has a side of murder. Uh, I have my current favorite. I'm in my uh vintage mystery era. So, Miss Fcher's Murder Mysteries is what I'm currently watching. Uh, and I'm about to get to Bookish, which is the late latest Maratis one. Um, but before that was Department Q with Matthew Good, which is also a great show. >> Excellent. Films, music. >> Music would be anything. 1970s, 1980s, 1990s. I grew up with a dad who loved everything from Mottown to Elvis to Frank Sinatra. So, I love all of that. Sarday, Bonjoui, Pink Floyd, The V, Oasis, those are all my great favorites. >> Amaze. Thank you. so much for coming on the show. This was great fun. Keep writing and yeah, uh this was awesome. Thank you. >> Thank you, Amit. >> If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes, enter rabbit holes at will, despite being a 4 and a half hour episode. I don't think I managed to do enough justice to a man for all seasons. So, do buy the book. It's an excellent book, great storytelling, just like her previous book on VP Men. And you can follow Narani on Twitter at Narani_basu. You can follow me on Twitter at Amitwarmma AI TV AMA. You can browse past episodes of the seen and the unseen at seen ununseene.in and every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Are you still listening? But thank you anyway. I appreciate it. Did you enjoy this episode of The Seen and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You can go over to seen ununseene.in/support in/support and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you.