================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: iud5grS0_MA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iud5grS0_MA
TITLE: Last-gasp drama as Arsenal win at Newcastle and Palace defeat Liverpool
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-28
DURATION: 1h 9m 36s
VIEWS: 13,448
LIKES: 239
COMMENTS: 115

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo is joined by Daniel Storey, Adrian Clarke and Reuben Pinder after a pulsating Matchday 6 in the Premier League.

Arsenal close the gap on leaders Liverpool after a last-gasp Gabriel goal at St James's Park. This came 24 hours after the champions were finally beaten by the unbeaten Crystal Palace, thanks to Eddie Nketiah's late winner.

There's more angst for Amorim, misery for Maresca and pain for Postecoglou as Man United, Chelsea and Nottingham Forest all lose again.

Plus West Ham fan Benji Lanyado joins us to discuss the dramatic turn of events over the weekend that saw the Hammers replace Graham Potter with Nuno Espírito Santo.

Thanks to @Takerfanatic!

1:14 - And it's LIVE! Jimbo intro with the guests
4:22 - If you missed the weekend results..
5:42 - A quick look ahead of the midweek Euro action 
7:05 - A huge rise from Gabriel | Newcastle 1-2 Arsenal
19:22 - Watkins score as Villa finally win, 3-1 over Fulham
22:21 - A late winner in a Liverpool game.... but for their opp
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 13,335

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally football show today. Match day six. A ' 90s music vibes at St. James's. Voltera Mada shaking the Arsenal like Groov Armada. But Gabrielle says dreams do come true for the visitors. Elsewhere, Crystal Palace glad all over v Liverpool. Gre potter glad it's all over at West Ham. Amarim still Ruben living as Man United fought to Brenford. Sunland winning us. So much more on this totally football show. Sunday the 28th of September. It's a big hello to you if you're listening on the podcast or hello if you're watching on our live stream. Don't know if I've mentioned this that we do every Sunday night of our podcast recording live on the YouTube. Who have we got for you today? Well, Daniel Story on the big screen. Hi, Daniel. Can't hear you, Daniel. Daniel's there. Anyway, we're going to try Daniel again. Try again. Daniel, hello to you. Good evening, James. Good evening to you. Adrian Clark's here. Hello. Happy birthday, by the way, Adrian. Thank you very much. Lovely stuff. Nice little present this afternoon. Well, you brought us in little chocolates. It's got to be done, isn't it? So nice. And Ruben Pinder's here with us. Hello. Excellent. Reuben, you were at Sirus Park on Saturday. Mhm. Wow. What a day. We'll talk about that in a bit. Daniel, you went to Southoun Skunthorp in the National League. I did. Yes. uh two teams who are reborn after pretty horrific ownership situations. So yeah, it was joyous more for Scun and the South End. And I'm also at Everton West Ham for the Nuno unveiling on Monday evening. Extraordinary. So much to talk about today. And Adrian, you're fresh back from the ceiling after Arsenal's extraordinary last minute win against against Newcastle. What a remarkable weekend we had. I mean, it began Saturday morning with the news that Gran Botto was no longer West Ham boss. And then later on that day, we discovered about Nuno Spiritto Santo coming in. In the meantime, we had Crystal Palace beating Liverpool. We had the Brenford Man United game as well. So many stories and so many late goals. What are they? Nine goals on the on the 90th minute or after. Nine goals in stoppages. Essentially, seven of the nine Premier League games so far have featured a stoppage time goal. Yeah. Don't leave early. Yeah, that's the message. So true. And yet, Ruben, you were saying that at Sus Park, some were. Yeah. Which I found astonishing. You know, if you're going to leave early, it's got to be a settled result on a week night, I think, when trains are not 5:00 on a Saturday. And, you know, and Katie's goal, it just emphasized why why you should never do that. Yeah. Did it feel like Sohus Park was going to come down when that happened? It was possibly the best atmosphere um I can remember for for a regular Premier League game at Shurst in a very long time. It's electric from start to finish. Right. A finish especially. Yeah. First time that Chelsea, Liverpool, and Manchester United have all lost on the same day in the Premier League since April the 16th, 1994. What does it all mean? Well, we'll get into all of that very very shortly. The results though from match day six. Arsenal Sunday afternoon with that late late goal to secure a come from behind win away to Newcastle 2-1. Liverpool beaten on Saturday 2-1 by a late goal at Crystal Palace which means that Palace are the only unbeaten side left in the league. They climb to third while Liverpool's lead over the Gunners is now just two points. Also closing back in a little bit are Manchester City who are back to five points behind after their 5-1 against Burnley. Saturday's other results, some were more surprising than others. Man United lost 3-1 at Brenford. Chelsea lost 3-1 to Brighton at home. Sunderland went to Nottingham Forest and beat them 1-0, meaning that Angeosogloo is still winless in his first five games in charge. And the Black Cats climbed to fifth in the table. Spurs had a bit of humbling as well. They were at home to bottom of the table Wolves, but could only manage a 1-1 draw against the previously pointless side with pretty much the last kick of the game. leads United also drew. They conceded their first goals at home this season as well, but still managed to hold inform Bournemouth to a 2-2 draw. And Aston Villa beat Fulham 3-1 uh early on Sunday. That was their second win in 4 days. As Daniel mentioned, Everton West Ham is coming up on Monday. And then that's followed by a full midweek of European action. Champions Europa and Europa Conference League as well. In the Champions League got Man City Monaco, Galisassaray Liverpool, Chelsea, Benfica, Buddha Glimp Spurs, Arsenal Olympia, Woo, and Uno Sanchila against Newcastle will be previewing all of those games in the Totally Football Show European edition, which will be out Tuesday morning. And we'll also feature a bit of chat about the big European stories like the Glasco, which saw that extraordinary Atletico Madrid victory over five goals to two. Wow. Anyway, that's coming up Tuesday morning. Right now, we're going to kick off with events Sunday afternoon in Newcastle. And there's the comms. The coms. James. And then H. James. H. Hello. You said Classico, but it was Madre Len or Oh, you're right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a very good point. And rounding up all the weekend's big stories in Europe, like the Madrid derby. Woo. Atletico Madrid five, Real Madrid two. Oh. Anyway, that's coming up on Tuesday morning. Right now, we're all about Premier League match day six. And I know where we're going to start. St. James's. Thank you, Daniel. Oh, Gary Neville summing it up nicely there. Oh, oh, Arsenal. the kind of game that we've grown used to seeing them in on a Super Sunday. Dominating possession, knocking on the door, but been able to find a way past until those late late goals while Adrian calms down, Daniel, how big a win was that? Yeah, it was everything. Talking of Neville, he said after about 81 minutes, I think uh Arsenal need to win games like this. And I sort of laughed because I was like, they're losing 1 nil. A draw is a good result from here showing that as we all know Gary Neville knows more about football than I do because yeah they did win the game first as a neutral I think Newcastle Arsenal now is the best fixture in the Premier League. There's just this lingering spice left over from controversial decisions in previous games and goals awarded and players hating each other that means it was always going to be like this one way or the other I think. Um but yeah, the Denum of the game was was fairly extraordinary and yet also entirely predictable because Arsenal scored two headers. Um Mrino's was fabulous. Gabrielle's was was more simple, but that's the move. You know, Celiba gets in the way of Pope but doesn't foul him and enables Gabrielle to to score. H and I thought both times were brilliant. I think a draw probably was a fair result, but Micharteta probably disagrees with me. All three goals in this game headers. That's the new Premier League paradigm. Adrian, Arsenal still two points behind Liverpool who have late late wins like this all the time, of course. But what does winning a battle like that what does what does coming from behind in the way that Gary suggested they needed to do? What does that do to this group of players? Yeah, it it gives them the belief that they can climb any kind of mountain, doesn't it? Whether it's over the course of a season or in a game, if you can come back from adversity in the way that they did in this game and triumph, then when there are other moments where their backs are against the wall, they will feel that they can do it and and it it does snowball things like that. You can see by the celebrations how much it meant to the team. I think for Arsenal to be within two points of Liverpool given their comparable fixtures so far this season is quite really extraordinary given given what happened at Anfield as well. So I think Arsenal will be absolutely thrilled to be this close to Liverpool at this stage because they've had some seriously tough games and and today you know I would disagree with Daniel there. I think Arsenal absolutely deserve to win the game. first half performance was I thought outstanding. Nick Poe had had a worldclass performance but for Nick Poe could have scored four or five goals here. Remember Liverpool came to St. James Park and had five shots. Ars had 20 today. Um and they absolutely deserve to win the game. Uh it was always going to come from corners, wasn't it? Having scored 15 more corners than any other team since the start of last season. It's 36 now. So, look, it's it's no fluke. You know, they work on it. Um, but yeah, it should have been a different game. You know, if if if the penalty had been given, I think Arsenal would have cruised to victory then, then they had to do it. What penalty what penalty was that, Adrian? Well, come I look, if there's anyone out there that doesn't think that's a penalty, well, there were quite a few people in Scotley Park who didn't think it was a penalty. Yeah, I then I don't understand. So, I I believe and you'll help me out here that I believe that the the line was that because Pope had got a touch to the bull that it effectively meant that what contact there was which wasn't as much as as uh Garez wanted to make it look like but what contact there was didn't constitute a foul. Yeah. And you Pope gets a toe to the ball which somewhat changes its direction and you know that is technically a clean tackle. However, Gokesh is still running in the direction of the ball. There's still contact between them. It's one of those much like the decision which we may come on to with the hands on Gabrielle's back which you've seen them given both ways and I think I would have been okay with that because it's quite difficult to keep up with what the official rule is for each season. But, you know, if if they stuck with that penalty decision, I would have thought fair enough. But, I can also see toe on the ball. I'm stunned they even looked at it. It It's the most blatant penalty I've ever seen. And it doesn't matter. Ever seen. Yeah. Yeah. Genuinely slightly teasing you. I think I thought it was going to be a penalty. I disagree on the Gabriel push for what it was. That wasn't a penalty. That that was that was poor defending from Gabrielle. That's never a penalty. But but this one, whether he gets a touch or not, is absolutely irrelevant because his knee is up there and he cleans him out. It I I was absolutely staggered. They looked at it and when when they overturned it, I was on commentary. I was apopleleic. Right. Um and thank goodness Arsenal won the game. Can we get that commentary? Just to clarify on the Gabrielle Voltoard one. I don't think that's a penalty either, but you could you have seen them given. Is there is any of the you three did any of you think that that wasn't a foul? A foul rather than not not did you think it was not a foul which the Jockish? Yeah. your Chris. My instinct was penalty, but it was quite funny when they didn't give it. I can imagine it was funny for everyone else, but I was fuming. I mean, Daniel's dad, you got it's a foul, right? Yeah. I thought it was a pen. I can sort of I can see how they've reached the decision in that the toe on the ball and the ball then going away makes them think uh that that negates everything else afterwards. But I mean, f firstly, I thought it was a penalty. Secondly, uh this kind of idea of bar for intervention has to is kind of completely lost in situations like that because the penalty was given. So I can't believe they didn't stick with the decision. I mean I think to be fair, Nick Pope looked as surprised as you, Adrian, cuz I think he was worried about a red card, never mind the penalty. Look, we're having a very different conversation. I would have absolutely got myself into trouble um on this show had Arsenal not won the game because I I was that furious about it. But I could it doesn't matter now. Doesn't matter now. Nick Voldemare scored his second goal in two appearances at St. James's looking good. And then it was Arsenal as I mentioned knocking on the door but from the corner a brilliant in swinging corner from Odard for the Miko Marina who's kind of backward flick with his head. Lovely header. Lovely header. Glancing. The definition of a glancing header. And then and a proper celebration. A proper celebration for Marino against his old club. Uh he there was never any danger of not celebrating that goal. In general, I thought for that to be a factor. Do you know what I mean? Like would you Well, Yukuba Mint didn't celebrate against Newcastle having never played for them. That is a good point. So, so I think yeah, I think we have to be charitable to Marino. I mean in general I was just going to say the goals came from corners but it was different from Arsenal in that I think Mlartetta realized after whether it was after last week or after an accumulation of weeks that rather than playing the safe possession and waiting for the laps in concentration this game more than any other with Newcastle sitting deeper and having big defend they just kind of needed to get it launched and that's what happened. I think in general we're seeing a trend towards that rather than teams sort of trusting the process of pass pass pass defense seems so well organized that you just have to try and create some chaos and Arsenal sort of finally embrace that chaos mode which I think basically turned the game bad news for Newcastle beaten at home by a late goal just as they were against Liverpool losing in this match Livernto been an ever present so far for Eddie how hopefully that's not for too long he landed awkwardly after Yeah, it looked really bad, didn't it? I think it was accidental. He kind of jumped really early, didn't he? And and SA did make contact with him midair, but I think it was honest from both that he just landed really. That was that was a real shame. Um, but yeah, no, there was it was it was a good game and the edge that that Daniel talks about is it definitely makes this fixture interesting. Interesting. I won't get much of a mention probably, but I I just want to praise Jurian Timber. M he's having a fantastic season and I thought his performance was sort of encapsulated what Arsenal needed and that that fight and resilience and he just scrapped everything out and he really showed in every action he had how much he wanted to win the game and I think that rubbed off on on on everybody else. So there was a great moment on the right wing when Timber had the ball and he was under pressure and he kind of fought his way out and dribbled and I think that opened a chance for Saka to shoot. was that um and when you consider that he was signed, you know, kind of by trade as a center back who very briefly played at left back before that awful injury on his debut, right? And now he's come back as a right back. That kind of versatility and universality of his skill set being like an overlappinger as well as a solid defender that kind of epitomizes Arta's arsenal. Great signing. Excellent. Something something something timber, something something versatile. Uh the Califury towel incident. Can we get a breakdown on that? For anyone who missed it, this was Califury going to make one of these fashionable long throws and wanting to use a towel just to properly dry the ball, but he Ruben robbed a towel from behind the Newcastle goalie. Yeah. So, the referee while while he was trying to dry the ball kind of interjected and told him he wasn't able to do that. Now, um maybe I'm jumping to conclusions here, but it looked like the towel was Newcastle branded. It may have just been a black towel. Um but it seems like uh according to the briefing on the Athletic uh Luke Boscher writes that there is no rule in the Premier League handbook about towel usage but the source tells us that uh teams have to agree on towels being around the pitch pregame. Um and they have to be evenly distributed. You can't move them. You can't steal the goalkeeper tow. No, cuz in the football league it is Yeah. The EFL brought in a ban and a multiball system which I'm not sure works the same cuz the balls are still going to get wet, aren't they? But like interestingly, obviously I know we'll come on to Palace, but Jefferson Lurma used one to drive the ball before that long throw that led to the goal yesterday. Interesting. Consistency. Yeah. I liked Cal Fury's um sort of cheek in trying to to steal the towel. Okay. But he was he was told in no uncertain terms, wasn't he? So yeah, look, it all ended well. James, you're magnanimous, aren't you? Like it's one of those I I I was so angry about so much in this game but now none of it matters cuz I got the best present. Calory's learning the rules week by week, isn't he? One week is how to take a throw in, next week is the tower rule. Eddie and Ketier in the 97th minute of their clash with Liverpool secures a 2-1 victory. Ruben, as we mentioned, you were there at a rocking Shurus Park. what when that goal went in and then also minute or two later when VAR rubber stamped it. What what went off? Uh it's the best limbs as they say that I that I've seen at Sus Park in such a long time. The Cuz the the KZA equalizer is obviously a silencer. It deflates everybody. Um and it's very easy to then think Go on. No, I was just going to say so Matasar open the scoring. You guys will look brilliant. Ishmaar had opened the scoring, you guys could have been 4-0 up at Halime. Yeah, there was only 1.5 expected goals for Palace in the first half, which if you're unfamiliar with the underlying numbers, that's a lot for Liverpool to give up. And being there, seeing the chances, it felt like on another day that could have been three or four actual goals. But when you don't score those chances and when you're playing Liverpool who always seem to find a way and then in the 85th minute Quesa finds that equalizer and you head into stoppages and it's what 7 minutes. Yeah. I imagine you're worrying a bit. Yeah. And you're you're considering the pros and cons of defending the point that you've earned against the champions um or going all out for the win. And when that um Kirk has clearance, which I've seen some Liverpool fans criticize him for for not taking it on his right foot and getting it much further down the field, but waiting for it to come onto his left foot and putting it out for a throw. And it's those fine margins that enable Palace to to get the late win. There was a moment when Jefferson Lur um who had come on as a substitute uh went over to take the throw. Now obviously I think we've spoken about this uh on various shows that the long throw is very much on vogue now. Um and Chris Richards can also take them and had been taking a few in earlier in the game. They had a little moment should I take it or should or should you? Richards said or they agreed that Lurma would take it and Richards should get in the box and all three Palace center backs went up for that which you know when when you're playing Liverpool and it's the last minute could on that's a risk right? Um but yeah, just uh brilliantly one-headed by Will Hughes to keep it alive and uh an added sweetener with Mar getting the assist right as well. Who who of course didn't join Liverpool at the end of the transfer window. How significant that could prove to be him staying at Sus Park. I kind of voiced the the I think widely held belief that he'll probably move in January anyway, but you think not? I I would be surprised. He he never kicked up any fuss in the summer. Obviously, the chaos of deadline day would have been somewhat stressful for him, but he's kept the armband. He is very much, you know, level-headed. I don't think he'll um agitate to leave. Um and, you know, next summer he'll have pick of the clubs. I I would be surprised if every elite club other than maybe Arsenal who already have like 15 center backs. Um but you can never have too many. Um would be not in for him because he's he's that good. He really is. really enjoyed Ollle Glassner's run. Yeah, it was great, wasn't it? What an incredible job, Daniel, that he's doing there. Phenomenal. The best job of any coach in Europe's top five leagues at the moment by a distance. He it's very easy to forget, you know, you watch the the game late on Sunday and Eber is at the heart of everything that Arsenal are trying to do and he was at the heart of everything Palace did last season and you kind of forgotten that he's left so so impressive is Palace's start to the season. He's got a system that fits the players. He seems to be a very impressive motivator of players without necessarily needing that sort of chestbeating passion. It's all very calm and collected. Um he comes up with really clever plans for opposition teams that exposes their weaknesses. They're on an 18game beaten run and you look at some of the game the teams they've beaten over that run and you know they've played Liverpool three times. They played Chelsea. They've played Villa twice. They've played Arsenal. They've played Spurs. They've played Manchester City. They've taken on everybody and they're unbeaten for a reason because they're an excellent football team. We we said last week, I think that teams are maybe underestimating Palace a little bit and that that can sound a little bit like damning with faint praise. It's like, you know, they're not taking you seriously and that's why you're winning. But that's not happening anymore because of the unbeaten run and yet they're still getting past teams. And look, I I I firmly believe they should have been in the Europa League this season. They were demoted to the Conference League and that plus Ezi uncertainty could easily have made people feel a bit like it felt a Villa at the start of the season. But they seem to have used it all as fuel. I think the conference fixtures being easier means that they can continue this run in the league. Um I don't think they'll finish in the top two or three, but I think they can finish in the top six or seven because no team is no Premier League team has a bad side anymore. There isn't there aren't any bad teams in the Premier League. So, it's about how you use those individual ingredients and how you motivate them. And Glazen seems to be better than everyone else at doing it. And now you're going to believe us. We're going to win the league. They were singing as you left us. We might have we might have been singing that on the way out on the ground somewhat tongue and cheekly but you know the underlying numbers do have Palace you know um in the top three for you know expected goal difference. Opt had them top for expected points before this weekend which just shows that tactically this isn't a a lucky run of sitting back and hitting people on the break. It's quite often a midb block and proactive tactics that I think are like Daniel alluded to like sustainable. And in terms of the the vibe, which is really easy to put into numbers, it it's not it's not really comparable with Sorry, let me ask you ask you rather than tell you in terms of the vibe uh for Palace fans, is this comparable with anything you've ever seen before? And I mean, Palace fans have been through a lot uh in my lifetime. you know, the administration that threatened to put the club out of out of existence um but saved for by Darren Ambrose and that team um back in 2010 and then promotion 3 years later that was obviously a huge high years of Wilfred Zaha keeping the team up um by the skin of his teeth and obviously him not leaving until 2023 I think. Um and now this new wave of like young championship players Walton Ghee Ez um who will then and of course who the model is always going to be to to sell them for a profit. But when you see how they adapt post Elise for a season with Sar, post EZ now with with Pino and more coming in it the the the amount of positivity like Daniel said with the all that negativity or potential chaos in the summer. Um to have this start to have this run at the start of the season, especially compared to last season when the first win didn't come until the end of October. Um yeah, the vibes are off the off the charts. Off the charts. Daniel, they're also a lesson to to other clubs in the Premier League. Premier League is the dominant league in Europe now. So if you are a mid-table team, you can attract really good coaches from track Frankfurt and you can attract really good players from across Europe. It was in December 2023 that Roy Hodgson told Crystal Palace fans that they'd been spoiled. And what spoiled looked like was finishing 12th to 14th in the Premier League on repeat. And his point was that you're in the you're at the big table. So, how could you ever want anymore? Like, you know, you don't get to choose the menu if you get invited to this party. But you can now you can choose the menu. You can you can do what you want and you can create something if you get a manager who is good enough to do it or a coach that's good enough to do it. You can challenge the elite. Maybe not every year. And that's the problem the Premier League has is that success for clubs outside of the Financial League is really hard to double down on. But for a season or two, you get you can live the dream. Yeah. Look, tactically they are awesome. There's no doubt about that with the the 3421. So balanced. Mitchell and Munoz create so many problems by playing high right on the on the toes of the opposition fullbacks. create space um in and it creates problems for the center backs because um they've got the two attacking midfielders in support of the striker. It just works. But the stat that I picked out from this game I think is quite a stunner. They only had 28.1% possession, but this stat here is that they had one shot per 11 accurate passes in this game. Now, you can make 11 accurate passes very quickly. You know, the likes of Arsenal City will make 11 in in I don't know, 20 seconds. Per 11 passes, they had a shot. They had 16 shots. They only made 175 accurate passes. That's efficiency. That's reliance on your shape to say, "We can handle you. Then we're going to hit you hard and fast without overdoing it. We don't have to go sideways, back, you know, sideways, backwards, you know, go again. We can go straight at the heart of you and hurt you." We saw it done with that Wharton chance. Remember that? Slips in Mateta bullies Canate. He's unlucky not to score. Um I thought, yeah, I think Palace is superb. 28 28% I think the possession was there abouts scoring from corners now as well, which is something that never used to happen. Yeah, they've gone from being the worst in the league to like in terms of underlying numbers. I know Arsenal score more, but they get more obviously. Um Palace by far and away the most uh effective team from the corners that they do get now which uh is a huge turnaround and um you know I thought maybe that would dip post EZ but Daiishi Kamada was on in swinging corner duty from from one side yesterday and of course that led to the opening goal. Ah, so nice. A Drew Mcspy says, "With all this chat about Crystal Palace and their succession planning over the last few weeks, remain essay is never mentioned. How come he looked like an ez copy copy rather last season when he appeared and yet dot dot dot silence dot dot dot three question marks Reuben?" Yeah, he struggled with the with the step up um a bit. Glazner has voiced some frustration um with him and yeah he played against Milwall in the League Cup his old team recently and came off at halfime. So not a great sign and a good reminder that you know just because you you sell Anderson and you and you sign Laqua or you know you you turn Matessa into one of the best strikers in the league. Not every signing will work. And of course that's one of the limitations in with the PSR rules which I'm broadly in favor of is that you can't afford too many expensive failures. Um so but he's still very young. So we we'll see if he can turn it around. You got pass. Who have you got next in the League Cup? Liverpool. Liverpool again. Yeah. Easy. Interesting. Be fine. Interesting. Oh, speaking of Liverpool, uh it being a League Cup, you may well see Fedrico Koza in in that game as well. Is he is he kind of lowkey turning into one of the stories of the season? Yeah. Well, yeah. He's just he's impacting more matches, isn't he? He's just come coming on onto the pitch late on and and and being in the right place at the right time. Really like him as a player, don't you? I mean, he seems like a a good lad. He seems quite quite amiable. He seems like a good personality. He He looks like he's on his way to cult hero status, I think. Especially given how part of me is a bit heartbroken about that because he was such a good player for Italy at the the Euros and and before that for for Juve, but the way that he looked last season at Liverpool suggested a little bit a player kind of having a bit of a kind of jog around the pitch for a victory lap. I think so to have him have him relevant is good even if it is a cult hero. I think part of the problem with that move is that Liverpool's they have a lot of naturally leftsided very good attackers. Like obviously Isak and Ekit like to drift wide left. Last season um when they had Lewis Diaz etc gakpo so there's not a lot of space for him to get minutes there and obviously on the right they have Salah. So he's a he's a really good player to have as backup but the opportunities to play are quite limited for him. and they would looked like being even more limited because he wasn't in the Champions League squad, but he has now been put in that because of the unfortunate injury to his competitor Javanni Leoni. Yeah, Liverpool are in the Champions League on Tuesday. They will be flying to Istanbul. I imagine before that actually, but in Istanbul on Tuesday, they will take on Galatasaray while Palace kick off their Conference League campaign in Poland against Damo Kiev. That's Thursday. Looking to make it 19 games unbeaten, which should be a club record, I believe. So, yeah, fingers crossed. Fingers crossed. Criy, anything else on Palace before we move on to other things? Other things it is. Then, quick word for Manchester City who with a 5-1 victory over Burnley move back to five points behind Liverpool. Burnley did briefly threaten to make a game of this one equalizing. Uh they also had a player join the very exclusive I've scored two own goals in the same game Premier League club. That's uh is it Maxim Estv? Yeah. Yeah. They call him Steve at Turfmore. Yeah. You'll hear if you hear the Steve chant, right? That's for him. Um but they probably weren't singing it at the weekend. But look, there's always going to be a tough game. Just a word on Docku actually. I I mean Harland obviously gets a lot of credit for for for his late goals and and he was excellent, but Dou is on fire, isn't he? I think Dou is one of the best dribbers I've ever seen. I think he has to be considered one of the best dribbers in Premier League history, even though he's not been here that long. He's just so hard to knock off the ball and he he just he goes past players so quickly. I think he made 14 here in this game, eight of them successful. He had 22 touches inside the box which is ludicrous really for a winger. So yeah, Dou and and he's he is assisting now. That was the big thing before, wasn't it? Yeah, he's exciting, but he doesn't score, he doesn't assist. What's the point of Dou? Well, I think he's showing now that that that he's going to be a really big player for them this year. There you go. Oh, Daniel, was that a finger? Yeah, where you go? Yeah, just to back up what Adrian said, I was looking at Docu stats earlier this season and the kind of ending in a dangerous moment. He took he tried to take on a man or he took on a man 201 last season and only 13 of those led to a chance being created. So he beat the man quite often but then he would either kind of turn back and or be told to turn back and play in field. So this season he's already almost at half that number after I think four starts. So yeah, that's kind of proof that he's not just taking on the man. He's then realizing that, yeah, my job is now to get the ball into the box. Probably because Jack Greish and Kevin De Bruyne have left and he thinks, you know, I need to be one of the elite creators now. Maybe he's given a bit more license to be. Very true. City are in Monaco in the Champions League on Wednesday night. And next up, we move on to oo West Ham. There's a new Totally Extra out for you on Saturday. Well, actually last Saturday, I'll start again. Last Saturday, a new Totally Extra came out. It focuses on the legendary Derby County 0708 season. You know the one. So, there's lots of chat about their stories of team captains shaking hands, thinking this could be four or five today. about why Paul Juul should have listened to the prediction of doom by that strange Scottish man telling him to get off the motorway at junction 37. He didn't and we know what the consequences were. Anyway, lots of that kind of thing in totally extra uh which is out there now. Derby fan Ben Meepstead says, "Why do I think it's a good idea to listen to a Totally Football Show 0708 season review on match day?" I don't know, Ben. I'm glad you did. And it turned out all right for Derby, who went on to get a point at Rexom in the championship thanks to a first Rams goal for Ben Beritton Diaz who's also mentioned in Saturday's Totally Extra. Why? Listen to it and you'll find out. Uh Derby currently lying in fourth last position in the Championship since you ask. Now, breaking news on Saturday morning, mentioned it before. Gre Potter was sacked by West Ham 7 days after the defeat to Crystal Palace. one day after he just done the pre-match press conference for the Everton game poured chat which can't have been much fun cuz he kept getting asked about that that face swap meme and stuff. Anyway, he he played along and was good spirited and then the next morning whilst preparing to take training discovered that he was no longer in charge by Saturday afternoon. We knew that his replacement was Nuno Esperto Santo who of course had just been fired by Nottingham Forest after getting beaten by West Ham and replaced uh with Anastasia who had just been fired by Spurs. Anyway, on it goes. Potter is out at West Ham. Nuno is in. To gauge the feeling of West Ham fans about this, earlier on I spoke to our very own Hammer Benji Lenardo. Exciting news for West Ham. you've hired the one manager that your old bloke managed to beat this season. Very West Ham. Uh but I actually think there is there is a method to to this madness. I think it's a definite upgrade. Um and I think most West Ham fans saw this coming a mile off with Potter. Um I was sort of thinking back over his tenure and I think it must be one of the most forgettable managerial tenures West Ham ever had. I mean there's no real distinguishable features to what he was trying to achieve at least with Late before him. there was sort of a discernable attempt at a style even if it failed. Um I think the most memorable performance under Potter was away at Arsenal last season when when we beat them and that was sort of you know soak it up and break but really that was that was Moyes ball or maybe even more like Nuno ball. So yeah maybe this squad of players are much more suited to what Nun Nuno does. Unrest had been building. How much do you think Nuno's arrival will will calm that disquire? I think it will. I think that the West Ham fans have had to accept post Moyes that they were wrong. You know, there was a lot of clamor to to move on from Moyes's style of football despite the kind of incredible success relative to you know, you know, our history that that that um Moyes brought. There was this kind of clamoring for something a bit sexier and actually initially they were going after Amarin of all people and they didn't get amarin so they settled on lategy. That didn't work. So they went for potter and that didn't work either. And these, you know, these kind of dogmatists now seem very much kind of out of style in the Premier League. They're consistently failing. Like look at Amarin, look at an look at, you know, Late and Potter for us. The best teams now are are pragmatic. They're playing sort of hybrid systems. They can play possession football when it makes sense. They can do long throws when it makes sense. Even Guardiola has become a pragmatist. And I think Nuno is sort of of that school. He will do what what it takes. and the West Ham fans I think would have to accept okay we tried a couple of um more dogmatic attack focused possession focused managers and it hasn't worked so let's go back to to something that we know generally works at West Ham which is a pragmatic initially defensive manager okay a lot of people would point to the squad or the squad building at West Ham and say this was by no means only Graeme Potter's fault but you think that this team is more suited to Nuno I think so I think he's more likely to work out what the hell to do with it. Um I mean your your point is valid that like you know the the tools at the disposal of these last two managers have not been brilliant and and also let's not pretend that West Ham is like a progressive modern datadriven club. You know West Ham is a dictatorship. It's run by one man in his mobile phone and his kind of cery of agents and and often that has worked quite well for us over the last 50 years but it is aging you know and with all all dictators it's not sustainable and the dictator ends up getting old and there's no system without them and then the whole thing usually disintegrates. So, you know, maybe we're in that process of disintegration. Either way, when you when you've got that kind of chaos, it's very unlikely that someone's going to come in and like make sense of it all and order it and and and provide some sort of like, you know, systemic structure. You actually just need someone who's going to roll with the punches, ride Sullivan's whims, right? Got to say, Benji, that doesn't sound like the man who just blew up with Marianis at Nottingham Forest. But hey, we'll see. Huh? Uh, in all of this, what a time to be facing David Moyes this Monday. Yes, it's perfect. It's um it's the look at what you've had and let go derby perhaps. Um, but you look, you know, you look at what Moyes has done there very quickly and actually in terms of, you know, trying to prove to the doubters that he's not just this kind of like defensive counterattacking uh manager. Look at look at their front line now. It's really exciting. and they got these kind of three dangling socked attacking midfielders behind a striker. This is the kind of thing that West Ham would absolutely love. So yeah, it's sobering for the West Ham fans to see that actually they they had something that was pretty good and pretty suitable and they threw it in the bin in pursuit of something sexier and uh and it failed. Don't it always seem to go that you put it in the bin for something sexier as Janie Mitchell once saying. Benji, listen. Best of luck for Monday and beyond and we look forward to having you back on the Toby Football Show soon. Benji Liardo Criy, you love the the narrative gods and David Moyes waiting there for them on on Monday night. Ju before we move on to games that have happened just on Graeme Potter, this went really badly for him. Chelsea didn't go well either. It's confusing. Was he never any good? I mean, he was in fourth place with Brighton when Chelsea came along and and took him. Yeah. No, I think he was good. Um, but I I don't know. I'm probably blinking. I think maybe Arsenal supporters are because every time he plays against Arsenal, he produces a tactical masterass. He's beaten Arsenal with three different clubs um multiple times. So, no, I think there is a good coach there. I think he's lost confidence. I think the Chelsea thing knocked him and I just don't think he had the right players at West Ham to play the kind of football that that he wants to play. But yeah, it was a bit of a disaster. He did he didn't imprint any kind of style really on on this West Ham group and and it's the right decision to to make the change in my opinion. Daniel, yeah, I mean I completely agree with Adrian. His two biggest successes, Osterson and Brighton, are clubs where they build the system and then they find the person to fit the system. Whereas effectively what West Ham tried to do was appoint Graeme Potter and then while he was managing some sort of storm sort of attempt to build a system around him, but not actually one that really suited Graeme Potter. I think it reflects as badly on them as it does on him. But the difference is is that when you are a football club, you get to distract everybody by appointing a very savvy coach who will make things right, which is exactly what Nuno is. Whereas if you're a football manager, your reputation gets tarnished. I I don't think he'll get a Premier League job as his next job now. I don't think that's appropriate. We've seen Steve Cooper in the last couple of weeks get go to Denmark and get the Bombi job. Something like that makes sense for Potter. take some time out of the game and then maybe try and go somewhere abroad where you can build again. He's never seen the sort of type of bloke who really wants to be a, you know, a manager who's on the back page of every newspaper and delights in doing his press conferences. I think he's he really enjoys football managing, but this the the the actual framework of the job needs to matter now. And he's now made two bad decisions in going to Chelsea and to West Ham. I can really see why he took the Chelsea job. I can see less why he took the West Ham one. I thought you were gonna say he's now made a phenomenal amount of money being let go by two sizable Premier League side. So he'll certainly be comfortable while he waits for his next move. Anyway, there you go. A manager wedded to a tactical system unable to make it work with the players that he had at his disposal. In unrelated news, Manchester United lost again this weekend. This time 3-1 away to Brenford. Not to make this about Man United, but Colin Miller sum things up nicely when he said on blue sky on Saturday, Ruben Amarin plays five defenders in Ugate, but his team can't defend. He spends 200 million on three forwards, all of whom played this weekend, but his team can't attack. Keith Andrews Brenford, Keith Andrews with five games experience, joins virtually every other Premier League manager in out coaching him. Every single measure of Amarim's tenure has been catastrophically bad. And week by week it seems to get worse. Uh this question from one one r Amarim. What would constitute a sackable result? I think they've already happened. Yeah. It's just Yeah, like I'm really amazed that he's still in in the gig. It's been a disaster class from Amarim. Um you have to be flexible these days. You just have to have different ways of playing. you have to have different uh you have to have a plan A, a plan B, a plan C. And he just doesn't have one. And and the players don't look comfortable, do they? In in in the roles that he's asking them to do it. This was really bad. Like the Harry Maguire one. I mean like he's just I don't I don't know. I mean that you can't really pin that on Amarim, I guess. Well, when he tried to step up. Yeah. Like it's such an easy step up though. It's like the easiest step up to make in the world because you can see that pass coming from Jordan Henderson and he he he delays and then then he's gone. But but why did he leave Yuro out of the team? I mean he he got Thiago who's quick and powerful. Brenford have built on power and pace, aren't they? You take take your most mobile center back out of the team. Delict has also looked better in the middle, right? And that would have and then he got pushed out to the right in this game and did not and Shard is is a power sort of pace guy as well. The goalie buys Lammonds and he doesn't pick him by and dear keeps making mistakes. I mean I don't know what he's doing with the third goal. I know it didn't matter ultimately. He was diving for a different shot to the one I saw like he was absolutely nowhere near it. It looked deflected but it wasn't. It was a really weird one. Yeah. Um, I just think I think it's it's really going badly now and I think they have to make the change. I just I'm staying in standards, right? Like they we all sort of broadly agreed that Eric Tenhog should have been sacked at the end of the season before he actually was sacked in the October because Manchester United have finished eighth in the league. The last time they were eighth in the Premier League was August 2024. It's just like this accepting decline in standards where it's like, yeah, but if they improve a bit, they'll get up to 12th. Look, I I I don't want to do the whole this is Manchester United we're talking about thing because I think we've probably done that more often than we'd care to imagine. But but what do you but where do you think the line will be drawn? Do you do you see that hap coming soon? Uh I hope for their sake that what is happening at the moment is that they are getting in the ear of who they really want and I don't know who that is and I don't know who you know I suspect they would like to appoint someone like Oliver Kasnner but then you know we just said about West Ham you have to build the system before you get the manager. Rumor's rumor has just given you a scout. So also isn't he somebody who does play that system or it wouldn't work anyway. The thing criticism of Amarim's system, Is the same thing as formation? I don't know. But the 343 is not the problem. Like I I know it's only happened once, but Conte won the league playing that formation. Glason's done brilliantly with Palace. But the key difference for me and you kind of you you run out of ways to criticize United because they're just so bad at everything. But the biggest criticism of Amaran for me is that I don't know what he re how he really wants his team to play. All I know is that he wants them to play 343 and that's basically it. And then the in terms of selection, you have Ugate who doesn't look up to Premier League standard kind of physically really um or with the ball and Bruno Fernandez which is not in theory it's balanced because one is defensive and one is attacking but it never looks coherent. And then they've gone really topheavy in the transfer window um moving their two best performing attackers last season Bruno Fernandez and Ahmad Dio into out of position making Bruno and Amad a wing back and none of it really makes any sense. Brenford makes sense though. Jay Harris did warn us that we shouldn't want write them off despite the fact that they'd lost the two top scorers from last season. despite the fact that they lost the man who was so identified with their success in Thomas Frank and brought in a a former set piece coach for his first full managerial role. But but this this was excellent again Jordan Henderson with the long ball over the top to open the scoring like we saw against Chelsea and Eagle Thiago. What a what a signing he looks like being. Yeah, the new Ivan Tony. I mean he looks good, doesn't he? I mean yeah very powerful. I mean, really good goal running in behind and then involved. Well, the second goal as well, wasn't it? Um, involved in the buildup play. So, yeah. No, I I like him. Keith Andrews always speaks well. He's a really intelligent guy. We just we just didn't know whether he could cut it as a manager, you know, when you're there in the in the technical area all on your own having to make the big decisions. But seems really calm. Um I mean, they got lucky here, didn't they, with the Did they? Yeah. With not getting a red card. Yeah. I mean, I I've kicked off about about the Arsenal penalty overturn. This for me was was just as bad. I mean, if that's not denying a goal scoring opportunity, I I don't know what the the reason. So, I've I've got the tweet here from the the match center. Referee's called a penalty was checked and confirmed with Collins deemed to pull and Burmo back. V also checked the referee's cord of yellow card to Collins and deemed that Burmo wasn't in control of the ball. Now, when the ball is coming across the face of goal, spoiler alert, you're not in control of the ball, but it is still a goalc scoring opportunity. Okay? When the ball's played over the top of a player and they get nudged and they get sent off for it for denying a clear goal scoring opportunity, they are not in control of the ball. That doesn't matter. So, for me, that's a nonsensical explanation. The penalty that was given, that would have made it 2-2. I think at at that point of the game and that felt like quite a moment in this match. Who knows maybe in a broader sense as well. Uh Bruno Fernandez taking the spot kick had to hang around four minutes or so for the verdict after which Brenford manager Keith Andrew then called a double substitution which meant he then had to hang around for another couple of minutes which is brilliant. I mean, we've seen all sorts of parts of the game gamified, whether it's set pieces or throwins, but now var. Was that howy or was that was that clever? Or or just coincidental? I don't know, but I like it. Yeah. Yeah. Smart. Yeah. At the end of at the end of which Bruno Fernandez's penalty was saved by Keller, who's now actually stopped four of the seven penalties that he's saved, sorry, that he's faced at Li Liverpool and Brenford. And does that make it two three penalties taken for Bruno Fernandez this season? Two missed or two not scored at least. Two not converted. Yeah, absolutely. Maybe they should give them to Brian Burma, but he also does a silly run up. So Oh, Burmo is a Burmo is the best penalty taker still, isn't he? I know indeed missed one, but he's one of the best we've seen, hasn't he, in the Premier League, so he should be on them really. United have yet to win two games in a row under Ruben Amarim. They in terms of their on the road performance which is quite extraordinary. They've only taken from their last eight away matches two points. Their next away game is at Anfield. So that's going to be interesting. Although United you you never know. But before that next weekend they are going to be welcoming Sunderland to Old Trafford. And you know could you rule out the Black Cats doing it? Could you, Daniel? No, no, no, not at all. Sunderland are excellent. We We say every season that a good defense is more likely to keep you up than a prolific attack in as a promoted club in the Premier League. And Sunderland have an excellent defense. They've only conceded four times. They're just good at the basics, you know. They've I think they're second for clearances, first for blocking shots into the box, second for winning aerial jewels. And and shout out to Reggie Debris for that because I think of the seven most defensive players, so the back four, the goalkeeper, and the two central midfielders, they played against Forest. Six of them were new this summer. It's really not easy to build defensive structure in a promoted club when everybody is new. We've heard managers already this season. Nuno said it at Forest, Vital Pereira said it at Wolves, like they just need time to acclimatize and then we'll, you know, time on the training ground and I'll be we'll be better. Sunderland have not had that and the defensive structure looks so resolute for his missed chances here as they are invariably want to do. But yeah, Sunderland look a really really good side. They look far far more prepared for the Premier League than I thought they would given, you know, they finished a decent distance behind the top two in the Championship last season and they lost Joe Bellingham and um yeah, they they're sort of still going under the radar, I think, because I think maybe because of the last two seasons, people are slightly waiting for the bubble to burst on promoted clubs and lose seven in a row and then, you know, we're at the same stage as we were. But Sunderland don't look like that. They just look really They look like a Premier League team. An organized Premier League team. Shout out to BBC commentator Mark. Was it M Mark Scott? I think it was Mark Scott. BBC commentator Mark Scott for his the roofs on fire line talking about Do you know what? I'm not sure if it was Mark Scott. I'll leave that bit out. Um they look terribly well prepared. They've got a great keeper as well who managed to keep out everything that Angie's forest could throw at them. What's your take on Angie's Forest then, Daniel? No wins so far in the five games in charge and now only three teams below you in the Premier League. Yeah, and they've they've taken one point against the last two games against promoted clubs. I mean, my broad point is that Forest have deliberately got rid of everything they were good at last season. So last season they were they were really good at keeping clean sheets and they were really efficient in the final third. And now they don't keep clean sheets and they're really inefficient in the final third. And that's wholly because they've completely tried to change the system. So this weekend was the highest they've ever had in a Premier League game since promotion possession wise. Uh breaking the record of last week. And I think they've I think I'm right in saying they've had 26 games since getting promoted where they've had more than 50% of the ball and they've only won four of them. So like Forest have taken the thing they're not very good at, decided that that's going to be the new identity under a new manager and do it three weeks into the season. Like that's the recipe. I'm not saying they will or I'm not saying they'll be close, but that's the recipe for getting a team relegated effectively. Is is it the last new manager we'll see at the City Ground this season? Do you think No, I don't I don't I don't I mean if this run carries on, they've got Mitchelland at home on Thursday, uh which they should win. Um but who knows? Uh but their next like the the gentle runner fixture is now over. They go to Newcastle next weekend. They've got Manchester United soon. Insert joke, I suppose. But still um and they've got Chelsea and yeah, I suppose there's an argument that playing better teams might be better for this team and that it might stop the over reliance on possession. It sort of gives them no choice but to be a little bit different. Um, but yeah, I can see him not lasting to December, quite frankly, because Evangelos Marinakis, this was his appointment, but he's a he's an impatient guy. He's an ambitious guy. And Nuno was sacked partly because he spoke out, but also because Marinakis thought that the end of last season wasn't good enough and he wanted to finish higher in the league. And as you've just said, they're a point above the bottom three. The It's interesting when teams like Forest overachieve in the league. You know, I I always thought it when Leicester won the Premier League was that they play the same way. They they're very it's quite simple. It was sit back and hit them on a counterattack and nobody and nobody work double called their bluff and kind of let them have the ball. Um so I can understand you do need to evolve your tactics over time as you kind of overachieve and get better and you know um just broadly improve. So, I can understand Marinakus' desire to do that, but it feels like he's trying to do it too quickly and with strange timing. Like, if if they made this change maybe at the start of the window and brought in defenders who were maybe better at that. Like, Malinkovic is very much a box defender and a very good one, but I'm not sure he's going to enjoy what an Foggy wants him to do. We shall see. We're going to Oh, no. Adrian, what? Well, can I just mention Sunderland? Someone from Sunderland. I wrote a piece on Nordi Mukle. Oh, yeah. the center half um last week before the game and I just think he's been a brilliant signer maybe like one of the best under the radar ones. He's like he's played for like PSG and by Leverkusen and Leipzig. He's played loads and loads of games. They got him in for under 15 million pounds and he's been kind of flawless ahead of the weekend. No, no defender had won more tackles. None had averaged more clearances. Yeah. He hadn't been dribbled past by an opponent. uh dominant in the air, quick, looks a really good player. So, he's not a messiah, he's a naughty machi. Something like that. Yeah. Excellent. All right. Well, uh we'll have more thoughts about the Premier League weekend. We'll touch on Chelsea and Brighton's victory at Sanford Bridge and Spurs and Wolves and leads Bournemouth and other things in our final part next. Mhm. Uh, bump bump bump. You're doing a what the EFL this week, Adrian? Oh, yeah. Will you touch on the story of Blackburn's game with Ipsswitch at Ewood Park, which was abandoned after 80 minutes due to a waterlog pitch with Rovers 1 nil up and with the visitors down to 10 men, it having been abandoned, then last Thursday afternoon, the EFL decided that the entire game will be played. Isn't that unfair on the road? I didn't think so. We might talk about it, but not for long cuz I just think I think it was the right decision. Was it? Yeah. I know. If it was two or 3 and they had 10 men, I think you can maybe have 10 men. No, I know they had 10 men, but it was 1 nil. I just 1 nil up against 10 men with 10 minutes to go. Yeah, but you can't say that they would definitely win it. It's not job done. It's not 90 minutes. When did Arsenal score their goals today? I know, but there was only 10 minutes left to play. So surely you should only play I kind of get that. I do kind of get that argument. But it's a long way to come come up for 10 minutes, isn't it? But yeah, maybe that's the fairer way to do it, but different day, different, you might not have the same players fit and available when you have that replay. So I personally think you couldn't say with any certainty that they would win the game. So in that in that case is tough luck. Blackburn beat just go and beat them the second time. There you have it. All right. That story won't feature in what the EFL, but other big ones. Yeah. Will. Loads of stuff. All right. In this Totally Football Show, next up, a quick word on Brighton, whose commitment to selling their best players to Chelsea, but then beating them anyway, remains as impressive as ever this Saturday. They went to Stanford Bridge and won 31 late goals. Two late goals here from the Seagulls who came from behind. They're suddenly scoring now, Brighton. That was a bit of an issue, but they've had 11 in their last three matches. Excellent. No. Yeah, they are a team who are being propelled by their League Cup form. I think they've won six scored six goals in both the League Cup games. It seems to have sparked everybody into life. I thought Yakuba Mint was brilliant against Chelsea. He he got 10 league goals and assists last season, but just looked quite raw. He just looks like Herzler has been able to really refine him in preseason. It was a brilliant whip cross for Danny Wellbeck, although it was a good header as well. And then for the third goal, it's him high pressing, forcing a mistake, forcing that turnover that then ends in Wellbeck scoring his second. So he looks bang on it and ends. Sorry, what price? Chelsea trying to sign yet another winger and it being m in January. Speaking of speaking of Chelsea, Reuben, you did a thing this Saturday morning on the Athletic FC's Saturday morning live stream offer talking about why the world champions keep dropping points. I'm guessing that you might have mentioned people picking up red cards and turning games against them because that happened for the second straight week here. Well, yeah, the the United game much like this one there that that is always a factor, but but more broadly um the guys JJ B and John McKenzie also of this parish, they they were looking at how Chelsea have dropped points this season and kind of broader with a broader tactical lens. Um much like what Daniel was saying earlier about Arsenal and City adding pragmatism to their to their armory. Um Chelsea still under Moresca seem to be leaning into a possession territory patient approach. Um whereas the other elite teams that going for the title are adding a bit more directness when appropriate. Combine that with some silly individual errors and you know even in cases when their quote unquote rest defense is looking good like poor decisions that lead to um space opening up for attackers. Um and obviously yeah red cards um combined with injuries say that have tactical implications like the absence of Liam Dap at the moment means there isn't a nine to really stretch the defense by barging like rampaging in behind. Um so Ju Pedro who would rather find space in the pockets is the nine. Um which has led to I think TK George playing as a nine sometimes. Um, so yeah, there's a combination of all these things and of course I know they sell a lot of players for good prices. They they're very good at selling. They also love spending and uh you I don't know how you spend sort of 2 billion pounds and end up with these current center back options. So the the center back um options for this weekend were Jorel Hatau and Josh Aampong. Yeah. And Aong has I've seen him play at Sal Park actually um last time Chelsea came in here. He looks very talented player. Obviously, we know Chaloba is good and now suspended. And you Sorry. Yeah. So, I'm just jumping rudely in, but he's suspended for next weekend's game, which is against Liverpool at Stanford Bridge. It's a scary prospect. Who do they have cuz Colewell's out injured? Dodson and Fana are injured as well. Fernard. Yeah. Not sure. She's there, isn't he? He came on, I think, in the game, but and he felt like one who was maybe out of the picture. Yeah. Much like Chalaba last season before they recalled him. Yeah, there's there's way too much inexperience in this Chelsea squad. It's great having this business model of, you know, selling lots of players, you know, but you know, buying them young and selling them whatnot, but you need in a football team, you need different things, different qualities. It works all right for Brian, of course. Yeah, but Brian got Danny Wellbeck. He's a very experienced player, you know. I'm I'm just saying they got Lewis Dunk. They got they got Every team needs a bit of everything. and Chelsea have all of the same thing. They're mainly all promising young players. Um, and I don't think that's the ingredients for for a successful team long term. I also think that Marisa's had a really bad couple of weeks. Panicked at Brenford when he went down to 10. Made some weird subs in this game. He took off the wingers again. Netto and Esteo Lavia and Gusto came on and it was basically it was invite inviting pressure and Brighton said, "Oh, thank you very much." They couldn't get out. Brighton just it was it was the Alamo and they and they scored three goals. So I don't think yeah Moresco's covered himself in glory the last couple of weeks. Criy they've got a big week coming up he and Chelsea. Liverpool as I mentioned at the weekend before that. Chelsea on Tuesday which sees their uh sorry before that Benfica on Tuesday in the Champions League which sees the new Benfica manager returning to Sanford Bridge because it is Jose of course kriy. Now Spurs moving along are going to be off in the Arctic Circle taking on Bod Glint in the Champions League. Also on Tuesday they beat the Norwegians in last season's Europa League semifinals. That was when they still had Anastasia in charge of course under Thomas Frank. They took on bottom of the table and the previously pointless Wolves this weekend who very nearly very nearly won the game. Spurs equalizing in the 94th minute with their first shot on target of the second half. Criy heartbreaking for Wolves but uh at least they did get their first point of the season. Daniel. Yeah, I think with with Spurs, we're still I mean they've still very much a work in progress. They've they've under I think it's 2.9 xG in open play across the last five games which is pretty poor given the opponents you know Wolves, West Ham, Villa Royale, Brighton and Bournemouth I think is the other one and I went back and kind of wondered if there was a pattern and I think the pattern is just complete unfamiliarity in those five games in sorry say that again over the last four league games they've had four different front threes, three different midfield combinations, three different fullback combinations sort of feels like Thomas Frank is having to because they're in the Champions League rather than the Europa League or the Conference League, Thomas Frankie is kind of having to sort of learn as he goes what his best combinations are and they're certainly not finding that yet. They are also fourth in the league at the moment but quite congested league but yeah they they were really poor here. Wolves deserve to win the game. Um Vital Pereira it's kind of gone back to what was working. I think I think against leads he had like six of the 10 starters with summer signings. They looked awful and this was a lot more certainly defensive unit was a lot more familiar and yeah they they fully deserve to win the game and will be gutted to have only drawn. He made nine changes didn't they which is it's the most that a manager has made from one Premier League game to the next in over four years. Yeah that's nuts isn't it? And I watched the game and I did I was impressed with Wolves. I thought they were really good. Um I just thought Jo Pal Palinia I mean he looked good with his shirt off but equalizing goal at home to Wolves. I don't know whether the shirt comes off really does it? I think I think you get the ball out of the net and you and you you go to the halfway line. I thought that was a little bit little bit embarrassing. Something something something Arsenal something something celebration something something. I like I hate the celebr I hate the celebration police. I really do. But that did tickle. It just tickled me. I'm not gonna have a go at him. Just tickled me that that an was he booked? Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, that was You hate the police agent just freelancing for them for a week, I see. Yeah, exactly. Exactly that. Yeah. Um celebration PR. Yeah. I just think come on now. It's time to win the game. Fair enough. It's a valid point. Adrian leads United drew 22 with Bournemouth. The Cherries becoming the first team to score this season at Ellen Road in the league. Of course, Antoine Semen was involved in the scoring with that lovely free kick which bamboozled the leads wall that I've got to say this moment right this was my favorite moment of the weekend because obviously they used the draft excludder didn't they um leads in Aronson Brendan Aronson. I don't know how tall Brendan Aronson is. I think he's about 5'8 5'9. He's not big and this this is a lesson for all other Premier League managers. He wasn't long enough. He didn't cover the whole thing, did he? So, he's laying behind the wall. Can you have two drafts? Well, you might if you want two small ones, you know, two diddy guys. They would do the job, but I think this is a lesson to our Premier League managers. Maybe you need a six foot plus guy to to lay down behind the wall because Smeno I think must have seen it that he wasn't covering the whole wall and went underneath it anyway which was great cheek. Loved it. Yeah, I really enjoyed that free kick because the it wasn't overthinking it. He just hit it as hard as he possibly could which sometimes is enough like if even if the keeper's uh very close to it. That opened the scoring sorry that opened the scoring. two goals from lead to United wrote on a long staff to give them the lead. But in the 93rd minute, French teenager Ellie Krooppy, is that right? Ellie Krooppy Mhm. to earn the Cherries a point with his I'm so sorry. French teenager Ellie Krooppy scoring his first Premier League goal to earn the cherries a point. It's good point for leads, would you say, against Bournemouth? Yeah, I just wanted to give a shout out to Sean Longstaff who I think has been one of the best signings in the Premier League so far this season. He's only started four games and yet he's already so he's second in the pre in the entire Premier League for tackles, one and he's first for doing it in the middle third. So Tyreek Mitchell's made more than him, but he's a defender. It's just that energy in midfield. I mean, we're picking him out on a weekend where he scored and assisted a goal, which is nice, too, but just that energy in midfield is exactly what leads needed because they're not going to score that many goals. Daniel Farer has basically admitted much. So, what you need to do is particularly at home, you need to make it really hard for other teams and he looks an absolute stealer. I think it was about 12 or 15 million. Um, kind of buying a plug-in and play central midfielder at that price is really, really good business for a promoted club. Excellent leads currently lying 11th in the Premier League. Sean Long, it was his dad who was the Great Britain international at ice hockey, wasn't it? I think so. I believe so. He's really really good at cricket. Sean Longstaff really. He plays Yeah, he he in preseason he was bowling in the I guess the Newcastle League I think. Yeah, he's a really good bowler. You could you could probably make a good 11 of footballers who could have been cricketers or footballers who are good at cricket. Oh or Andre Shvenko would be playing up front. Of course, you have Peter Czech and go. Exactly. Nice. Nice. Excellent. Well, that that's uh that's that. I probably should wrap it up there because it's been it's been a lengthy old show with so much to talk about today. Uh anything you wanted to add, Adrian, before you dis Yeah. Out. You're done. Yeah, I'm out. Yeah. You got what you came to play some more celebrations. Come dear. It's his birthday. Yeah, he's alive. Have to blow out some candles. Oh, good for you. Other people's candles. Well, many happy returns, Adrian, in every sense. I look forward to seeing you again soon. Ruben, thank you so much for coming in. Thank you. My pleasure. And Daniel, thank you for freeing up some of your Sunday evening for us. Same to you, listener or viewer if you caught us on YouTube. We'll be back Tuesday morning with our Euro show and then Wednesday and Thursday this week. Wednesday and Thursday we've got shows, you know, reacting to the Tuesday Champions League action and the Thursday and sorry, and the Wednesday stuff, too. Anyway, look for us. We'll be there. Have a great time. In the meanwhile, for now, from Wolves here, it's goodbye.