================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: KzYU0G873hk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KzYU0G873hk
TITLE: The Things That Matter As The Champions League Returns | Libero 053
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-16
DURATION: 59m 17s
VIEWS: 2,887
LIKES: 96
COMMENTS: 29
TAGS: football, podcast, soccer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
The Champions League is back. Or more specifically, the league phase, which starts with matchday one spread over the course of this week.

On today’s episode, Jack Pitt-Brooke, James Horncastle and Jonathan Wilson all look forward to this season’s competition and ask whether anyone will be able to challenge Luis Enrique’s Paris Saint-Germain for the crown. James explains why this might be the year that Antonio Conte makes an impression with his new-look Napoli side.

This will be the second year of the Champions League’s new format, where 144 games are played between September and January to trim 36 teams down to 24. What are the lessons of the new system? Does it mean there is less riding on each game? And does the tournament as a whole have the same weight and prestige in the era of the Club World Cup?

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky
... [truncated]

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 10,581

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hello and welcome to Libero, the podcast about the most important of the least important things, as Gabrielle Ano said to Jack Ferong in 1955. My name is Jack Pipbrook. I'm from The Athletic. I'm joined today by James Horn Castle. Hello, James. Hello. And by Jonathan Wilson. Hello. Now, James, you've just got back from Italy. That is correct. What made you choose to go there? Just checking if checking if it was still there. like a good chief executive, you know, want to be on top of my company. Uh, no, I went to Torino because it was the Deb Italia show, the biggest uh most bitter rivalry in all of Italy. Was it good? It was fantastic. Yeah, it was uh three lead changes. Tran brothers both scoring for different teams. Uh worldies. Um yeah, some of the best girls you'll see all weekend. Chalinolu Yield Adsich 4-3 Juventus into in crisis Juventus on top. Um it's like the good old days. Jonathan, where were you this weekend? Manchester Derby. So I I'm still recovering from having spent six hours on the Bante trains yesterday. Does it does it make you even more e I must it must make you even firmer in your conclusions about Ruben Amarim and his 343 and it's not working. Yeah. I mean I know this is not what we're here to talk about but that that first goal the way Doyu found space is almost like you if you draw the 3 421 on a page and you would say if these players didn't really move just that was the the positions they took up where's the gap? Oh, look. It's there. And Docker just stood there. And even though United had 11 players behind the ball, there's still a space there. And you just think, I mean, United actually were all right for 20 minutes. But I keep hearing people say that this season. You think, well, United being all right isn't really good enough. And it's certainly not good enough when they then defend like idiots for the last hour. Yeah. Yeah. I I was at um the London Stadium on Saturday for West Ham nil, Tottenham three. But West Ham were extremely bad. Tottenham pretty good. Uh Lucas Bergval scored a header that reminded me a little bit of Robin Van Periey's header against Spain in the 2014 World Cup. So that was really good. But of course listeners, you know this all if you have been following us on Instagram where you can find us at Liberopod. You can also find us on Tik Tok at the same handle liberopod. Although I suspect that if you're listening to this then you like us are too old for Tik Tok. But the big story this week is the return of the Champions League. The 18 games of match day one of the league phase are spread over this Tuesday, Wednesday, and rather non-cononically Thursday this week. Wilson, I assume you're doing the low country's triple header, which of course is a PSB and against Union Sanel on Tuesday, against in repeat the 1972 European Cup final on Wednesday and then club rouge against Monaco on Thursday. Sadly not. Sadly, I'm I'm back on the Avanti and I'm going up to Manchester for City V Napoli, which which should be good. It it just and I mean it's nothing against Manchester. It's just the the agony of getting there and getting away from there. It just I'm sorry. I wish both Manchester clubs were were relegated to out of the league. It's just awful. Like the East Coast mainline is fine. So I'd say the only clubs allowed in the Premier League should be London, South Coast, Northeast, and maybe Yorkshire a pinch. You haven't Newcastle got Barcelona this week? Yeah, they have. Yeah. Why don't you go to that? Well, it's not where I've been sent. Follow orders. Uh James, what are you doing? Well, I'll be following uh Jonathan on the Avanti, an Italian name for a train um to for for the Man City Napoli game. Um but yeah, I wonder if if Jonathan was the independent football regulator, um is this the first thing you would address? Uh Jonathan, you you'd either relegate those clubs or basically push ahead with some kind of HS2. Uh yeah, I'd say to Jim Rack, if you're going for this public funding for your new mega stadium, get the train line sorted out first. And also build enough hotels in Manchester. Liverpool also suffer from this so that when you have a big game or any game, hotel prices aren't 250 quid for like a really crap business hotel. Well, I'm um yeah, I'm doing Tottenham against Val on Tuesday night, which is it's it's quite interesting because it's Spurs' first Champions League game since the second leg of the last 16 against Milan in March 2023. Antonio Conte was manager. I think he had two games left after this one. Spurs were 1-0il down in the first leg and they did absolutely nothing all night apart from taking Kulleski off of Damon Sanchez with seven minutes left when they needed a goal. Uh it was uh it was an utterly miserable evening. Uh I think I think everybody realized at the end there's no point in Conte being Tottenham manager anymore. He only had a few months left in his contract. He didn't want to sign a new one. The club didn't want him to sign a new one. Um Conte obviously pressed the self-destruct button two games later. Um and that was the end of that. Um, but it's got kind of I was thinking about that and Conte and the Champions League and obviously you guys are going to see Kante's Napoli on this week and it got it just had me thinking do you think this was finally going to be the season where Kante puts together any kind of Champions League campaign because the the gap as I'm sure you know James like the gap between his amazing record in leagues you he's won six league titles across four different clubs and yet in the Champions League he's got to the one quarterfinals ever and that was 12 years ago with Juventus Yeah, where they were knocked out by Yuphankers' treble winning Bayern team, which made Pep Guardiola's job at Bayern a little bit harder. Look, I mean, Jack, when we were discussing themes for this week's pod and we settled on the Champions League, uh we'll get to this a little bit later, but you said maybe the Champions League is a bit diminished, maybe it's not as important as it once was. you know, maybe the far-sighted visionary manager that is Antonio Conte understood this 15 years ago and basically said, "No one's going to care about this. I'm just going to basically win leagues from improbable positions and make my legacy that." Um, but I I think, look, it'll be really interesting to watch Napoli against City on Thursday because this is a ke side unlike any other that's played in the Champions League. It's not a team that plays 352. It's a Conte who over the last year has been alternating playing 4-33, 352 and now has basically definitively settled on not playing a back three. And you know at the weekend they played Furantina and all the tactical wonks and the number wang people who screen grab stuff and put pointy arrows on it were like oh my god this is culture relatinismo. This is relationism because he's playing four midfield players. He's got Mctominina, Laboka, Angisa, and Kevin De Bruyne cuz he doesn't want to leave one of the three who were in midfield last year out. And look, they play this kind of short passing game. They're all sort of in a very narrow quadrant uh in the middle of the pitch or on the on the flanks. Wow, this is exciting. Conte is kind of really updating himself. But to actually look at his Champions League record, I think the thing you have to remember with Conte, and I I haven't been kind of uh making the case for the defense here, the one pattern throughout his entire career is he takes over teams that have just undergone something traumatic. Okay, so with Juventus back-to-back seventh place finishes, he comes in, they're not in the Champions League. He puts them back on top, leaves, says they don't spend enough money, can't compete in the Champions League. He's on a boat in Croatia. He gets the Italy job. It means he's out of club football again for two years. Okay. He then gets the Chelsea job after what? The Mourinho season. They're not in the Champions League either. And then, you know, he goes to Inter. They are in the Champions League. Tough groups. Barca Dortmund. They play well. They're not good enough to qualify. Conte sucks in Europe. Blah blah blah. Spurs comes in mid-season, midway through what the Conference League clearly sacks it off, gets them into the Champions League. Napoli takes over them. They'd had a Mourinho season of themselves. They'd finished in mid-table, not in the Champions League. So, if you look at the arc of his career, it's an awful long time that he's spent outside the Champions League. And he comes into these Champions Leagues basically saying, "Well, did you see how bad we were before I got in charge? This team's got a lot of learning to do." Uh and he's doing the same going into this week's game against Man City. He was like, you know, we have to approach this like we are pupils facing the Masters and maybe maybe one day the pupils will become the Masters. And I think that's kind of why Napoli are sort of perfect for Conte at the moment because they're not a team with a European tradition. Like if he wins the league back to back, that's never happened before in Napoli's history. Yeah. The best Napoli have done in the Champions League is the quarterfinals with Spalti a couple of years ago. So, you know, that's that's my case for the defense when it comes to Fonte. I'm going to rest it there and Jonathan can now lay into him. I mean, I was I was fairly convinced about that. Is he actually playing relationist football then? Well, I mean, I have not sort of I've tried to avoid relationist football. um Jonathan, but um this was the chat after the game on on Saturday against Florentina where he seems to have he seems to be instead of playing these rehearsed patterns um that kind of ABC from the training ground. You do this, you do that. Um you know, commit that to your memory and just do it over and over again. And if we execute it with the right timing, then it'll work even though people know it's coming. That's sort of been ke over the last 15 years. Now with sort of De Bruyne, Laboka, Angisa, you've got a fullback in Javanni Dorenz who comes into midfield. You've got so many players very closely bunched together. All sort of interpretating space differently and intuitively I would say that I wouldn't say it feels off the cuff because Conte is such a control freak that it can't be off the cuff. But it's very interesting to see how by signing De Bruyne and not wanting to renounce one of the three midfield players who he thought were the most important players in them winning the title last year, they are becoming a team that certainly doesn't have reference points in the way that they've had in the past. Don't play with two strikers in the way that Conte teams played in the past. So I think that's why people are maybe leaping on this relationism argument. I mean that that is that is fascinating given one of the things he always said at Chelsea was that under Mourinho because Mourinho likes his his forward players to to play off the cuff to I mean off the cuff maybe the wrong term but Mourinho's feeling his football is so random you can't have these regimented patterns and that attacking players have to be able to improvise and his job is to instill the mentality whereby they'll make the right decision in any circumstance and Ke's criticism was no modern football you need these automations If you practice the automation enough, you'll reduce the time it takes you to do it by 5 10 15 20%. And that's enough to to beat a set defense. So that seems like a actually quite a significant even if it's not if he hasn't gone full relationist, whatever that actually means, which I think is open still to some debate, but that still seems quite a significant change in his his approach. Yeah. I don't know whether it is because he thinks that's the direction he needs to go in in order to be more competitive in the Champions League. I think it's more a function of these are the players that I've got and you know in much the way we were talking about Guardiola and Pepism last week is you know what does that even mean? Does even Pep embody pepism? Like, you know, Pep is a pragmatist sort of looks at the players that he's got that year and what gets the best out of them. I always remember Conte when he was at Chelsea, the first press conference he gave, he described himself as a tailor. You know, this is what all Italian coaches do. We are tailor. We have to basically custom make this team to fit as best possible the players that we've got. and kee, you know, Juuve, he started playing 424 and then moved to 352. I'm pretty sure at Chelsea he did the same and then they lost to Arsenal quite early on. No, no, no. It was they they were playing a back four then that Arsenal game they were 3-0 down at half time and they switched to a back three and then suddenly went on a mad winning run and won the title. That's it. And so, you know, but at the same time, he's always dressed his teams in 352 if you like. Whereas I I think in in the last year at Napoli he inherits a team that had won the league playing a very fluid 4-33 with Spalti had really good wide players you know one of whom left in January which was Kavad Scalia and he Kavarat Skeleia he basically had to make a decision on him he was like I can't I can't make him a wing back can I can't really make him a second striker either so I'm going to have to adapt and I I think that has put him on a on a path which has got us to where we are now where he is more flexible. He's more open-minded and on Saturday night he was talking about the need to evolve with football. You know, you can't stand still. Um, you can have similar principles certainly in terms of like the amount of effort, physical training we put in and that sort of thing, but you know, I can't basically stick to what has made me as successful as I am today if I'm to be this successful in the future. And sorry, I know we've gone off script, but can I can I just ask one more question on this because Kevin De's obviously come from a from city where the patterns are, if not regimented, it's a it's a pretty structured way of playing. How is how has he adapted to that that new and perhaps unexpected freedom? Well, I was the the first game that they played against Sasolo and De Bruyne played I wouldn't say he played everywhere, but he played on the left wing or he would come short and play next to their number six Laboka. Um he would often find himself in the same channel as Scott Mctominina. And to be honest, he still does find himself in that kind of left half space, if you want to call it that. But De Bruyne has a lot of freedom now. And you know, sometimes it looks a little bit clunky. It's like, why is he over there? Do the players know, you know, what those having been taught a number of reference points, all of a sudden they've got a player who embodies not having one. and but it really clicked at the weekend against against Florentina. So yeah, I mean De Bruyne scored two goals in three games. One was a kind of cross that uh the goalkeeper didn't come for it went in against Solo. The other was a penalty on on Saturday. So it's not like those goals are coming from open play. Um but yeah, certainly that Conte seems to have given him the keys really and um you know was calling him a bit of a genius. um on Saturday. So, he's opened he's maybe opened up new possibilities for Conte and Cont's really rolling with them. I think I'm in I'm interested about this point about to what extent does kind of intuitive football have an edge in a in a knockout like the Champions League. And I think I think you could certainly make a case that the brilliant success of Real Madrid in the last well ever since in the since 2014 really the number of times they've won it does suggest that a more a more playerled approach is probably the best way to win this competition. The fact that Guardiola has actually well he's only won it once since leaving since leaving Barcelona maybe suggests that if you have some if your style is too regimented you are it's going to be a bit too brittle to survive in this type of competition. Do you think Jonathan do you think that's true? And do you also think that the success of PSG who I think do play a very very organized disciplined system both with and without the ball do you think that maybe suggests that you can win the Champions League even even with a more organized less intuitive style? The problem this is the problem you always have with it happens with the World Cup happens with the Champions League as well. The data set is actually quite small. So, I I I completely accept the interpretation you're you're offering there over the past 10 years or so. And I think there definitely is something in the fact that Real Madrid were always able to to just find something to score a goal when they needed one in in the final 10 minutes of a game. Um whether that's to do with them having that freedom, whether it's to do with their self-awareness of brilliance, their excellence as players, the self-confidence they have, the self-perpetuating nature of if we score a late goal today, that gives us greater confidence next time we need one to score another late goal, which then gives us the self-conidence again. And and the converse of that of the opponents thinking, "Oh god, we're only two up with 10 minutes to go. they're bound to score twice with with the the the sort of philosophy based approach of Guadiola. To what extent has his failure and failure maybe is is an unfair term, unfairly negative term, but the fact that he has has only won one Champions League since 2011. Is that because he had a couple of pretty unfortunate exits in 2010, 2012? And that then creates this neurosis which makes him second guess himself and do just crazy things like picking the back three against Leon for instance which was just just play the game you win it. You don't have to win it perfectly just win it. But no the the attempt to impose control led to the loss of control which is you I I understand why some people don't find Guadalola's football itself fascinating but I find the I don't see how anybody could not find the Guadala psycho drama fascinating. and those habitual failures or those um consistent failures in the Champions League have been a huge part of that. Where do we see where do you see PSG this season, James? Do you think that they do you think that they are still the team to be obviously having having won it last season and been so good or do you think that we can you see a challenger from from somewhere else? I think PSG's 5-nil win against in Munich left a very loud echo and you know it was such a perfect performance from them that I think it kind of overshadowed the rest of their Champions League season cuz I mean they lost five times on the way to that final and look they did seem to get better and better from the springtime onwards. You know, they the after that 5-nil, the best football that I saw them play was the second half against City in January where they they ran City ragged and they could have won that by an even greater margin. And then they signed Kavarat Skeleia and he gave them another level of unpredictability that I don't think they had. But I mean still on the on the way to that final I mean they lost to Liverpool and then they prevail on penalties thanks to sort of Donna Rumor. Um yeah they win control against Villa. They lost and you know I just still think that the final was almost the perfect expression and the the final has left that impression of PSG as being the future unbeatable young. Yeah, unstoppable in transition and also have the great kind of players in 1v1 situations to break down low blocks um as well. And you know, I do wonder can they stay in that groove? Um you know, can they get back into that groove? Um you know, the Champions League is a very hard thing to retain. um you know they they should should be in a very good position to retain it but at the same times yeah there there are teams that I think underperformed in the Champions League last year. I mean I think the big disappointment really was Liverpool going out to PSG um as early as they did you know and feeling that they were cruy rewarded for finishing top of the league phase by by getting PSG. Um, yeah, I think it's it's interesting, isn't it? Because, yeah, Liverpool don't seem to be particularly balanced in the way that they were last year as they've just added more and more and more attacking players. And has does that mean the window of opportunity for them to win the Champions League has sort of passed? That sounds strange when they've kind of refreshed the team so aggressively, but yeah, they Yeah, they should be a contender with PSG. What's what's your view on I mean the big thing really that they've changed this this summer is selling Donnarma, right? Like it's quite unusual for a team on top of the world to dispose of their superstar goalkeeper. Do you think that's a do you think that's a is that an attempt to refresh the style when they're on top or is it just to do with an issue between Donna Rumor and the club? Well, I think it's a combination of both. I mean, Donna Rumor wasn't signed by Lewis Campos or Luis Enrique. I think he's the kind of last player in this kind of PSG group to be bought by the uh the Anseion regime. Uh if you like all the contracts done at PSG since were kind of incentives based his was fixed. Um and look with Donna Rumor whenever he goes into a contract negotiation and has the riers negotiating with him. um they always seem to stall and he always ends up seeming to leave for free which I don't think PSG were willing to do which is why they ended up selling him um as they did late in the transfer window. Um I don't I you know I I I wrote about this last week. I think you know he's so good at one thing that it makes everything else look bad. You know he's so good at shots stopping that it makes his perfectly okay ability with his feet look worse than it is. Um and and so look I I I do think it is a bit of a risk um for for PSG um to go with Shivalier. Um, I thought it was quite telling that after the game, the Manchester derby yesterday, Erling Harland, when he was given the man of the match award said, "Yeah, and maybe he was just being a good teammate who used to be part of the same agency as Donna Roma." Um, saying, "Ah, we well, we should give it to Gio as well because, you know, I mean, that what what incredible save that was from Embuo. Um, that could have made it 2-1 and opened the game back up. Um, so do think having a top class goalkeeper is important because it's if if we get on to the should the Premier League teams have won more than they have done over the last 10 years given their financial dominance. One of the reasons that they haven't is Real Madrid having Tibo Corttois. Jon Jonathan, how do you do do you see a big challenge to PSG this season? And if so, where from? I mean, with with that question, there's no problem with the question. It's a it's a it's a problem with you. It's a problem with you. You as a host, you as a person. No, it's a it's a problem with with modern football that um there is no answer to that that is not obvious and benal that you know the six English sides like Liverpool, Arsenal, maybe City if they are getting it back, maybe Chelsea who are after all world champions have a chance of winning it. Real Madrid and Barcelona have a chance of winning it. Both have issues at the minute. Bayern have a chance of winning it with issues. PSG have a chance of winning it. Does anybody else does maybe an Italian club, but I'm not convinced really. Um, so you're looking at a very familiar co of contenders and the truth is that we won't really know what sort of form they're in till February, March next year. Um, I think, and again, I'm sure we'll come on to this, so I won't overstress this point. I think there are issues with the fact that I'm naming four English clubs there, four Premier League clubs and no more than two from any other country which suggests a relative quality of the Premier League and therefore the debilitating impact that can have. Set against that, I think I think Bayern have really suffered with this. I think PSG suffered with it in the past but managed to sort out last season that if you're not being tested day to you know week by week then you can go a bit flabby and you can forget how to defend and I think that's one of the reasons PSG there until last season their Champions League template was look quite good attack quite well no they concede some stupid goals um so that that's that's kind of an unknown and suddenly PSG for reasons that I'm not entirely clear. I' not not really seen it explained why they were able to do it, but suddenly, yeah, that that City game and then, you know, okay, the Liverpool game, they they did lose, they did need penalties. They were the better side by far over two legs. The the Villa game, yeah, they came under pressure. They were the better side by far over two legs, which is kind of actually the PSC model of letting in daff goals, put themselves under pressure they shouldn't be under, but they they managed to to be good enough that they they their quality over overcame that anyway. Yeah, it's an interesting one about about the kind of predictability the teams at top end. Like I've always thought I mean this is not an original thought that one of the big problems that the Champions League's had really in the last 10 years is that I mean City and Real Madrid have so obviously always been I mean City have been more or less the best team in Europe for the last 10 years and Real Madrid are the best team at this competition and so so much the Champions League tended to come down to games between those two or like which of those two was going to make it through to the end and argue you know I think certainly think City should should have had a better record in this competition. and only winning it once under Guardiola. Generally, it has always been Real Madrid who who've gone further than them and the lack of obviously there have been years where neither City nor Real Madrid have won it if one of them has made a mistake. But I think that's why in a sense PSG felt kind of refreshing last year, right? Because it was it was unusual to have a different team so obvious be so much so much better than than everyone else. But it did get me thinking. Do you think English teams given the the huge financial advantage that English teams have at this level now do you think we can at what point can we start talking about a maybe a relative year of English underperformance right because we haven't even had an English finalist in the last two years since city beat enter in the 2023 final and do you think I mean Arsenal seem to be creeping closer and closer Liverpool you know were maybe unlucky last season although like you said PSG were better than them over those two legs. Do you think we need Jonathan to see more from the English teams this year? I mean, probably, but it's it's such a um the there's a sadness to the asking of the question that uh we haven't had an English team in the final for two years. That should not be I'm pulling my hair out. This is why I went on the march on Saturday because I was so angry. I just I was just I felt so humiliated at having to two consecutive years in a row I've had to sit at home and watch well a Spanish and a German team playing at Wembley of all places and then watching a French and Italian team playing the final last year. I can't I can't stomach it anymore. I just can't stop the goats. But I I think there is an issue that that because the the Premier League is so much more competitive than every other league in the world and it's not just the fact there's four, six, eight teams can win it. It's the fact that when you play your Brighton, your Bournem, your Brenfords, they're tough games. They're hard games. You you can't play a load of reserves. You can't uh yeah play for an hour and then then rest everybody. You've got to take those games seriously. On the one hand, it makes Premier League sides you tough. It makes a case hard. That means that they're rigorously examined in every phase. Um, but it does mean that that maybe they don't have a freshness come April, March, sorry, come March, April, May, uh, when you get to the the biggest games of the Champions League. You know, I think, you know, would PSG have blown Liverpool and Arsenal away in the way they did if you mean, you know, we saw Arsenal play PSG in in the league phase and beat them quite comfortably. So, it it's I I think fatigue for English clubs is is an issue come come the the business end. James, what do you do you It seems to me a little bit like this argument kind of cuts both ways, right? Like on the one hand people say well it's harder to be an English team right because you're playing Bournemouth and Brenford and Brighton they're actually pretty good and that means that you know Arsenal and City will never be at their peak in the Champions League. But at the same time, people make the opposite argument about say PSG, right? They say that like games against Laurian or Valencian are so easy that by the time it comes to March or April, PSG are sort of undercooked, you know, like so it's not clear whether it's it's helpful to have a weak league or a strong league to play against in order like do you think this is an argument that people just twist both ways to drum up the conclusion that they want? Yeah, I think look I mean it's been a surprise that in Liga for example that um in the time that Qataris have run the club Mont Pelleier Le uh and the other team escapes me have won the league um you know which hasn't always been all PSG's way you know like recently we've seen a Bundesliga a title race I think go down to the final day and sort of Titch's Dortmund bottled it. Um, and we've seen, yeah, in Italy, I think two of the last four seasons have gone down to the final day. I actually think the kind of renewed domestic competitiveness in Italy where you've had, I think it's five different champions in the last six years has helped them in Europe. I think it's it's it's it's made the teams, you know, more competitive. I think even looking back at last May's Champions League final, the fact that I think four or five days before it into lost the title on the final day um you know was a was a factor. They'd been on on the treble um and then all of a sudden um you know having sort of stealed themselves to try and do that they go into that Champions League final thinking actually maybe maybe we're not going to win everything. uh and they got vertigo and boom and they were they were maybe a bit tired by it. I mean generally speaking look I I think the Premier League and I I've said this over repeated podcasts Rory wants to do a separate on it. I do think we are in kind of um peak 90s Premier League at the moment in that if you look at kind of ' 90s um you had what six Champions League finals which had Italian teams in it and how many did they win? Um you know not as many as they should have done. Um and that I think was in part because uh okay Milan lost to Marseilles some some suspicions around that Marseilles team. Um Sam played against Barcelo, lost on Oscars of Ronald Kuhman, but like generally speaking, I think it was because that league was so attritional, so difficult um that those teams did get to those games um battleh harder than better for it, but also when it came to just that one-off game, it was it was a step too far. Um and I think the Premier League is it probably finds itself in a in a similar situation which means on the one hand you look can look at it and be kind of penlossian about it and say oh well look you know the Premier League isn't being so dominant. Madrid is still winning. PSG are still winning. Dortmund have reached a final even though they're super flaky. But the reality is that Premier League teams should be making the finals most years and should be winning more of them. I I wonder if there's an argument uh that La Liga for a long time had the balance right. I if if you know your your goal is to win in Europe that it was quite testing but not that testing. So if you were Real Madrid, you did have to play Barcelona, Atletico, you'd have your Sevilla, you'd have Athletic, uh you'd have Val who would, you know, they're not easy games. you got to focus on them, but you would have your Elches and your alabes and whoever down at the bottom as well. Um, and that that maybe you know there is a balance somewhere there and La Liga, one of the reasons they were so good is is that they had that balance. Yeah, I mean I think the worrying thing now is it feels like as as as good as Barcelona or as kind of fun to watch as Barcelona where their financial situation is is is such that you know they can't go out and strengthen in the way that they have done uh in the past the best kind of moments of Barcelona let's say when say Lewis Enrique won the treble with them where they could go out and get Luis Suarez and they could get Neymar to um to to partner Messi um up front. They have got this very good generation of players um that has come through the academy, but it does feel like Real Madrid are kind of on an island on their own um really um they're almost exceptional and separate from La Liga. Um because of the money that they make, you know, be it from that stadium. I was talking to an Italian executive the other day who was saying that Sansi I think makes 80 million a year from match day. That new Real Madrid stadium makes 320 million. You know, it's it's it's stratospherically different. Madrid is set up to still compete notwithstanding their kind of geography if you like in being in an important league but a league that does not have the TV rights that the Premier League has for example. Um so you know in some respects Barcel are just so so so lucky that they have been able to keep finding uh a laminia mal to have them you know punch through these kind of financial restraints um that they've got otherwise that competitiveness that Jonathan alluded to where they had it just right um could be loosened even more and um you know make La Liga even easier um if you like or less difficult for for Madrid and yeah I feel like the reality for Barcelona is that they are in this competition at least they are under no immediate threat because of the new format and we'll be talking about that after the break. Right. So, this season is obviously the second season of the new Champions League phase format. And I think one of the things that we can be really certain of this week is that after the games, lots of people out there will be reaching some big conclusions about who's good and who's bad, who's going through to the next round and who's who's at risk of not. And yet, the evidence of last season is that each of these individual games doesn't really matter that much. Like when you've got 144 games to turn 36 teams into 24, the Jeopardy is clearly clearly diluted, right? And this isn't just a theory either. We saw from P from PSG last season, they had four points after five games, but then they won their last three matches, scraped through to the punishment round, really destroyed breast over two legs, and then they went on to win the whole thing. Um, and it was a great turnaround, but it was also a really narrow path, wasn't it? And it but I think in hindsight you can see that each individual each individual match that you play out of your eight uh between September and January like isn't so much a big deal. There's not that much writing on it. Jonathan, I I don't want to kind of kill your buzz before City Napoli this week, but it doesn't really I don't want to say it doesn't make a difference. It's not like going I mean City Napoli was City's first ever game in in the Champions League under Manini uh you know 13 14 years ago but it's just not as big as that is it? No, I'm looking forward to it. Um I'm particularly looking forward to it now that James has given me all the material I need for my sidebar. Um but and I apologize for doing my research for that as part of the first half of this. I did think you kept asking him questions. I knew what he was doing. Um, so look out for that on on Friday morning in the Guardian. Um, no, look, it's it's it's it's nice. It's it'll be an attractive game of football, but there's no sense of pressure or jeopardy. If one team loses, so odd. I mean, look, if City had lost or or or drawn, I guess, against United, then there would have been a bit of pressure on that game, but the story would have been a Premier League story. It wouldn't have been a a Champions League story. and and so I think I was I was always a skeptic of this uh this format which is not subject like the old format either and you can very you know you make the case and and I think you'd be correct that the issue isn't really what what the format is the the issue is the massive financial disparities within European football but I I think the problem with this format and people sort of last season were oh look there's all these big games oh look Liverpool have beaten Real Madrid Arsenal have beaten PSG well we now know none of that matters And and this is the problem I think this league phase has that it's not like a small group where if you lose a game you could actually be under pressure. It's not like a a league without you know a qualification for for next phase because in a league every point really does matter. Whereas here you get in the top 24 be fine. You say however many games to to reduce 36 to 24. But the truth is of those 36 we could we could scratch six of them out now. We we know that Kaiat are not going to go through. We know that Pathos are not going to go through. You look at Leverkus and the mess they're in, all the players who've left and the tenh hard nonsense. Even if they get through, they're not going to go any further. They they're not a potential winner. So, there's a there's a lot of flab in that 36. And I I I think and this is this is the problem that that me as a as a slightly romantic football traditionalist has that I hate the fact there are six English teams in it. because I I don't think one country should have that much representation. But at the same time, I look at some of the other teams who say, "Well, you don't deserve to be here either because you're nowhere near good enough." I think it's a shame, isn't it? Because it's also each individual game matters less, but also because what what's been removed is the sense that the team that you're playing against you are competing with to get out of the same little group. Like there was a lot to be said for the kind of elegance of the four team round robbing group which two teams progress from like because the the stakes are clear every single time. You know where you stand with with with a four team group like is I was thinking earlier like why did the Steven Gerard goal against Olympia in 2004 matter so much is because Liverpool and Olympia cost were both competing to progress from the same group at the same time. Like only one of those two teams could go through in second place behind Monaco. Um, and if Gerald didn't score, Olympia Aros were going to go through. But because Gerard scored, Liverpool went through to the next round and Olympi and Olympia Aros were booted out into the UEFA Cup. You you're never going to get that this time or it's much less likely that you're going to get that given that there are there's there's there's 36 teams and half the time you're playing, you know, you'll be playing any team will be playing against another, but where they are competing for completely different things, right? they might be competing for the top eight or they might be competing for the the kind of middle band or not to get relegated or to just scrape through into the punishment round and it just it gives every game a kind of exhibition-y field, doesn't it? Yeah, I think exactly that. And I I do wonder now now that people realize you know what looks like a you know City Napoli the the most successful team in England the last decade against Italian champions should be a big deal. It just doesn't feel like that. And I I wonder now that that we've sort of learned a bit more about the format whether these games will will feel less significant than they did last season, whether people will start to turn off. Um, I also wonder and I think you we we need to judge this sort of another three or four years down the line, but my suspicion is that we'll start to see a lot of games uh finishing in draws or certainly games at a level after say 70 minutes where both teams sort of think, you know what, a point gets us in the in the top eight, a point gets them in the top 24. We're both happy with this. Let's not exhaust ourselves. we we'll sort of little nod between the captains and you play it out. Now I I'm not sure there's any evidence of that yet, but I think once teams are more familiar with the format. I think I think that's a a very logical and obvious thing that will happen. Maybe I can maybe seem a bit more sort of targeted rotation as well. Like if you if you're aiming for top eight and you need So it was I think it was 16 points last season. So five wins and one draw. I wonder if teams will try and do, you know, something akin to what Liverpool, I mean, Liverpool what won their first seven games out of eight. So maybe teams will think if we just go all in on our first six games, we can effectively give our players a break in January for those last for those for matches seven and eight. I mean, it's bizarre that there's European club football being played in January. It's uh Yeah. Or or I I I wonder as well whether teams will think, you know, if you're you're Liverpool and you've got Real Madrid in the group stage, say, you might think, well, was a good we're probably going to have to beat this lot if we're going to win the thing. Why would we play our first team here and give them a look at us? Yeah. Why why would we show them our best hand by how we think you we beat them? And so they, you know, they they play it like a preseason game in the US or something that, yeah, it' be nice to win, but we're not that bothered. And of course, Liverpool beat Real Madrid, didn't they, last year in a game which kind of felt really big at the time? And yet, in hindsight, did it even mean that much? Like I actually I weirdly I I remember Liver, you know, when Liverpool under Rafa Bonitez beat Real Madrid 4-0il in 2009. I have much stronger as a neutral. I have much stronger memories of that game than I do of of Liverpool's Liverpool's two two-nil win last year, which didn't seem to in the end count for that much. Yeah, that might just be you approaching 40. Like that's that's what memory does. A couple of things to to say about that. You brought up Rafa Bonitez. Now I always remember when Bonitez was in charge of Napoli. I think in the first years maybe 2013 they were drawn in a group of Dortmund and Arsenal and they didn't qualify even though they got I think 12 or 13 points from six games. And if you look at the what it took for teams to qualify last year to basically just get into the playoffs in this league phase, they played two games more and qualified with fewer points than what got Napoli knocked out in the group stages. I think 10 or 11 points, something like that, which I think some of the big clubs like this format because there is that safety net there of of of that playoff round. um which means that you know if everything does go wrong and you have the kind of season that city we're having uh in that league phase it doesn't mean you're out. means even from a commercial point of view, you get two more games, you know, so you know, you can you can sell out your stadium again, blah blah blah. So there's that. And then the other thing about this opening week, this time last year, I went to Liverpool AC Milan at Sansiro. Uh first game of the new new Champions League format. Big game on paper, lot of history. 2005 2007 uh it didn't sell out and and I think that was because a lot of fans were like you know what is this you know what does it mean um you know should we keep our powder dry for for other games granted at that time there was Milan fashion week going on so it's very expensive Jonathan's complained about Manchester hotels Milan hotels went through the roof in terms of prices that week uh and ticket prices were up because it was the Champions League as well so fans stayed away. But you know, I was struck by going to a game like that and it not being a sellout. Um, so so yeah, it it feels like you you get what the Super League want, which is the big teams to play against each other more often, but there is that dilution of like, okay, what what what does this even mean um in the long term? Um final thought is um Kantelotti is releasing this book about his Champions League campaigns and one of the things he says about you know sort of what he'd learned when he was sort of at Palmer then at UA and at Milan was like in a group stage he was like okay I've cracked the formula now in the group stage get as many points as you can from your first four games and then you can basically rest the players rotate in the final two and going into the league phase last year he was does this still apply? What should I do here? And it took him a while to sort of figure out. He was like, I experiment a bit. Oh, we've lost um Leo. Damn. Um and and then he sort of figured it out too quickly, too late where he was like, actually, no. Should have tried to tried the same approach. Win as much as possible as early as possible. Yeah. Because if if you look at the top four in the league phase last year, three of the top four ended up reaching the semi-finals. The only exception was Liverpool who were knocked out by PSG and that was as we mentioned bit of a freak that they found themselves where they did uh in in in the in the league face in the first place. Yeah, it's really it'll be interesting to to to see how teams approach it. And from from a public standpoint, so much of this format seems to rest on the idea that final day, which is this year's on well, next year rather is on Wednesday, 28th of January, will completely justify the payoff of the first seven match weeks. But the evidence of last season is that I'm not sure it does. I don't think it's quite it's quite the same. It's quite as as powerful or interesting event as UEFA would like it to be, Jonathan. Well, and they got lucky last year um because uh Madrid had had you poor start to the to the league phase. They were I mean they were safe by then. Uh City and PSG had both had poor starts and they needed results on that final day. Um so PSG were in Shutgard I think and City would home to Club Brooker. So I you know yes there was pressure but it wasn't that much pressure. And then actually the experience I found of of watching that final day was totally unsatisfying because it's just goals flying all over the place. Couldn't work out what was going on. None of them seem to matter all that much. Everybody's getting very excited. Whoa, we've had 27 positional movements in the table. Yeah, one of them was like 12th to 13th. It doesn't matter. So it was similar to it was it was a bit like Niles Crane's description of ballroom dancing is difficult and boring, which I have to say you have both Oh, sorry. Jack, you have seen me attempt balling dancing. I can tell you my experience. It was also difficult and boring and and I I I think that that that final day of the of the groups, it was difficult to follow, but even when you did, it was boring. There was nothing really going on, but in a very complicated way was very hard to follow. Yeah. You you get very excited and then you you you check online, you scroll down, it finally lands. Olympia have moved up to 30th and you think, "Oh, right." Yeah, it's it's it's I watched Days of Thunder recently um with with Tom Cruz as cold trickle. Um and yeah, in NAS it's like NASCAR. It's just like you it's like an Indie 500 of um where there are so many so many teams on the grid that you weirdly end up to find jeopardy. you end up like looking at these back markers just sort of going up into positions that yeah again don't really have any any meaning and I think club bugger lost that game against city but the the Jeopardy the TV moment for the Jeopardy was the club bugger players looking watching things on their phone to see if they'd qualified for the for the playoff round and who they would get it was it was one of those things where all you need is one moment I remember being on TNT that night and It was like, "Oh, look at this. The magic of the Champions League. Um, this is Jeopardy in action. We're seeing it right now." And it's like one moment across all of those teams, all of those games. And and this is what we're focusing on here. And you know, again, from a broadcast broadcast perspective, I think UEFA wanted to kind of pitch that final day as this TV extravaganza, you know, this kind of NFL red zone sort of moment where all climaxes and it was just a bit it was a bit weird. Yeah. A lot didn't happen in those games. I don't if any if you remember it was I spent a lot of time talking which I I always think is is is is the the mark of a bad goal show night when you haven't got goals flying in left right and center and you basically have no time to speak cuz you we're going to signal signal Aduna Park. We're going to the park stadium, you know, and this sort of thing. Um and I was like okay. It didn't work. And I did the Europa League gold show the following night and that was similar and that was mental. That was goals flying in all over the place. So, but yeah, as a broadcast spectacle, I'm not sure this league phase works any better than than the group stage phase, I think. Jonathan, do you think that the these changes to the Champions League have diluted or undermined the prestige of the competition at all? Because I mean, the the knockout phase is is no different, right? Like once you get past the punishment round, it's the same if it looks the same as it was. So do you think it's just is is the issue just too much volume in the first half or do you think there's or do you think anything else has kind of fundamentally changed about this competition which makes it matter less be less significant than it used to be let's say 10 10 or 15 years ago I I think from well last 16 quarterfinals onwards to be honest even the punishment round the the city of Real Madrid was you know was a big spectacle um I was uh The first leg I was at the I was doing an event at the Argentinian embassy and I had had to I had a taxi waiting outside for me uh and things started late because Aussie turned up late. So I had to break off a conversation with Boschettino to race outside to get in my taxi to to come home to watch it. So that did feel big because if you have two big teams playing each other in a knockout game that's exciting. Um but is it diluted in the earlier stage? Yeah, definitely it is because it's just you none of it matters. None of it's none of it's leading to to elimination. Elimination is what matters. So you compare that to to the ' 90s and you you know every game in in in the ' 90s groups felt massive. Yeah, that that group that United had in 989 when they were with Bayern and Barcelona and Burnboo and okay, Bernboo ended up getting hammered a few times, but the the level of football was extraordinary. Even when United were playing, they seem to play Storm Gratz or Panathanos every other week, but even those Rapid Vienna, even those were massive games. the famous Michael savings against Rapid Vienna, you know, um, yeah, Donna Roma could make a thousand saves in Rapid Vienna in, you know, this this season and nobody would remember it because it's only Rapid Vienna. Uh, so yeah, it's it's the the the pre Christmas or the pre pre January phase of the Champions League, it's it's definitely lost the the excitement and allure that it it used to have. And James, do you think that this if we're looking at the the sort of standing or the prestige of the Champions League, to what extent do you think is undermined by the existence of the Club World Cup? Because in my opinion, I think that the obviously no one can change the fact that PSG European Champions, but the fact that there was a different competition put on by a different organizing body basically what a month a month after the Champions League final and then PSG lost the final of that and therefore not world champions because Chelsea are to me that kind of that that that represents a bit of the the drinking of the Champions League's milkshake. You know, I think that it doesn't it it it weakens the claims made by the team that wins this, right? Because they are not really on top of the world. It does. Um and look, I mean, that's a new competition. Well, it's a new format of an old competition expanded. Um but look, I think if if the Club World Cup begins to happen every two years, uh on a on a more regular basis, that is going to be a problem for the Champions League, particularly if a Club World Cup this kind of chaotically organized um can still be heralded uh okay with some self-interest by FIFA as a success, but you look at how much money they were able to to distribute um to the teams that competed um what Chelsea made more than a hundred million from it. You know, you're talking about um almost Champions League parity. Not quite, but that's that's that's the first edition of this new competition with Done as the principal broadcaster. Like, you know, if if all of a sudden in in the next edition, you're getting genuine competition and auction to basically show those games and more money uh comes into I think it's it's really good that you've made a positive point because we get told off in the comments for being for moaning too much about modern football. Uh so we should try and integrate a little bit more positivity into what we say. Jonathan, do you have a a positive message about the Champions League to round off this episode with? Oh, look, by the time we get this up at Matters in the spring, it's great. you know that that semi-final, the Interba semi-final last year was the most fun pair of games we had last season. Um I just I'm not sure that the way we get there is necessarily the best. I'll take is I mean for you that's positive. We'll take it. Um that's all we got time for on this week's Libero. Thank you very much for listening. Um thank you very much to James, Jonathan, and producer Tom. I hope you guys all enjoy the start of the Champions League phase this week. We will be back again next week. Uh before then, you could do us all a big favor by just subscribing, rating, reviewing, commenting, um speaking to us on social media. And we look forward to speaking to you again later this week. Powered by Riverside FM.