================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: BBMwiUHqOSE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BBMwiUHqOSE
TITLE: What’s Wrong With Liverpool? | Libero 059
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-10-07
DURATION: 1h 5m 0s
VIEWS: 2,745
LIKES: 116
COMMENTS: 27
TAGS: football, podcast, soccer

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Saturday brought Liverpool’s third defeat in a week, following reverses at Crystal Palace and the cauldron of RAMS Park, home to Galatasaray. If you were a football doctor and were looking to diagnose reasons for Arne Slot's team looking more like pretenders than champions, what would say? To answer that question Rory Smith is joined Miguel Delaney and Tariq Panja.

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky.social
Follow us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/liberopod
Follow us on TikTok https://www.tiktok.com/@liberopod
Follow us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/liberopod

Chapters
00:00 Intro
02:05 Liverpool's recent struggles
10:54 Team dynamics
18:17 Sustaining success
35:35 The evolution of tactical approaches
40:55 Liverpool's recruitment strategy and integrating new players
54:53 The balance of power in the Premier League
01:02:50 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 13,278

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hello and welcome to Liberal, the podcast about the most important of the least important things. As Tobin Pichnit once said, I'm Rory Smith of the Observer and Men Blazers. And today I'm joined by Tret Panger of the New York Times and Midel Delaney of the Independent. How are you both? Uh nice week off for international break. Midell, is that is that just a few days peace and quiet for you now? No, I'm I'm I'm back home in Ireland for my um my niece's birthday, but have some work to do. I'm not going to England, Wales, though. But I am going to Laffy England next week. It's the big one. The um Marian Pahar's playing um stepping off as well. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure I'm sure our Latian listeners will be delighted with such references. We can actually find out if we've got any listeners in Latvia, but I I would assume they wouldn't be Latvian. I think they're probably English people who live in Latvia. One thing that people don't know about Mel Delaney is he's a very devoted uncle. He might be the most devoted uncle I've ever I've ever known. It's a it's a rare softer side to Delaney. Eric, have you um have you had to do an interview on any embattled presidents? Is that is that what you're spending your time doing? Not not this week. However, I will be. Yes. But um it's the European Club Association meeting in in Rome. So few embattled presidents there. Uh going to go there for a couple of days, meet some of these guys. Used to be Daniel Levy was a big presence there. Speaking of embattled figures, but uh no more. And actually to be fair, I I missed the segway there because you're also quite a devoted uncle, aren't you? Correct. Yes, I was uh doing some of that this weekend, but I would say Miguel wins that because he has to like travel quite a long way for his devotion. one nil Miguel whereas you just pitch up um the now I know what people will be thinking which is that we've got Miguel we've got TK this might be a sports politics episode about FIFA um and they might be considering going to listen to Gary Neville and Roy Keane talking about hard to say what they'd be talking about probably the culture of Manchester United in the 1990s and why it's better than today but don't worry because today we are talking about actual football about Liverpool late goals and the mountain body of evidence that it's all gone a little bit errat Anfield. Uh, MIJ, you were at Chelsea on Saturday where, if people don't know, Liverpool lost 2-1, their third defeat of the week following the losses at Crystal Palace and Galatasaray. Um, it's it's a full-blown crisis. Uh, if you were a doctor of football, which I suspect is a thing that some people are, and you were looking to diagnose the reasons for that defeat at Stanford Bridge, uh, what would you say? What's your prognosis? Uh there's a lot but the weird thing was in the game Liverpool probably created enough chances to win it or at least enough openings to win it. And if it was the Liverpool sorry if the Liverpool individuals particularly some of their best players were on the form they were in eight months ago they possibly win that game uh quite comfortably but they're not on that form. from Salah I think kind of had three opportunities at least two where he's free on the right one he hits wide when he blazes over as a kind of like almost you know the lightning rod for all this so I think there's more to it than them just creating sufficient chances not taking them there's something else h and I think you can go from individual uh form and fitness of some key players and there's a few particularly Alexis Mallister looks off it so I'm going to basically surmise the podcast now in 30 the new players h coming in the change of chemistry uh the formation h and then I suppose just general adaptation in a few ways I mean people don't like sorry people outside Liverpool despite initially expressing grief don't like when you bring up the tragedy of Dioa but it is there it's something that these players have to work through and while it's not necessarily an excuse for current nor should be like something so tragic just shouldn't be looked at in football terms in that way. But the reality is it's something that's happened. Um it it has kind of it's created obviously a difficult situation to players there's no precedent for and all of this then with a lot of purely football issues that just feels it's and mostly the football issues right now are combining to uh create this sort of fog basically and a team that just that doesn't look right. Yeah, there was a bit there where it sounded a bit like David Moyes's f famous assessment of Manchester United that they needed to improve on what passing, shooting, and tackling that they need to do all of those things. Um, I watched Galatas the Delatas game with Kelly Kates uh on Wednesday and actually she she put it kind of as simply around that game as I've heard it which was she just said that it looks like everybody is two yards in front or behind of where their teammates are expecting them to be and that is the experience of watching Liverpool uh certainly this week. Tret, you watched the Chelsea game, I think, on television. Was there anything that you learned from Shai's coverage that that Miguel might have missed? Did does that kind of assessment that it's just kind of not there? I think, yeah, the idea of FOD is quite interesting. Is that what you saw as well? That Kelly Kate's assessment's really good because it was apart from like, you know, you're watching these chances. The thing that stood out, I've not seen a top team misplace that many passes in like maybe some of the old guys are expecting certain patterns and the new guys aren't aware of those. So what what I'm talking about is like the ball going off for a throw from a pass or someone sticking their hand up because he's not made a run and it's gone straight off for a guy. It happens so often and then the turnover of of possession just people in the wrong places or places where their teammates aren't expecting. And you could think of that when you have that many new players maybe, but it just looked just looked a little bit awkward all of the time. And Mig has talked about them going forward um and creating these chances in the context of that game as well. And this was a Chelsea team that was there to be they didn't have a defense and then even during the game the defense they did have these players are limping off injured. It was there was hardly anyone left. And I think that's what Chelsea did in the second half. Thought we can't defend here. We're going to get we're going to get done. And they just thought we're going to attack. And that's what that game turned into. And then Liverpool also obviously can't defend. They I've not seen a Liverpool team that brittle for a long time. It used to happen a bit under clock where teams could certain seasons where like couple of passes and the the opponents are on them and that's happened I think throughout the season at Liverpool every single game it's not that hard and the Galataser game that you mentioned it was Liverpool having a chance to go one nil up and then within what um 8 seconds being a goal down and the rest with Chelsea like the the vulnerability The brittleleness was was really evident. Miguel, did you did you when you you're at the game, Chelsea were attacking, they seem to be at the back four very quickly or having a chance on on the point you mentioned because that one about misplaced passes. I I said that as it was happening at the time, it was really really notable. I think by halfime certainly it had been about five players. they were not just responsible for a misplaced pass, but some like really duffed effort that both indicated like individuals being off it and also the team being completely out of sync. By the end of the game, I think we're talking seven or eight players that had done it. And of course, they're all individual incidents, but it's the fact it's what they they indicate uh that this team isn't coherent right now. And and that coherence applies to how frontloaded the attack is. And then and this this has been almost the biggest thing all season because obviously they have scored goals. It's how easy they are to run through how how easy teams create chances against them. And again we had the most obvious manifestation of that with the Kaisedo goal which brilliant to strike as it was at this level. A player doesn't usually get the chance to kind of fain one touch take it all and basically set it up perfectly for himself. Like it's a brilliantly hit strike but it's also because he's it's almost like a training ground exercise. He skips past Mallister and then like Van Djk kind of just stands off which you've seen Van Djke do before fair. But the consequence this time is Van Djk usually does it to kind of create to kind of limit the space or change the shooting angle uh for the player in front of him. But in this instance he he basically had about 10 yards of space around them to just you know absolutely slam it into the top corner. the I think what what you say about the um the games prior to this week or to last week I guess uh the games that Liverpool won all of that sounds distinctly familiar because against I went to I was I was at the Bournemouth game I was at the Athletic Madrid game and I was at the Muryside derby and I think with the exception of maybe the Muryside derby um it was notable how easy it was for for the opponents to get at Liverpool and that tends to kind of be one of those things that people will say well look the defense isn't Generally, my sense is that if you're running through the middle of the pitch unchallenged, the problem's probably with the midfield, possibly with the attack. Um, it sounds like this week, and I think this is this has been the tone of a lot of the coverage. It feels that this week has been coming that that Liverpool haven't been convincing even when they were winning every game. It's that weird thing, isn't it? Like you teams will win every game unconvincingly or win a game unconvincingly. And people will say, well, it's the mark of champions, but it's also the mark of a team that's not playing very well and has got away with it. And it does feel that there's an element of chickens coming home to roost maybe about Liverpool this week. Is that fair? Yeah. Um that that as you've said it's you can go through the list of games, can't you? It's it's been almost every every game Burnley away. This is probably a different case because Burnley are newly promoted played low block or whatever. And but again, it's all really hard. It's all really hard. So that game that we're getting into the recruitment, it was a lot of the recruitment this year has been for that sort of game, hasn't it? And they labored so hard. I think it was a a penalty in the 90 plus five or whatever it was that got Liverpool through that game. So you're looking at I guess both ends of the pitch. When we looked at Liverpool winning the league last season, this was the year they didn't recruit. No, no one, you know, unless unless you guys are going to tell me you thought Liverpool were going to win the league last year, I will call you both liars. They incredibly w this football won the championship in honor's first season um with Jurgen Klopp's team effectively um in a way that none of us expected and here we are now with with with the changes they've had. Do you think we overestimated perhaps how good they can be this year as well? So I think we should we should try and we'll come back to the recruitment issue. Um I want I want to offer a a little bit of mitigation and this is this is done so that you like partly devil's advocacy partly delusional fan but I think there are two I think there have been two bits just missed a little bit around around Liverpool sort of form this season that I think are relevant. The first is is in the context of last week they they lose three games all all away from home all by a single goal. two of those games they they concede in the 95th and 97th minute. And if I'm honest, I'm not entirely convinced. I've seen more penalties that are more penalties than the Dallas penalty. Um these are really fine margins. Like if Eddie Ketier shoots wide in the 97th minute of Palace, then that changes the tone of the conversation quite considerably. Uh and I I always think that there's a danger in in in terms of taking massive sweeping conclusions from roll of the dice events effectively. You know, if Liverpool have been beaten 3-0 at Palace, 3-0 at Chelsea, you're having a different conversation, but they are fine margin games away from home. I guess the response to that is that a team that has aspirations of winning the title probably doesn't need to have so many games in the balance. That that is the way you'd respond to that, I guess, isn't it? Well, that's it. I mean, it's about how so many games do come down to fine margins. Like you mentioned, both of you actually mentioned the club theme there a few moments ago and how sometimes they could be got at. And look, this isn't the standard championship held because we're talking about possibly among the greatest champions English football's ever seen. But in the 1990 in the 1920 season where they finally again after 30 years, the co the first co season, there was about five months. Actually to be fair it probably went back well over a year given that the points it got in 189 where Liverpool's whole game is predicated on that attack and suffocating the opposition but there was a long period where opposition side they just couldn't get out the two the two wing like the way they just keep recycling possession with van Djk obviously pinning the team together it was just they they were so difficult to get at. Now obviously that's an extreme as you can see in the points they got but if not quite in the same way there were elements of it last season and just how control Liverpool were. Now it's funny talking to some people at other clubs and people could maybe guess they there was always as early as November and I think I hinted at this I wrote a bit at the time that some rivals thought Liverpool weren't necessarily that good. They were good, but we're getting a lot of breaks that other team other teams weren't, which is possibly true. And maybe maybe we're just seeing like the kind of regression to the mean and that in terms of the way chance and look works and all that, but also there was one big thing and people pointed out, oh, they've had no major injuries. Well, that wasn't a look. That was basically because their medical team is really really advanced, especially in terms of the use of data and AI to kind of predict how, you know, how close players are to injury, when to use them, what to not. And what what was the key last season? Well, by the first of March when they'd won the league, Van Djk and Salah had played more minutes than anyone in the Premier League, even goalkeepers. And they were both on almost perfect form. Salah goalc scoring. Van Djk again in pitting everything together. whereas that's just not been the case. I mean those two players in particular compared to last season compared to this time last year there's been a huge drop off and Dyke is looking really he's he's looking susceptible right now and I do think that's connected to the wider struct structural issues that uh because slot is trying to change the team and Salah I mean he just the system doesn't work for him either right now like I mean this is a player who for six years but more than that has been used to Trent Alexander on his right just creating this kind of um gravitational effect where always has this space in front of him that he absolutely maximized and now suddenly like the one thing I've noticed about Salah in a lot of the Liverpool games I've been to this season is how often he stays out wide like a traditional right winger you know you know uh white paint on the boots and all that sort of thing except he doesn't really have much interest just getting the ball and knocking it in for the bigger man because there is no big man well I mean to be fair I think Alexander is in theory the big man but yes I take your point I yeah that all That all rings true. I actually think the thing about Liverpool last season is is interesting because I I I went and did some research on this. I think they won seven games last season in the league by more than two goals. That was it. And two of those were against Spurs, so probably don't count, which is a diddly. That's unbecoming of me. But one was the 6-3 at White at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, which was a really really weird game. Like was a really strange football match. and the other one was the 5-1 at home the day that Liverpool confirmed the title. I don't think either of those are like indicative of what Liverpool were like last season. They were, as Miguel says, like really controlled. And there was a sense, and this has been forgotten a little bit in the um in the kind of rush to to I guess reccharacterize Liverpool as as kind of champions anointed and the the default team that should win the league, etc. There was a long spell last year where people were like, "Well, Liverpool haven't played anybody." You know, they're not they're not, as Miguel says, like it wasn't just other possibly slightly embittered executives at other football teams who were saying, "Well, they weren't they're not that good." That was the default opinion was they've had an easy start to the season. You wait till they play someone decent. They'll fall apart. It's all Saler and Van Djk. It kind of moves through the course of the season. And I think the reason it stuck was that Liverpool weren't a blow everyone away championship winning team like you know Guardiola's best Man City teams or Klopp's 201920 Liverpool team. They weren't that's not what they were doing to teams. They weren't 3-0 up after 30 minutes. They weren't winning games four or 5-0. They were they were really good last year Liverpool at doing just enough. That was what was the hallmark of that Liverpool team. And I guess what's happened this season and I do have one more bit of mitigation in a sec. I guess what's happened this season is that they are doing just trying to do just enough and those fine margins are going against them. Well, that that was what he was praised for, wasn't he? There was like he's taken Klopp's um style and made it conservative enough. So when you are one nil or 2-0 up, you're conserving the energy. That's what the the commentary and the narrative was throughout last season. That's what allowed um Salah or or or Van Djk and the others to play that many games because they could have a break in the game, i.e. not play with the intensity of a clock team and they got through that season, which is why it's really weird. The hallmark of the slop team was that control. And dare I say, some people saying, "God, Liverpool really boring, aren't they? I don't want to watch them." that that was the complaint last season but you know they have the trophy so I don't think they would have cared about that. The weird the weird thing here is there is no control over on this team has no control. That is such an odd thing to happen from a manager who was kind of stylistically louded or or or complained about for that conservatism cuz so where's it gone? There is so this is I will let Mell answer that question but this is this ties in a little bit to my final point of mitigation which is the the Premier League is is is the most competitive it's ever been. There are I did a piece in the Observer on on Sunday about the number of late goals there have been across the board which I think is is a really good like proxy measure of how tight games are and the tightness of games indicates increased competitive balance. I spoke to 21st group I'm sure we've all quoted them before. uh they have research which indicates that yeah this is the the highest quality and most balanced Premier League. It it always sounds a little bit tinfoil to be like well the fixture computer's done you know done this that and the other but I think if you look at Liverpool's fixtures the games that we are that we're kind of analyzing where they are from their second easiest game is the Mury side derby Burnley newly promoted without question that's a you know a team with Liverpool's aspirations and their transfer spend should be beating them and beating them more convincingly than than 1 nil although I don't know if either of you have seen Burnley this season they're not they're not bad they're not going to go down without a fight this year. Uh Everton I think will have a good season. Obviously they beat Villa at the week uh beat Palace at the weekend. They they they'll be a mid- table side but for Liverpool that is a difficult game is the derby and then everybody else they've played will probably finish in the top 10. You know they beat Bournemouth on the first night of the season. Uh and it and did look did absolutely absolutely look shaky in defense especially in that second half. Um but Bournemouth are fourth. Bournemouth are really good. Palace when Liverpool played them were the form team in Europe. They are losing games to good teams. And the one that the thing that struck me actually was Yeah. the same Chelsea aren't a good team, Rory. Chelsea Chelsea are not a good that's a subject for another podcast. Champions the the world champions. Donald Trump's Chelsea FC the No. And I was with um I was with Nikki But doing the the match of the day highlights for the Champions League last Wednesday watching the Dallas game which was wild with Kelly Kates. great name drop. Nikki But is a lovely man and I naturally assumed that Nikki But as a Manchester United legend would be sticking the boot into Liverpool, but in a very um in a very sort of manunian understated way. His view was basically it's really hard to play Dataseray. They're really good. They're the Turkish champions. They've got individ a lot of individual quality. Maybe not that names that are that familiar. You know, a lot of them are Turkish internationals, but still they're all Turkish internationals. And the other thing he made the point of was it's really loud and very intimidating. And he he was very much not in the way that I maybe expected him to be not this is a disaster for Liverpool, you know, isn't this a crisis? Two two defeats as it was then. I I do wonder to what extent we're maybe not factoring in the fact that the teams that Liverpool are playing are all quite good. So yeah, the margins are against them, but that the opponents are of high quality. I guess again to kind of defeat my own argument, the margins in those games against equally high quality teams last season or almost equally high quality teams last season, Liverpool would get in and they're not getting them now. Yeah, I suppose like this is the ch like so when we speak about Arsenal say having to rise to win the title that I mean these are the standards that Liverpool know all too well. So it's like it could have been quite easy say for Arsenal to drop points that game in the weekend but this is going to be the test of this season. it might actually be quite an oldfashioned title race in that it's just it's been kind of that rhythm of getting results in getting games over the line whereas what for the past decade or 15 years the kind of primary theme in league football at the top of the Premier League has been the wealthiest clubs will get around 80 points not quite by default but just because that's what superior resources will translate to where maybe there is a bit of a balancing but just on the on the wider point of maybe we are seeing this and whole this whole issue of control I think it's where It's quite fascinating actually with Liverpool because last season I'm speaking to a lot of people who know him uh who kind of were around Liverpool Slot was seen as one of these great Guardiola disciples in the purest way in that we're talking about you know you know Quuego deposition positional play positional game possession something that came across a lot whereas now in his first you might say his first true summer because it's his first where he's in in charge of the whole thing he's gone radical deviation. Other clubs have noticed this as well where he's trusting individual creativity much more which would kind of manifest in a lot of the signings. Now I think that's interesting in the context of what's happened in the Premier League right now is we are seeing a move away from the dominant theme of the 15 of the last 15 years something we've spoken a lot about in the pod but that's tied to I think how managers are well in this calendar uh coaches have less time to coach h and maybe where some teams are going for set pieces as s could have slightly had a go at last week not go maybe goes a bit strong but there was an element of kind of well you this is what teams are doing now. He's trusting more individual creativity. Uh but that is so far a lot of those individuals or the individuals you you would expect or need to be uh are not in the form to really do that and they're only kind of doing it in so like that was that was another thing I have to say I know about the weekend. There was a lot of little moments where you could see the suggestion that this could actually be really good. First half, Salah plays and in what was I thought was a poor performance by Salah overall, but there's still that moment of quality where he he puts in that brilliant ball for Isak. Each heads it over again. Not a classic big man in that sense, but EAC last year. Isac not 6'4 am fantastic big man in the sense of, you know, someone who's going to who's not burly. We all saw Duncan Ferguson last week on Monday Night Football and and then of course Florian Vvers who's generally been bad. That that touch was inc. Okay. B's maybe stretching it. Yeah. I think that's pushing it a bit. I think there's there is a little bit around vert of I don't know. It's really interesting because it's you know this 007 thing. Yeah. Of no goals, no assists. There's a this is maybe something we should talk about another time, but this kind of reduction of players to output I find astonishing. I as I mean I've seen as I say I've seen Vertz three times in the flesh and more times than that in um on TV like you can see that Florian Vertz is a really good footballer every time you watch him play I mean even against Alatas when he wasn't great he carved him open three times. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I've seen him play Britain mostly for Germany to be fair different context but still like incredible quality. What's really struck me with Vert, I suppose, when I've seen him for Germany. All right. Although he's been in the lineup, the official UEFA lineup as a midfielder sometimes he's basically playing as an attacker and with Liverpool, he's part of a three in midfield where at the moment it doesn't feel like he has he hasn't adapted sufficiently physically to play as a three. I think that's where some of the issues have stemmed from, not least Liverpool's vulnerability and also where we're not seeing the best of him. But then even, as I say, even within that, I mean, that touch for Salah on Saturday was incredible. It was actually for me one of the moments of the season so far. Well, it would have been had Salah scored, but obviously like that just shows that yes, the quality is there, but and the bigger issue and we'll get into this in the second half. It it is possible that Liverpool click when it's a bit too late. Yeah. Well, that touch was a pure power league touch, wasn't it? That's what you're going to see out five side. I've not I've not seen what he's done in a in a Premier League game before. So, and if Salah has scored, we'll be talking about that goal and that those are the margins in terms of the margins. They've also been I think on again the other side of devil's advocate here. Crystal Palace absolutely battered Liverpool in in that first half. 3 4-nil would have been you could see that happening. So, on the fine margins, they they've also benefited from from being terrible um at the back. But the thing I wanted to ask you guys about was the consistency of team selection where you you have no idea. You just mentioned he was in a three there and then he was put put here. Even in game the team changed so much where I think among the best players Liverpool have had this season been Sosa because he's the only one I think the moment in that team who's got power. I mean don't mean pace or anything like a guy who is at his at full pelt throughout the game and Arsenal seem to have a team full of very powerful players in a long season. I think that makes a really big difference and then you have Sabosa playing right back and Liverpool have had to sub their right back twice I think at least this season. Um, the idea that you can't have a consistent back four, and maybe I may be too much of a traditionalist here, but if you if you can't get the back of the team right, where you where you don't know who your back four is, you can't name that back four, that that for me is is is a big problem. And they finished with um another one of their better players this season out of position. I think Grabber is so important. And we're going to talk about recruitment maybe a bit later on the pod, but if if if if you lose this guy, there isn't much left for for that for that role. He's then moved his center back. Um Canate for whatever reason, whether it's because of the transfer um conversation around him or he's been an absolute um you know, liability a lot of this season. uh the the Grahambert and and Anoslai in in the back four at at the end of the game after the recruitment something does not feel correct here. Um and Chelsea got behind him a lot. So I I would say that so has been Liverpool's best player by quite a long way this season. He has been genuinely uh looks like the player that he was kind of meant to be uh and was in patches for for like Lipid and stuff. I think what that changing around of players suggests is that Slot is kind of unsure about whether about whether he kind of needs to change more or less. And this happened with Klopp that when there was a point where Klopp decided that the heavy metal football thing was old hat and it wasn't sustainable and he tried to introduce a kind of slightly more controlled version of it. You know, if you look over over the course of Klo, there was still a lot of the heavy metal football stuff going around at the end, and you sort of thought, well, they've not Liverpool hadn't really played like that for three year, three maybe four years. They were they'd been a much more kind of, you know, they had they most games they had 70% possession. They weren't playing this healthy kind of Jaden pressing counterattack. But at at the start of that process, Klopp tried it and it didn't really work. It didn't look that convincing. So he kept kind of going back a little bit and trying to move on, but then he he couldn't quite break his reliance on that Valdon Fabinho Henderson midfield and it was in 21 2021 2020 221 when it with it with the injuries everything kind of fell apart and after that you got another version of Liverpool. But that transition from one style to another I think is really difficult and it makes perfect sense because the players and the core of the you know the core of the team for all the recruitment the core of the team is still been around for four or five years that they will have certain like patterns and as Miguel mentioned like ideas in their heads that have been drilled into them for ages and now things have changed and they're meant to be doing different things and I think in in moments of adversity all players not just Liverpool players tend to revert to what they know and that seems to have caught slot out a little bit as well because he started the season playing a 42-31 which was the system he played at Ford. It's the system I think that he would prefer to play. It seems to be the system that he's bought Vertz to play in. Like Vertz is a 10. That is where Florian Vertz was promised he would play by Liverpool um as far as we understand it. But the last couple of weeks to try and get something going slots been like well actually maybe we go back to a 4-33. And that to me is quite indicative of where Liverpool are. They're kind of caught between what they were and what they know and what slot wants wants them to be. And I do wonder if that's where a lot of the confusion is coming from that you've got players who are trying to learn new methods, new patterns, new ideas. Whenever it doesn't quite work, there is part of them thinking, but this thing we used to do, we know that works. So why don't we just do that? There's there's a few things here as well I think um we can also explore but kind of bring this kind of full circle a little bit whereas so first of all this partly part of this is actually the difficulty of sustaining a team and exactly that point you mentioned Rory about doing what you know because sometimes managers have to complicate it and make it difficult from some of the sales in some way because they know they're in danger of getting found out spoken about this and that also ties into the difficulty of retaining a title I mean it's I think it's it's been forgotten a bit because City have obviously won it so much in the past few years but outside Guardiola no one has retained a title since Ferguson which is actually a bit and and that was Ferguson in '09 which is actually that's striking really quite a long time ago. Yes. Yeah. Uh like it's it's I mean and this ties in with I suppose a phrase that dogged Liverpool a little bit the last time they won the title which is Roy Keane calling them bad champions. Don't get me don't get me started on the concept of bad champions. Don't get me started. But but but it's more like like the the challenge of a of a good defense does become a thing whether you like it or not. And like obviously Liverpool responded in the way people a lot of people would think that champions especially super wealthy you know football's 1% super clubs should which is spending loads of money that the the the amount of money the amount of quality they brought in just immediately indicates like well you know this they should obviously be excellent straight away and like to be fair I can't really remember too many summers like that in terms of who they brought in outside like Spain's big two But I mean that and that does tie in something I think that wraps a lot of this together which is at the height of the EAC pursuit. So what's that like just after the PFAS and all that no one was exactly saying they need another forward here to score some goals. Scoring goals wasn't the issue and then they've gone out and spent obviously the net spend has brought it down but I said the net spend is is relatively low but of their outgoings what over 300 million has gone out on attackers including Verts. Um and that that is and then then like that's resulted in basically the imbalanced team we see now and I am curious as to the logic of all that. I think we'll we'll get into that in the second half because that I think with the recruitment is the thing that as you say m like ties everything together the nature of it I as from a kind of journalist fan perspective the Anfield rat perspective the um it did even at the time you were a bit like hang on it looked to me like there is a potential shortage here in other areas defensive midfielders as TK touches on center half was the other one because Joe Gomez and Ibrahim Dennate do have their injury problems and it it did feel to me watching the Carabal Cup game when Giovani Leone played brilliantly admittedly against Southampton but you know did really were encouraging debut for an 18-year-old and then does his ACL all of a sudden Liverpool suddenly do look a little bit light in defense they've obviously taken a calculated gamble there's two other little bits before we get to recruitment I just wanted to kind of touch on one and this is a sincere question I was at leads Bournemouth while Liverpool were losing at Palace and obviously because I refused to watch football illegally Um I have seen that game only in in highlight form and the highlights as Tret mentions the first half Palace I mean you I think Chris Sutton said oh they could have stored six. I think that's pushing it. Um I mean they could have stored six in the sense that leads could have stored six against Bournemouth but no one is saying they they suffered some great indignity. They opened them up is what he's saying. They opened them up. Yeah they did. Uh but I I I was struck by the xG of the second half which was basically exactly the same as the xG in the first half except it was in Liverpool Liverpool's favor rather than Palace's and watching Palace and then watching the whole of the Dallas game. Don't know if I mentioned that that was with Nikki But um the what was really interesting I'm not sure how many times Palace or Galatasaray actually opened Liverpool up. I think what happened a huge amount of times was Liverpool literally passed the ball to their opponents and Canate against Palace was the worst for it. I think Draven was quite bad for it against Ganataster. And I've been trying to think is that an individual errors thing or is that an indication that the system's wrong which is also I mean can I can I ask a question that is let's answer a question with a question we have. This is quite a tangent but it's something that struck me a few times this season. It is XG a more valuable metric in a PEP world by that I mean it is something that basically reflects domination when the assumption is you want a lot of the ball whereas suddenly right and right now in football we're seeing this shift to and this is something that's been discussed a lot in media now of managers looking to kind of just extract or kind of widen margins of opportunity like we're back to kind of you know um positions of maximum opportunity and all the thing and that means you mightn't create as many chances but the chances you do create are very constructed and uh so you'll have a lower xG but actually you're causing a similar amount of danger especially as the whole kind of you know positional game is starting to fracture a little bit is that uh yeah I think I think you're with Liverpool I think well because I'm not I'm not first in in the data is that is there any anything in that I think you can use your your your logic, you look at your your eyes with some of this stuff as well. If we're going to stick with Liverpool here for a second, the the Ismile, for example, Crystal Pal, he's been like Liverpool's kryptonite from from Klopp days, from Watford, from his Watford days as well. And to your point, just in terms of opening them up, and we saw it against Chelsea as well, it's it's what these two passes down the side a pacey play. I don't I'm not a data guy, right? But I'm watching I'm watching a game of football here and you if you see um the the the wide players of your opponent get behind Liverpool as many time I don't know if that's XG you guys can tell me if that's XG I don't know to be honest but they look extremely vulnerable. Now, if that fellow doesn't put a good cross in, that's his problem. But the fact is that you've got behind Liverpool that many times throughout the season. Uh with more direct play, and people have been talking about the Premier League, you guys have talked about it as well, I think, where the this transition from the Pep style to more direct football or return to some more direct football um is influencing the game a bit more. We saw this in the Club World Cup final as well, the Chelsea approach um against um PSG. There was this ball that goes either one pass or two passes in behind. And we're seeing that consistently against teams like Liverpool who in in Klopp's days, they'll be like, "Okay, we're willing to give those chances up because we're going to do more at the other end." And that's that's what Liverpool were doing under Klopp. I don't know. Ju just just for you because I like I like your kind of response to this story as well because suppose like when we look at the XG you think well you know this team keeps creating XG over this amount of games the the fig the underlying figures are good it suggests good things will come despite current results but at the moment there's a lot of teams that actually aren't trying to create chances in that way and they said we're going to pummel you to death with a long throw which is yeah but that that still counts towards your XG. So I think do you know what it's a really good question. I I don't think I have a an on the spot coherent answer to it. But you it's yeah whether the so the what Tarret's talking about I think is something that XG the basic you know the kind of public XG stuff that you see that doesn't really take into account and anyone who's ever been to a football match you don't have to be a fancy dan journalist for this but like you will know that there are plenty of times when you feel like danger is happening when a moment is dangerous but it doesn't translate into a shot you know because you know the cross might be wrong or the the opposition I don't know or the player takes a bad touch or whatever and what those are often aren't included in your kind of simple XG models. Clubs work on more sophisticated data. But the stuff that you see in public that people are working from I think has always lacked that kind of feel of a game. You can tell when Yeah. So I would have said if to to stick with Liverpool in that first game of the season against Bournemouth. Bournemouth I think only had one or two shots in the first half. They didn't have a load of chances, but there were loads of times that Bournemouth looked dangerous. And that I don't think is reflected in the data, I guess. Yeah. Like if if most teams are thinking what we basically want are loads of corners, then then that isn't always reflected that the XG isn't quite as useful a metric in gauging the way the game has gone because you can't tell the intention of the teams. So if one team's intent is to not is to create a very small number of very high quality opportunities, then XG maybe isn't the the most useful metric. Yeah, that's probably that's probably right. And and and my tangent there why I brought that up was in relation to Liverpool is because it suddenly feels like Liverpool are trying to do something different in a Premier League that's potentially moving in a different direction. Yeah, I think when you mentioned that earlier that that hadn't occurred to me, but it's re that's really interesting that if you look at the teams that have made the most of the start of the Premier League season, it is teams that are built on I guess the Arsenal model. They're bigger. They're really good from set pieces. They're still excellent technically and they can still, you know, cut you apart, but they they are not quite as kind of possessionorientated and it does feel like Liverpool are out of step with that. Now I would get I would say and this isn't necessarily kind of biased fan in me that could be a disadvantage but it could also be an advantage right it could also be you are you are as we used to say at the New York Times trick zagging when everybody else is zigging that was the way we were meant to cover football before they told us we weren't allowed to um but so it could work out in the end but it does at the moment feel like they're out of step with where the lead has gone that point as well uh because I am doing my newsletter on exactly this one let's workshop Miguel's newsletter So suddenly City are talking about people are talking about City as resurgent actually in terms of what we would have expected of a Guardiola team. I don't think they are resurgent. I got think they've got loads of team flaws. And again I suppose this ties into the the well sort of the XG point they was making. But why are people talk about them as resurgent? Well because Halen is scoring two goals a game. He is the individual. he's suddenly become and I and I suppose the expectation from when Liverpool made all these signings in the summer is they've potentially got three or four players who if they're on four can do that and are we back in are we maybe going back into this world now where or is this going to be a bit of a schism between a team like Arsenal and maybe these new City and Liverpools where it's kind of stars carrying teams or kind of these big differencemaking players rather than the system. It depends. Um there aren't that many Harlands as well, isn't that's the problem, right? If you Harland is like um a bolt from the blue. There aren't that how would you who do you compare them to? Like you can spend all the money in the world, but at that very very very top it seems very very hard to to replicate what he's the numbers that guy's going to produce. Um and that and then when we see the quantum of of money Liverpool spend on these individuals, you expect them to be at a level that is justifiable at that price. I just don't think there are that many players that exist in in in that form. But just my thing with Liverpool, just to close for my thoughts on this, they get overloaded all of the time by every opponent. Now I don't know if XG measures this and you mentioned it, Rory. you said like you're at game and you could tell, oh, they're they're in trouble here. I don't know if there's a they're in trouble metric. They're definitely there definitely should be, but but the the the the the amount of times you're you're overloaded. And it if you're also if you're playing in a game as well, it it really does discombobulate you if you're always finding yourself and your your team stretched in the way they are. Um, and that that seems to be playing out week after week cuz even when they're 2-0 up, that vulnerability seems to always be there. And I think you said it, you said that not not on this pod. I think you either said it in one of the chats or or on your other formats. Um, where they they're really good in patches and somehow someone's turned a switch off somewhere. Yeah, I've got to say we'll we'll we'll go into a break and after we go into the break, we'll talk about the recruitment, but that would be my assessment of Liverpool from certainly being at Anfield this year is they are incredibly patchy. So, you will get spells and Midell, you mentioned this about the Chelsea game. You will get spells where they look, you look at it and think, okay, I see I see what they're trying to do and it's going to be really good when they when they're good at it. Um, and then it will just stop happening and they will be completely wide open and they'll have stopped pressing anybody and there'll be no intensity at all. Um, and that has been my kind of impression of Liverpool throughout the to be honest this is we're overrunning. There's loads of stuff that I think we haven't touched on. Liverpool as always the most interesting club to talk about. Um the one of which is that we've talked a lot about this being a transition year and yet that I think from a media perspective that's a fascinating thing because how do you cover a team as Miguel says you know super club spent all this money how do you cover them in even if you say do you know what this is a transition year how do you cover them because they still have to win some football matches they're still it's still a big thing if they lose so I suppose we should probably discuss the the kind of the nature of that transition which is Liverpool's half a billion found summer recruitment strategy which we will talk about after some music. Welcome back to Libro. I'm Rory Smith and TK and Miguel are with me, but all that's happened is you've listened to some music, so I don't know why anything would have changed. Um, have we turned ads on yet? I have um we'll turn ads on eventually. That's why it's there. the um the I have I' I've had this thing for ages. Um and actually I was at Rexum on Friday and it provided quite a good example. I went to Rexum Birmingham the documentary Derby and the the press box at Rexom is just a row right at the front of the stand. So there's like there's fans knees in your back. You are not in any way kind of isolated from it. And the fellas behind me and ESPN's Mark Ogden, enemy of the podcast self profess. He wants a mug. He wants a mug saying enemy of the podcast. Um, I might get him one for Christmas. The They were very funny. These three fellas, three sort of as you get in North Wales, like semi- stout, semi- Welsh accents, really funny. Um, catching like it was a it was a real men's mental health sort of occasion. But every so often, uh, Bobby Madley, who was the referee, returning to to British Shores, Bobby Madley would do something and one of them would stand up behind us and scream, "You're [ __ ] corrupt." Like that. like this absolute immediate assert assertion of corruption and there is no evidence that Bobby Madley is corrupt. I want to make that clear and a lot of it was for like really m really minor offenses. I've always thought this about myself about all fans like when you go to a game you get so swept up in it. You're like the referee's this referee's awful that that should never have been a penalty. It was never a red card. All that stuff and then quite often you go back and watch the highlights and you're like oh well that was wrong. It wasn't it was a penalty and it was a red card. Like I I've always had that sense of oh actually I got that one wrong. I don't know whether the guy behind me claiming Bobby Madley was corrupt would have gone home watched the highlights and be like oh do you know what I've got him completely wrong. That decision was totally fair. And this is a long-winded way of saying do you think people are like that about Liverpool winning the transfer window? There is a bit just just as a very kind of given this is a journalist podcast and all that. my uh an old mentor of mine. I don't know if he'd like or resist or I should like calling him this, but Paul Howard when I used to work in the Sunday Tribune in Ireland who's gone on to do Carol Kelly. Yes. Rock. Yes. Yes. I remember once when I was young, he came in after Ireland played France in a midweek game and he was put in an overflow because the Sunday journalist. The way the way he put it, they put me in an overflow. How am I supposed to analyze a game if I'm besides some bloke who thinks absolutely every issue of the match is the [ __ ] referee's fault? No, no, this is this this is actually about this is three years before when Zidane just turned it on and destroyed Ireland. But anyway, um yeah, there is there is an element of like people there was this sense when Liverpool got Isaac over the line that they spent all this money and there is that stripe of of fan especially online who and you should go back and listen to our online episode from last week that was excellent. um who was very much of the you well this means Liverpool will be unstoppable because look at the players they've signed and in fact I had I think I spoke to to at least one kind of respected agent in the game who was like well if they sign Isak and Ekit forget about it for everybody else like that's a way that people in football think but surely like you look at the first seven games of the season and the only rational response is well it turns out it's quite difficult when you sign loads of players because they don't have the formation in place yet and what you said there just before the break about how they play well for 15 minutes. I mean that that's actually quite an oldfashioned thing in the sense like this was say Galactico Madrid where because like what Guardiola did it's so many it feels like so many podcasts come back to this but I suppose that's because it's so influential. The Guardiola created a a template or you know a paradigm where teams would have a system the better system or the system that would have control and the idea was you this would work throughout the game that it was something you would always fall back on. Whereas the era before that so much more was based on individual quality and suddenly like good players just being allowed to like it was like jazz if you like kind of but that's never going to be as sustained and it does feel as if like Liverpool are a slot works out what next there's just an element of that it's about kind of just these very good players or well world class players being a bit off the cuff as they don't yet have a kind of a framework they're fully in tune with your question Rory it's an interesting one about um winning the transfer window and I just think that's a it's almost a different match. The summer is there's no football being played but there is competition. Liverpool v Newcastle Isaac is he going to stay is he going to go there or a bunch of teams going after a player. These guys haven't played a single second but just if he wears your shirt you've won that game. I just think there's a whole different narrative. There's a whole different competition. we've signed him. You haven't. You couldn't keep him. We got him. And it's almost nothing to do with what's happening on the pitch. It's a test of verility to an extent, isn't it? It's putting things on tables and measuring them. Do you know what I mean? That's what is happening there. But it's also, and this is this is a pet theory of mine. It's about video games that so many people come to or maybe video games and fantasy. Like people are now so used to, it's an excellent point to sound like Miguel. This is a point that's made in the book, Expected Goals. So many people are used to kind of like weighting players qualities by by number that the assumption is that football is algorithmic that if you add Alexander Isak shooting 20 burliness one the into a team that includes Florian Vert's creativity 20 and Muhammad Salah shuffling runs through seven defenders somehow emerging with the ball 20 then you will then add all those numbers together you are the strongest team you will win but like what we've seen over this six 8we period is that it does not work like that that Li wherever Liverpool might get to with this team it's going to take a lot of hard work to kind of make everybody understand each other and as Miguel referred to earlier I think when are they going to do this work because they they play a game every 3 days when they're together and then after that Chelsea game most of them won't even have gone back to Liverpool they will have Arnold would have been like right lads we've got all these problems to fix you sod off for two weeks and then come back 48 hours before we play Manchester United yeah there's there's a couple of couple of things there as well with this recruitment they've done. You get into the the individual players in a minute, but the stylistically they're very different to the ones they've replaced. So, it's not only new players coming in. I I'm still not clear as to what this formation or what this group of players are going to look like in a team. like Ekit TK and um Isaac, they both seem like the same position more or less. Or the thing that I found really strange or you say, "Oh, well, you know, he just put him on the left." Well, why would you spend all of that money on someone and then put them out of position? It doesn't seem It seems like a really weird thing to do. Um, and maybe obviously, you know, these these players are playing 60 to 80 games a season now and they're all knackered and you need two two for each. But I really found it it quite strange to to view and you know obviously uh we're going to see how this when we speak in May and they've won the league by 15 points and say well what was the point of this podcast? Um I'm struggling to see the the stylistic plan here from a recruitment perspective. I I I thought on Saturday I have to say okay the the Arsenal game which I think was the previous Liverpool game I was at that that game had a more obvious shape to it and there was an element of two teams reacting to to each other and respect whereas with this given Chelsea were at low given Liverpool they've had a few issues but I thought they should be able to impose themselves in that game I was looking at that and actually and it was a devolution since the Arsenal game thinking well like what's the system here like what if I if I'm trying to pick these players into a best formation what is one that actually works And a few people have suggested to me since, well, there's two things. One, I'm not going to steal Rory's point about Salah. He can make it now. But the other one is that Liverpool maybe would prefer to play a 352. Um, they don't have the players for that though. They just don't. Not right now. Maybe that's that's the next stage. And I suppose that that that feeds into your point. Yeah, I wonder I mean I I to my theory and it's just a theory is that this is the post Salah team taking shape. There's just Muhammad Salah still in it. I think that next season what you will see is a Liverpool team that is much more obviously based around like an Axis of Verts and ESAC and Ekitique. That that tick I think is really interesting. I think the logic that seems to have taken hold is that what Liverpool want to recreate is something similar to PSG where you have three forwards who don't play in set positions but rotate constantly. What's interesting is that PSG's players are all wide players who've been adapted to play in the center whereas Liverpool seem to have decided to play two big number nines. Although, as previously discussed, one of them is not very burly. Um, but the that then gets into the problem that Salah plays in in the Muhammad Salah role. You don't you can't move him. You can't be like, well, you you have to go and do something else now. Which makes me wonder if if what what happens is next season maybe Muhammad Salah is not there and you start to see a kind of different shaped Liverpool team. But that gets us back to Miguel's kind of point, which is the difficulty of of retaining a title, the emotional impact, I guess, of of winning it, having to go again, having to go again in like a different way to stay ahead of the curve. And maybe maybe that's there is a reason that only Guardiola with all of city's resources with with his kind of perfect blank template to create whatever he wants and obviously his genius. Maybe there's a reason that you maybe you can't really retain the Premier League because it takes so long to to kind of institute new ideas to to create like your your team 2.0 that that winning winning it again is maybe you could do it if everybody else kind of messes up. But it's really hard to do it if that doesn't happen and and and yeah, although I think this could be a really interesting season from that respect. If you as you say I think you're right, we've had the rise of the middle classes. It feels like some of those middle classes have actually adopted very well to losing big players and also to the point they haven't yet improved the top teams. So like obviously Palace have somehow despite losing OS last year and now as a this they're stood there they've gone to a higher level still going Newcastle still a strong side despite losing EA and where where some of the players they bought off aren't necessarily at a higher level and if so if if that middle class continues to rise if it's more difficult to sustain kind of these endless runs of points that we've become used to from the top clubs then maybe this is a bit more one of those seasons where potentially 80 points and there might be few es and flows. Now, of course, the risk for Liverpool is that Arsenal who are feel like this one this one single side in the Premier League right now who at least know what they're about even if they face all these doubts about their kind of ability to win the title that they they're potentially a bit of self-perpetuating Arsenal that way as well as well as having the depth. So, like that that point we made I think I think it could be so key to the season if you can't coach midweek in the same way it makes such a difference to have a team that's already hardwired into this. Yeah. And and then that that's interesting in terms of this the lack of time with you know sticking with the Liverpool theme a little bit here when Klopp was signing players they wouldn't go into the team Andy Robertson it would be weeks sometimes months before they'd be bedded in and it would be um over time in terms of minutes as well even when they did come into the team and then they're they're established and and then in the end you could name his team pretty consistently for for for a long time. The other thing about Liverpool team is perhaps they don't get enough credit because Man City kept winning the league that is a very very very good football team and one that is very hard to match. Yes, they didn't get all of those Premier League titles that they might have done. And it looks what club one two is it one one one two if you count the one that slot one is clubs the the club slot team. Yeah. And it doesn't seem like a lot but that is one of the best football teams that the Premier League probably has ever seen. Slop you know slop the slot team. I think that's that is um the Robertson example I think is the best one that the when when they signed Andy Robertson from Hull to not a huge amount of you there wasn't the kind of hoo-ha around signing Andy Robertson as there was around signing EA but you didn't see him for about 4 months and the player who was ahead of him was Alberto Moreno and I remember talking to people family members and stuff who were Liverpool fans and the theory was well Robertson must be [ __ ] like they must just have taken a look at Robertson and thought he's not up to it and then he kind of came into the team around December, January and you were like, "Oh, hang on. He looks like he's been Liverpool's left back for 10 years." Um, and I I have been surprised by how quickly Slot has kind of decided, "Right, we're ripping, we're ripping the plaster off. Let's just go." Kurt has left back, frimpon right back, echk and eak in the team. There's been no attempt to kind of gently massage the team towards something new. It's like, right, we are starting this new. And I do wonder whether whether the nature of the of the Premier League now there's kind of two things I suppose but they're opposite to each other which is difficult from a kind of wrapping up a podcast perspective but like one is that you don't have the time to do that and they've got EAC really late in the transfer window. So you don't have time to get to get him into your attacking patterns. Maybe it comes November, December, January, sometime like that when they've all played together enough and everyone's fit, but as Miguel says, that might be too late in terms of retaining the title. Um, and it might mean that there's bumps in the road. And those bumps in the road have an impact on how the team feel about themselves and that that matters. That's important. And maybe Arsenal's approach actually the thing that makes Arsenal the team kind of in possession obviously top and they look like favorites for the league now. And it's because in an environment where you can't coach anybody, you can coach set pieces and they look so solid. Yeah, they they're hard to beat. They don't concede many chances and they can score goals from set pieces and you can coach them when you've only got 48 hours before a game after after an international break. That is a thing you can do. So maybe that is a more practical way of consistent success. But then my other thing is is a lot of the way we're analyzing this a little bit outdated. And to come back to where we started, and I don't want this to sound like everything's actually all right with Liverpool, but the middle class teams are much stronger. The lead is much more balanced. Are we kind of a little bit too quick to proclaim things are going wrong for any of the big teams, even Chelsea, when the standard of opposition is so high? Well, well, I mean, it has been true of the Premier League for the what certainly in the modern internet era, as we discussed last week, where every three weeks or so there's a new crisis club where the kind of the label falls on them until basically they get a win and that fades away and going goes on to the next one. But, but in that, I do have to say a month ago, I was looking ahead at Liverpool United in two weeks time and thinking this is a bit of a revelation. There's a 20-hour day up to Liverpool and back for a three-0 win that kind of means nothing and have nothing to say about. Whereas now that is I actually think a fascinating game. Liverpool badly need a win against a team that's obviously been the crisis club and yet well a suddenly they're they're out or not out but they've they've emerged a little from that crisis by winning at the weekend and b there has been at least some sense that Amram for all his faults he's been better a game suits him better when he's playing against a team like a Liverpool or a Chelsea or someone he can set up against and something like that is a match with a lot around It delivers. That's the great thing, isn't it? Delivers a Christ delivers a story. The point The point we were doing this podcast, it doesn't feel knee-jerk cuz it's been We're 10 games into this season. They have been performing. You were talking about the points. The points are there, but the performances have been very consistent in in in in why we're doing this podcast today. I think the the the the form on a points per like if you're watching the game on telly text and great looking at the table tellex for younger listeners was a service you could use before the internet um to look at tables and but football isn't a telly text game you're watching this this is this is um you know this is very correct we're doing this podcast so don't talk us down here guys pra are you take have you like taken on some sort of challenge to try are you trying to create merch slodans just football is not a teletex game is almost as good as we are living in the sewer. It's the ter merchandise hotline. We're we're about to go live with a bunch of new merch guys. So like review and subscribe if you want that merch just just to wrap it up I suppose as to why we're discussing it and why whether this is knee-jerk or not. I suppose it's I I do think liver people are actually in a very fascinating place now for everything we've talked about but also if you tread it. So they start season as champions. They spend loads of money. They spend even more money on EAC. They go they have these late winners that propels momentum and they at one point are they five points? They're 35 points clear of the team maybe considered their their closest challengers Arsenal and it looks like well we're just going to have the same as last season and in the space of two weeks in the space of a week suddenly that's just frittered away and now they're not they're not top there's suddenly all these new questions and also in the modern game even allowing for what everything we've spoken about in this podcast. It is actually unusual for teams like that to lose three games in a row. That doesn't really happen anymore. And and now and it's it is just as we go into everyone the period that everyone loves an international break. They have a lot to dwell on. But funny if we were saying this before you came on Miguel that um this I think I actually obviously everyone hates these international breaks but they are quite useful for like packaging the Premier League or the you know the domestic season into little chunks at the start. So you can kind of you have three or four games you can digest it and then you go again then you digest it again and then obviously there's another one in November. It does break it up and then it's the meat of the season is like December, January, February when it just is non-stop. But as you say it's an interesting point I think for Liverpool to to reflect on where they are. I mean there will be Liverpool fans listening to this who will say look it's it's not that much of a crisis because they're second a point off off top in what looks like admittedly a really interestingly poised lead. I think there were six points between first and 10th and I think 10th are Manchester United. So that is you know that is that's what you want isn't it? That's load of nice balance in the league. But there's no question that as Tret says Liverpool's consistent inconsistency I think has made them one of the more intriguing teams to watch. And it might be that that's partly because of their flaws and partly the strength of the league. And that is probably in everybody's interest isn't it? apart from maybe Liverpool fans that I mean a procession last season's title was not an interesting story in the end and what you want really is an interesting story. Yeah, we want what we want above anything I think is a a close title race. That is what Miguel Delaney wants above everything. If you're thinking about a Christmas present for him, that's what you get him. Thank you for listening. Um please feel free to like, rate, review. It really helps. Me just uttering that sentence will have meant that a lot of you will have switched off, skipped on to the next podcast. Uh, spoiler alert, the overlap this week is about the culture of Manchester United in the 1990s. Um, thanks for listening. Thanks to Tret, thanks to Miguel. We will be back later this week with Jack Pitbrook's Ode to Lady Thatcher powered by Riverside FM.