================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: ANEwm0_9Qos
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ANEwm0_9Qos
TITLE: Decolonization and India’s Constitutional Order
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-28
DURATION: 54m 15s
VIEWS: 692
LIKES: 13
COMMENTS: 3
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Anticolonial movements of the 20th century generated audacious ideas of freedom. After decolonization, however, the challenge was to give an institutional form to those radical ideas.

Legalizing the Revolution: India and the Constitution of the Postcolony is a new book by the scholar Sandipto Dasgupta which provides an innovative account of how India ultimately addressed this daunting challenge.

It's a fresh, somewhat revisionist look at the making of the postcolonial constitutional order and tries to place the current crisis of liberal democracy in proper historical and conceptual context.

Sandipto is an assistant professor of politics at the New School for Social Research, where he works on the history of modern political and social thought, especially the political theory of empire, decolonization, and postcolonial order.

To talk more about his book, Sandipto joins Milan on the podcast this week. They discuss the two-way relationship between decolonization and constitution-makin
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 10,275

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. [Music] Welcome to Grand Theash, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Hindusan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bashov. Anti-colonial movements of the 20th century generated audacious ideas of freedom. After decolonization, however, the challenge was to give an institutional form to those radical ideas. Legalizing the revolution, India and the constitution of the postc colony is a new book by the scholar Sipto Dascupta that provides an innovative account of how India ultimately addressed this daunting challenge. It's a fresh somewhat revisionist look at the making of the postcolonial constitutional order and it tries to place the current crisis of liberal democracy in proper historical and conceptual context. Sipto is an assistant professor of politics at the new school for social research where he works on the history of modern political and social thought especially the political theory of empire decolonization and postcolonial order. He is also a member of the institute of advanced study at Princeton this academic year to talk more about this book. I am pleased to welcome him to the show for the very first time though so nice to see you after so long and congrats on the book. Thank you very much and thank you for having me. So early on in the book, uh, you sort of set up what I think are the stakes of this book, and I just want to read a passage from what you've written in the first few pages, which is that the first wager of this book is that the constituent assembly debates contribute to a political theory of decolonization and that constitutions can tell us something about decolonization and decolonization can tell us something about constitutions. And I I wonder if maybe we can start there and tell us a little bit about the kind of larger conceptual framing of the book. What is the precise nature of that two-way interaction between these things? Decolonization on the one hand and constitutions and constitutionalism on the other. The mid 20th century decolonization the end of modern European empires which freeze most of Asia and Africa was also that about the decade or two following that say 45 to 65 uh was also the most productive period in history of constitution main right and by the time this gets over about you know half to 2/3 of the world's constitution written in this period right yet when we think about we write about constitutions thinks about constitutions um we do not necessarily always draw from the history of decolonization. Right? There are two different sets of tools we bring to the table to understand a constitutions and b decolonization and they're separated in some senses in analytically. So for constitutions we generally look at legal theory constitutional theory which draws especially in the postwar era primarily from American constitutional experiences. uh it gives us kind of a template a set of set of desirable norms every polity should aspire towards uh and then we sort of try to see to what extent those norms have or have not been achieved or the variations of them and that's the way we think about them and that's often comes from as I said uh legal or constitutional scholars and then for decolonization has different sets of questions right it's a question of you know the problems of nation building of development um what are the different kinds of you know processes is it violent is nonviolent as transfer of power and those for that we bring sort of the the the instruments and tools of history of social sciences and try to understand those kinds of questions right which there's a huge literature about and somehow those two literatures has never really spoken with each other right and we sort of separate out constitutions from the uh from the history of decolonization so my claim was we should think of postc colonial constitutions in other words constitutions made after decolonization as not something as a kind of this template which is being uh derived or not but as this novel and challenging project of building institutions right institutionalizing the decolonizing project right if if you had an anticolonial movement you had these aspirations you had these ideas of how will you have a country after uh it gains independence the constitutionm process is the process of giving concrete institution shape to those aspirations right and so to understand those constitutions we can't start with the template of constitutional theory but from this history of decolonization right so that's what I meant by the history of decolonization can and should tell us something about this distinctive project of postcolonial constitutionm and on the other hand I take that the con assembly debates um which are again have generally been read to sort of find some abiding principles or what the main ways say Indians understand rights, Indian understands property but actually think of them as this sort of contemporariness record right of this specific challenge that they are facing of how to build institutions, how to institutionalize this postcolonial order and so take that in that sense as an archive right of that challenge and from that try to get some insights to get some analytical purchase on what was the unique challenges of decolonizing ation and postcolonial nation building. So you know in this process of decolonization right there's often a kind of revolutionary fervor revolutionary spirit and one of the interesting things you point out is that in India it wasn't as if there was a a revolution to end but there was one that the constitutional framers wanted to prevent. And you note that this kind of putitive future revolution to be prevented could come in one of two forms. And I wonder if you could just tell us a little bit about what those two scenarios were that had preoccupied the framers during this period. So let's just start with the you know the usual story of constitutions right which is the the the ideal typical story is basically this. You have a regime people don't like the regime. They have a revolution. The regime is overturned and now you have a new constitution. Right? So in other words, constitutions come at the end of revolution. The revolution overthrows a new regime and then to the constitution you build a new regime. Right? That's the kind of sequence of events. Revolutions followed by constitutions. The the interesting thing I realized when I was reading the assembly debates actually is a couple of things. Firstly uh and this is quite interesting which is to seeing that that the congational congress the main party of Indian independence movement never ever talks of themselves as a revolutionary. It's a word they never use and they never use because there is a group of people that there are uh that they do talk about as revolutionaries which are generally violent um you know small violent groups of you know who who commits uh someone like say a bhagat singh right and who's called a cranticari or revolutionary and congress sets themselves in contrast to that right and never actually uses the word revolutionary for themselves and we talk about the independence movement not the revolution right and there's no Indian revolution yet in constant assembly there is a lot of talk about revolutions and it always kind of fascinated me why right and then always talking about revolution as opposed to the story I just said about revolution for constitution when they talk about revolution assembly they always talk about as in the future tense right as something that might happen and as you just said there are two versions that they kind of think anticipate that might be happening right on one hand you have this possibility that because there hasn't there are still unfulfilled aspirations of the masses which is primarily social and economic aspirations right in terms of you know inequality and poverty inequal distribution of property against landlords against factory uh owners right which is kind of you see that growing coming in in the sort of the last 5 years preceding independence you have you know strikes you have peasant rebellions and so that's the kind of vision one of possible of what you can call social dissolve order and know so looming revolutionary uh social revolution that's possible if you do not address these needs or these demands of the masses. So that's one version which is the revolution to be feared right it's outside of their control it will just happen and to counteract that they argue you need to perform another kind of revolution which is a managed process of social transformation right and you know there are these fascinating discussions that they have that basically to prevent the revolution of first kind which is sort of you know this uncontrolled mass unrest which can go who knows where we need to to revolution which still gets us a lot of necessary social transformation because the colonial social and economic order has to be changed but we change it on our own terms gradually and through a controlled manner and much of the constitution making process I argue is this dynamic between these two visions of revolution right and how to sort of supplant or prevent the first one with the second one and you know the response to this challenge of trying to prevent a future revolution, as you put it, was a reconfiguration of the established kind of principles of the constitutional form, right? It was a they had to reinterpret what constitutions can and should do. And you have a term for this which is quite central to your book, which you call transformational constitutionalism. And I wonder if you could just kind of, you know, for our listeners, unpack what you mean by that term. Sure. So as I was saying earlier right if the if the sequence now is changed from revolution followed by a constitution to a constitution followed by this gradual control process of you know revolution transformation it's actually inverts the process right and suddenly to rethink what a constitution can and should do because sort of the received wisdom about constitutions is that constitutions are about stability it's about order right it's about preserving something right that we have now all agreed is a good And that's how you know think about Americans talking about they have a constitutional order for 250 years. Right. Right. And that allows you to kind of lock in a series of understandings or principles. Exactly. Right. Uh while here now you're thinking about a constitutional order which is not about or a constitutional system sorry which is not about preserving a certain kind of order right but about facilitating change. Now that makes you rethink actually a lot of the elements of the constitution. And the second part of the book I kind of go through institution by institution something like say parliamentarism idea of rights uh judicial review property labor all of those things and you can see how they are reconfigured now the point is not to sort of you know impose a particular consensus that you have achieved but to facilitate change right and that's the process I call transformational constitutionalism which I think is quite distinctive uh in the way of thinking about what constitutions can and should do and which I argue is not just you know I think India had one of the most developed forms of that but it is a it's it's a similar sort of challenges a similar project I think it's shared by many other um newly deolonized countries so you know one of the things that we think about when we think about constitutionalism right is essentially the institutional form the society or polity will take and you have this really interesting line that really stuck with me uh where you say the postc colonial constitution in India didn't design the state it was designed around the state um and if I could just push you on this for a second is is this basically a reference to the fact that look we know that much of the constitution bore a striking resemblance to the government of India act of 1935 which was enacted under British colonial rule and and and as a result bore a lot of these hallmarks or are you making a a deeper point about what the constitution had to grapple with it. It's the second and I think often uh we kind of it is a it's a striking fact that twothirds of the constitution is a direct copy of this colonial document. Right. But I think we often sort of just end with that sort of get lost just with that fact of oh look there's resemblance. Right. Right. You sort of take a line here and say look it's the same line here. Yeah. But I think that's that that that's more of like the sort of the symptom than the call. I'm sorry. It's more the the the outcome than the cause or the symptom, right? Which is to say that what the real interesting thing here is that that Congress becomes a real challenge to British rule when it becomes a mass movement under Gandhi right after after the first world war. Uh till then it's sort of a smaller group of lawyers and uh civil servants petitioning the state but it's not taken that seriously. It's only really after it becomes a mass movement does it become a sort of potential claimment uh for power and we can kind of see the end of colonial rule in the horizon right and when that happens by the end of 1930s when Congress really is this sort of you know mass Indiaide highly organized massive uh party and they're extremely successful in the mass mobilization part there is an anxiety amongst the Congress leadership at least certain sections of the Congress leadership right which worries that this actually is going to sort of there's this inherent tendency of radicalization of the mass movement uh which can take you much farther than when you want to go. And so then there's a shift and I I I think that the turning point for me really is um the elections uh that the Congress does take part in under the under the um uh uh the the the government of India act right in late30s and that election not just the election congress which Congress wins uh which one could expect but also accepts office and for the first time Congress enters government even if it's government with much limited powers but the first time Congress enters government and what I argue is that the the the sort of the the terrain of the anticonal movements shifts especially for the Congress from the streets where they were so far to the government houses and you start to kind of imagine your entire project of what would it mean to end colonial rule build something new around the state the state provides the the the instruments the grammar through which now you're imagining a new India right so it becomes a central kind of mode of anticonal polic politics and postcolonial meeting. So this is the first point. So there's a very important shift in the nature of the antical movement makes making it deeply statecentric and so then once you have the transfer of power and the congress sort of inherits the state mechanisms pretty much you know in pristine condition there is no because there's no revolution no one smashes up the state. You have the exact same personnel. They have all the same you know norms and laws and everything else right which they maintain again which is also quite a quite a remarkable fact. admin to the same police officers. And there was obviously a debate and discussion around this with many people uh leaders of the Congress arguing that we should not try it and rock the boat at this moment, right? That we essentially take the colonial bureaucracy, the IC, turn it into is and so on and so forth, which is a controversial thing because some of these people are the ones who were imprisoning you like you know two years ago, right? The same Congress leaders. So there is a butel is the one who sort of insists on this more most on this sort of continuity and so the ar what then becomes and the the line you're coming to about it the concept being built around the state the state sort of remains you know uh as an instrument right uh um something that they value they want to keep you know and and that's what they want to use to achieve this second revolution this good revolution of gradual control social change so we are not going to rewrite the state, reimagine the state, start from scratch or ask the question, who all will be the protagonist of this new change process? We already have those questions answered. The state is already there. Now, with that given, let us try to figure out what are the best mechanisms we can have to kind of facilitate that state, this new uh the state that we have inherited, the old machine with a new owner, so to speak, right, to do its job. And so that's what I meant by say the constitution does not necessarily kind of you know uh rework the state. It sort of tries to reorient its it its um its objectives or its tasks uh towards say from from repression and maintaining order which is a colonial rule to development and transformation which is their goal now. So I'm glad that you you brought in the Congress party because I wanted to kind of ask you about their role right. I mean we we tend to think of the congress as enjoying this deep reservoir of popular goodwill as the vanguard of the kind of independence movement but you note that you know in kind of constitutional history of India there's a sort of assumed representational unity between the congress and the people and in your telling in your book the relationship between the congress um and and the people is a is a kind of ambiguous and somewhat contentious one, right? So I I guess in your retelling of the story, in what ways was the kind of representational unity lacking? No, that's the that's a great question and that sort of gets the heart of the way I want to understand the anti-colonial movement leading up to the constitution and which I believe gives the constitution its unique character which is it is no no doubt that congress is a truly mass party. I think it's in if you look in world history maybe there has been no other party which has had that sort of a genuine mass support. They have an extraordinary organization which goes to every single district in India. Um they have true mass uh uh participation and and mobilization uh capacity. So all of that is very true. I'm not to say Congress is and that sort of I think sets them apart from some other kinds of examples other kind of countries which is purely sort of an elite capture after decolonization. Right? So Congress is a mass party. I think for me more interesting thing is precisely because they're so successful as a mass party is what makes them so anxious right in other words because they're able to politicize the masses so well especially in the 1930s after the great depression you know Congress movements really spread masses are really especially the peasant masses are really participating in the Congress because they're so successful they now suddenly have on their hand a deeply politicized masses who have kind of you know muscle memory and organizational sort of you know training for political participation and with that also comes higher aspirations right like this is a common phenomena in every mass movement that the more you're politicized the more your demand it's the horizons of your aspirations uh go up and in the space case of India the really the what sort of concerns them is this move beyond just opposition to foreign political rule to certain forms of economic demands which comes up right and this especially in the late 30s early 40s you get this across the country and so that then Congress is has this interesting dilemma which on the one hand Congress's entire sort of you know claim for power against the British or the claim for legitimacy against the British is based on the fact that this have genuine popular support right you know Gandhi keeps saying again and again in the round table conference that I represent Indian people right Congress is the only party which represents Indian people truly and he's more or less correct on that but on the other hand they have this anxiety about what really the people who they have now brought into the political arena can do and can want right so it's this kind of interesting simultaneous dependence on and anxiety about the people right which is this so they never Congress never kind of you know says no no no democracy in India we can't have democracy they have to commit to democracy they have to commit to universal franchise which is why in India we have universal franchise at one go in a country where the vast majority can't read or write don't have property they go for universal franchise straight away which is extraordinary remarkable in political history because they can't now turn back and say this is a popular party that own no people can't actually rule themselves you at the very same time they also have share this deep anxiety right about popular movement which they themselves have generated so you have this very very interesting sort of set of uh uh dynamic which play out not just in the constitution but outside of it I just give an example in in one of the chapters is All the Congress, state governments and this is even before the provincial governments before the constant come to force start adopting all the British laws about you know curfew and section 124 like all the ones you know about crowd management and when the opposition parties say well you were the ones who were against these acts till till yesterday this was against you against you what is going on u because now there's suddenly this you know anxiety about what popular movements can do so it's it's a very very interesting I think dilemma it's not to say I I think either which has been some tendency I think in in Indian oh no no Congress is elite party I think that's wrong or to say Congress is purely a popular party there's no tension it speaks for the people of the time that's wrong too I think what's really interesting I think what gives the constitution its unique character is this push and pull right between uh dependence on the people and anxiety about them well so so so let's just pause on this push and pull right because when you talk about Gandhi and the role he played right. I mean obviously in any retelling of this period Gandhi gets a lot of credit for transforming the Congress from an elite party of lawyers as you mentioned to a a genuine mass movement. But you do have this very interesting note in the book where you say look um while Gandhian politics would successfully overcome many of the shortcomings of the early antic-colonial movement it couldn't fully extinguish them. Right? So I wonder if we could just pause on on that for a second. You know what what in your mind kind of stopped this complete transformation from from taking place. I think we we really should spend a second to acknowledge how extraordinary Gandhi is. I think I think there again nobody else managed to bridge this gap between know because there had been other attempts earlier that the swadeshi movement in Bengal for example good attempt which sort of falls apart precisely because the elites and the masses don't have a common language they share right and so Gandhi's enormous achievement and this is where his unique distinctive techniques his distinctive language the way he presents himself all comes in is being able to create this bridge right and not just create this bridge one time but to maintain it over a long period of time right and this kind of peace between on one hand he has BA who is you know his supporter on the other hand the landless peasants in UP look up to Gandhi for guidance right so this is that's an extraordinary achievement which he maintains nevertheless it's a it's a hard task precisely because there's such stark contrasts right in terms of the coalition is so large and there's such stark contrast in the in the very sort material interest in some cases between these two poles right that to the extent when in the early stages when it's really focused on the British right that kind of papers over these distinctions but perhaps actually independence comes closer and it becomes a question of when and not if right those other demands then start sort of filtering up and this is a great example of that is the quit India movement and if you look at the quitindia movement precisely because the Congress leadership was removed from the scene very early on You see all these kind of organic forms of the movement many of which Congress would not have sanctioned at all right and they sort of you know take form so and you see that in Gandhi very well like this a lot of Gandhi's correspondences you know from the 30s onwards is about trying to explain to peasants why they should not you know rebel against the landlords trying to explain the landlords why they should treat the peasants a bit better act know treat them like their children uh same thing with you know factory owners and workers and he tries and especially in the question of cost which which is main attempt at the end of his life right to try to bridge these big social divides and he thinks he can do that through kind of intensify the movement but you can really see almost you know more than half or maybe even twothirds of Gandhi's energy in the last say 10 15 years goes in trying to figure out the internal contradictions within the movement rather than India versus England the kind of you know the classic version of it right Um so that's the you know and so that pretty much becomes the main task for Gandhi and the Congress really and I think to me often the story as you correctly said especially for the constitution we kind of have this story about okay the British had India Congress opposed them now Congress you know rules India right this kind of a simple three-part story where the main conflict is British versus Indians right to me I think the much more analytically significant one right which is I think much more significant for the way the postc colonial institutions were structured or postcol political life was developed. It was this internal contest right between you know the masses and you know the the large mostly peasant uh masses and the elites uh and the congress leadership. Hey Grant the listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform, so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls [Music] out. Well, so, so let's now kind of bring Nu into this conversation, right? because you can't really talk about this period without talking about Na as well, right? And and and and there you trace a very interesting evolution in NU's own thinking, right? Which is you say that kind of between the years roughly of 1940 1947 the independence moment. Um NU had his own change of heart, right? After 1947, he was no longer willing to fight for publicly advocate for a popular process, a more you could say democratic or grassroots process of constitution making, right? And instead kind of continued on a more elite driven or top down driven path. And I and I wonder if you could describe for us, you know, what happened in that intervening almost decadel long period to change Nu's outlook from saying, you know, um this idea of a popular process of constitutional making is just not practical. We have to go a different route. What what motivated him? So you know this is this is the question I think in all neu scholarship like uh I think this is the main kind of you know question for the great sort of the es gopal three volume biography of Nehu. I think this is a lot of the writings that DD Kosambi's writing on a lot of the contemporary hitting on Neu is about this book. what happened to Nero, right? And I think to me, I don't have like maybe the exact correct answer, but I have some suggestions, I guess, that to think of him as this, it's a really fascinating and to me the most fascinating character in in in in the story because you're right, he is the one who is one of the part of this young more left-wing uh group in Congress, which emerges from the early 30s, especially as the movement turns more radical after the Great Depression. uh his public statements consistently makes the argument that it has to be independence has to be a through mass movement not negotiation. He talks about again and again and again about con and I sort of quote him that the constant assembly has to be a popular assembly chosen by a popular vote. He's also against the office acceptance by Congress in you know in the elections because he wants to stay outside of the office. So this is Neheru's consistent and then if we see um two things happen I mean one is he does lose the power struggle within the congress uh quite you know decisively like I think the office acceptance question is the one where he gives the speech against it and they loses the vote in the congress working committee right and the the new congress right as they were called uh saratel being the main one but also rajopalari um rajind prasad He loses the internal Congress battle to them right now then but he nevertheless is the most popular figure in Congress. He's the one who goes for all the campaigns, right? That's why he's seen as the successor to Gandhi as a Congress leadership. Never is it in doubt that he going to be the next prime minister when India becomes uh independent. So he is the most popular figure, right? So at this time and and know Escoal sort of narrates this and you can see this in Jet Praash Marion who was his kind of very close uh political ally uh called the Congress socialists who basically tell him that the Congress party has been taken over by these people. you should break up with us, come out with us and form a socialist party or you know campaign and with your name we can succeed and that's something Nehu never does right so then that's he always kind of you know makes the the point that no we have to work it through the party right I'm never going to sort of break away from the party uh he also has sort of deep I think personal affection and loyalty to Gandhi u so with all of those things I think that question of what mehu you know why it did not break out I think is an extraordinarily important one because after Gandhi the the person who kinds of guarantees this coalition last is NU because he has you know and this is a question people often ask that why did Gandhi choose Neu and not Patel who had way more organizational support within the Congress than Neu did right as his successor because the main challenge to the Congress at that time was not from the right right because the you know the Hindu right or the the RSS are not really a serious uh party but from the left right and meu is the one who kind of maintains a left flank in some senses retains Congress as this popular party with all this kind of know larger plans from the karate resolution onwards of social rights and so on while maintaining some kind of an institutional organizational continuity right and he's the person who does that and there's a I think there's a lot of questions which are asked and I think this continues throughout his life then that's why after he becomes prime minister uh he again realized that the congress is not really his party especially organizational level. He loses many of organizational battles in the congress and which is why he kind of retreats back to the state and he kind of you know really surrounds himself with like technocrats and bureaucrats because he can't go through the party anymore. He feels he lost the party and that's something which happens from the late 30s onwards. Why he never goes outside of the party why he never kind of tries to make that sort of a claim I think is a very very interesting one. I think it's part of which it's temperament. He's not a populist temperamental person. I think he's a very much institutional person. He really has kind of a faith in certain kinds of norms and rules of institutions and democracy and he wants to work it all those things through the congress. He believes that his arguments are right that we need a certain kind of social transformation and it will have to happen once we have democracy. Um and so he in some senses you know never pulls the trigger so to speak and goes all the way when the moment of decision arrives in the late in the end of 30s early 40s right but it's a it's what makes him a really fascinating character just in terms of you if you want to write a novel as a figure as internal you know uh tensions and to figure it out and he's taking these long walks in his in his uh corridors as Gopal says you know always has this sense of the weight of the world on him um He is the figure and I think it's and but in him you see this larger tension I'm talking about between sort of the mass movement and the institutions right which is playing out but Neu kind of you know very dramatically uh internalizes that that that tension well let me let me ask you about this tension um in in a in a slightly different domain which is the kind of economic realm right um and and maybe kind of located in this decision to embark on a planned economy um you have a very interesting chapter where You talk about some of the decisions that went into, you know, this idea that we needed to have kind of state directed development of a certain kind. And I just want to quote something you write in that section. You say that making production the primary focus of development was not a technical matter. The sequence of objectives implied a certain sequence of politics. The carefully calibrated project of development and planning could be the solution. It could achieve change without the attendant tumult. Right? And so I wonder if we could just kind of you know move a little bit from the political to economic how and why did India's leaders narrow included believe planning would kind of forestall the revolution right uh because I think some of it is it's in the air right like every country you know the I mean we think of planning today as a socialist thing uh everybody I mean there's a Marshall plan there's a you know there's beverage plan there's a plan every country everywhere has a plan because that's what's But I mean we're sort of in the zeitgeist everywhere, right? And it's also the hype under the keynian economy side that states can intervene that states do have this particular knowledge that markets don't always function rationally. This is very much so that that so that's very much a part of it really. It's it's not something unique um to India the notion of planning and development but it's also kind of you know linked to this notion that right okay so there are can be two kind of if you want to let's say the social order as it is now and it has sort of entrenched you know power bases and structures and you want to change that there's really two actors which can do that right either you do it through a popular movement a mass movement you know you go in you you know have these protests of gather based parties which go which are which the is is timultuous. It's often violent or you do it through the state. State is the only actor which is powerful enough, right? Has the capacity to challenge these entrenched social powers. And so if the state has to do that, then it needs to have a plan. It needs to have a coordinated uh machine or sort of a uh a structure sort of you know through which they can do that right and to do that also to have a kind of an objective set. And the objective they set for themselves because you can go in different directions. The objective is not one of let's say justice or equity. It's not about you know distributional kind of you know some concerns about oh someone has too much too little. They consistently justify it on the name of growth right that that actually you need to end landlordism because landlordism actually you know um is bad for capitalist growth and which is true. It is right like if you have landlords it it stops investment. it's unproductive and so on. That's the kind of argument they make rather than by saying no no no no it's sort of you know unjust or it's sort of you know inequal um and so on and so that so both uh the state as the actor which does that and the ideological basis of that is not necessarily some kind of you know um argument of justice or equity but that of nation building right national development growth needs to create some kind of uh industrialization some kind of sort of you know even like base basic of capital the state comes in because the state is the only one which can raise capital in this context the Indian you know industrial firms are not powerful enough to raise the amount of capital to raise uh to actually invest in the economy so all of those becomes a primary way they understand the project right as opposed to it in in in other ways and I think that sort of matters I think that sequence which is that first we grow then we talk about distribution right um and that matters in the way they go about it matters the way they justify it and they matter I think very importantly how people understand it and they don't understand necessarily the planning process in a in a popular sense as something that is there to give them justice or you know freedom and true freedom after independence but actually to you know as a much more kind of uh rational technocratic project of economic growth. So uh you have a series of of interesting uh examinations of various institutions right and in including parliament and you say something pretty provocative about parliament that I just wanted to to kind of unpack and I think it'll be interesting for our listeners. You say that you know when it came down to it India's constitution makers settled for the role of an accomplice for the parliament but over the years parliament would not succeed in even playing that role right so I in your view explain to us why parliament failed even to live up to this kind of minimalist role as an accomplice to power. So the question there was you know if you want to do this sort of plan development right what is the best institution to do it through now the common sensical answer in world history has always been the executive the executive has you know it has it's more centralized it's more effective it's goes deliberation right it has the tools to go in and intervene and to me what was fascinating and really really remarkable about Indian constitution is that they chose the parliament to be that this is a you know very strongly anti-presidential constitution they discuss this option and they reject that option right and for various reasons I go into the book but they actually feel that actually a president which is kind of an all or nothing system right because the president that's this one person there's no other while parliament parliamentary systems have an inherent tendency this inbuilt mechanism of negotiation of cooperation because you have to kind of work with multiple parties rather than one person doing what they want to do right uh and for a country as complicated and diverse as India with so many contending social groups, parliament is the best way to actually achieve this without us falling back into some kind of this social unrest and cumul which they worry about right and that's actually quite a remarkable thing because again that's not how most kind of stateled developmental plans go they generally tend towards you think of all the from you know bismar in Germany onwards it's really generally kind of in strengthens a strong inevit and I think it's not only it's a interesting one I think it's also a more democratic IC one actually I think it sort of actually creates a much more mechanism where between sort of you know the the the level of the popular level and the technocratic level there's enough sort of mediation and filter through the parliamentary the members of parliament that actually both can hear each other's voices better right which is you don't normally get if you have an executive which is technocrats going in and doing their things so it allows for even a more democratic form of developmental uh projects I think uh so it's actually I think quite a novel and interesting one right and the idea Therefore is the parliament the MPs are the ones who are going to sort of mediate this process by having this conversation. tell the people why this is a good thing for them and then tell the technocrats what they need what the people demanding what the needs are right so kind of act this uh mediation except what I think the parliamentary the the failure of the parliamentary project in India and I think we kind of see that right the parliamentary in India from what it began in the 50s is a the most powerful institution actually now you know it's kind of just the ones which you hardly have discussions rabble stamps most laws really executive where the PMO is where the most of power is that's been the case for the last say 20 years or so right uh this decline I think is because again going back to the earlier story this sort of fear of popular political participation makes parliament kind of you know um the kind of engagement it required with popular politics right to to make it truly this institution which can then mediate it upwards to the state uh to actually parliament become what it is now which is just sort of a number counting game for who will get executive power. What we really care about is who gets executed power and parliament is just a way towards that right and so the parliamentary MPs are not someone who come out of popular movements or have some deep relationship with them but just bear a party symbol more or less often right um or at least the way they function and that's why they always vote you know um and and that I mean essentially turns into a mathematical equation right if you are the party or the coalition that gets uh you know more than half the number of the 543 members of parliament then you control the executive and the executive does everything. parliament just essentially becomes redundant and which is why you also in every party and even regional parties you have this one powerful figure right and everybody's actually voting for that figure rather than their local um MPs or MLAs with some exceptions uh and I think this is the I think the larger point maybe we can get back to it also later was saying on democracy I think there is a kind of uh narrowing down of democracy to pure electoral arithmetic right democracy as much as a robust idea of public participation in politics is kind of narrowed down to just idea of electoral calculation right and the parliament which actually you know that's their main source of legitimacy is that we are the ones who speak with the people and we are the ones chosen by them so we should be listened to the most right no one chose you as a prime minister directly they chose us and we chose you right and so once parliament loses that connection they lose that authority right which they could exercise um over the executive earlier uh and which I think is the way the constitution was designed actually because just I'll end on this just one point because if you remember think about this the colonial rule was an executive rule it was the most powerful executive in the world and that's what they're going against they don't want another new viceroy right they want to have this kind of figure which the parliament which looks a bit like the congress you can have all the different interests come in together different regions and sort of talk it out right but precisely because they don't want to have this talk it out a conversation beyond the parliamentary walls all the way to the popular political uh fear because of the fear of popular politics they lose that authority and legitimacy over time I mean re just really fascinating to to think about because you know what you're pointing to are is this kind of path dependency right I mean decisions taken so long ago and you're seeing the very real impacts even today right as we we think about parliament the the data is very clear on uh the declining number of bills that are passed, the number of sittings, the number of productive time, the power that the anti-defectionection law has essentially to to further hollow out whatever agency independent legislators might have, right? I mean standing committees to have this detailed report of if you look at the standing committee reports in 50s and 60s, they're like detailed reports which you know how they like look through laws and which you know now it's just a performer thing basically. So let me try to kind of bring this to a to a close by by by by by pulling together a few threads and and also trying to bring us to the the kind of present moment right and in the concluding chapter you kind of gesture at you know where India is circa 2024 2025 by saying there are a lot of political analyses of India which find in this particular moment you know majoritarian excesses of democracy and and you say very pointedly, it was not the excess of democracy, but it's scarcity that led us to our current moment. I mean, you know, we're so uh used to hearing people talking both in India and outside about well, if if only we kind of had a little bit less democracy, if we could be a bit more orderly like China or like the East Asian countries, we would be able to solve all these problems. I wonder if we could just kind of conclude with this, you know, which is in what ways in your mind is the current political moment a reflection of an absence rather than an abundance of democracy? Because I think, you know, we tend to think about democracy quantitatively, right? How many people can vote? How often are the elections? Are they free and fair? It's just question about how many parties, what's the turnout? So, uh it's always about how many rather than, you know, how much of participation there is, right? And as a qualitative idea of democracy and that is not something I'm importing from you know like my kind of wish list it's actually what once saw with the anti-colonial movement right we saw actually deep deep mass participation mass political education kind of you know demands working of through leaders you know movement building organizational building uh and that idea of democracy what a robust idea of democracy which had one very important element to it which is what I want to maybe focus on which is that one of The main claims the British had in India, right? Is that the Indians are not a unified entity. They are a bunch of group of different religions and casts and if we leave they will all kill each other. Right? This is the classic argument always that the only thing which keeps India unified is British rule because there Indians are there thing called Indian. There are Hindus and there are Muslims and their casts and their religions and regions. And the Congress is saying no no no there is an Indian we are building it. Look at us like there are all these different groups coming together on the streets. This is what you know we are building as this new identity political identity of what it means to be an Indian right going beyond what you were born as right and so in other words deeper political participation allows for new political identities to be formed right which is based on politics and not what you were given right so British are saying all the identity you have is the one you were given you inherited it well the antiqu movement's argument is no we actually make it we make it through our political participation through our political activity we become a new subject right who is thinks of themselves um as Indian in this particular case and if you don't have the the the reverse of that would be the less of political participation you have you kind of keep falling back on these inherited identities which was given from the colonial times onwards right and that's kind of what you see when I say the kind of you know uh the narrowing down of democracy into just electoralism right It's the kind it becomes again a game of numbers and then it becomes which kind of groups who you know often will go to their own representative because the only ones they trust that's the only kind of form of politics it becomes very much similar in some senses to what was there in the colonial era it becomes democracy becomes an arithmetic process right rather than some kind of you know process which transforms you in the process of participating democracy something new a new kind of uh subject to something which actually kind of makes you fall back on your given identities your name basically Right. Um I think that's what I meant. I think that gave us so kind of this really focus on democracy as election just this identity which we have very close identity made democracy an arithmetic and then it becomes which is the party which able to you know garner the most numbers you know and you know and that's what majoritarianism really is is that it's about you know who has the best sort of methods to kind of you know gather together the most numbers on what crowns and I think that's actually comes about because democracy is there's not enough for robust political participation people don't actually see themselves in the state. All they see is state as a transactional thing. if if we send our guy there they can get us certain things rather than something that we are a part of that we are you know uh which is built by us which um you know so I think that's what I mean by this the qualitative lack of democracy and sort of and therefore a quantitative gap is what creates this particular situation right where democracy is understood as a arithmetic and be completely a transactional thing between the state and me right and every 5 years I can have these things what I can get and not get right from the state I think that's what gets us this for moment and and then that's uh I think to me particularly um hard because you know you have this great legacy of democratic participation and there are moments in Indian history think about the the JP movement which you sort of you know consciously draws from that uh legacy of anti movement right to kind of bring people to the streets and kind of think about and that was sort of one of the kind of great democratizing moments in Indian politics again which sort of know renews in a democracy very importantly I think the lack of that is what gets us here. And just a quick question on the China um you know the which often happens the this is a bit separate from this point which I think I think the constitution makers sort of understand this point which is that India is not China in two very important ways right one is it is it was it still remains a vast more complicated set of if you do try to do something like that it it wouldn't hold together and it wouldn't have hold together then it wouldn't hold together today it's not that because Indians elites were particularly enlightened that they said no no no we should have they also realized there was no one particular group or party which could dominate the Indian social scene right the way you could have in China for various historical reasons do with Chinese state and the Chinese um elites and so on right so it's something you know the idea of the parliamentary form you bring together others for the form of development right it's not just that it is that for the state it's not just that it's a good thing to do it's also the smart thing to do right and I think that's what also maintains in some senses India's uh potential to actually properly grow and actually properly have uh political participation in in in its growth and I think the the withdrawal from that right is not again it's just not an ethical argument about that about that I think it's also um in in just terms of practically speaking not the best right it's a pragmatic one I mean just to underscore one thing you you you said before we endu which is that you know when you were reflecting on the current majoritarian moment. Right. Everything that you said in your response is in a way equally applicable to Modi and the BJP as well as the opposition. Right now the axis of the the cleavage may be different. It may be religion in the case of the BJP and it may be cast for instance in if you listen to what Rahul Gandhi is saying lately. But the majoritarian kind of logic and the you know again if I have enough things and my guy gets there and he does it's it's a very numerical and/transactional way of looking at I mean I think that's the I think the two kind of main modes of opportunity to Modi I think both of it misses this point. One is the the liberal moment which is know we should have this rights the constitution the courts should help us which I think is an important thing obviously there's no no doubt about that but but that's not going to be enough right um and the other one is to sort of say oh no no we can find a different arithmetic against his arithmetic but if you're still playing on his terrain and the one that he plays on notion of the Hindu it's just the biggest number right so he has an advantage in that I mean it's an 8020 game right so if you have to change the game the rules of the game itself you can't just say that I will we you know do this and all all say that no no no he's not keeping his own promises therefore we are better like those are not the way to think about it is to sort of think about you know say to what extent is his regime and democratic it has oligarchic tendencies it takes it doesn't talk to the people it sort of has this distance from the people those are the ways the very Gandhian ways the very JP way that's what how JP went against Indra Gandhi saying they sort of cut off you know small cer from the country without that's how you have to go to after him right by talking about you know the nature of the what kind of democracy he claim because he always claims you know that he is he's a correct he's is the lawful winner of elections but you have to tell him tell that that's not what democracy necessarily means this is the way it functions the way he you know the way he operates the way he's distant from the people that's the way it has to be rather than saying oh we have a better formula than he has my guest on the show this week is Sundep Das Gupta he's an assistant professor of politics at the new school for social research he's also spending the year at the Institute of the Advanced Study at Princeton. He is the author of the brand new book, Legalizing the Revolution, India and the Constitution of the Post Colony. Samuel Moine at Yale has said that this account of the origins of the Indian Constitution is nothing short of heroic and its relevance to our global present is plain though it was really a delight to read this book. I mean you kind of I think uh you you you you really tug at people's priors that we have about this period about the constitution and force us to kind of look at things in a very new perspective. Um congrats on all of the work and and thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you very much. It was a great conversation. Thank you very much for having me. Grandm is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hind times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Gran Tamasha. And to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, grant themasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer. Mera Verge is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart glass.