================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: DNNlkUrmu5I
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNNlkUrmu5I
TITLE: Ep 423: Minar Pimple's Life in Social Work
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-28
DURATION: 9h 24m 55s
VIEWS: 1,011
LIKES: 26
COMMENTS: 4

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
He founded the iconic organisation Yuva 50 years ago when he was in his early 20s, pioneered social work in India, and went on to drive change for the UN and Amnesty. Minar Pimple joins Amit Varma in episode 423 of The Seen and the Unseen to talk about his life, his learnings and the ceaseless tumult in our society.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Minar Pimple at Yuva and Instagram.  2. An ISDM case study of Yuva. 3. Sudhir Sarnobat Works to Understand the World — Episode 350 of The Seen and the Unseen. 4. India’s MSME Landscape — Some Useful Frameworks -- Episode 419 of The Seen and the Unseen (w Sudhir Sarnobat and Narendra Shenoy). 5. The Atheism Episode -- Episode 83 of Everything is Everything. 6. Ayn Rand, Karl Marx, Vladimir Lenin, Mao Zedong and Friedrich Engels. 7. The Communist Manifesto -- Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. 8. The Annihilation of Caste -- BR Ambedkar. 9. Paulo Freire and Saul Alinsky. 10. Towards a Philosophy of Social Wo
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 194,823

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
The longest episodes of this show have The longest episodes of this show have been some of my most popular ones. My been some of my most popular ones. My episodes with Shantaa Gokle, Jerry episodes with Shantaa Gokle, Jerry Pinto, KP Krishnan and Dvd Patnayak were Pinto, KP Krishnan and Dvd Patnayak were all over 8 hours. In fact, in DVD's all over 8 hours. In fact, in DVD's case, more than 12 hours long. My life case, more than 12 hours long. My life in times episode with Ajay Sha was over in times episode with Ajay Sha was over 10 and a half hours. And that's another 10 and a half hours. And that's another classic. And many people who don't classic. And many people who don't listen to podcasts wonder why. Who has listen to podcasts wonder why. Who has time to listen to something for so long? time to listen to something for so long? I shared my learnings on this in my I shared my learnings on this in my podcasting masterass which I shared for podcasting masterass which I shared for free in episode 49 of my YouTube show free in episode 49 of my YouTube show Everything is Everything. I'll link that Everything is Everything. I'll link that from the show notes. But let me share a from the show notes. But let me share a further thought here. Now all of these further thought here. Now all of these long episodes are essentially oral long episodes are essentially oral histories. Only one mega episode, the histories. Only one mega episode, the 10-hour life and times of the Indian 10-hour life and times of the Indian economy which went madly viral was about economy which went madly viral was about a specific subject. The rest go over a a specific subject. The rest go over a person's life and times and there are person's life and times and there are two important elements to this. One, the two important elements to this. One, the sprawling length ends up giving a sprawling length ends up giving a glimpse of the interior life of my glimpse of the interior life of my guests and we don't just stay on the guests and we don't just stay on the surface looking outwards that can often surface looking outwards that can often be so moving and so inspiring and at the be so moving and so inspiring and at the very least it can make us relate deeply very least it can make us relate deeply to the person. These interior journeys to the person. These interior journeys are my favorite part of the show and few are my favorite part of the show and few other platforms or podcasts enable them. other platforms or podcasts enable them. Two, these podcasts end up not just as a Two, these podcasts end up not just as a biography of a person but as a portrait biography of a person but as a portrait of a society and often the history of a of a society and often the history of a nation. We travel decades inside nation. We travel decades inside someone's head and we come out looking someone's head and we come out looking at the world differently, often with at the world differently, often with added layers to our perception. This is added layers to our perception. This is priceless. Just as a listener, I love priceless. Just as a listener, I love this aspect of the show and I'm bloody this aspect of the show and I'm bloody privileged in a sense to actually be the privileged in a sense to actually be the first listener of these conversations first listener of these conversations and to be able to take them where I and to be able to take them where I want. Today's episode is also a long one want. Today's episode is also a long one and also has deep insights into our and also has deep insights into our society, our country, and beyond this society, our country, and beyond this country, the large and important field country, the large and important field that my guests worked in. So don't be in that my guests worked in. So don't be in a hurry to get useful, actionable a hurry to get useful, actionable information. Just sink into the information. Just sink into the conversation. conversation. conversation. Welcome to the seen and the unseen, our Welcome to the seen and the unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral science. Please welcome and behavioral science. Please welcome your host Amit Ba. your host Amit Ba. Welcome to the scene in the unseen. My Welcome to the scene in the unseen. My guest today is Minar Pimple, an guest today is Minar Pimple, an extraordinary social worker who founded extraordinary social worker who founded the famous organization YUA in the early the famous organization YUA in the early 1980s when he was just in his early 20s. 1980s when he was just in his early 20s. He's had a storied career playing an He's had a storied career playing an important role in both the United important role in both the United Nations and in Amnesty. Minar comes from Nations and in Amnesty. Minar comes from a humble background from the Sudra a humble background from the Sudra community in rural Maharashtra and has a community in rural Maharashtra and has a drive for action and a passion for life drive for action and a passion for life that I have seen in very few people. He that I have seen in very few people. He not only entered social work with all not only entered social work with all his being in his teens, but he thought his being in his teens, but he thought about the field at a meta level, about the field at a meta level, challenged conventional thinking, challenged conventional thinking, applied his first principles thinking to applied his first principles thinking to organization building to nurturing organization building to nurturing movements and went on to become an movements and went on to become an important player on the international important player on the international scene. The first part of this episode scene. The first part of this episode where he talks about his childhood and where he talks about his childhood and youth is a finely observed picture of youth is a finely observed picture of Indian society dealing with cast and Indian society dealing with cast and class and different kinds of class and different kinds of insecurities. We go on to discuss the insecurities. We go on to discuss the history and sociology of social work in history and sociology of social work in India, the structure and politics of India, the structure and politics of global NOS's, the state of the human global NOS's, the state of the human rights movement everywhere, especially rights movement everywhere, especially with the growing nationalism and with the growing nationalism and populism of these modern times and his populism of these modern times and his experiments with sexuality. There is experiments with sexuality. There is great insight and some wild fun in this great insight and some wild fun in this episode. And by the way, when Mina episode. And by the way, when Mina refers to life lessons while talking, he refers to life lessons while talking, he means a course Ajasha and I teach which means a course Ajasha and I teach which he had signed up for. And the sudhir he he had signed up for. And the sudhir he keeps referring to is my friend Sudhish keeps referring to is my friend Sudhish Sanobat the hero of episodes 419 and Sanobat the hero of episodes 419 and 350. Every conversation here is part of 350. Every conversation here is part of a larger tapestry of conversations. a larger tapestry of conversations. That's a charm. And every commercial That's a charm. And every commercial break is also the part of a tapestry of break is also the part of a tapestry of commercial breaks. And now that I have commercial breaks. And now that I have made it sound profound, let's take a made it sound profound, let's take a break. Do you want to read more? I've put in a Do you want to read more? I've put in a lot of work in recent years in building lot of work in recent years in building a reading habit. This means that I read a reading habit. This means that I read more books, but I also read more long- more books, but I also read more long- form articles and essays. There's a form articles and essays. There's a world of knowledge available through the world of knowledge available through the internet. But the problem we all face is internet. But the problem we all face is how do we navigate this knowledge? How how do we navigate this knowledge? How do we know what to read? How do we put do we know what to read? How do we put the right incentives in place? Well, I the right incentives in place? Well, I discovered one way. A couple of friends discovered one way. A couple of friends of mine run this awesome company called of mine run this awesome company called CTQ Compounds at CTQounds.com, CTQ Compounds at CTQounds.com, which aims to help people uplevel which aims to help people uplevel themselves by reading more. A few months themselves by reading more. A few months ago, I signed up for one of their ago, I signed up for one of their programs called the Daily Reader. Every programs called the Daily Reader. Every day for 6 months, they sent me a long- day for 6 months, they sent me a long- form article to read. The subjects form article to read. The subjects covered went from machine learning to covered went from machine learning to mythology to mental models and mythology to mental models and marmalade. This helped me build a habit marmalade. This helped me build a habit of reading. At the end of every day, I of reading. At the end of every day, I understood the world a little better understood the world a little better than I did before. So, if you want to than I did before. So, if you want to build your reading habit, head on over build your reading habit, head on over to CTQ compounds and check out their to CTQ compounds and check out their daily reader. New batches start every daily reader. New batches start every month. They also have a great program month. They also have a great program called future stack which helps you stay called future stack which helps you stay upto-date with ideas, skills and mental upto-date with ideas, skills and mental models that will help you stay relevant models that will help you stay relevant in the future. Future stack batches in the future. Future stack batches start every Saturday. What's more, you start every Saturday. What's more, you get a discount of a whopping 2500 get a discount of a whopping 2500 rupees, 2,500 if you use the discount rupees, 2,500 if you use the discount code unseen. So head on over to CTQ code unseen. So head on over to CTQ compounds at ctqmpounds.com compounds at ctqmpounds.com and use the code unseen. Uplevel and use the code unseen. Uplevel yourself. Minar welcome to the scene in the Minar welcome to the scene in the unseen. unseen. unseen. Thanks Amit. Thanks Amit. Thanks Amit. You know before we uh started recording You know before we uh started recording we were chatting in the living room and we were chatting in the living room and you told me that uh you know last night you told me that uh you know last night uh while you were looking forward to uh while you were looking forward to these uh recordings uh you were making these uh recordings uh you were making notes and it forced you to reflect on notes and it forced you to reflect on your life and on your journey so far all your life and on your journey so far all the way from the ' 60s to the '7s and the way from the ' 60s to the '7s and whatever. And I actually want to ask whatever. And I actually want to ask about this act of reflection itself. You about this act of reflection itself. You know when one is young, one is throwing know when one is young, one is throwing oneself into different things, into oneself into different things, into different causes, into different different causes, into different movements, into building these movements, into building these organizations etc etc. There is often organizations etc etc. There is often not enough reflection and then the not enough reflection and then the further down you go on your journey that further down you go on your journey that reflection kind of happens. Tell me reflection kind of happens. Tell me about your journey with self-reflection about your journey with self-reflection and was there a period of time in life and was there a period of time in life where you started to reflect more and where you started to reflect more and more and what do you feel now when you more and what do you feel now when you reflect like last night when you sat reflect like last night when you sat back and you thought about your journey back and you thought about your journey of all of these decades of people you of all of these decades of people you have met the things you have done you have met the things you have done you know what were the kind of thoughts that know what were the kind of thoughts that entered your mind were you did you feel entered your mind were you did you feel that same fire and passion as you did that same fire and passion as you did when you were young did you feel some when you were young did you feel some sense of regret and loss for times gone sense of regret and loss for times gone by or the companions who are no longer by or the companions who are no longer here. Um did you feel still excitement here. Um did you feel still excitement for what lies ahead? Give give me a for what lies ahead? Give give me a sense of what reflection means to you sense of what reflection means to you today. today. today. You know actually reflection in a way You know actually reflection in a way has been one of the things that has been has been one of the things that has been part of my life. I think lot of things I part of my life. I think lot of things I tried to do is because I was tried to do is because I was continuously reflecting around you know continuously reflecting around you know in the context that I was living about in the context that I was living about myself about my family myself about my family one of the early influences at the age one of the early influences at the age of 17 18 when I was kind of a voracious of 17 18 when I was kind of a voracious reader now I'm no more a voracious reader now I'm no more a voracious reader as I was like I was one of those reader as I was like I was one of those person who wanted to understand uh you person who wanted to understand uh you know the original writings of uh lenin know the original writings of uh lenin I went to Russian class to understand I went to Russian class to understand Leninit's original because his Leninit's original because his philosophical essays was something which philosophical essays was something which I was very impressed with. I was very impressed with. uh so in a way the dialectics at a very uh so in a way the dialectics at a very early stage the whole philosophy of early stage the whole philosophy of dialectics dialectics dialectics uh really attracted me so reflections uh really attracted me so reflections and then I know that you know some of and then I know that you know some of the figures that I'll mention are not the figures that I'll mention are not necessarily the liked figures but some necessarily the liked figures but some of the writings like one of the two of of the writings like one of the two of ma's pieces really ma's pieces really you know influence my early thinking one you know influence my early thinking one is on uh on practice is on uh on practice and in the second essay he wrote was and in the second essay he wrote was from where true thoughts emerge. Uh now from where true thoughts emerge. Uh now if you ask me to point out exactly what if you ask me to point out exactly what was written in those but those were the was written in those but those were the kind of essays at that point of time kind of essays at that point of time really influenced me of uh really really influenced me of uh really looking back in terms of from where my looking back in terms of from where my thoughts come how they are shaped uh why thoughts come how they are shaped uh why they are structured in the way they are they are structured in the way they are structured how that relates to my own structured how that relates to my own soioeconomic cultural background how it soioeconomic cultural background how it relates to the reality in which I'm relates to the reality in which I'm living the soioeconomic reality broadly living the soioeconomic reality broadly how it relates to my uh family situation how it relates to my uh family situation how it relates to my own kind of how it relates to my own kind of identity as as I grew up and some of identity as as I grew up and some of this like earlier stage curiosity has this like earlier stage curiosity has been my main state from a very early been my main state from a very early childhood and my mother keeps telling me childhood and my mother keeps telling me even today because she's touchwood still even today because she's touchwood still alive and she keeps telling me that you alive and she keeps telling me that you are one of the most difficult child that are one of the most difficult child that I had to bring up and I was the eldest I had to bring up and I was the eldest son uh fully loved by both my son uh fully loved by both my grandparents my father's father and my grandparents my father's father and my mother's father So in a way uh they saw mother's father So in a way uh they saw it as somebody who was highly protected it as somebody who was highly protected by the grandparents but my mother would by the grandparents but my mother would always say you are one of the most always say you are one of the most difficult child because two or three difficult child because two or three incidences in a very early life happened incidences in a very early life happened with me and I don't remember but my with me and I don't remember but my mother tells me like there was a death mother tells me like there was a death in the village where I was staying and in the village where I was staying and then I followed very kind of a then I followed very kind of a surreptitiously to know what happens uh surreptitiously to know what happens uh after death. So when the body was burnt after death. So when the body was burnt in the crerematorium, I was like hiding in the crerematorium, I was like hiding it seems somewhere. The whole village it seems somewhere. The whole village was looking for me where this guy is was looking for me where this guy is gone. And that mother tells me that you gone. And that mother tells me that you know what what were you thinking? Why know what what were you thinking? Why did you because young kids are not did you because young kids are not allowed to go for the to the allowed to go for the to the crematorium? Because my whole obsession crematorium? Because my whole obsession was what happens after the body is was what happens after the body is burnt. Where does this go? You know burnt. Where does this go? You know because and this must be like 3 4 5 because and this must be like 3 4 5 years or something like that that kind years or something like that that kind of age group. of age group. The second thing that I remember very The second thing that I remember very distinctly was expmenting with fire. Now distinctly was expmenting with fire. Now in in real real terms if you see my in in real real terms if you see my hands they're plastic surgery because you know there there's a cracker because you know there there's a cracker which is called anar uh which you so I which is called anar uh which you so I took that anar in my hands and burst it. took that anar in my hands and burst it. So both my hands were burnt. Uh so my So both my hands were burnt. Uh so my hand skin is more darker than my other hand skin is more darker than my other bodily skin and you know who which kid bodily skin and you know who which kid at the that age will do something like at the that age will do something like this. And then not only that I I got this. And then not only that I I got burnt and because I was afraid of being burnt and because I was afraid of being screamed at and shouted I hid myself for screamed at and shouted I hid myself for about 2 hours. So nobody knew what has about 2 hours. So nobody knew what has happened to me and I didn't cry nothing. happened to me and I didn't cry nothing. It must be really painful. And then of It must be really painful. And then of course after that six month of ayurvedic course after that six month of ayurvedic uh things that were put on my hand and uh things that were put on my hand and all those kind my hands were tied like all those kind my hands were tied like that. This was again around the age of that. This was again around the age of five. five. five. The other reflection that I have and I The other reflection that I have and I remember that very distinctly you know remember that very distinctly you know now I of course I know threading now I of course I know threading ceremony not for the sudra community. I ceremony not for the sudra community. I come from the sudra community if you come from the sudra community if you know the cast hierarchy. It was know the cast hierarchy. It was predominantly for the brahin community. predominantly for the brahin community. Then Chhatri has got into it. Then the Then Chhatri has got into it. Then the Bisha has got into it and then Sudra has Bisha has got into it and then Sudra has got into it because every layer uh got into it because every layer uh aspires to be in the higher category by aspires to be in the higher category by doing things which higher category is doing things which higher category is doing rather than uh anything else doing rather than uh anything else right. So we had to go through a right. So we had to go through a threading um thread ceremony, moons we threading um thread ceremony, moons we call it in Marathi. And at that at that call it in Marathi. And at that at that age that time I must be about 9 years or age that time I must be about 9 years or something of that kind. Uh because we we something of that kind. Uh because we we of course had our own family well but we of course had our own family well but we needed to have more water because you needed to have more water because you had all these guests coming in. Uh so had all these guests coming in. Uh so there was a we had requested a neighbor there was a we had requested a neighbor that we will draw water from your well that we will draw water from your well also. And at that point of time the also. And at that point of time the person who came to draw the water was a person who came to draw the water was a dalit and the neighbor refused to allow dalit and the neighbor refused to allow him to draw water from his well. Now I him to draw water from his well. Now I had no idea about the cast structure had no idea about the cast structure nothing but somewhere internally I nothing but somewhere internally I rebelled and said why is he not allowed rebelled and said why is he not allowed to draw water? I had no clue in terms of to draw water? I had no clue in terms of when I remember now I had no clue at when I remember now I had no clue at that point of time. Now of course I that point of time. Now of course I understand the cast structure. I understand the cast structure. I understand what must have because there understand what must have because there everybody knew that he is a Dalith in everybody knew that he is a Dalith in quote unquote untouchable. Uh he quote unquote untouchable. Uh he shouldn't be drawing water from our well shouldn't be drawing water from our well because in a way that will be uh you because in a way that will be uh you know making the well uh not pure the know making the well uh not pure the purity of the well will go away that purity of the well will go away that kind of an logic. kind of an logic. So I remember these early incences very So I remember these early incences very clearly Amit uh which and when I now uh clearly Amit uh which and when I now uh check back why from where were they check back why from where were they coming? So somewhere I think there is a coming? So somewhere I think there is a kind of a kind of a genealogy about it. There's some kind of genealogy about it. There's some kind of a genetic code. My father's father was a genetic code. My father's father was part of the freedom struggle and he was part of the freedom struggle and he was a member of the first nagar parish the a member of the first nagar parish the council uh and we had this picture of council uh and we had this picture of his sitting somewhere in the center all his sitting somewhere in the center all the members staying there. My mother's the members staying there. My mother's father even at that age was a father even at that age was a philanthropist. So he used to give philanthropist. So he used to give donations to schools to temples. Uh I donations to schools to temples. Uh I remember we we used to travel with lots remember we we used to travel with lots of money. That time it was all cash of money. That time it was all cash thing that you would carry in the car thing that you would carry in the car and then you know and then you know so I think there was some kind of a so I think there was some kind of a influences of this and as a child when I influences of this and as a child when I was in in K in my native village uh my was in in K in my native village uh my grandfather used to run this uh shop of grandfather used to run this uh shop of the utensils uh brass and copper the utensils uh brass and copper utensils and my father used to actually utensils and my father used to actually make them uh and afternoon I would come make them uh and afternoon I would come back from the school have my lunch back from the school have my lunch around 12:31 one and then I'll go to the around 12:31 one and then I'll go to the uh dukan shop uh and hang around the uh dukan shop uh and hang around the kind of a ritual at 4:00 a tea will be kind of a ritual at 4:00 a tea will be called from a particular restaurant and called from a particular restaurant and the shankar parad will be called so the shankar parad will be called so those will be the two things that I those will be the two things that I would be wanting to have as a kid and would be wanting to have as a kid and when I'm sitting there opposite us there when I'm sitting there opposite us there was somebody who that time belonged to was somebody who that time belonged to jansang uh he would come and they would jansang uh he would come and they would chat on so my grandfather my father's chat on so my grandfather my father's father was congress uh but there was a father was congress uh but there was a fantastic relationship they were like fantastic relationship they were like very good friends completely different very good friends completely different in terms of politic and they would make in terms of politic and they would make jokes about each other about Congress jokes about each other about Congress Narana will make joke he will make joke Narana will make joke he will make joke about Jan and the panty or the symbol so about Jan and the panty or the symbol so there will be all kinds of things and there will be all kinds of things and I'm sitting there maybe what 7 8 years I'm sitting there maybe what 7 8 years old or something like that so all that I old or something like that so all that I think was the influence think was the influence every time we used to come to Mumbai uh every time we used to come to Mumbai uh during summer vacations so because till during summer vacations so because till 600 I was there my mother came from 600 I was there my mother came from Mumbai so coming to Mumbai during Mumbai so coming to Mumbai during summers was like was taken for granted. summers was like was taken for granted. So May June would be two months will be So May June would be two months will be in Mumbai for you know for summer in Mumbai for you know for summer vacation. vacation. vacation. So I had that added advantage in the So I had that added advantage in the school because I was one of those who school because I was one of those who regularly visited Mumbai. So I had a regularly visited Mumbai. So I had a exposure which many of my classmates exposure which many of my classmates didn't have. So we used to say that didn't have. So we used to say that there is a Marati saying means you know among the calves even if means you know among the calves even if you are a disabled cow you are still you are a disabled cow you are still considered a smart uh cow. Uh so that considered a smart uh cow. Uh so that was my situation in a way basically uh was my situation in a way basically uh and so it I was smarter than other kids and so it I was smarter than other kids because of this exposure. My aunt means because of this exposure. My aunt means my mother's younger sister was already my mother's younger sister was already in municipal school as a teacher. So in municipal school as a teacher. So that is one thing which I had seen from that is one thing which I had seen from both my families. I never talked to both my families. I never talked to either of my grandparents about it. But either of my grandparents about it. But uh on my father's side uh he's like he's uh on my father's side uh he's like he's the eldest. Then the next one his sister the eldest. Then the next one his sister was a nurse. was a nurse. Then his younger sister was already in Then his younger sister was already in the postal office. So she was in a the postal office. So she was in a postal service. on my mother's side uh postal service. on my mother's side uh her younger sister was a municipal her younger sister was a municipal school teacher. So in a way both the school teacher. So in a way both the grandparents without knowing what they grandparents without knowing what they thinking was I know for sure that they thinking was I know for sure that they didn't obstruct the education of the didn't obstruct the education of the women in their family. Not that they women in their family. Not that they were like uh you know graduates and were like uh you know graduates and post-graduates. I believe I am the first post-graduates. I believe I am the first graduate from both the families in a graduate from both the families in a way. Uh but they had finished their you way. Uh but they had finished their you know 10th standard or 11th standard that know 10th standard or 11th standard that time and did the DA uh diploma in time and did the DA uh diploma in education. same thing must must have education. same thing must must have been my with my on my father's side. So been my with my on my father's side. So you know some of this now when I reflect you know some of this now when I reflect back some of this have shaped me in in back some of this have shaped me in in in the way I have grown up the way I've in the way I have grown up the way I've my thought process have uh so I always my thought process have uh so I always say I have a kind of a combination of say I have a kind of a combination of that uh compassionate philanthropic side that uh compassionate philanthropic side of my mother's father and a kind of a of my mother's father and a kind of a political more secular uh side of my political more secular uh side of my father's side father's father and even father's side father's father and even my name minar when I reflect back on my my name minar when I reflect back on my name you know it's very interesting our name you know it's very interesting our shop you know the way the villages are shop you know the way the villages are structured right so you had a brahmanari structured right so you had a brahmanari means the lane where brahmans will stay means the lane where brahmans will stay then kasari kasari is my community my then kasari kasari is my community my cast so kasari sonari which is cast so kasari sonari which is goldsmiths goldsmith lane and our shop goldsmiths goldsmith lane and our shop was at the corner there's three alleys was at the corner there's three alleys of three cast and then just behind our of three cast and then just behind our shop was a muslim maha okay shop was a muslim maha okay I this is my guess I checked with my I this is my guess I checked with my father and my mother of course they father and my mother of course they don't remember exactly I said how did don't remember exactly I said how did you come up with this name minar which you come up with this name minar which is a udu name it's minaret it's manara is a udu name it's minaret it's manara in Arabic none of them have a in Arabic none of them have a explanation my mother always feel that explanation my mother always feel that she's more she coming from Mumbai is she's more she coming from Mumbai is more she said this is not your father it more she said this is not your father it is me who gave you this name kind of is me who gave you this name kind of thing so that's I think I understand thing so that's I think I understand that kind of a class thing which is that kind of a class thing which is there and I'll come to that at some there and I'll come to that at some stage about my mother and the father and stage about my mother and the father and their relationship and how it has their relationship and how it has evolved so she says of course she the evolved so she says of course she the one who but I think there was some one who but I think there was some influence of that uh community that we influence of that uh community that we were so close to. I remember I used to were so close to. I remember I used to dance in the uh urus uh you know when dance in the uh urus uh you know when they would they take the taja and one of they would they take the taja and one of the thing in that you drink the sharbat the thing in that you drink the sharbat from the same glass so there is no you from the same glass so there is no you know juta thing you and I used to dance know juta thing you and I used to dance around that taja when they they were around that taja when they they were taking those processions and then I taking those processions and then I would drink the shabbat and so I think would drink the shabbat and so I think there was some influence on that because there was some influence on that because we were known if you know if you go into we were known if you know if you go into the rural parts you will see that the the rural parts you will see that the vessel that the Muslims use are coated vessel that the Muslims use are coated on both sides inside and outside while on both sides inside and outside while the vessels that the Hindus use are the vessels that the Hindus use are quoted only in inside what is called quoted only in inside what is called kalai the white coating that is done on kalai the white coating that is done on the brass vessels or the copper vessels. the brass vessels or the copper vessels. Uh so that distinction I so sharply Uh so that distinction I so sharply remember because the we were specialized remember because the we were specialized in doing those D cheese is the big in doing those D cheese is the big vessels in which all the biryani so you vessels in which all the biryani so you go to any any Muslim ma and you will see go to any any Muslim ma and you will see that you know collective vessels they that you know collective vessels they will be quoted on both sides that's I will be quoted on both sides that's I think we were doing that that is where think we were doing that that is where some kind of influence of the name some kind of influence of the name appeared so coming back to the question appeared so coming back to the question that you are saying in terms of so I that you are saying in terms of so I think some of these factors when I look think some of these factors when I look back have shaped my reflection process back have shaped my reflection process and uh at later stage when you talk and uh at later stage when you talk about Yua uh one of the thing that I about Yua uh one of the thing that I always believe that you know you do and always believe that you know you do and that's also with Paulo FRA that you know that's also with Paulo FRA that you know you do um you know there is a you do um you know there is a understanding you understand things you understanding you understand things you practice things then you again reflect practice things then you again reflect and then that becomes practice P R A X I and then that becomes practice P R A X I S it's not practice anymore it's because S it's not practice anymore it's because that practice is now with lot of thought that practice is now with lot of thought entered into it so that that process of entered into it so that that process of um doing reflecting on what you're doing um doing reflecting on what you're doing sharpening what you are doing again sharpening what you are doing again reflecting on that so that process which reflecting on that so that process which is called practice is something which is called practice is something which has inherently helped me even the things has inherently helped me even the things that I did in um in in future uh and that I did in um in in future uh and that that piece I think is coming from that that piece I think is coming from all this all this background that I may all this all this background that I may have carried um in my uh genetics I have carried um in my uh genetics I suppose as part of the disposition to to suppose as part of the disposition to to this and again all three of us are this and again all three of us are different three I have two younger different three I have two younger brothers they're not they're like very brothers they're not they're like very traditional you know traditional you know did their jobs got married had kids got did their jobs got married had kids got their kids married while I was a little their kids married while I was a little different from the beginning which my different from the beginning which my mother sees more troublesome son I don't mother sees more troublesome son I don't know whether I was responding to your know whether I was responding to your question in terms of reflection and the question in terms of reflection and the process which shaped me at that early process which shaped me at that early early ages of curiosity early ages of curiosity thinking why this is so why so thinking why this is so why so questioning curiosity questioning curiosity questioning curiosity a little bit not knowingly but thinking a little bit not knowingly but thinking a little bit out of the box naturally I a little bit out of the box naturally I didn't think I had to make effort in didn't think I had to make effort in that early ages after afterwards I made that early ages after afterwards I made it a practice and then you reflect back it a practice and then you reflect back on everything that kind of thing which on everything that kind of thing which is much more in the adult stage but as a is much more in the adult stage but as a kid I think this came much more kid I think this came much more naturally to me naturally to me paint me a picture of that world like paint me a picture of that world like you were born in 1961 uh you were born in 1961 uh 1960 December 1960 1960 December 1960 December 1960 uh in K paint me a picture December 1960 uh in K paint me a picture of what that world was like like today of what that world was like like today when you look back on it with reflection when you look back on it with reflection you can use all the lenses that you've you can use all the lenses that you've gathered throughout your life and you gathered throughout your life and you can understand it very well but when can understand it very well but when when you are a young child growing up in when you are a young child growing up in that world uh without the benefit of the that world uh without the benefit of the hindsight that you know is with you in hindsight that you know is with you in 2025 I mean it's really a two-part 2025 I mean it's really a two-part thing, a dual question. One is that what thing, a dual question. One is that what did that young boy see around him? Like did that young boy see around him? Like in the mind of the young men, what is in the mind of the young men, what is this world? And two, what is that world? this world? And two, what is that world? You see the early stirrings of change in You see the early stirrings of change in a sense. the fact that uh you know your a sense. the fact that uh you know your aunt who did a deed and was teaching in aunt who did a deed and was teaching in a school and your brother's siblings a school and your brother's siblings also uh doing things and there's a also uh doing things and there's a little bit of that progressiveness of little bit of that progressiveness of both grandfathers coming through and both grandfathers coming through and you're a young boy growing up and in a you're a young boy growing up and in a sense you are you are curious about the sense you are you are curious about the world you're kind of exploring so what world you're kind of exploring so what was that world like was that world like so I was born in Mumbai uh because again so I was born in Mumbai uh because again it's like uh you had a situation where it's like uh you had a situation where the uh girls would go back to their uh the uh girls would go back to their uh their parents for the delivery and I was their parents for the delivery and I was the first delivery. So my brother came the first delivery. So my brother came to Mumbai. So we we still have that to Mumbai. So we we still have that hospital where I was born uh which is hospital where I was born uh which is around Paratanas Samaj. Uh so my mother around Paratanas Samaj. Uh so my mother has shown me this is where you are born has shown me this is where you are born when whenever you travel on that on that when whenever you travel on that on that road. Uh but then of course after birth road. Uh but then of course after birth I went back uh to all my early schooling I went back uh to all my early schooling happened in K till sixth standard. happened in K till sixth standard. Very interesting few things. My mother Very interesting few things. My mother coming from Mumbai had a kind of a coming from Mumbai had a kind of a go-getter attitude. Now this is where go-getter attitude. Now this is where the personalities of my parents start the personalities of my parents start coming into the play. My father was a I coming into the play. My father was a I call it sometime I call it he's like call it sometime I call it he's like more Buddha you know he's more like a more Buddha you know he's more like a calm and you know not aggressive you calm and you know not aggressive you know he would do his work. uh his pocket know he would do his work. uh his pocket money given by his father um was money given by his father um was something like I don't know something like I don't know that time they used to call it ana six that time they used to call it ana six pesa is one Anna so he would get about pesa is one Anna so he would get about 75 pesa or something like that out of 75 pesa or something like that out of which she would only keep 25 pesa 50 which she would only keep 25 pesa 50 pesa will be with my mother she will be pesa will be with my mother she will be managing the finances that kind of thing managing the finances that kind of thing so she was like one of those goget you so she was like one of those goget you know uh sometimes I have this problem know uh sometimes I have this problem with her about the means and the end with her about the means and the end situation while my father is highly situation while my father is highly ethical, ethical, ethical, highly doing things in the right way, highly doing things in the right way, right fashion. Uh my mother sometime right fashion. Uh my mother sometime would say if this is what you want to would say if this is what you want to do, if this means doing this do it, you do, if this means doing this do it, you know that's a kind of a approach. So know that's a kind of a approach. So there were kind of a different there were kind of a different personality. So for our schooling, our personality. So for our schooling, our education, the pressure was not never education, the pressure was not never from my father. It was from my mother to from my father. It was from my mother to do well and those kinds of things. do well and those kinds of things. In the village K till seventh standard In the village K till seventh standard there was no private schools. There was there was no private schools. There was only nagar parish at school. So however only nagar parish at school. So however rich you may be or however middle- class rich you may be or however middle- class you may be everybody went to that same you may be everybody went to that same school. Another interesting thing I school. Another interesting thing I don't even remember any girls during don't even remember any girls during that period in my my class. I still have that period in my my class. I still have very good friends from my school days very good friends from my school days till sixth standard and two three of till sixth standard and two three of them I whenever I visit K I meet them them I whenever I visit K I meet them always but I don't remember even one always but I don't remember even one girl from my class you know I only girl from my class you know I only remember boys so which basically meant remember boys so which basically meant that the either there were no girls in that the either there were no girls in my class it was a coet school maybe or my class it was a coet school maybe or they had a different school I I don't they had a different school I I don't even remember I think they had a even remember I think they had a different school some so there were no different school some so there were no girls till sixth standard uh but I girls till sixth standard uh but I remember and I have two three good remember and I have two three good friends from my you know till the time friends from my you know till the time sixth standard days and some of them are sixth standard days and some of them are doing well they are still in k I meet doing well they are still in k I meet them whenever I go it was a nagarish them whenever I go it was a nagarish school uh the first till about fourth school uh the first till about fourth standard the school was like half a standard the school was like half a minute away from where we used to stay minute away from where we used to stay so but you know carrying a tiffen was a so but you know carrying a tiffen was a part of the part of being part of the part of the part of being part of the class right so I would carry a tiffen class right so I would carry a tiffen and then I'll come and drop the tiffen and then I'll come and drop the tiffen at home before the next classes begin at home before the next classes begin you have all those kind of funny things you have all those kind of funny things that then from fifth standard fifth and that then from fifth standard fifth and sixth standard it was a little bit way. sixth standard it was a little bit way. So it was about 1 and a half kilometer So it was about 1 and a half kilometer from our house and we used to go there from our house and we used to go there and going and coming back especially and going and coming back especially coming back we'll be doing all kinds of coming back we'll be doing all kinds of mastis you know just running into the mastis you know just running into the forest which was quite close to the forest which was quite close to the school and all kinds of things and school and all kinds of things and I have had my body parts show very I have had my body parts show very clearly the kinds of mastis I used to do clearly the kinds of mastis I used to do you know rolling from the you know rolling from the in in the hills and those kinds of in in the hills and those kinds of things. So it was a Nagar parish school. things. So it was a Nagar parish school. Our English started from fifth standard. Our English started from fifth standard. The English teacher didn't know English The English teacher didn't know English at all. They came from what we used to at all. They came from what we used to call gart from Satara the plains call gart from Satara the plains basically. They were not from Konkan. basically. They were not from Konkan. Our Marathi teachers were very good. I Our Marathi teachers were very good. I did the Hindi exams. There were Hindi did the Hindi exams. There were Hindi exams at the fifth standard. And so exams at the fifth standard. And so fifth standard Hindi exams I did no big fifth standard Hindi exams I did no big aspirations at that point of time at all aspirations at that point of time at all if I remember correctly. if I remember correctly. Uh it was a happy golucky kind of a Uh it was a happy golucky kind of a childhood. We would play I had this childhood. We would play I had this ritual of going to the shop for my tea ritual of going to the shop for my tea and chunk paras in the afternoon. Uh and chunk paras in the afternoon. Uh Sundays would be roaming around all Sundays would be roaming around all kinds of things. We didn't have even kinds of things. We didn't have even like the toilet in the house. So like the toilet in the house. So opposite house had a toilet. So as kids opposite house had a toilet. So as kids we were that time the marathi word is we were that time the marathi word is parakare. Paras means the uh small kind parakare. Paras means the uh small kind of a growth of trees behind your house. of a growth of trees behind your house. So that was used for going for the So that was used for going for the toilet and those kinds of things and toilet and those kinds of things and that remained till I was there till I that remained till I was there till I left in uh in sixth standard. Uh so left in uh in sixth standard. Uh so that's another thing that happened. I that's another thing that happened. I had a mix of friends from the Brahmin had a mix of friends from the Brahmin community gujar community. So what do community gujar community. So what do you call gujaratis here the gujars they you call gujaratis here the gujars they are called gujars in so I had the I also are called gujars in so I had the I also had a people from sari community sari had a people from sari community sari means the kumbies in terms of the people means the kumbies in terms of the people who do the killing of the land kind of a who do the killing of the land kind of a cast so I had friends from all this I cast so I had friends from all this I don't remember any friends from the don't remember any friends from the dalit community at that stage uh I don't dalit community at that stage uh I don't know whether there were dalits in the know whether there were dalits in the school or not at that that stage I don't school or not at that that stage I don't remember it distinctly remember it distinctly uh but you always had this kind The uh but you always had this kind The Brahmin kids will come with a we we used Brahmin kids will come with a we we used to sit on the ground, right? So they to sit on the ground, right? So they would come with a kind of a small uh uh would come with a kind of a small uh uh chhattai uh and so that was a kind of a chhattai uh and so that was a kind of a very clear distinguishing thing. The very clear distinguishing thing. The second generation, third generation second generation, third generation education had a much more stable kind of education had a much more stable kind of a discipline in terms of what what they a discipline in terms of what what they will bring to the school their uh school will bring to the school their uh school bags and those kinds of things. Another bags and those kinds of things. Another thing I distinctly remember when I was thing I distinctly remember when I was in fifth standard there was a public in fifth standard there was a public speaking competition on Lokman. speaking competition on Lokman. I had even forgotten that I have signed I had even forgotten that I have signed up for it and I was doing a ga you know up for it and I was doing a ga you know remember ga so you have the old uh remember ga so you have the old uh wheels of the bicycle and you would take wheels of the bicycle and you would take a stick and then run behind that wheel a stick and then run behind that wheel that's kind that is a kind of a thing that's kind that is a kind of a thing called ga uh or we'll play goatei games called ga uh or we'll play goatei games we'll play vitandu I don't know what we'll play vitandu I don't know what what all these games are called in what all these games are called in English uh you know the you know vitanda English uh you know the you know vitanda no the wooden things you will play with no the wooden things you will play with that uh we'll do gull glory with all the that uh we'll do gull glory with all the stones being put and you throw a ball stones being put and you throw a ball and then it breaks and then the teams and then it breaks and then the teams have to come back and organize it have to come back and organize it without somebody touching your back with without somebody touching your back with the ball. All those kinds of games and the ball. All those kinds of games and those kind uh stealing fruits from those kind uh stealing fruits from anybody like we ourselves had trees of anybody like we ourselves had trees of GAWA and those in our own things. Uh GAWA and those in our own things. Uh Ramford Ramford is a male part of the Ramford Ramford is a male part of the sithafur the custard apple. So we had sithafur the custard apple. So we had those trees but chikus and others those trees but chikus and others somebody else would have will uh go that somebody else would have will uh go that they're sleeping now we'll go and get they're sleeping now we'll go and get the chos and so that was part of it. Uh the chos and so that was part of it. Uh swimming in the well was very early swimming in the well was very early stage we were like thrown in the thing stage we were like thrown in the thing with a dabbath uh tied to our back so with a dabbath uh tied to our back so that that we we deal with the fear of that that we we deal with the fear of the swimming. So that used to happen. So the swimming. So that used to happen. So it was a fun kind of a thing and uh uh it was a fun kind of a thing and uh uh you know in Konkan there is this you know in Konkan there is this tradition called uh taking out the palis tradition called uh taking out the palis palen palenkins in English palen palenkins in English you carry goddesses and gods of the you carry goddesses and gods of the village. village. village. Uh so as kids and I I was really beaten Uh so as kids and I I was really beaten up by my father during that period. We up by my father during that period. We some of us got together and do a kind of some of us got together and do a kind of a small palin and went to house to house a small palin and went to house to house to collect five pesas and 10 pes and to collect five pesas and 10 pes and that what we will do is what we had that what we will do is what we had today the peda so we'll go and buy a today the peda so we'll go and buy a path from all of us and that was like path from all of us and that was like our our gratification from collecting our our gratification from collecting that five pesas 10 pesas from various that five pesas 10 pesas from various and my father said what nonsense is this and my father said what nonsense is this how can you do this blah blah blah blah how can you do this blah blah blah blah blah because this is seen as something blah because this is seen as something which is uh lowering your status in the which is uh lowering your status in the in in the community that your son is in in the community that your son is roaming around with that palankin roaming around with that palankin getting five pesas and 10 pesas from the getting five pesas and 10 pesas from the neighbors. So somebody complained to him neighbors. So somebody complained to him but you know all this was part of that but you know all this was part of that life. part of that life. How much was focused on the study How much was focused on the study other than my mother ensuring that we other than my mother ensuring that we passed and she would be very strict with passed and she would be very strict with our getting our homework done so that we our getting our homework done so that we passed every year. uh I didn't even passed every year. uh I didn't even attend first standard because I already attend first standard because I already knew things I was put and that was quite knew things I was put and that was quite a common thing that time that if you a common thing that time that if you knew something you didn't there was knew something you didn't there was nothing like KG pre all that thing which nothing like KG pre all that thing which is existing now there was nothing is existing now there was nothing montary nothing was there you would go montary nothing was there you would go at the when you were 5 years old go and at the when you were 5 years old go and join the first standard because I join the first standard because I already knew a lot of things my mother already knew a lot of things my mother was very good in mathematics so she was very good in mathematics so she still remembers what is called pi you still remembers what is called pi you know all those um uh what do you call know all those um uh what do you call those um you remember those calculations those um you remember those calculations right because of those paras so she right because of those paras so she remembers that and she used to really remembers that and she used to really for force us to do some of those and do for force us to do some of those and do our writings and everything her her and our writings and everything her her and my father's handwriting is extremely my father's handwriting is extremely beautiful and I'm completely opposed my beautiful and I'm completely opposed my handwriting is worst uh mean as I was handwriting is worst uh mean as I was telling you before that you know nobody telling you before that you know nobody else can read my handwriting other than else can read my handwriting other than myself uh so she was very disciplined on myself uh so she was very disciplined on on those some of those things and uh so on those some of those things and uh so we we were like going through the what we we were like going through the what do you call the rituals of going to the do you call the rituals of going to the school passing every year and that so school passing every year and that so sixth standard because she felt that I'm sixth standard because she felt that I'm the most troublesome guy better that I the most troublesome guy better that I send him off to her father in Mumbai uh send him off to her father in Mumbai uh so when sixth standard I finished in K so when sixth standard I finished in K and for seventh standard I came to and for seventh standard I came to Mumbai that story we'll take later on Mumbai that story we'll take later on but I'll tell you in sixth standard I but I'll tell you in sixth standard I was highesting in English 23 marks but was highesting in English 23 marks but fail because 35 marks are passing. So fail because 35 marks are passing. So highest in English but failed. So that highest in English but failed. So that is when I came from sixth standard from is when I came from sixth standard from K to Mumbai. What else can I tell you K to Mumbai. What else can I tell you about that life? about that life? Tell me about swimming in the well like Tell me about swimming in the well like that intrigues me that you were thrown that intrigues me that you were thrown in with something tied to you so you in with something tied to you so you don't drown so you overcome the fear. don't drown so you overcome the fear. Yes. Yes. That was very normal. That was Yes. Yes. That was very normal. That was like your what do you call it your like your what do you call it your initiation process like like the uh initiation process like like the uh thread ceremony is seen as the thread ceremony is seen as the initiation in your puberty or preparing initiation in your puberty or preparing you for the grass dharma which is like you for the grass dharma which is like family going forward. Same way this uh family going forward. Same way this uh putting you in the well was part of that putting you in the well was part of that initiation of getting rid of the fear initiation of getting rid of the fear and then the next step was going into and then the next step was going into the river to swim. That is like how the the river to swim. That is like how the progression happened. progression happened. progression happened. And you would swim in the river also. Oh And you would swim in the river also. Oh yeah yeah yeah that because every year yeah yeah yeah that because every year we were again fortunate where both our we were again fortunate where both our houses the first house where I was grew houses the first house where I was grew up was at a higher plane. So we two up was at a higher plane. So we two three houses below the flood waters will three houses below the flood waters will come but our house was never in the come but our house was never in the flood and then the new house which got flood and then the new house which got built afterwards after I had left for built afterwards after I had left for Mumbai and everything that is also at a Mumbai and everything that is also at a higher plane. So actually the people higher plane. So actually the people affected in the floods would be taking affected in the floods would be taking shelter in our house for those 2 three shelter in our house for those 2 three days till the time the flood waters uh days till the time the flood waters uh recede but that was very regular and as recede but that was very regular and as kids we didn't know what damage the kids we didn't know what damage the floods are causing right we would floods are causing right we would basically use that as a swimming basically use that as a swimming opportunity and go and do mi in the opportunity and go and do mi in the water if I remember correctly that time water if I remember correctly that time nobody had a sense of that you know nobody had a sense of that you know there are people's houses which are there are people's houses which are under the water their grains have been under the water their grains have been destroyed whatever stoages they destroyed whatever stoages they None of that bothered us at that stage. None of that bothered us at that stage. We were basically going and having fun We were basically going and having fun on the flood waters basically and then on the flood waters basically and then one of our parents will be coming to one of our parents will be coming to search for us and really get us a search for us and really get us a beating to get back into the house beating to get back into the house because nobody knew if the water starts because nobody knew if the water starts receding quickly. You will never know receding quickly. You will never know where you can just be drawn into it and where you can just be drawn into it and disappear. disappear. disappear. But other than that, what else in that? But other than that, what else in that? So I told you about the whole So I told you about the whole crerematorium, the accident. The other crerematorium, the accident. The other thing was electricity was coming in that thing was electricity was coming in that time. We didn't have a radio at our time. We didn't have a radio at our house. Okay. So after dinner around 8:00 house. Okay. So after dinner around 8:00 we'll go to one of our uncle's house. we'll go to one of our uncle's house. Everybody's called uncle or aunt in a Everybody's called uncle or aunt in a village context who related or not village context who related or not related who had a radio. Uh so there we related who had a radio. Uh so there we will go and listen to the news. My will go and listen to the news. My father was very keen on listening to the father was very keen on listening to the news. We used to get a marathi newspaper news. We used to get a marathi newspaper because of my grandfather very clearly because of my grandfather very clearly with the uh what do you say the freedom with the uh what do you say the freedom struggle. So we had that. So we were in struggle. So we had that. So we were in a way better off than many others who a way better off than many others who wouldn't get any of these things you wouldn't get any of these things you know and then when we come to Mumbai know and then when we come to Mumbai we'll pick up the whole um bunch of uh we'll pick up the whole um bunch of uh you know kids magazines I remember sudar you know kids magazines I remember sudar son were talking about sandoba that was son were talking about sandoba that was a kind of a mainstay of our reading as a kind of a mainstay of our reading as kids very interesting very small things kids very interesting very small things and we'll get a whole collection from and we'll get a whole collection from our aunt as a gift and then we'll take our aunt as a gift and then we'll take it and then that will in a way uh remain it and then that will in a way uh remain for few few months and few you for few few months and few you to for reading to for reading uh and then this night was a every uh and then this night was a every everyday ritual. The other thing which everyday ritual. The other thing which is important I think is you know Sundays is important I think is you know Sundays were like a ritualistic bath. Uh every were like a ritualistic bath. Uh every day was like a quick bath before we run day was like a quick bath before we run to the school. You know quick bath taken to the school. You know quick bath taken by ourselves uh and then run to the by ourselves uh and then run to the school. Sunday were the whole process. school. Sunday were the whole process. So my father three of us will be lined So my father three of us will be lined up. I would be the first one who would up. I would be the first one who would go on his lap. Oil will be put on my go on his lap. Oil will be put on my head. The oils will be put in the ears head. The oils will be put in the ears and then we are ready. My mother will be and then we are ready. My mother will be ready with hot water with that you know ready with hot water with that you know remember those traditional bums where remember those traditional bums where you put the l below and then the water you put the l below and then the water gets heated. Uh so the hot water so gets heated. Uh so the hot water so those were like ritualistic baths every those were like ritualistic baths every Sunday that was all three of us used to Sunday that was all three of us used to follow that uh uh what is called ritual follow that uh uh what is called ritual in that sense. So that was quite in that sense. So that was quite important for uh and that I think has important for uh and that I think has helped me in terms of self-care and that helped me in terms of self-care and that kind of thing. I do that still for kind of thing. I do that still for myself in a way but that was kind of a myself in a way but that was kind of a founding of that. My father's father founding of that. My father's father used to drink alcohol in the evenings. used to drink alcohol in the evenings. So at a very early stage we were So at a very early stage we were introduced to drashasa. I don't know introduced to drashasa. I don't know whether you know this is a kind of a whether you know this is a kind of a syrup made from the grapes. It has a syrup made from the grapes. It has a alcohol content in it and as kids that alcohol content in it and as kids that was given to us Draasha's house and we was given to us Draasha's house and we used to really love it. It's sweet but used to really love it. It's sweet but it also had a tinge of alcohol that just it also had a tinge of alcohol that just put you in a good sleep kind of thing. put you in a good sleep kind of thing. Uh so that I remember very clearly that Uh so that I remember very clearly that that was part of the part of the that was part of the rituals. Every festival was a big thing. rituals. Every festival was a big thing. We had uh something called part where uh We had uh something called part where uh you had this uh religious readings of you had this uh religious readings of the book for a month and then it will the book for a month and then it will conclude after the month and that conclude after the month and that conclusion would have a whole village conclusion would have a whole village coming to your your house because it coming to your your house because it will end with a satyana and puja kind of will end with a satyana and puja kind of thing. Uh and uh women will uh do lot of thing. Uh and uh women will uh do lot of things in the house their own games and things in the house their own games and plays and you know fugi all those kinds plays and you know fugi all those kinds of things. Men would be outside at the of things. Men would be outside at the playing cards and waiting for the nastas playing cards and waiting for the nastas to come. So this will be like going in to come. So this will be like going in until about 12:00 midnight. I remember until about 12:00 midnight. I remember if somebody had had a fight with me as a if somebody had had a fight with me as a child, I would say I will not I will child, I would say I will not I will ensure that you are not called for that ensure that you are not called for that ceremony. So it's like a little bit of a ceremony. So it's like a little bit of a power uh thing that I remember very power uh thing that I remember very clearly that one of the guy I still clearly that one of the guy I still remember very clearly that he had some remember very clearly that he had some fight with me and I said fight with me and I said means I will not call you for that means I will not call you for that thing. So because it was seen as thing. So because it was seen as something which is important. So you had something which is important. So you had all this you know masala du then you all this you know masala du then you know some nice sweet shira and that kind know some nice sweet shira and that kind of thing cooked at home for everybody of thing cooked at home for everybody who would come for that part ending some who would come for that part ending some upy of the part one month reading of the upy of the part one month reading of the religious scriptures. So that of another religious scriptures. So that of another interesting thing in terms of the so interesting thing in terms of the so socialization of the of the of the socialization of the of the of the process. We were manuries for palankins. process. We were manuries for palankins. You know the manuries are the people who You know the manuries are the people who have a honor where the goddess village have a honor where the goddess village goddess that palankin is put down goddess that palankin is put down because other houses they will go the because other houses they will go the you will come out you'll do the arty and you will come out you'll do the arty and then you'll go and the pali will go to then you'll go and the pali will go to the next door. So it so you had about 11 the next door. So it so you had about 11 or 12 families where the paly would be or 12 families where the paly would be sitting down for a few hours. So that's sitting down for a few hours. So that's like the that's called manuri honor like the that's called manuri honor honories if I can correct that in honories if I can correct that in English word honories. So some of that I English word honories. So some of that I think was part of that whole think was part of that whole socialization process of you know seeing socialization process of you know seeing and then there was something called BC and then there was something called BC BC I don't know whether you know this or BC I don't know whether you know this or not women would have their own kind of not women would have their own kind of saving mechanisms by contributing to saving mechanisms by contributing to Bishi so like 5 years every month so 15 Bishi so like 5 years every month so 15 women are contributing 55 rupees okay so women are contributing 55 rupees okay so 15 into five that will be the bishi and 15 into five that will be the bishi and then there will be a so all the kids then there will be a so all the kids would be also going with their mothers would be also going with their mothers so because whoever is hosting the VC so because whoever is hosting the VC that time uh will be the person who will that time uh will be the person who will be cooking something nice for the be cooking something nice for the everybody and then that time they will everybody and then that time they will say who has won the VC that time so that say who has won the VC that time so that person will get all that money person will get all that money collectively together next time somebody collectively together next time somebody else will get so if I get it if my else will get so if I get it if my mother gets it this time we'll be mother gets it this time we'll be hosting the BC next time you know that's hosting the BC next time you know that's the kind of a culture that so that was the kind of a culture that so that was one way of you know having some money one way of you know having some money together uh because you didn't have too together uh because you didn't have too many of this bank deposits recurring many of this bank deposits recurring deposits none of that so this was one deposits none of that so this was one way women used to have the chunk of way women used to have the chunk of money coming together and that I think money coming together and that I think is still continuing in many of the is still continuing in many of the busties in Mumbai and all lot of these busties in Mumbai and all lot of these domestic workers and have their BCs uh domestic workers and have their BCs uh now of course it's no more 5 rupees it's now of course it's no more 5 rupees it's 500 rupee that kind of thing everybody 500 rupee that kind of thing everybody contributes and now you can actually buy contributes and now you can actually buy and sell BC I am in need this time so and sell BC I am in need this time so you won it I will give you little more you won it I will give you little more money to buy the BC from you so I will money to buy the BC from you so I will get the chunk but you will get uh get the chunk but you will get uh additional money it's in a way it's kind additional money it's in a way it's kind of a trade that happens now Oh that that of a trade that happens now Oh that that time it was not so so I remember those time it was not so so I remember those instances where you and that was again instances where you and that was again interesting because you would go to a interesting because you would go to a brahmin houses you would go to non- brahmin houses you would go to non- brahmin houses gujar houses because the brahmin houses gujar houses because the bishes were mixed but no dalits again bishes were mixed but no dalits again it's the four first four categories were it's the four first four categories were okay but untouchables were not part of okay but untouchables were not part of that grouping in any case so that's uh that grouping in any case so that's uh another thing that I remember very another thing that I remember very clearly during that uh that uh that clearly during that uh that uh that period We used to be at each other's period We used to be at each other's house quite often. Uh so people will house quite often. Uh so people will come to my house, I'll go to somebody come to my house, I'll go to somebody else's house to play in the afternoon. else's house to play in the afternoon. So it was a very strong kind of a uh it So it was a very strong kind of a uh it was not like any barriers. You could was not like any barriers. You could just go and I remember going and asking just go and I remember going and asking for food because if I'm hungry and it for food because if I'm hungry and it was not out of anything else it just you was not out of anything else it just you consider that house also as your house. consider that house also as your house. So if I go to say Milin's house, Milin So if I go to say Milin's house, Milin is a person now who owns a kind of a uh is a person now who owns a kind of a uh freeze cold cold drink business in he's freeze cold cold drink business in he's still there in in K called Madupea. So I still there in in K called Madupea. So I will go to his house Gujar. So the his will go to his house Gujar. So the his mother will naturally offer us uh food mother will naturally offer us uh food if I we there for during the lunchtime if I we there for during the lunchtime or in the evening tea time it will be or in the evening tea time it will be offered to us naturally without any uh offered to us naturally without any uh second thought. And the same thing would second thought. And the same thing would happen at my place if somebody's coming happen at my place if somebody's coming except veg and non-veg issues would be except veg and non-veg issues would be there because at my place except for few there because at my place except for few days I think Mondays uh Thursdays and days I think Mondays uh Thursdays and Saturdays every other day would be some Saturdays every other day would be some fish or you know some non-veg every fish or you know some non-veg every Sunday is either the mutton or chicken Sunday is either the mutton or chicken that was a kind of a standard thing that was a kind of a standard thing which gujas will not eat because they're which gujas will not eat because they're completely vegetarians. So keeping all completely vegetarians. So keeping all those factors in mind. So I think as I those factors in mind. So I think as I was saying that you know it was a kind was saying that you know it was a kind of a carefree of a carefree not too much stress uh I was in a joint not too much stress uh I was in a joint family. So that's that's another family. So that's that's another important so we were 40 people in the important so we were 40 people in the house. So it's not a small family. So my house. So it's not a small family. So my father father father uh my father's father's and all the uh my father's father's and all the aunts and everybody even the elder aunt aunts and everybody even the elder aunt who became a nurse uh because she had who became a nurse uh because she had separated from her husband her kids were separated from her husband her kids were with us uh they were much older than me. with us uh they were much older than me. Uh then the my grandfather's younger Uh then the my grandfather's younger brother who had died early his kids uh brother who had died early his kids uh were at our house. So my mother when now were at our house. So my mother when now she she feels you know she used to like she she feels you know she used to like cook for 40 people. She was a uh kind of cook for 40 people. She was a uh kind of a daughter-in-law of the eldest in the a daughter-in-law of the eldest in the family. So she has a lot of lot of anger family. So she has a lot of lot of anger about it saying that oh I have like uh about it saying that oh I have like uh done chapati for 40 people. Can you done chapati for 40 people. Can you imagine my shoulders are gone completely imagine my shoulders are gone completely kaput because of that kind of thing. So kaput because of that kind of thing. So she has that uh deep sitted anger of uh she has that uh deep sitted anger of uh and she came from a relatively rich and she came from a relatively rich family. I will talk about her family at family. I will talk about her family at some stage. uh relative relatively rich some stage. uh relative relatively rich family and then uh she came into this uh family and then uh she came into this uh kind of a village situation because even kind of a village situation because even if it is a facil town it's tala place if it is a facil town it's tala place but still from Mumbai that place is but still from Mumbai that place is still a village right uh so that I still a village right uh so that I remember distinctly and then there used remember distinctly and then there used to be to be to be a eldest I was always privileged let me a eldest I was always privileged let me be honest about it so like I'll give you be honest about it so like I'll give you a simple thing these are small incences a simple thing these are small incences but they they make a distinction like but they they make a distinction like when the mutton Mutton will come there when the mutton Mutton will come there will be a liver of the mutton right will be a liver of the mutton right which which is which is brought which which is which is brought separately or which is which comes as separately or which is which comes as how much mutton you know with that how much mutton you know with that family you are talking about 2 three kg family you are talking about 2 three kg of mutton and then you'll get a good of mutton and then you'll get a good chunk of the liver I have the eldest chunk of the liver I have the eldest grandson in the family I had the first grandson in the family I had the first right on the liver which would be cooked right on the liver which would be cooked in the uh we had those cigaris know with in the uh we had those cigaris know with the coal and the wood things so it will the coal and the wood things so it will be uh roasted in that and then all of us be uh roasted in that and then all of us will get as per our age so I'll get the will get as per our age so I'll get the biggest piece. My brother will get a biggest piece. My brother will get a little smaller piece and the younger one little smaller piece and the younger one will get a smaller smallest piece. Or if will get a smaller smallest piece. Or if it is a chicken then uh chicken would it is a chicken then uh chicken would have those eggs inside. So what we'll have those eggs inside. So what we'll call jali egg kajali. So that again will call jali egg kajali. So that again will be specifically for the young kids. And be specifically for the young kids. And again being the eldest I would have the again being the eldest I would have the first first right on that. So when I first first right on that. So when I reflect back, I feel reflect back, I feel bad about it that I was in a way quite bad about it that I was in a way quite privileged at one level being the eldest privileged at one level being the eldest quote unquote grandson and how the quote unquote grandson and how the patriarchal thing if it would have been patriarchal thing if it would have been the um a girl at my thing it would have the um a girl at my thing it would have been totally different situation. She been totally different situation. She would have been already pushed into would have been already pushed into doing a lot of housework and those kinds doing a lot of housework and those kinds of things. I can very well imagine but of things. I can very well imagine but because I was a son and the first because I was a son and the first grandson born for both the families from grandson born for both the families from my mother's side as well as father's my mother's side as well as father's side I had those some of those side I had those some of those privileges I know whether I was I privileges I know whether I was I exploited those privileges or not I exploited those privileges or not I don't think I exploited them but I just don't think I exploited them but I just enjoyed them that I can enjoyed them that I can it was not like I resisted those it was not like I resisted those privileges at that age to be honest you privileges at that age to be honest you know I I was fine you know to have my know I I was fine you know to have my little long larger piece of the mutton little long larger piece of the mutton uh goat labor or uh chicken liver or uh goat labor or uh chicken liver or chicken jar. So the lot of this Amit has chicken jar. So the lot of this Amit has shaped my life in a way uh you know and shaped my life in a way uh you know and I do remember some of these things very I do remember some of these things very distinctly because now it's again part distinctly because now it's again part of the first question you raised about of the first question you raised about reflection because I keep reflecting you reflection because I keep reflecting you know how you know you have this know how you know you have this fundamental question now why am I the fundamental question now why am I the way I am that's the question that you way I am that's the question that you continuously ask yourself or you have continuously ask yourself or you have movements in life and what made me who I movements in life and what made me who I am you know so if you look at it it's am you know so if you look at it it's it's not one or the other. It's so many it's not one or the other. It's so many different streams of um societal different streams of um societal behavior, familial behavior, the context behavior, familial behavior, the context in which you were uh you were growing in which you were uh you were growing and you were absorbing all that I think and you were absorbing all that I think somewhere and uh the point I made I was somewhere and uh the point I made I was a curious kid that I was I think as a a curious kid that I was I think as a young kid I wanted to know every damn young kid I wanted to know every damn thing very clearly. uh thing every damn thing very clearly. uh uh as uh you know the Sudiri told you uh as uh you know the Sudiri told you the only way we could travel took care the only way we could travel took care was by bus and it was so interesting to was by bus and it was so interesting to travel by bus and we had those single travel by bus and we had those single roads now of course those roads are much roads now of course those roads are much bigger uh so there were times when the bigger uh so there were times when the buses would have to push back to allow buses would have to push back to allow other bus to get in and all kind and we other bus to get in and all kind and we used to enjoy that journey those used to enjoy that journey those journeys were like 7 8 hours that time journeys were like 7 8 hours that time Amit not now I go to K 5 hours and I Amit not now I go to K 5 hours and I still find it very long because that still find it very long because that damn road Mumbai Goa road is still not damn road Mumbai Goa road is still not complete for last 20 years. Uh but I 5 complete for last 20 years. Uh but I 5 hours but as kids we have spent time 8 hours but as kids we have spent time 8 hours the buses used to change at Mahad hours the buses used to change at Mahad you know uh so I knew exactly what is to you know uh so I knew exactly what is to be eaten at Mahad what is to be eaten at be eaten at Mahad what is to be eaten at Indapur. So every place had its own Indapur. So every place had its own specialtity that we would be given. So specialtity that we would be given. So Indapur kandabaji you have to have a Indapur kandabaji you have to have a kandabaji at Mahad you have to have a kandabaji at Mahad you have to have a badawada. So you know all that was lined badawada. So you know all that was lined up as kids up as kids and coming to Mumbai every time I built and coming to Mumbai every time I built some good friendships. Uh met people at some good friendships. Uh met people at Chopati during those summer vacations. Chopati during those summer vacations. Some of those friendships have continued Some of those friendships have continued uh even now because we just meet we used uh even now because we just meet we used to be there as a group of three three of to be there as a group of three three of us three brothers and we met another us three brothers and we met another groups who playing and then we joined. groups who playing and then we joined. So there was one group which we joined So there was one group which we joined which still remained as a as a group which still remained as a as a group which I still connect with at least one which I still connect with at least one of them one of the persons there. I want of them one of the persons there. I want to go back to your friends in K like you to go back to your friends in K like you mentioned that even today when you go mentioned that even today when you go back you meet your old friends there and back you meet your old friends there and some of them would have done well like some of them would have done well like Milindu with his soft drink business Milindu with his soft drink business some of them would not have done so well some of them would not have done so well and in a sense it's it's kind of poant and in a sense it's it's kind of poant and also a reflection of life's journey and also a reflection of life's journey that I can do a freeze frame to some that I can do a freeze frame to some moment in 1965 or 1966 where all of you moment in 1965 or 1966 where all of you are together and you're playing together are together and you're playing together and you're equals and you are in that and you're equals and you are in that same moment and you're feeling the same same moment and you're feeling the same thing and then the worlds diverge you thing and then the worlds diverge you know and then the worlds diverge and uh know and then the worlds diverge and uh you go all all around the world you live you go all all around the world you live in London then you come back to Mumbai in London then you come back to Mumbai the narrow roads become larger and some the narrow roads become larger and some people stay there some people perhaps people stay there some people perhaps move to cities when you meet them today move to cities when you meet them today what is it that you feel what is it that what is it that you feel what is it that you think they feel how different are you think they feel how different are your lives how much have you changed as your lives how much have you changed as people because of what the world gave people because of what the world gave you or did not give you you or did not give you that's a very interesting question that's a very interesting question because actually I count five people because actually I count five people whom I have been in touch with quite whom I have been in touch with quite regularly. So Milin is one person who regularly. So Milin is one person who owns this shop called Madupaya. owns this shop called Madupaya. Uh he didn't pursue his education. Uh he didn't pursue his education. After 10th he just joined his father's After 10th he just joined his father's business and he's doing very well. We business and he's doing very well. We are very very good friends. are very very good friends. Financially is all well. Financially is all well. uh another person from a Brahmin uh another person from a Brahmin community, Bhat Carlay community, Bhat Carlay coming from a very poor family but coming from a very poor family but Bharat got trained as a what do you call Bharat got trained as a what do you call as a in the health system you have all as a in the health system you have all these people who are like health these people who are like health assistants he got trained as that and he assistants he got trained as that and he joined the healthare system of joined the healthare system of government of Maharashtra government of Maharashtra he found his future wife who comes from he found his future wife who comes from a kumbi community now that's very a kumbi community now that's very interesting you see the changes. So interesting you see the changes. So kunis are the people who are like kunis are the people who are like basically the tillers of the land, basically the tillers of the land, right? And he's Brahman. Uh they got right? And he's Brahman. Uh they got married. See they met him met at this married. See they met him met at this thing. So they got married. thing. So they got married. Third person with whom I have a little Third person with whom I have a little bit of a stress relationship. Uh he came bit of a stress relationship. Uh he came from the uh what do you call the um from the uh what do you call the um goldsmith community. He was always a goldsmith community. He was always a little bit of a distinct person because little bit of a distinct person because his father owned a chemist and a his father owned a chemist and a pharmacy shop even that time. So he was pharmacy shop even that time. So he was a pharmacist his father he became a a pharmacist his father he became a regional manager of state bank of India regional manager of state bank of India but he was he he is now trying to mend but he was he he is now trying to mend the relationship with us because he the relationship with us because he knows that whenever Minar visits he's knows that whenever Minar visits he's sitting at Moduaya having his Kashmir sitting at Moduaya having his Kashmir soda so he will come and say hello that soda so he will come and say hello that time but I find him little bit more um time but I find him little bit more um his his wife is a doctor and you know so his his wife is a doctor and you know so not too much interacting with because he not too much interacting with because he believes that others haven't done so believes that others haven't done so Well, you know, Milan didn't pursue his Well, you know, Milan didn't pursue his education. Bat were like the&amp;m, you education. Bat were like the&amp;m, you know, uh in the health system. know, uh in the health system. There was another one, I don't even know There was another one, I don't even know his first name. He we used to call him his first name. He we used to call him Dada. Uh again, Brahmin uh he also Dada. Uh again, Brahmin uh he also retired from State Bank of India. So a retired from State Bank of India. So a lot of these people so all the people lot of these people so all the people that I'm talking about and few people I that I'm talking about and few people I tried to locate where they have gone uh tried to locate where they have gone uh like this there was one person from the like this there was one person from the thi community who was in our class very thi community who was in our class very sharp guy I have not been able to locate sharp guy I have not been able to locate when I keep asking where has he gone when I keep asking where has he gone where has what has happened to him I where has what has happened to him I don't find him in the in the circuit at don't find him in the in the circuit at this point of time so if you see now lot this point of time so if you see now lot of my relationship with gojars uh of my relationship with gojars uh brahmins that which are still active uh brahmins that which are still active uh and this uh goldsmith. So basically and this uh goldsmith. So basically again something which is at in terms of again something which is at in terms of cast system my par or little above my cast system my par or little above my par brahinss and you know that kind of par brahinss and you know that kind of thing that those relationships have thing that those relationships have remained gojas are vishas basically so remained gojas are vishas basically so third layer in the cast system third layer in the cast system uh uh uh none of them I find when I interact with none of them I find when I interact with them whether with bhat or millin who are them whether with bhat or millin who are there I don't see any regrets on either there I don't see any regrets on either of them in terms of what choices that of them in terms of what choices that they I have made and somewhere it's not they I have made and somewhere it's not like there is any thing oh minar has like there is any thing oh minar has become like this or when even from my become like this or when even from my side we relate as if we don't have to side we relate as if we don't have to start a fresh or new we just relate as start a fresh or new we just relate as milind and minar as if we were in the milind and minar as if we were in the sixth standard and that friendship just sixth standard and that friendship just continues irrespective of what we have continues irrespective of what we have achieved or what we have not achieved so achieved or what we have not achieved so the question you asking whether there's the question you asking whether there's any difference in relationship any difference in relationship we go back and still so million Milan we go back and still so million Milan feels proud that whenever I'm there I feels proud that whenever I'm there I cannot get out of even if I go for a day cannot get out of even if I go for a day I'll meet him. So he will tell all the I'll meet him. So he will tell all the friends of ours common friends friends of ours common friends means he has to meet me he will not go means he has to meet me he will not go back to Mumbai before meeting me. So back to Mumbai before meeting me. So other than that I don't find anything other than that I don't find anything distinction at all. So bat I go to his distinction at all. So bat I go to his house he comes to my place. So that house he comes to my place. So that those things about you know whether he those things about you know whether he has achieved his son is doing very well. has achieved his son is doing very well. He's a diploma engineer in electronics. He's a diploma engineer in electronics. Both his daughters have become like MBA. Both his daughters have become like MBA. Um and so I'm talking about Bhat and his Um and so I'm talking about Bhat and his his family. Uh Milin's his family. Uh Milin's uh one son is a MDS master of dentistry uh one son is a MDS master of dentistry and has his own. So I went went to to and has his own. So I went went to to his wedding just few months back in Pune his wedding just few months back in Pune because that's a kind of a family because that's a kind of a family relationship that has got built. Uh they relationship that has got built. Uh they know Alpa very well. Alpa knows them and know Alpa very well. Alpa knows them and also again alpa being gujarati they also again alpa being gujarati they being gujas there is some kind of a being gujas there is some kind of a commonality vegetarian blah blah blah commonality vegetarian blah blah blah all that all that also plays into the all that all that also plays into the into the thing and I have myself never into the thing and I have myself never felt as if you know I'm different or you felt as if you know I'm different or you know I've done something greater than know I've done something greater than what they have been able to do what they have been able to do I think the sense in which I'm asking I think the sense in which I'm asking about how you feel and how they feel is about how you feel and how they feel is u I would imagine that the affection and u I would imagine that the affection and the mutual respect is the same the mutual respect is the same and would not have changed but in terms and would not have changed but in terms of the constellation of interests in of the constellation of interests in terms of the universe inside your heads terms of the universe inside your heads there would be a difference and I'm I'm there would be a difference and I'm I'm guessing that you know once upon a time guessing that you know once upon a time when you're sitting as fourth standard when you're sitting as fourth standard kids and chatting all of you have the kids and chatting all of you have the same universe in your head but now it's same universe in your head but now it's completely different and you have to go completely different and you have to go to whatever you have in common with to whatever you have in common with them. So what what what happens them. So what what what happens interestingly now is say mill will ask interestingly now is say mill will ask his son to have a interaction with me his son to have a interaction with me when you'll get some new ideas. So that when you'll get some new ideas. So that happens so bat also will tell his son happens so bat also will tell his son means you talk to him talk to min means you talk to him talk to min because he has this exposure. So it's because he has this exposure. So it's not about them it's about how the not about them it's about how the younger generation of theirs can benefit younger generation of theirs can benefit from some of the exposure that I have from some of the exposure that I have had. So that I see I so responding to had. So that I see I so responding to your question that is very clear and your question that is very clear and that people do very consciously even in terms of education what they even in terms of education what they should be doing for the in the early should be doing for the in the early stages this is what his interest is is stages this is what his interest is is this very is this a good decision those this very is this a good decision those kinds of discussions have happened good kinds of discussions have happened good that you are asking me this question that you are asking me this question because uh so that is a distinction so because uh so that is a distinction so it's not only now remained as they and it's not only now remained as they and me but they see their kids interacting me but they see their kids interacting with me uh as a as an interesting with me uh as a as an interesting conversation. So they're present but conversation. So they're present but then they allow that then they allow that conversation to happen by by itself conversation to happen by by itself which is which is a different thing which is which is a different thing because of a particularity that I bring because of a particularity that I bring uh bring to the uh to the table because uh bring to the uh to the table because I think you know coming from that tiny I think you know coming from that tiny village when I had zero clue what's what village when I had zero clue what's what my life awaits in that sense right when my life awaits in that sense right when I shifted from sixth standard to Mumbai I shifted from sixth standard to Mumbai and seventh standard I had no clue where and seventh standard I had no clue where my life is going to take my life is going to take you know my fa my mother's father uh had you know my fa my mother's father uh had only two dreams for me. One he said only two dreams for me. One he said become a sub inspector because he was become a sub inspector because he was always wanting uh somebody from the law always wanting uh somebody from the law enforcement as part of his family or enforcement as part of his family or join my business. So join the silver join my business. So join the silver factory. My father's grand father's factory. My father's grand father's father uh was he himself came from the father uh was he himself came from the freedom movement but was not in a way it freedom movement but was not in a way it was my mother's influence much more and was my mother's influence much more and mother also didn't have a clarity on mother also didn't have a clarity on what they should be. what she she knew what they should be. what she she knew very clearly is very clearly is shikan zalap means they should educate shikan zalap means they should educate themselves and I'm going to ensure that themselves and I'm going to ensure that they will educate themselves that was they will educate themselves that was what they will do after education this what they will do after education this that and the other and then I I'll come that and the other and then I I'll come to that I actually was one of I was to that I actually was one of I was lucky to be out of a I'm using this word lucky to be out of a I'm using this word in quotes clutches uh when I was 10 in quotes clutches uh when I was 10 years old both my brothers for all their years old both my brothers for all their life decisions life decisions life decisions till the time till about two three years till the time till about two three years back when she was still very sharp in back when she was still very sharp in her thinking and everything. Every her thinking and everything. Every decision that they took had to be decision that they took had to be consulted with my mother. Uh because I consulted with my mother. Uh because I left for Mumbai when I was 10 years old left for Mumbai when I was 10 years old in uh 1971 in uh 1971 uh 10 11 years old. Uh I think I got a uh 10 11 years old. Uh I think I got a much bigger freedom and I could pursue much bigger freedom and I could pursue my interests much much more deeply than my interests much much more deeply than two of my brothers. My second brother two of my brothers. My second brother became uh MSE in chemistry. My youngest became uh MSE in chemistry. My youngest brother uh became a diploma holder from brother uh became a diploma holder from Bubai in I think uh mechanical Bubai in I think uh mechanical engineering and then he joined BST and engineering and then he joined BST and that kind of thing. So they've been into that kind of thing. So they've been into that because my mother's that because my mother's huge kind of a control and the emphasis huge kind of a control and the emphasis of what they should be doing what they of what they should be doing what they should not be doing uh how their life should not be doing uh how their life should be kind of thing. uh so me being should be kind of thing. uh so me being away from her from that age I think have away from her from that age I think have been beneficial when I look back but been beneficial when I look back but there was a time in that period when I there was a time in that period when I was physical changes were happening in was physical changes were happening in in my body I wasn't uh being very well in my body I wasn't uh being very well accepted in the school here Chikis sak accepted in the school here Chikis sak school and I'll talk about it later I school and I'll talk about it later I had nobody to talk to in that sense my had nobody to talk to in that sense my father being he was already there he was father being he was already there he was in in Mumbai from 72 years back 6970 he in in Mumbai from 72 years back 6970 he came here to manage the factory of my uh came here to manage the factory of my uh my grandfather, silver factory of my my grandfather, silver factory of my grandfather grandfather grandfather and uh but I had nobody to talk to in and uh but I had nobody to talk to in that sense other than the people we that sense other than the people we stayed in Chaw in called Kolachi in in stayed in Chaw in called Kolachi in in Takulo. So there were times when I used Takulo. So there were times when I used to feel very very lonely. I remember to feel very very lonely. I remember especially around the festivals uh especially around the festivals uh knowing that my two brothers you know uh knowing that my two brothers you know uh my mother my father would have would go my mother my father would have would go from Mumbai they would be enjoying from Mumbai they would be enjoying themselves and I'm just sitting here in themselves and I'm just sitting here in Mumbai by myself you know so I had those Mumbai by myself you know so I had those those bouts of um insecurity or feeling those bouts of um insecurity or feeling a little bit uh left to oneself a little bit uh left to oneself during that period but when I look back during that period but when I look back I think that was a huge huge benefit for I think that was a huge huge benefit for me to be pretty independent and being me to be pretty independent and being literally out of my mother's control literally out of my mother's control because she's very control strong because she's very control strong control freak. While chatting about all control freak. While chatting about all your friends and care, you also your friends and care, you also mentioned everyone's cast and I'm mentioned everyone's cast and I'm thinking that obviously looking back now thinking that obviously looking back now having studied our society the way that having studied our society the way that you have, you would of course be hyper you have, you would of course be hyper aware of all of this. But was that cast aware of all of this. But was that cast consciousness very strong in those days? consciousness very strong in those days? Like give me a sense of the role that Like give me a sense of the role that cast played first in care and then cast played first in care and then perhaps later like I imagine it would perhaps later like I imagine it would have been less in a city so the have been less in a city so the consciousness of it would have been more consciousness of it would have been more in the village you know. What was your in the village you know. What was your consciousness of it? What was the anger consciousness of it? What was the anger that you felt about it? You mentioned that you felt about it? You mentioned that early on you had that uh moment of that early on you had that uh moment of instinctive uh reaction when uh the the instinctive uh reaction when uh the the Dal gentleman went to draw water from Dal gentleman went to draw water from that well and he wasn't allowed to and that well and he wasn't allowed to and uh so how did your consciousness of that uh so how did your consciousness of that develop and was there a sense of you develop and was there a sense of you know like in a sense it's like being the know like in a sense it's like being the eldest grandson all over again though of eldest grandson all over again though of course you were relatively lower down in course you were relatively lower down in the chain but equally you were not a the chain but equally you were not a Dalith as well so uh so you're not Dalith as well so uh so you're not actually the eldest grandson now you're actually the eldest grandson now you're one the perhaps uh a little lower down. one the perhaps uh a little lower down. So So So what was that experience like? How did what was that experience like? How did you see it affect the people around you? you see it affect the people around you? Was it normalized by them? And how did Was it normalized by them? And how did your consciousness of it change you and your consciousness of it change you and change the things you wanted to do in change the things you wanted to do in life and the way you viewed the world? life and the way you viewed the world? So I think the the fundamental So I think the the fundamental distinguishing factor of my me being distinguishing factor of my me being accepted by the Gujars and the Brahmans accepted by the Gujars and the Brahmans were the whole economic status. Uh so were the whole economic status. Uh so among the uh the cast that I belong to among the uh the cast that I belong to there only two families which owned the there only two families which owned the shops of the uh brass and copper wear shops of the uh brass and copper wear and who were producing those while all and who were producing those while all others were actually others were actually working uh in our shops or somewhere working uh in our shops or somewhere else. So even in the cast because of the else. So even in the cast because of the economic status we were at a little economic status we were at a little higher than the other members of the higher than the other members of the same cast. So what what I when I reflect same cast. So what what I when I reflect back would I have been accepted as I was back would I have been accepted as I was accepted by all these Brahmin Gujar accepted by all these Brahmin Gujar friends if I was say like another friends if I was say like another friend I had who unfortunately died uh friend I had who unfortunately died uh surya. Uh so he he was a son of a same surya. Uh so he he was a son of a same cast but at a much lower economic thing. cast but at a much lower economic thing. he would never be accepted in in the he would never be accepted in in the circles that I was roaming around circles that I was roaming around because of the so I think it whether you because of the so I think it whether you like it or not even the cast adjusts like it or not even the cast adjusts with the economic status you enjoy in with the economic status you enjoy in the village okay also I think because of the village okay also I think because of my grandfather's my grandfather's my grandfather's legacy of the you know freedom struggle legacy of the you know freedom struggle he being a member of the first nagar he being a member of the first nagar parishad council member of that did play parishad council member of that did play a important role another thing my father a important role another thing my father the RSS activist. It's very interesting. the RSS activist. It's very interesting. Uh so he had the um what do you call um Uh so he had the um what do you call um warrant during the emergency on him but warrant during the emergency on him but by that time he was much more closer to by that time he was much more closer to the congress. PK Sawant was one of the the congress. PK Sawant was one of the very famous politician of Congress from very famous politician of Congress from the Conan region. He intervened and the Conan region. He intervened and cancelled the ars warrant on him. So cancelled the ars warrant on him. So there is because everybody even I used there is because everybody even I used to go to the RSS Shakha because that was to go to the RSS Shakha because that was the only play group activity that was the only play group activity that was structured and organized in the village. structured and organized in the village. So if you want to go somewhere uh with a So if you want to go somewhere uh with a structured play group that was the only structured play group that was the only opportunity nobody had thought about opportunity nobody had thought about whatever whatever we used to just enjoy whatever whatever we used to just enjoy having that fun. So I think that the having that fun. So I think that the class factor, this legacy factor did class factor, this legacy factor did play a role in the acceptance that I had play a role in the acceptance that I had with the u with the other higher cast in with the u with the other higher cast in that sense which when I look at the that sense which when I look at the others they didn't have that. So they others they didn't have that. So they wouldn't be sitting with at Milan's wouldn't be sitting with at Milan's house to eat lunch or dinner. No way house to eat lunch or dinner. No way because they were not in the same kind because they were not in the same kind of a uh class uh in terms of the of a uh class uh in terms of the economic class. So I think that is one economic class. So I think that is one distinguishing factor when I look back distinguishing factor when I look back how did I accept or now how now of how did I accept or now how now of course it's a very different thing course it's a very different thing because now I'm in terms of to class because now I'm in terms of to class character where I belong is completely character where I belong is completely different than many of the friends that different than many of the friends that that I still continue to have that I still continue to have relationship with but that was I think a relationship with but that was I think a kind of a crucial difference between the kind of a crucial difference between the others and as I said I don't except for others and as I said I don't except for this one instance about this Dalith man this one instance about this Dalith man being refused to allow to draw the water being refused to allow to draw the water from the well I don't don't remember from the well I don't don't remember a Dalit student in my class till sixth a Dalit student in my class till sixth standard there may have been I don't standard there may have been I don't know because Konkan was not that much of know because Konkan was not that much of a though Ambiterkar had a strong a though Ambiterkar had a strong affinity so the mahar satagra happened affinity so the mahar satagra happened in conan mahar is on my way to k in conan mahar is on my way to k basically that's where the sa the sa basically that's where the sa the sa satagra the agitation for breaking the satagra the agitation for breaking the taboo of that lake in mahar uh but taboo of that lake in mahar uh but that kind of a conscious iousness of a that kind of a conscious iousness of a strong uh Buddhist community that kind strong uh Buddhist community that kind of thing that you see when you travel to of thing that you see when you travel to Vidharba, when you travel to Maratwara, Vidharba, when you travel to Maratwara, when you travel to western Maharashtra, when you travel to western Maharashtra, you don't see that in Konkan that much. you don't see that in Konkan that much. Conan still is in that uh sanane guruji Conan still is in that uh sanane guruji uh you know that kind of a tradition uh you know that kind of a tradition where you have lot of harmony and those where you have lot of harmony and those those kinds of things. Of course the those kinds of things. Of course the bodhawarad or maharad will be little bodhawarad or maharad will be little outside the village that still continues outside the village that still continues to be in terms of the uh the planning of to be in terms of the uh the planning of the village systems organically which the village systems organically which have come up uh but other than that I have come up uh but other than that I don't remember uh that anywhere I felt don't remember uh that anywhere I felt um you know discriminated other than um you know discriminated other than being you know not coming from because being you know not coming from because for any artisal community education for any artisal community education wasn't given a huge uh priority so it wasn't given a huge uh priority so it was not like we were pushed to become was not like we were pushed to become like engineers or doctors that was not like engineers or doctors that was not the dreams we were brought up with. I'm the dreams we were brought up with. I'm sure people like Ajit or people like uh sure people like Ajit or people like uh Milan or people like Bhat even if it was Milan or people like Bhat even if it was not beyond their capacity. Their parents not beyond their capacity. Their parents would surely be talking about why don't would surely be talking about why don't you become so and so so and so. I don't you become so and so so and so. I don't I don't even remember once where my I don't even remember once where my mother my father was in a way pretty mother my father was in a way pretty much out of this scene of what our much out of this scene of what our educational evolution is. uh I don't educational evolution is. uh I don't remember that we were pushed other than remember that we were pushed other than every year we must pass you know that every year we must pass you know that was a basic thing and then we will see was a basic thing and then we will see how how things evolve kind of thing it how how things evolve kind of thing it was not like a plan thing that you now was not like a plan thing that you now see with many many things I don't know see with many many things I don't know whether I have responded to your whether I have responded to your question because that is the kind of a question because that is the kind of a thing that made a lot of difference our thing that made a lot of difference our class uh status in the in the village class uh status in the in the village made a lot of difference in terms of made a lot of difference in terms of acceptance by other communities acceptance by other communities you've mentioned um your mother in the you've mentioned um your mother in the context of the contrast that uh she context of the contrast that uh she formed with your father in the sense formed with your father in the sense that he was a very calm kind of man. She that he was a very calm kind of man. She was a go-getter. She also came from a was a go-getter. She also came from a different kind of class background where different kind of class background where um at at one level a spirit rebelled um at at one level a spirit rebelled against having to make chapatis for 40 against having to make chapatis for 40 people and all of that and uh so on. people and all of that and uh so on. You've also spoken about the different You've also spoken about the different kinds of manifestations of sisterhood kinds of manifestations of sisterhood within the village where uh you know the within the village where uh you know the women have that whole money pooling women have that whole money pooling alternative finance uh system as it were alternative finance uh system as it were and uh you know during that one month and uh you know during that one month but they all do their own things in but they all do their own things in their house and all of that. Tell me their house and all of that. Tell me more both in particular about your more both in particular about your mother and especially what her interior mother and especially what her interior life would have been because I imagine life would have been because I imagine she sounds like someone who is ambitious she sounds like someone who is ambitious a go-getter as you said but at the same a go-getter as you said but at the same time deeply deeply constrained by time deeply deeply constrained by circumstances not just the circumstances circumstances not just the circumstances of having to be in what is relatively a of having to be in what is relatively a village compared to Bombay but also the village compared to Bombay but also the circumstance of being a wife and a circumstance of being a wife and a mother and give me a sense also at the mother and give me a sense also at the same time of the lives of women in that same time of the lives of women in that era like even today it is easy to look era like even today it is easy to look at the uh Indian women and and say that at the uh Indian women and and say that oh my god you know there's still such a oh my god you know there's still such a long way to go but in the 1960s it long way to go but in the 1960s it appears that like I can't even imagine appears that like I can't even imagine what you could give yourself permission what you could give yourself permission to dream about uh you know so give me a to dream about uh you know so give me a sense of what the interior lives of sense of what the interior lives of women were like and how they sort of women were like and how they sort of try would try to transcend it or go try would try to transcend it or go beyond it in their social interactions beyond it in their social interactions or in the sisterhoods that they would or in the sisterhoods that they would form. So let's talk about my mother and the So let's talk about my mother and the family she came from. family she came from. So So So she came from a those same cast but a she came from a those same cast but a silver smiths. So again in the cast we silver smiths. So again in the cast we were copper smith they were silver smith were copper smith they were silver smith but same cast kasar or tambat. So silver smith always saw themselves as So silver smith always saw themselves as a higher than the copper smith as normal a higher than the copper smith as normal you know like goldsmith we'll see higher you know like goldsmith we'll see higher than the silver smith because it's the than the silver smith because it's the value of that um metal defines your value of that um metal defines your class hierarchy in that sense class hierarchy in that sense my mother's father was a my mother's father was a the Hindi word for this is aa he was the Hindi word for this is aa he was ahead of his time from my perspective he ahead of his time from my perspective he was not very well educated was not very well educated but I'll tell you the we were one of the but I'll tell you the we were one of the four big silver factories in that era. four big silver factories in that era. Four only four big silver factories will Four only four big silver factories will produce thousands of say 1 kg silver produce thousands of say 1 kg silver plates thousands at a at a time. So plates thousands at a at a time. So you're talking about a large scale you're talking about a large scale production. production. production. My grandfather had imported in his time My grandfather had imported in his time a roller where you can transfer the a roller where you can transfer the silver brick into a sheet silver sheet silver brick into a sheet silver sheet depending on what you're going to depending on what you're going to produce. So the how thin it should be, produce. So the how thin it should be, what kind of its gauge should be all what kind of its gauge should be all that. So he imported a big roller from that. So he imported a big roller from England. So you can imagine the kind of England. So you can imagine the kind of and he himself was not very highly and he himself was not very highly literate but he knew his calculations literate but he knew his calculations very very well. very very well. So I was very impressed with him. Very So I was very impressed with him. Very very impressed. very impressed. very impressed. In the silver business it's not like in In the silver business it's not like in the gold gold business also it's the the gold gold business also it's the same common thing. It's not the labor same common thing. It's not the labor that you pay that is actually what is that you pay that is actually what is what is bringing them the profit is the what is bringing them the profit is the um um um what you claim to be the vestage is what you claim to be the vestage is where your profits are. So for example, where your profits are. So for example, I don't now remember exactly but say if I don't now remember exactly but say if I'm producing 1 kg silver utensils for I'm producing 1 kg silver utensils for you, you will actually get the silver you, you will actually get the silver utensils maybe 5% or 10% less whatever. utensils maybe 5% or 10% less whatever. So 50 g if it is 5% 100 g if it is 10%. So 50 g if it is 5% 100 g if it is 10%. So there that is called a wastage in the So there that is called a wastage in the process. So you have to give me if it is process. So you have to give me if it is 10% you have to give me 1100 g of silver 10% you have to give me 1100 g of silver to produce a 1 kg. If it is 10%, if it to produce a 1 kg. If it is 10%, if it is 5%, it will be 1 kilo 50 g you have is 5%, it will be 1 kilo 50 g you have to give me. So that wastage is actually to give me. So that wastage is actually not that much. Okay. So that is where not that much. Okay. So that is where you earn the huge amount of money. You you earn the huge amount of money. You understand? So it's not the labor cost. understand? So it's not the labor cost. Labor cost also is quite quite Labor cost also is quite quite significant. But still that is not your significant. But still that is not your main state of earning. The main state of main state of earning. The main state of earning is this additional silver that earning is this additional silver that you're gathering or so you can imagine you're gathering or so you can imagine during Diwali time before Diwali our during Diwali time before Diwali our factory will be running almost like a factory will be running almost like a 24/7. So my grandfather would be in the 24/7. So my grandfather would be in the factory at 5:00 in the morning and the factory at 5:00 in the morning and the factory will be running till 11:00 in factory will be running till 11:00 in the night literally because you had the night literally because you had these large orders of you know and we these large orders of you know and we were like as I said we were large scale were like as I said we were large scale producers so we would I at when I producers so we would I at when I shifted to Mumbai in our house shifted to Mumbai in our house everything was silver our day-to-day everything was silver our day-to-day bans everything including the lot for bans everything including the lot for the bathroom was of the silver the tank the bathroom was of the silver the tank of water the of water the we call them vessels in which you keep we call them vessels in which you keep water hydido small vessels all drinking water hydido small vessels all drinking water glass everything dayto-day use was water glass everything dayto-day use was silver so it was not like silver cutlery silver so it was not like silver cutlery is brought out only for some special is brought out only for some special occasion it was because there was so occasion it was because there was so much silver much silver much silver so you were literally born with a silver so you were literally born with a silver spoon in your mouth spoon in your mouth and once at one level you can put it and once at one level you can put it like that so that is how the whole thing like that so that is how the whole thing is is is he was like I remember mayor of cast I he was like I remember mayor of cast I studied that at my bar so he was like studied that at my bar so he was like that one of those benevolent feudal that one of those benevolent feudal person. So I remember when I shifted to person. So I remember when I shifted to Mumbai, he used to only wear uh clothing Mumbai, he used to only wear uh clothing from Gualia which was that time one of from Gualia which was that time one of the high-end kind of a so all his kortas the high-end kind of a so all his kortas were coming from the clothing of and he were coming from the clothing of and he had no distinction. So he asked me my had no distinction. So he asked me my school uniform should be from Gualia our school uniform should be from Gualia our driver will be so driver also will get driver will be so driver also will get the gualia clothing because there was no the gualia clothing because there was no distinction between you know driver distinction between you know driver should get anything less. So he was like should get anything less. So he was like that benevolent kind of a uh thing which that benevolent kind of a uh thing which is very distinct because all these kids is very distinct because all these kids used to love to go to elephant caves used to love to go to elephant caves almost once in twice in a month. So they almost once in twice in a month. So they said why don't you don't we buy a boat said why don't you don't we buy a boat because anyway our whole family is going because anyway our whole family is going to elephant caves at least twice a month to elephant caves at least twice a month so we'll just buy a boat. So complete so we'll just buy a boat. So complete aia means totally different kind of a aia means totally different kind of a out of the box out of the box thinker and he was out of the box thinker and he was earning that much money. So it was he earning that much money. So it was he was never so the first time in my life I was never so the first time in my life I saw a real again UK made theizori with saw a real again UK made theizori with the three or two keys and you know all the three or two keys and you know all the unlocking and that kind of thing. the unlocking and that kind of thing. Again a very interesting fact about him. Again a very interesting fact about him. Now the some of this is also teaches me Now the some of this is also teaches me the kind of discipline that people had. the kind of discipline that people had. So he also used to drink uh but again So he also used to drink uh but again Mondays, Thursdays, Saturday no touching Mondays, Thursdays, Saturday no touching the drink. Those days he'll be reading the drink. Those days he'll be reading his religious booklets in the evening his religious booklets in the evening after he come back from the factory. after he come back from the factory. Other days getting completely you know with whiskey getting completely you know with whiskey of course he would drink a much of course he would drink a much higherend thing. So we and my higherend thing. So we and my grandmother would be mixing up his uh grandmother would be mixing up his uh whiskey opening it and putting some coke whiskey opening it and putting some coke or you know that time thumbs up so that or you know that time thumbs up so that the it becomes milder all those kinds of the it becomes milder all those kinds of things and he knew it and then Sundays things and he knew it and then Sundays he would make make of it by actually he would make make of it by actually going and visiting some of the part so going and visiting some of the part so he gets the purest thing rather than the he gets the purest thing rather than the mixed up that he's getting at home mixed up that he's getting at home but I was so surprised that this person but I was so surprised that this person on Tuesday and Wednesday is so crazy on Tuesday and Wednesday is so crazy because of drinks and Thursday he's like because of drinks and Thursday he's like a a a reading his thing finishing his dinner reading his thing finishing his dinner by 7:30 and off to sleep get up at 5:00 by 7:30 and off to sleep get up at 5:00 go to the factory go to the factory uh during the whole shaman month no uh uh during the whole shaman month no uh no no non witch no drinking and no no non witch no drinking and completely disciplined about it so I completely disciplined about it so I don't know whether to call this kind of don't know whether to call this kind of people alcoholics or not because uh if people alcoholics or not because uh if you're alcoholic you will drink every you're alcoholic you will drink every day right this guy so I don't know how day right this guy so I don't know how this control or the discipline that they this control or the discipline that they had in terms of uh he unfortunately died had in terms of uh he unfortunately died and we'll I'll come to that incident and and we'll I'll come to that incident and how that changed my life in a way. So how that changed my life in a way. So you know that is the kind of a you know that is the kind of a background my mother is coming from. My background my mother is coming from. My mother used to manage his money. So like mother used to manage his money. So like tuppies of cash at home she used to tuppies of cash at home she used to manage in a way keep all the accounts manage in a way keep all the accounts and those kind of she was the eldest in and those kind of she was the eldest in the family and from there you're going the family and from there you're going to a coppermith family where you are to a coppermith family where you are basically basically basically literally doing lot of work. We had a literally doing lot of work. We had a full-time staff at K also who would do full-time staff at K also who would do half time in the shop and half time at half time in the shop and half time at home. We had the uh same situation uh in home. We had the uh same situation uh in Mumbai also where but there was also a Mumbai also where but there was also a cook in Mumbai. So it was not like uh cook in Mumbai. So it was not like uh all this daughters were not like forced all this daughters were not like forced to do do things and we had additional to do do things and we had additional help at home. So I think that's a help at home. So I think that's a background which gave her that sense of background which gave her that sense of um a superiority and there's some um a superiority and there's some something sometimes I feel that uh she something sometimes I feel that uh she wasn't very happy about being given into wasn't very happy about being given into uh a family outside of Mumbai and given uh a family outside of Mumbai and given going to that kind of a morosil town. going to that kind of a morosil town. She never said it in that fashion. She She never said it in that fashion. She has tremendous respect for my father but has tremendous respect for my father but it's a mixed thing. She respects my it's a mixed thing. She respects my father for his honesty desert. But at father for his honesty desert. But at the same time, she says that if he would the same time, she says that if he would have been not so honest, we we could have been not so honest, we we could have actually become the owners of the have actually become the owners of the factory. factory. factory. If he would have been a more If he would have been a more manipulative type, my father would have manipulative type, my father would have become like that because he was actually become like that because he was actually running the factory running the factory because her own brother was a complete because her own brother was a complete junkard and was junkard and was you know not uh he would steal silver you know not uh he would steal silver from the factory basically to entertain from the factory basically to entertain his own whims and fancies. he would uh his own whims and fancies. he would uh so that was that was a situation for so that was that was a situation for their family and that's why my father their family and that's why my father was brought to manage the factory uh by was brought to manage the factory uh by my grandfather my mother's father my grandfather my mother's father so that's a kind of a you know do do you so that's a kind of a you know do do you understand what I'm trying to say is understand what I'm trying to say is like that is the kind of a background like that is the kind of a background she came from she came from a very rich she came from a very rich uh no kind of a control of whatever you uh no kind of a control of whatever you wanted and I experienced that when I wanted and I experienced that when I shifted here in seventh standard and shifted here in seventh standard and I'll come to that there was no I'll come to that there was no restriction of Whatever I wanted to do, restriction of Whatever I wanted to do, money was all money was never a problem money was all money was never a problem till 600 when I was in village not till 600 when I was in village not because of the thing was whatever I because of the thing was whatever I would get done my two brothers also would get done my two brothers also should get done that's was my mother's should get done that's was my mother's emphasis even if my grandfather would emphasis even if my grandfather would say say say means we'll do this for minar so bicycle means we'll do this for minar so bicycle purchase and those kinds of things I'll purchase and those kinds of things I'll get a priority get a priority uh but that was not the case when I came uh but that was not the case when I came to Mumbai like when I passed my 12th to Mumbai like when I passed my 12th standard I got a chak standard I got a chak Bajaketak scooter which was bought with Bajaketak scooter which was bought with a premium. You remember during that a premium. You remember during that period everything was on premium. Uh uh period everything was on premium. Uh uh 75 when I passed my 10th standard that 75 when I passed my 10th standard that is the year when we got our first is the year when we got our first ambassador car and I was just 15 years ambassador car and I was just 15 years old and I started driving at the age of old and I started driving at the age of 16. uh learn driving because we got the 16. uh learn driving because we got the ambassador in 1975 and when I became ambassador in 1975 and when I became 12th I got the Chetak scooter because I 12th I got the Chetak scooter because I just insisted I want Chetaka and my just insisted I want Chetaka and my grandfather it didn't matter to him to grandfather it didn't matter to him to give a premium and you know because the give a premium and you know because the cash was always lying there at home cash was always lying there at home there was nowhere any issue there was nowhere any issue you won't believe during that period we you won't believe during that period we had the raid by the excise department had the raid by the excise department there are the 40 kg silver in our house there are the 40 kg silver in our house locks of silver. locks of silver. It's a anybody can Google it and see it. It's a anybody can Google it and see it. It's the they will find it. It came both It's the they will find it. It came both brothers and silver and then we had to brothers and silver and then we had to settle that case and all that kind of settle that case and all that kind of thing. But I was I was what 14 years old thing. But I was I was what 14 years old at time. So I was the one who was in a at time. So I was the one who was in a way because I had a better grasp of way because I had a better grasp of English than so talking to the excise English than so talking to the excise officers who were not Maharashrians officers who were not Maharashrians because they are from the central because they are from the central revenue services. uh I was the one who revenue services. uh I was the one who was speaking with them in broken kind of was speaking with them in broken kind of a English than uh um because my a English than uh um because my grandfather didn't know English, my grandfather didn't know English, my father didn't know English in terms of father didn't know English in terms of communication. So I got introduced to communication. So I got introduced to the business tactics at a very early the business tactics at a very early age. We had a maj which is normally all age. We had a maj which is normally all the Maharashtrian factory owners had a the Maharashtrian factory owners had a Gujarati mahaji who would keep all their Gujarati mahaji who would keep all their accounts, books and everything. So we accounts, books and everything. So we had a maj like that and I used to go and had a maj like that and I used to go and sit the same culture that we had in K sit the same culture that we had in K after school my school will finish after school my school will finish around 12:30 chikasak afternoon I'll go around 12:30 chikasak afternoon I'll go and sit in the factory after my work uh and sit in the factory after my work uh homework is done I'll be in the factory homework is done I'll be in the factory sitting in the cabin where mahaji's maji sitting in the cabin where mahaji's maji had a cabin uh my father and my had a cabin uh my father and my grandfather used to be sitting on the grandfather used to be sitting on the ground doing work with hammer and the ground doing work with hammer and the thing so that was the kind of you'll see thing so that was the kind of you'll see that situation where majid properly that situation where majid properly dressed and sitting sitting in the dressed and sitting sitting in the office while the owners are sitting on office while the owners are sitting on the ground doing the actual artisal work the ground doing the actual artisal work of silver. of silver. of silver. So that's a kind of a background of my So that's a kind of a background of my mom which I can now imagine when I look mom which I can now imagine when I look back as something which there were there back as something which there were there was something which she wasn't happy was something which she wasn't happy about at that stage. She accepted the about at that stage. She accepted the marriage because it was seen as marriage because it was seen as something. She was the eldest. She something. She was the eldest. She needed to get married in the first needed to get married in the first before her brother and when my masi got before her brother and when my masi got married she was so insistent on exactly married she was so insistent on exactly how with whom she wanted to get married how with whom she wanted to get married and those kinds of things and that was and those kinds of things and that was tolerated because she was already a tolerated because she was already a school teacher. She had a much better school teacher. She had a much better exposure. exposure. exposure. uh while my mother didn't complete her uh while my mother didn't complete her SSC or anything like that very smart SSC or anything like that very smart very intelligent but you know was very intelligent but you know was married off at the age of what 16 17 and married off at the age of what 16 17 and had four kids almost one after the other had four kids almost one after the other uh our second number brother died uh at uh our second number brother died uh at a very early age so now we have three of a very early age so now we have three of us but it's like every year four sons us but it's like every year four sons so then she was completely busy with the so then she was completely busy with the four bringing up four kids and managing four bringing up four kids and managing this large household as the eldest uh this large household as the eldest uh daughter-in-law. But when I when your daughter-in-law. But when I when your your broader question your broader question as I said as I said that u both my grandfathers as I said that u both my grandfathers and I would say grandfathers and I would say grandfathers encourage the education of the women at encourage the education of the women at that time that's how my uh mother's that time that's how my uh mother's sister became dear my uh father's sister sister became dear my uh father's sister became nurse and the other one uh became nurse and the other one uh finished her gradu matriculation and finished her gradu matriculation and then joined the postal services and then then joined the postal services and then of course it's then she joined the of course it's then she joined the government of Maharashtra when she got government of Maharashtra when she got married she shifted to government of married she shifted to government of Maharashtra in Pune Maharashtra in Pune so I think that existed but when I look so I think that existed but when I look at my grandmother's uh my mother's at my grandmother's uh my mother's mother also very strong woman and I mother also very strong woman and I think somewhere that uh has had come to think somewhere that uh has had come to my mother very strong woman not uh my mother very strong woman not uh strong to the contesting with my strong to the contesting with my grandfather because my grandfather was a grandfather because my grandfather was a as I said uh in a way ahead one one one as I said uh in a way ahead one one one lie lie lie uh in terms of my father's mother was uh in terms of my father's mother was disinterested disinterested disinterested so she were not something uh I never so she were not something uh I never felt a grandmotherly love from my felt a grandmotherly love from my father's mother uh rather the his father's mother uh rather the his younger brother's wife who had died uh younger brother's wife who had died uh nani so that the younger uh she was more nani so that the younger uh she was more grandmotherly to us uh than my father's grandmotherly to us uh than my father's mother in that sense so she would be the mother in that sense so she would be the one who all those discrimination that I one who all those discrimination that I said that will leave the leo for minar said that will leave the leo for minar and mandar and mkh all that will be that and mandar and mkh all that will be that nani doing it not my father's mom she nani doing it not my father's mom she was like not too too engaged in much of was like not too too engaged in much of it like she she's you know all her kids it like she she's you know all her kids are there and they are doing their own are there and they are doing their own things and she's happy being being what things and she's happy being being what she's tati what we used to call her uh she's tati what we used to call her uh while my mother's mother was highly while my mother's mother was highly engaged with everything so she knew engaged with everything so she knew almost everything wouldn't open her almost everything wouldn't open her mouth in front of my grandfather means mouth in front of my grandfather means my mother's father but she knew my mother's father but she knew everything all the transactions everything all the transactions of the factory of the factory uh you know what's happening who is who uh you know what's happening who is who you know who can be trusted who cannot you know who can be trusted who cannot be trusted all those intuitions be trusted all those intuitions she was very strong on uh and one of the she was very strong on uh and one of the best cooks in my opinion best absolutely best cooks in my opinion best absolutely best cook so I always tell my mother best cook so I always tell my mother that we have already lost about 60% of that we have already lost about 60% of Nani's cooking that is her mother's Nani's cooking that is her mother's cooking and after her we have lost cooking and after her we have lost everything because we neither I have everything because we neither I have learned some of those very delicate learned some of those very delicate things that my grandmother used to do things that my grandmother used to do but that is not the remembrance I have but that is not the remembrance I have about my father's mother she was never about my father's mother she was never in engage in that sense you understand in engage in that sense you understand what somebody who is little what somebody who is little distance kind of thing other women you distance kind of thing other women you know when you look at the other other know when you look at the other other women because I I think I have seen much women because I I think I have seen much more stronger women across the board more stronger women across the board including my my own mother, my mother's including my my own mother, my mother's mother, mother, mother, Kaku, this one of these uncles where we Kaku, this one of these uncles where we used to go to listen to the radio uh who used to go to listen to the radio uh who had a lot of controlling factor what I had a lot of controlling factor what I had seen also is when their husbands are had seen also is when their husbands are no more they come into their own at one no more they come into their own at one level but that means that they have that level but that means that they have that innate strength to come in their own uh innate strength to come in their own uh so in a way so husbands almost become so in a way so husbands almost become like a impediment to for their their like a impediment to for their their self-expression uh in in in in that self-expression uh in in in in that sense sense sense but on the other hand when I look at my but on the other hand when I look at my uh mother's younger sister and my uh mother's younger sister and my father's younger sister both in one in father's younger sister both in one in municipal corporation job as a teacher municipal corporation job as a teacher and she retired as a principal of a and she retired as a principal of a school quite a big municipal school in school quite a big municipal school in Mumbai and uh my father's uh sister who Mumbai and uh my father's uh sister who went up to whatever uh desk officer in went up to whatever uh desk officer in the government of Maharashtra and then the government of Maharashtra and then retired. In both their cases they wanted retired. In both their cases they wanted to have a strong husbands to have a strong husbands and it's very interesting that uh in a and it's very interesting that uh in a way both of them looking at from a way both of them looking at from a distance uh didn't have a very uh good distance uh didn't have a very uh good um what do you say marital life with a um what do you say marital life with a very dominant uh husband's u husbands very dominant uh husband's u husbands who were insecure who were insecure uh about uh about themselves. husbands uh about uh about themselves. husbands who were almost wanting to get maximum who were almost wanting to get maximum out of what they were doing. So that so out of what they were doing. So that so it's very very very interesting to see it's very very very interesting to see that uh you know those who were more that uh you know those who were more educated than my mother actually uh end educated than my mother actually uh end up being much more subservient post up being much more subservient post marriage like while my mother who wasn't marriage like while my mother who wasn't in that sense highly educated in that sense highly educated uh other than maintaining the social uh other than maintaining the social norms and doing what needed to be done norms and doing what needed to be done for the family she was never subservient for the family she was never subservient and the first opportunity she got to and the first opportunity she got to become the independent and establish her become the independent and establish her own identity. She just took that own identity. She just took that opportunity and cut away from all this opportunity and cut away from all this nonsense and nonsense and nonsense and basically she declared to the world my basically she declared to the world my only concern is my husband and my three only concern is my husband and my three kids. I'm not bothered about any one of kids. I'm not bothered about any one of you. So that kind of a strength and also you. So that kind of a strength and also because my father being my father who because my father being my father who wasn't so he followed and supported her wasn't so he followed and supported her in that process that didn't happen with in that process that didn't happen with the uh with the the uh with the women who were who should have been women who were who should have been stronger because of their education uh stronger because of their education uh and because they were already in the uh and because they were already in the uh profession they were earning members of profession they were earning members of their respective families which my their respective families which my mother was not. So I think that's a mother was not. So I think that's a that's an interesting kind of a that's an interesting kind of a dichotomy that you see you know what dichotomy that you see you know what happens after you get married and uh how happens after you get married and uh how that chemistry that chemistry that chemistry evolves in in in that in that in that evolves in in in that in that in that sense sense sense and it's it's an observation even I I and it's it's an observation even I I have made the one that you pointed out have made the one that you pointed out that a lot of uh I' I've seen many women that a lot of uh I' I've seen many women who in old age after their husbands die who in old age after their husbands die suddenly actually become people suddenly suddenly actually become people suddenly actually it's like independence day and actually it's like independence day and they start doing other things. You know, they start doing other things. You know, I know someone who started learning I know someone who started learning music. I know someone who uh started music. I know someone who uh started traveling solo, you know, in in her 70s traveling solo, you know, in in her 70s and you suddenly see a lot more of that and you suddenly see a lot more of that and then you think of the life gone by and then you think of the life gone by and uh you know what was kind of lost and uh you know what was kind of lost there and I wonder in your case did you there and I wonder in your case did you did you have conversations with your did you have conversations with your mother about that like personto person mother about that like personto person not son to mother not stuck in those not son to mother not stuck in those traditional roles but a person to person traditional roles but a person to person and did you become friends? But how did and did you become friends? But how did it it it I tried once or twice to be honest. Uh I tried once or twice to be honest. Uh but you know what what happened in my but you know what what happened in my case Amit case Amit case Amit I was already a little bit seen by my I was already a little bit seen by my mother as the other mother as the other because of the kind of a uh uh you know because of the kind of a uh uh you know she always felt that I have been a she always felt that I have been a favored son favored son favored son on both the families and somebody who on both the families and somebody who has got everything that he wanted you has got everything that he wanted you know from both sides. So she was always know from both sides. So she was always uh I wouldn't say uh uh I wouldn't say uh she was always comparing that you know she was always comparing that you know what opportunities Minar is getting what opportunities Minar is getting Mandar and Mukesh are not getting so Mandar and Mukesh are not getting so there was always that thing the fact there was always that thing the fact that I left and I you remember the word that I left and I you remember the word I use I went out of her clutches at the I use I went out of her clutches at the age of 10 or 11 which is which is true age of 10 or 11 which is which is true because she felt that she had lost because she felt that she had lost control on me. So in a way the distance control on me. So in a way the distance that came up between the mother and the that came up between the mother and the son at that age was very strong and then son at that age was very strong and then I started UI at the age of 23 and once I I started UI at the age of 23 and once I started you are like 247 in the dream of started you are like 247 in the dream of you are everything basically and then I you are everything basically and then I left India so I was not even in India so left India so I was not even in India so there was a time when I wasn't in a way there was a time when I wasn't in a way my family became completely different my family became completely different much wider than my immediate blood much wider than my immediate blood family right so I was in a way not family right so I was in a way not interacting, not much relating to my interacting, not much relating to my family in a way other than doing what I family in a way other than doing what I needed to do of you know giving some needed to do of you know giving some regular monies to both my parents blah regular monies to both my parents blah blah blah all that but it wasn't a kind blah blah all that but it wasn't a kind of a emotional connect of a emotional connect so there are times when I have talked to so there are times when I have talked to my father and or my mother about you my father and or my mother about you know I like told you about my name how know I like told you about my name how did my name come about my mother's sharp did my name come about my mother's sharp answer was you think that this gouty answer was you think that this gouty mama will know gouty mammad means this mama will know gouty mammad means this rural rural rural Bumpkins would they know how to name it Bumpkins would they know how to name it was me who gave you this name kind of. was me who gave you this name kind of. So then the there's no dialogue it's So then the there's no dialogue it's just she has given a sharp response and just she has given a sharp response and done she and she achieved what she done she and she achieved what she wanted to achieve is showing the pimples wanted to achieve is showing the pimples is down and both up. Both means the is down and both up. Both means the family she came from and the pimp is our family she came from and the pimp is our family right my father's surname is family right my father's surname is pimp. pimp. pimp. So there there no dialogue and because I So there there no dialogue and because I that crucial years from the 11 to uh you that crucial years from the 11 to uh you know 17 18 when my brothers grew up with know 17 18 when my brothers grew up with her I wasn't growing up with her I was her I wasn't growing up with her I was growing up with my grandfather who was growing up with my grandfather who was hands off he that whatever you need hands off he that whatever you need you have it English class join you know it is a totally different life you know it is a totally different life and that is what actually my mother felt and that is what actually my mother felt that you know he's getting all these that you know he's getting all these privileges uh while the younger two are privileges uh while the younger two are struggling staying in the village you struggling staying in the village you you understand so there was this kind of you understand so there was this kind of a tense relationship that that existed a tense relationship that that existed and I always felt that she more or less and I always felt that she more or less played the role of a um a distributor. played the role of a um a distributor. So take from minar and distribute among So take from minar and distribute among the two brothers. That's how I found the two brothers. That's how I found after after a point that that is how her after after a point that that is how her approach is. So she will always make it approach is. So she will always make it a point to get maximum uh resources all a point to get maximum uh resources all that from me because I had done well and that from me because I had done well and then then then now at one level that you will find as a now at one level that you will find as a just kind of a thing but at on the other just kind of a thing but at on the other level what upset me is when I started level what upset me is when I started realizing that this is a money that realizing that this is a money that she's getting adding on to what sources she's getting adding on to what sources of income she already have which I of income she already have which I didn't know about. Then you start didn't know about. Then you start feeling why the hell is she you know feeling why the hell is she you know fooling me around and that this happened fooling me around and that this happened about three or four years back when I about three or four years back when I realized that you know that they're realized that you know that they're taking you know I started when I left uh taking you know I started when I left uh when I was in India I used to give them when I was in India I used to give them 10,000 rupees per month so I'm talking 10,000 rupees per month so I'm talking about before 2004 quite a significant about before 2004 quite a significant amount last uh 2 three years 21 22 23 amount last uh 2 three years 21 22 23 that kind of years 50,000 per month just that kind of years 50,000 per month just for two of them And I realized that for two of them And I realized that she's getting uh there's another stream she's getting uh there's another stream of income that nobody has told me about of income that nobody has told me about which is also giving her 50,000 rupees which is also giving her 50,000 rupees per month every month from the legacy per month every month from the legacy she got of the factory in her her she got of the factory in her her ownership. ownership. ownership. And when I realized that I felt really And when I realized that I felt really ah what is she up to? And then I had a ah what is she up to? And then I had a big fight with her as well as my father big fight with her as well as my father because I was expecting at least my because I was expecting at least my father to be honest with me because of father to be honest with me because of my this image of a very ethical this my this image of a very ethical this that but I knew that who must have put a that but I knew that who must have put a thing on him. My mother must have said thing on him. My mother must have said not to mention any of this to me because not to mention any of this to me because I was away right so I was not here so I I was away right so I was not here so I had no clue. had no clue. So some of those instances have created So some of those instances have created a distance but still when I took the a distance but still when I took the decision of shifting back to India it decision of shifting back to India it was also because at one level I didn't was also because at one level I didn't want a situation where she forgets who I want a situation where she forgets who I am which is what will at some stage will am which is what will at some stage will happen in her uh progression as part of happen in her uh progression as part of the Alzheimer. the Alzheimer. the Alzheimer. So it's a it's a it's a mixed thing. So So it's a it's a it's a mixed thing. So responding to your question in terms of responding to your question in terms of I have made attempts not been successful I have made attempts not been successful with my father I have been much more with my father I have been much more successful in really getting to know his successful in really getting to know his father his father's father that kind of father his father's father that kind of thing thing thing my mother with me doesn't engage in a my mother with me doesn't engage in a dialogue it's more um dialogue it's more um oneliners you understand what I'm saying oneliners you understand what I'm saying what what are you going to do by knowing what what are you going to do by knowing all this all this all this And then the dialogue stops. My father And then the dialogue stops. My father will engage explain what are the will engage explain what are the situation in K. How Tatya who was the situation in K. How Tatya who was the member of the Nagar parishad uh you know member of the Nagar parishad uh you know how he had to give up his education how he had to give up his education because he was the eldest in the family because he was the eldest in the family and there was such a large family to and there was such a large family to maintain. So how he had to join uh the maintain. So how he had to join uh the business and actually start making those business and actually start making those you know copper and brass vessels. So he you know copper and brass vessels. So he would talk about it very clearly. would talk about it very clearly. My mom I think has a too much of a My mom I think has a too much of a a lot of suppressed anger or something a lot of suppressed anger or something of that side where of that side where that it's again my impression uh Amit I that it's again my impression uh Amit I don't want to say it as a truth but don't want to say it as a truth but I think I'm not too wrong about it that I think I'm not too wrong about it that there's a lot of those suppressed uh there's a lot of those suppressed uh emotions that uh that one deals with emotions that uh that one deals with when she's talking and maybe because of when she's talking and maybe because of all that is while my father is mentally all that is while my father is mentally at the age of 95 is very still, very at the age of 95 is very still, very sharp and alike other than being on the sharp and alike other than being on the bed. Maybe because of all these things bed. Maybe because of all these things that have impacted her much more that have impacted her much more strongly uh than than my father in terms strongly uh than than my father in terms of you know her situation that she's in of you know her situation that she's in now. You've painted a picture of the now. You've painted a picture of the duty that you feel towards your mother duty that you feel towards your mother which and towards both your parents which and towards both your parents which brought you back uh to India and which brought you back uh to India and also the resentment that she feels also the resentment that she feels towards you possibly because you got a towards you possibly because you got a certain level of uh um you know freedom certain level of uh um you know freedom and privilege that was taken away from and privilege that was taken away from her and that didn't come down to your her and that didn't come down to your two brothers as well. But beyond this two brothers as well. But beyond this interesting cycle of duty and interesting cycle of duty and resentment, do you love her and does she resentment, do you love her and does she love you? love you? love you? That's a very deep question to be That's a very deep question to be honest. Uh honest. Uh honest. Uh the there are there are moments when I the there are there are moments when I experience um that kind of a love from experience um that kind of a love from her or I have experienced that even in her or I have experienced that even in the past the past the past uh and that's what keeps me going back uh and that's what keeps me going back to her. to her. to her. So it's not only duty as I said you know So it's not only duty as I said you know it's like um you know one of the thing it's like um you know one of the thing which I had like I didn't want to have a which I had like I didn't want to have a situation where she doesn't where she situation where she doesn't where she stops recognizing me. Now she's at a stops recognizing me. Now she's at a stage where she remembers all three of stage where she remembers all three of us. She knows very clearly I'm minar us. She knows very clearly I'm minar he's mandar he's mh she's already mixing he's mandar he's mh she's already mixing up with our partners. She doesn't up with our partners. She doesn't remember who is who spouse that she's remember who is who spouse that she's lost at the level of her grandchildren. lost at the level of her grandchildren. she's she mixes up which is already she's she mixes up which is already already happening. already happening. already happening. So it's not only out of duty um Amit So it's not only out of duty um Amit it's also out of uh so there is uh you it's also out of uh so there is uh you know what keeps me awake is sometime know what keeps me awake is sometime where I feel am I am I being able to do where I feel am I am I being able to do enough in terms of what I can do one big enough in terms of what I can do one big thing I was able to do once I came back thing I was able to do once I came back is to set up a system for them which is to set up a system for them which wasn't existing which has made their wasn't existing which has made their life much better or negotiating with my life much better or negotiating with my brother of you know all this regular brother of you know all this regular visits this and the other visits this and the other bringing her and getting her fully bringing her and getting her fully tested at Lawati Hospital with the best tested at Lawati Hospital with the best of the neurologist that I could I could of the neurologist that I could I could gather and think of gather and think of all this is not coming necessarily only all this is not coming necessarily only from duty because I also at the other from duty because I also at the other other hand there's a sadness I feel that other hand there's a sadness I feel that somebody who has been such a like I somebody who has been such a like I always feel that I am a combination of always feel that I am a combination of her you know aggression her you know aggression you know if you want to get something you know if you want to get something you get behind it and get it and also a you get behind it and get it and also a kind of of calm, ethical, kind of of calm, ethical, being very conscious about boundaries being very conscious about boundaries coming from my father. That's a coming from my father. That's a combination that I am combination that I am and that I that I very well recognize and that I that I very well recognize that I wouldn't be what I am without that I wouldn't be what I am without this combination of my mother and a this combination of my mother and a father that I think I have a reasonable father that I think I have a reasonable as I said about my both my grandfathers as I said about my both my grandfathers that that legacy is is important and I that that legacy is is important and I need to recognize that it's not that I need to recognize that it's not that I have done all this by myself it's part have done all this by myself it's part of that legacy part of what came into my of that legacy part of what came into my DNA is so it's not only duty per se. Now DNA is so it's not only duty per se. Now in terms of love in the traditional in terms of love in the traditional families the expression of love with a families the expression of love with a very different thing the duty very different thing the duty is also mixed up as love. So you know is also mixed up as love. So you know like when she was after my case of like when she was after my case of education this that and the other was education this that and the other was she doing her duty or was she also she doing her duty or was she also expressing her love to be what I'm going expressing her love to be what I'm going to be in that sense. So in th those to be in that sense. So in th those times like for example my definition of times like for example my definition of my love to my son will be totally my love to my son will be totally different than uh you know how my father different than uh you know how my father or my mother expressed their love or my mother expressed their love towards me. You you understand? So it towards me. You you understand? So it will be seen more if you apply today's will be seen more if you apply today's parameters to that time it'll be seen parameters to that time it'll be seen that they were doing their duty as that they were doing their duty as parents but that's not so it's not just parents but that's not so it's not just the duty is the same way I don't know the duty is the same way I don't know whether I'm making sense or not one whether I'm making sense or not one level of course that you know it is also level of course that you know it is also an expression of her love that she cares an expression of her love that she cares so much about your education and she so much about your education and she wants you to get ahead but it is in a wants you to get ahead but it is in a sense an expression of her love for sense an expression of her love for herself as a mother and also an herself as a mother and also an expression of her love for her son. But expression of her love for her son. But is it an expression of her love for is it an expression of her love for Minar the unique individual that you are Minar the unique individual that you are who happens to be her son and uh this who happens to be her son and uh this some kind of a distinction here like some kind of a distinction here like when she says she loves you does she when she says she loves you does she love the image of the son that is in her love the image of the son that is in her head who she sees you as and is head who she sees you as and is frustrated when you deviate from that frustrated when you deviate from that image or is she actually seeing you for image or is she actually seeing you for what you are the unique individual and what you are the unique individual and actually loving because at one level actually loving because at one level there is that instinctive love that a there is that instinctive love that a parent can get for a child and a child parent can get for a child and a child can feel towards a can feel towards a But at another level there is also that But at another level there is also that love that grows when you come to love that grows when you come to actually know the individual as an actually know the individual as an individual. That's a that's a very complex situation That's a that's a very complex situation because somewhere in their imagery because somewhere in their imagery first of all when I deviated from that first of all when I deviated from that regular path of either doing what would regular path of either doing what would have been my traditional journey have been my traditional journey if I would have to follow my if I would have to follow my grandfather's dream that is my mother's grandfather's dream that is my mother's father's dream either become a sub father's dream either become a sub inspector which was not possible because inspector which was not possible because of my uh hand or join the business. So of my uh hand or join the business. So they were basically expecting me to they were basically expecting me to become the do the BCOM so that I have a become the do the BCOM so that I have a first graduation in commerce and then first graduation in commerce and then join the business. That was what would join the business. That was what would have been the traditional trajectory I have been the traditional trajectory I would have had. I don't think they ever understood I don't think they ever understood exactly what I'm doing to be honest. exactly what I'm doing to be honest. They started realizing he's somebody They started realizing he's somebody something when they started seeing my something when they started seeing my interview on the television especially interview on the television especially Marati television that they see they Marati television that they see they don't see English television so they don't see English television so they wouldn't have seen my telev interview wouldn't have seen my telev interview they have seen my Marati television they have seen my Marati television interviews or seeing my name in the interviews or seeing my name in the Marati newspaper that's when they they Marati newspaper that's when they they started thinking minar is something started thinking minar is something different and fact that he is being different and fact that he is being recognized you know he has met recognized you know he has met Maruandawat he has met so and so all Maruandawat he has met so and so all those whom they respected and which those whom they respected and which people who were in their reach in terms people who were in their reach in terms of knowledge of knowledge of knowledge only at that stage they started knowing only at that stage they started knowing that he's something that he's something till that time they never even till that time they never even understood in the first instance when I understood in the first instance when I told them I'm joining college of social told them I'm joining college of social work uh her response in marati washal work uh her response in marati washal lashkaraka lashkaraka lashkaraka now there's a marati expression lashkar now there's a marati expression lashkar means army means army means army bakri means Roti means basically in the bakri means Roti means basically in the earlier times whenever the army would go earlier times whenever the army would go to a particular village the villagers to a particular village the villagers will cook you know their meals to be will cook you know their meals to be given free of cost that is how they that given free of cost that is how they that was part of the service. So the was part of the service. So the expression in Marati is expression in Marati is means you are doing something which is means you are doing something which is not going to get you anything but you not going to get you anything but you are doing something. So that was the are doing something. So that was the first reaction she had. social first reaction she had. social that is what her limited understanding that is what her limited understanding was basically was basically was basically they don't even know the kind of complex they don't even know the kind of complex life that um uh I have gone through or life that um uh I have gone through or you know one of the uh reason uh of some you know one of the uh reason uh of some of the issues that I'm facing with the of the issues that I'm facing with the um I don't even talk to them about it um I don't even talk to them about it because they will not understand for because they will not understand for them them them anything if I'm arrested or something anything if I'm arrested or something that is means he has done something bad. that is means he has done something bad. You understand? It's a it's a straight You understand? It's a it's a straight equation. It's not that nuance equation. It's not that nuance understanding that you know maybe he's understanding that you know maybe he's done something right that is why he's done something right that is why he's being not at all. being not at all. And it's not only with them it's even my And it's not only with them it's even my younger brother doesn't have that kind younger brother doesn't have that kind of appreciation. My second number of appreciation. My second number brother understands a little bit who is brother understands a little bit who is the MSE in chemistry has because of his the MSE in chemistry has because of his education this that and the other. But education this that and the other. But in her case or my father's case he's in her case or my father's case he's doing something well. uh you know he's doing something well. uh you know he's been interviewed in the television his been interviewed in the television his name appears sometime in the newspaper name appears sometime in the newspaper which is good which is good you know beyond that in terms of the you know beyond that in terms of the uniqueness of the individual uniqueness of the individual they would say he had looked after they would say he had looked after himself he had not been as I told you himself he had not been as I told you there was a time when I wasn't really there was a time when I wasn't really engaged engaged engaged uh with the with the family because they uh with the with the family because they so obsessed with things that I was doing so obsessed with things that I was doing that they were not in my um frame of that they were not in my um frame of reference if you want to put it in that reference if you want to put it in that fashion. fashion. fashion. So So So love me with because of my uniqueness love me with because of my uniqueness not sure I don't think they even not sure I don't think they even understand there is something uh for understand there is something uh for them minar is min and that's it that's them minar is min and that's it that's the end of the matter and he supposed to the end of the matter and he supposed to do one to three for us is he doing it do one to three for us is he doing it not doing it and on that basis the not doing it and on that basis the evaluation is evaluation is evaluation is it's a unfortunately it sounds very it's a unfortunately it sounds very transactional but that is where it um transactional but that is where it um ends up when you are not able to ends up when you are not able to understand I don't know how many people understand I don't know how many people like me are in this kind of a situation like me are in this kind of a situation where their parents don't really where their parents don't really understand and because they don't understand and because they don't understand they cannot appreciate it. understand they cannot appreciate it. The first step to appreciation is to The first step to appreciation is to even understand now what what uh he's even understand now what what uh he's into or what he's trying to do in life. into or what he's trying to do in life. uh uh uh that so there's that disconnect amit that so there's that disconnect amit I think one primal impulse everyone has I think one primal impulse everyone has is that you want to impress your parents is that you want to impress your parents whether you like them or not and etc etc whether you like them or not and etc etc you want to impress your parents and you want to impress your parents and does it make you resentful or angry that does it make you resentful or angry that actually you cannot do that it is not actually you cannot do that it is not even possible that at one level you can even possible that at one level you can impress them that yes you are a man of impress them that yes you are a man of the world and you've made money and the world and you've made money and you're looking after them and at one you're looking after them and at one level you can impress them but at level you can impress them but at another level you simply cannot impress another level you simply cannot impress them because they will never understand them because they will never understand who you are or what you do and so on. who you are or what you do and so on. There's no resentment at all. I have There's no resentment at all. I have just accepted that as a limitation and just accepted that as a limitation and not a limitation not a limitation that uh they have put on themselves is that uh they have put on themselves is the limitation of the social context in the limitation of the social context in which they have evolved. Basically if my which they have evolved. Basically if my mother would have become you know if she mother would have become you know if she would have pursued the education or if would have pursued the education or if my father would have been able to pursue my father would have been able to pursue the education they would have been able the education they would have been able to appreciate much better what I'm to appreciate much better what I'm trying to do or what I'm doing then trying to do or what I'm doing then because they have been the victims of because they have been the victims of their own circumstances you know early their own circumstances you know early marriage early family huge family marriage early family huge family responsibility in my father's case in responsibility in my father's case in case of my mother very early marriage so case of my mother very early marriage so I don't have a resentment I have just I don't have a resentment I have just taken it as the acceptance of the fact taken it as the acceptance of the fact that that that am I going to expect that kind of a um am I going to expect that kind of a um recognition or uh support in this I recognition or uh support in this I don't so there is no because I don't don't so there is no because I don't have that expectation I don't have a have that expectation I don't have a resentment you you so my resentments are resentment you you so my resentments are at a much much at a different level than at a much much at a different level than like my simple expectation is I should like my simple expectation is I should not have been lied to by my parents not have been lied to by my parents because maybe out of the good good because maybe out of the good good intention of supporting my brothers intention of supporting my brothers which is fine. I don't know but I would which is fine. I don't know but I would have appreciated if they would have been have appreciated if they would have been very honest with me saying that you know very honest with me saying that you know Mina we are also getting this 50,000 Mina we are also getting this 50,000 from the builder but your 50,000 is from the builder but your 50,000 is helping also in terms of you know we helping also in terms of you know we trying to help Mandar and Mukah and trying to help Mandar and Mukah and that's fine I don't have a problem but that's fine I don't have a problem but being lied into I somewhere again this being lied into I somewhere again this thing two things which I hate is being thing two things which I hate is being lied to or me lying for me the lied to or me lying for me the authenticity is almost like authenticity is almost like non-negotiable sometime it becomes comes non-negotiable sometime it becomes comes too extreme being authentic or you know too extreme being authentic or you know sharing or expressing that uh with sharing or expressing that uh with people because it's not necessarily uh people because it's not necessarily uh you I may be keeping to my authenticity you I may be keeping to my authenticity but in the process I may be hurting but in the process I may be hurting other person being authentic other person being authentic that's one thing second using the bad that's one thing second using the bad words uh you know that's something which words uh you know that's something which I I just my whole body in a way reacts I I just my whole body in a way reacts very sharply when people you very sharply when people you It's not that I don't use sometime I'll It's not that I don't use sometime I'll say what you know I will they say that say what you know I will they say that almost like to myself you know uh but uh almost like to myself you know uh but uh you know in kind of a public domain if you know in kind of a public domain if you use those kinds of words in Marathi you use those kinds of words in Marathi or Hindi it's also again a issue of or Hindi it's also again a issue of language I suppose you know so same language I suppose you know so same thing said in Marati or Hindi sounds thing said in Marati or Hindi sounds much much more problematic than same much much more problematic than same thing said in English kind of a nonsense thing said in English kind of a nonsense but there those two things which are but there those two things which are like almost which my body reacts in it's like almost which my body reacts in it's a bodily reaction to those two things. a bodily reaction to those two things. So uh you know other than that I So uh you know other than that I I don't know what else to say but I don't know what else to say but whatever it is it has all contributed to whatever it is it has all contributed to who I am Amita and that's recognition I who I am Amita and that's recognition I have basically so I go back to you know have basically so I go back to you know the their basic characteristics which the their basic characteristics which has contributed to me not in terms of has contributed to me not in terms of the substance of what I'm doing but in the substance of what I'm doing but in terms of the persona that I am which is terms of the persona that I am which is a combination of that ethics calm a combination of that ethics calm honesty honesty honesty Go getting go get go go go go go go gogetater kind of attitude aggression gogetater kind of attitude aggression when you when you require to be when you when you require to be aggressive you know clarity of you know aggressive you know clarity of you know pursuing something and being consistent pursuing something and being consistent with that you know putting hard work to with that you know putting hard work to get that done that's a kind of get that done that's a kind of combination of my parents which I combination of my parents which I totally acknowledge and respect them for totally acknowledge and respect them for and and and digressive question what don't you like digressive question what don't you like about yourself I think at a different stages different I think at a different stages different kinds of things. So when I was a when I was in the early So when I was a when I was in the early stages of my activism stages of my activism and as I said I was a voracious reader and as I said I was a voracious reader during my 17 18 19 20 25 that that whole during my 17 18 19 20 25 that that whole age group. age group. age group. So there was a kind of a huge arrogance So there was a kind of a huge arrogance that I used to have that I used to have about myself. So it's like when I joined about myself. So it's like when I joined college of social work, Bachelor of college of social work, Bachelor of Social Work, I already knew uh and I had Social Work, I already knew uh and I had already read that this is a typical already read that this is a typical American educational model which is American educational model which is actually not very suited for the Indian actually not very suited for the Indian society. It is more a kind of a remedial society. It is more a kind of a remedial model for post-industrial societies. model for post-industrial societies. uh it does not really deal with a lot of uh it does not really deal with a lot of the contradictions that societies like the contradictions that societies like India have which are still grappling India have which are still grappling between the feudal behaviors and the between the feudal behaviors and the capitalist growth all those things I capitalist growth all those things I already knew and that that um kind of a already knew and that that um kind of a education and practice is not something education and practice is not something which is relevant for India. what we which is relevant for India. what we need is a a much more stronger training need is a a much more stronger training of creating um change agents, social of creating um change agents, social change agents rather than social workers change agents rather than social workers was my belief already before I joined was my belief already before I joined college of social. So in a way college of social. So in a way uh you can imagine the kind of a it's so uh you can imagine the kind of a it's so and I I think it's a right word a and I I think it's a right word a disdain with which I I joined it and disdain with which I I joined it and I'll tell you the exactly the reason why I'll tell you the exactly the reason why I joined social work. So that was one I joined social work. So that was one thing which was at that that that stage. thing which was at that that that stage. So and because I'm reflective, it's not So and because I'm reflective, it's not that uh I never used to know that I have that uh I never used to know that I have overplayed my hand here uh or I have overplayed my hand here uh or I have been too too aggressive. Uh been too too aggressive. Uh there were teachers who used to get there were teachers who used to get upset with me because I used to ask them upset with me because I used to ask them questions in the class. uh and that came questions in the class. uh and that came from both to show my knowledge from both to show my knowledge superiority and also to put them down superiority and also to put them down which is a very big problematic which which is a very big problematic which when I look back and there's a phase now when I look back and there's a phase now that I'm going going through which is that I'm going going through which is what I say all those people with whom I what I say all those people with whom I have had that kind of thing I go and have had that kind of thing I go and catch up with them and say uh my catch up with them and say uh my apologies the way I behaved with you apologies the way I behaved with you during that period uh some of the people during that period uh some of the people have forgotten but I haven't forgotten have forgotten but I haven't forgotten right so I did that uh thing with uh one right so I did that uh thing with uh one of my classmates who were there whom I of my classmates who were there whom I used to feel used to feel she shouldn't be in college of social she shouldn't be in college of social work at all what is she doing there work at all what is she doing there because unfortunately the imagery I had because unfortunately the imagery I had about a lot of people where uh you know about a lot of people where uh you know you know we were more women women's you know we were more women women's college than like out of the 25 students college than like out of the 25 students in my class in BW three of us were boys in my class in BW three of us were boys everybody was a girl because the BW or everybody was a girl because the BW or bachelor of home science those degrees bachelor of home science those degrees had a higher status in the marriage had a higher status in the marriage market. Now I already knew that and this market. Now I already knew that and this is that attracted a particular class of is that attracted a particular class of uh girls who would come into the that uh girls who would come into the that college. Now the situation has changed. college. Now the situation has changed. Now you have a plethora of colleges of Now you have a plethora of colleges of social work all over the country. Worst social work all over the country. Worst of the quality of teaching but anyway of the quality of teaching but anyway and you have many more boys than the and you have many more boys than the girls but the time that I did 79 when I girls but the time that I did 79 when I joined bachelor of social work it was joined bachelor of social work it was girls coming from a very very elite uh girls coming from a very very elite uh straight of the society basically straight of the society basically because if you have bachelor of home because if you have bachelor of home science or bachelor of social work you science or bachelor of social work you had a higher had a higher marketability in the marriage market. marketability in the marriage market. That is what again my strong perception That is what again my strong perception and the belief was. and the belief was. So this one of this girl whom I used to So this one of this girl whom I used to consider consider consider you know whenever she would open her you know whenever she would open her mouth if she opened at all it was like a mouth if she opened at all it was like a moment where I would put my what is she moment where I would put my what is she what the hell is she going to say now what the hell is she going to say now and it's going to be I used to sit and it's going to be I used to sit behind not because uh I used to get behind not because uh I used to get bored uh in the classes and uh there bored uh in the classes and uh there were teachers who had understood and were teachers who had understood and they would purposely put say so min what they would purposely put say so min what do you have to say on this uh policy on do you have to say on this uh policy on population policy or on this and because population policy or on this and because I would have already read something on I would have already read something on that kind that kind that kind which at one level felt good the other which at one level felt good the other level level level uh that time it didn't matter it didn't uh that time it didn't matter uh I was quite a in terms of matter uh I was quite a in terms of gogetter like when the 19 uh 911 the gogetter like when the 19 uh 911 the evictions happened in the city of Mumbai evictions happened in the city of Mumbai I forced the college of social work to I forced the college of social work to close down for a week and did a whole close down for a week and did a whole payment survey in the city of Mumbai and payment survey in the city of Mumbai and I I'm saying myself because I was the I I'm saying myself because I was the organizer of that uh rebel group saying organizer of that uh rebel group saying that we are learning social work when that we are learning social work when there is such a uh you know social there is such a uh you know social catastrophe happening on the streets of catastrophe happening on the streets of Mumbai where we are based and how can we Mumbai where we are based and how can we we not uh concern about it. we not uh concern about it. So these kinds of things happened. I was So these kinds of things happened. I was one person who was part of taking over one person who was part of taking over the rest course of Mumbai city saying the rest course of Mumbai city saying that this rescourse serves 5% of that this rescourse serves 5% of Mumbai's population. have so many acres Mumbai's population. have so many acres of land while you have of land while you have 10 lakh pavement dwellers and there's no 10 lakh pavement dwellers and there's no land they have been pushed and basically land they have been pushed and basically thrown to the borders of the state from thrown to the borders of the state from where they have come if they come from where they have come if they come from Karnataka they have been left at the Karnataka they have been left at the Karnataka border if they come from andra Karnataka border if they come from andra they have thrown to Andra border and they have thrown to Andra border and that is not going to be on so the point that is not going to be on so the point I'm saying uh Amit is some of those I'm saying uh Amit is some of those those behaviors of mine those behaviors of mine uh were problematic which uh I now uh were problematic which uh I now you you were mentioning you went and you you were mentioning you went and made amends with this woman who you made amends with this woman who you Yeah. So not only that I have I just Yeah. So not only that I have I just gave that as one example. I've done that gave that as one example. I've done that with many many others uh in terms of with many many others uh in terms of saying and going and meeting them and saying and going and meeting them and saying saying saying and some of them but why why you apolog I I then say it's maybe but the fact I I then say it's maybe but the fact that I still remember it means I'm it's that I still remember it means I'm it's a incomplete gestalt as far as I'm a incomplete gestalt as far as I'm concerned I need to complete that concerned I need to complete that gestalt so please help me by accepting gestalt so please help me by accepting my apology and I think that's been good my apology and I think that's been good So you know which So you know which and that uh it's only not only in this and that uh it's only not only in this personal relationships also I have done personal relationships also I have done that you know I went and met somebody that you know I went and met somebody really long distance about 3 years back really long distance about 3 years back drove down all the way outside of drove down all the way outside of Maharashtra state and Maharashtra state and went and met and went and met and there's only one person that I have not there's only one person that I have not yet closed that uh just called loop yet closed that uh just called loop which I hope I'll able to do at some which I hope I'll able to do at some stage because it's like uh I don't want stage because it's like uh I don't want to keep any more regrets in you to keep any more regrets in you understand what I'm saying understand what I'm saying just so that you know it's my obsession just so that you know it's my obsession not to keep regrets if others understand not to keep regrets if others understand and appreciate it I will do my my part and appreciate it I will do my my part it's their business to accept it not it's their business to accept it not accept it but at least I know I made an accept it but at least I know I made an attempt a genuine attempt uh to deal attempt a genuine attempt uh to deal with that so I think that was one with that so I think that was one behavior type which is a very behavior type which is a very problematic type and that was the problematic type and that was the dominant type. So if um people still dominant type. So if um people still keep making jokes about me so like one keep making jokes about me so like one of my teachers always says she she was of my teachers always says she she was the one who admitted me in college of the one who admitted me in college of social work. Now she's very well known social work. Now she's very well known in pratam and she just received um award in pratam and she just received um award from the governor of Maharashtra and from the governor of Maharashtra and those kinds of things. She was my she those kinds of things. She was my she was the one who interviewed me for the was the one who interviewed me for the bachelor of social work. So she always bachelor of social work. So she always keeps joking that saying that you know keeps joking that saying that you know it was not me who take took Minar's it was not me who take took Minar's interview. It was he who took my interview. It was he who took my interview. So and we are now very very interview. So and we are now very very good friends. She was my teacher and uh good friends. She was my teacher and uh that was the time when I had left uh that was the time when I had left uh home. Uh so though I didn't belong to home. Uh so though I didn't belong to the economically weaker section college the economically weaker section college of social work uh gave me a scholarship of social work uh gave me a scholarship uh and I may be one of the first person uh and I may be one of the first person who in a way got the job in college of who in a way got the job in college of social work in my bachelor of social social work in my bachelor of social work year one. So I used to get some 150 work year one. So I used to get some 150 rupees or something doing work with the rupees or something doing work with the kids of the construction workers who kids of the construction workers who were building the Maharashtra new were building the Maharashtra new assembly building. Uh so that some of assembly building. Uh so that some of those things I could do because of the those things I could do because of the openness and the fact that they accepted openness and the fact that they accepted me in the college irrespective of my lot me in the college irrespective of my lot of like uh they were the group of of like uh they were the group of teachers who wanted to get get rid of me teachers who wanted to get get rid of me at the end of the BW first year. So I at the end of the BW first year. So I had almost threatened them saying you had almost threatened them saying you know I would sit on a hunger strike know I would sit on a hunger strike outside the college if you throw me out outside the college if you throw me out of the college. of the college. I had done a lot of things in the I had done a lot of things in the college of social work which is like you college of social work which is like you know taking away Indra Gandhi's picture know taking away Indra Gandhi's picture the symbol of um symbol of emergency the symbol of um symbol of emergency taking out pope's picture because nan is taking out pope's picture because nan is is belonging to the religious order of is belonging to the religious order of sisters where the so I said why should sisters where the so I said why should we have all this we should we should be we have all this we should we should be believing in the Indian constitution believing in the Indian constitution which is secular so the educational which is secular so the educational institution should that time I didn't institution should that time I didn't have this appreciation of the minority have this appreciation of the minority educational institution and their educational institution and their special status is now of course after special status is now of course after that much much better understanding of that much much better understanding of what it means to be a minority what it means to be a minority educational institution and those kinds educational institution and those kinds of things but that time it was just that of things but that time it was just that just the radical uh outburst of some of just the radical uh outburst of some of those things but fortunately even the those things but fortunately even the principal of college of social we were principal of college of social we were together in one function just few days together in one function just few days back when she was also there in back when she was also there in releasing a book by one of the person releasing a book by one of the person who who who whom I was not good with and who who who whom I was not good with and then the fact that I was there I went to then the fact that I was there I went to that function it was the release of his that function it was the release of his book uh and then he asked me to come and book uh and then he asked me to come and speak on the stage you know because speak on the stage you know because that's that's important and I was with that's that's important and I was with my then principal college of social work my then principal college of social work far alam all of us were on the stage far alam all of us were on the stage when the release of the book happened when the release of the book happened and I of course spoke on the book and and I of course spoke on the book and about the person who wrote this he was a about the person who wrote this he was a professor in college but during my time professor in college but during my time he was a student like me but with whom I he was a student like me but with whom I didn't get along at all so you know the didn't get along at all so you know the are like parts of that I meant processes are like parts of that I meant processes that I'm I'm talking about which um I'll that I'm I'm talking about which um I'll keep continuing to go through as part of keep continuing to go through as part of a no regret life that I want to lead a no regret life that I want to lead going forward. going forward. going forward. What don't you like about yourself now? What don't you like about yourself now? you know after I come back from you know after I come back from September see till September when I September see till September when I shifted back to Mumbai shifted back to Mumbai I was in a very large uh restructuring I was in a very large uh restructuring process that I was dealing with with a process that I was dealing with with a large philanthropy large philanthropy large philanthropy so that kept me very busy I didn't have so that kept me very busy I didn't have too much time to think other than too much time to think other than because there were very clear timeline because there were very clear timeline based deliverables and I needed to based deliverables and I needed to finish some of those deliverables finish some of those deliverables and in the last phase of my work I was and in the last phase of my work I was focused on restructuring the Europe part focused on restructuring the Europe part of that philanthropy and the Africa part of that philanthropy and the Africa part of that philanthropy both challenging of that philanthropy both challenging from different perspectives. from different perspectives. So I didn't have much time to really So I didn't have much time to really think and that kind of thing. when I think and that kind of thing. when I came back I think from September till came back I think from September till about February about February about February uh because I decided to just focus on uh because I decided to just focus on getting the system set for my parents I getting the system set for my parents I didn't do much work didn't do much work and somewhere during that period from a and somewhere during that period from a extremely active extremely active extremely active to to to almost non-active life for those four almost non-active life for those four five months I think I am now five months I think I am now I had got into and I still I am I had got into and I still I am struggling with it is the struggling with it is the procrastination little bit you know if procrastination little bit you know if not today I can do it tomorrow I still not today I can do it tomorrow I still remember uh continuously from the life remember uh continuously from the life lessons that um every day builds up to lessons that um every day builds up to your year and every year builds up to your year and every year builds up to your uh you know so basically every day your uh you know so basically every day lost is a lost day lost is a lost day how we spend our days how we spend our days how you spend your days how you spend how you spend your days how you spend your life uh so that uh it's there still your life uh so that uh it's there still at the back of my mind but there are at the back of my mind but there are days when mentally uh I'm just so days when mentally uh I'm just so exhausted for you know I think somewhere exhausted for you know I think somewhere this uh my parents situation and a this uh my parents situation and a cooperation and non-ooperation from my cooperation and non-ooperation from my brothers a distinction of that brothers a distinction of that cooperation non-ooperation business cooperation non-ooperation business keeps me awake in the night so that is keeps me awake in the night so that is what I don't I'm not able to like there what I don't I'm not able to like there was a time when I used to be very was a time when I used to be very regular with my walks uh with my yoga regular with my walks uh with my yoga like London irrespective of my travel like London irrespective of my travel schedule every day I would do yoga if schedule every day I would do yoga if I'm there for a weekend Saturday, Sunday I'm there for a weekend Saturday, Sunday I will do 2 hours yoga and meditation I will do 2 hours yoga and meditation which I've not been able to practice which I've not been able to practice once I've come here. once I've come here. So that I don't like the kind of a So that I don't like the kind of a discipline that I had in terms of my own discipline that I had in terms of my own life and how I used to manage my stress life and how I used to manage my stress is not happening now. So that I don't is not happening now. So that I don't like at this stage. like at this stage. That is something which I want to gain That is something which I want to gain back my control on in terms of what I back my control on in terms of what I need to be doing uh to get myself more need to be doing uh to get myself more disciplined uh more um disciplined uh more um even with whatever I'm doing with my even with whatever I'm doing with my diet desert India I still need to do diet desert India I still need to do much better I can I still need to do much better I can I still need to do like in London I used to do much more of like in London I used to do much more of the intermittent fasting because there I the intermittent fasting because there I was by myself so you know I had a full was by myself so you know I had a full control here when you are you know control here when you are you know serviced so well when you have such serviced so well when you have such great cooks and give you exactly what great cooks and give you exactly what you like, it's a it's a pain to be you like, it's a it's a pain to be honest in terms of uh you know honest in terms of uh you know maintaining that discipline when you maintaining that discipline when you have such a great food being put around have such a great food being put around you. Uh so that's something which I I you. Uh so that's something which I I don't uh don't like. And the work that don't uh don't like. And the work that I've started doing now is quite I've started doing now is quite interesting and quite we when we talk interesting and quite we when we talk about it we'll talk about it because the about it we'll talk about it because the way I've now looked at is uh to try and way I've now looked at is uh to try and build leadership in the not for-p build leadership in the not for-p profofit sector profofit sector profofit sector and I'll give you my diagnostic and why and I'll give you my diagnostic and why I'm doing that that piece but uh you I'm doing that that piece but uh you know that is something which uh some of know that is something which uh some of these things I need to work on deal with these things I need to work on deal with my procrastination be much more strongly my procrastination be much more strongly uh active in terms of my health. Uh uh active in terms of my health. Uh one thing I have started doing much more one thing I have started doing much more is you know I now choose which company I is you know I now choose which company I spend my time on that's that's quite spend my time on that's that's quite quite good. Fortunately, Alpa, Nitan, quite good. Fortunately, Alpa, Nitan, Nitan is our son. All of them read and Nitan is our son. All of them read and there is a whole what do you say the there is a whole what do you say the there's a good interaction on number of there's a good interaction on number of number of things that one does but do I have very strong but do I have very strong friendships which are of that nature friendships which are of that nature where it will be mutually uh enriching where it will be mutually uh enriching friendships? No. uh uh I have few uh but friendships? No. uh uh I have few uh but you know because all of all of us are you know because all of all of us are also in a way so tied and busy with so also in a way so tied and busy with so many things making time on mutually many things making time on mutually convenient time to really spend quality convenient time to really spend quality time whether it's with my feminist time whether it's with my feminist friends whether friends who are on the friends whether friends who are on the social movement side I mentioned I don't social movement side I mentioned I don't know whether I mentioned PK Das who is a know whether I mentioned PK Das who is a architect who has done a lot of work in architect who has done a lot of work in the city of Mumbai a good thinker uh we the city of Mumbai a good thinker uh we go back to the student movement is go back to the student movement is uh that I'm not able to do which is also uh that I'm not able to do which is also a little bit keeps me troubling in terms a little bit keeps me troubling in terms of I think the the city of Mumbai is not of I think the the city of Mumbai is not very convenient in terms of uh reaching very convenient in terms of uh reaching out to people if they're staying far out to people if they're staying far away like if I'm have to go to king king away like if I'm have to go to king king circle it's like 45 minutes going or circle it's like 45 minutes going or coming back from king circle in that coming back from king circle in that sense it's not easy and then you then sense it's not easy and then you then say ah forget it kind of thing other say ah forget it kind of thing other than that what else I don't like. If I take some of the recent uh If I take some of the recent uh discussions on the life lessons, I think discussions on the life lessons, I think I have to still build a very good sleep I have to still build a very good sleep hygiene. Uh that is something which I hygiene. Uh that is something which I need to work on very clearly because need to work on very clearly because that is something which is important. I that is something which is important. I don't have a huge uh sleep hygiene. don't have a huge uh sleep hygiene. There are days uh once a week I'll sleep There are days uh once a week I'll sleep for 8 or 10 hours and then other days I for 8 or 10 hours and then other days I can do it 4 hours, 5 hours that kind of can do it 4 hours, 5 hours that kind of thing. It's not like a consistent thing. It's not like a consistent everyday 6 or 8 hour quality sleep kind everyday 6 or 8 hour quality sleep kind of thing. of thing. of thing. Reading wise, I think I should be Reading wise, I think I should be improving. I should not necessarily go improving. I should not necessarily go back to my voracious type of reading back to my voracious type of reading which I used to do in my young days, but which I used to do in my young days, but do be more consistent in terms of uh do be more consistent in terms of uh reading habits. That's something which I reading habits. That's something which I I miss now. What else? Yeah. What else? Yeah. Yeah. Let's let's take a quick break and Yeah. Let's let's take a quick break and after the break we will resume your after the break we will resume your journey. We have only reached as far as journey. We have only reached as far as a sixth standard right now and we will a sixth standard right now and we will continue your life from there after the continue your life from there after the break. I think this is going to be a break. I think this is going to be a 24-hour episode. Are you ready? Are you 24-hour episode. Are you ready? Are you ready for it? Nothing episode. Okay. ready for it? Nothing episode. Okay. Standard. So, but let's take a break Standard. So, but let's take a break now. now. now. Have you always wanted to be a writer Have you always wanted to be a writer but never quite gotten down to it? Well, but never quite gotten down to it? Well, I'd love to help you. Since April 2020, I'd love to help you. Since April 2020, I've enjoyed teaching 27 cohorts of my I've enjoyed teaching 27 cohorts of my online course, The Art of Clear Writing, online course, The Art of Clear Writing, and an online community has now sprung and an online community has now sprung up of all my past students. We have up of all my past students. We have workshops, a newsletter to showcase the workshops, a newsletter to showcase the work of students, and vibrant community work of students, and vibrant community interaction. In the course itself, interaction. In the course itself, through four webinars spread over four through four webinars spread over four weekends, I share all I know about the weekends, I share all I know about the craft and practice of clear writing. craft and practice of clear writing. There are many exercises, much There are many exercises, much interaction, and a lovely and lively interaction, and a lovely and lively community at the end of it. The ghost community at the end of it. The ghost cost rupes 10,000 plus GST or about cost rupes 10,000 plus GST or about $150. If you're interested, head on over $150. If you're interested, head on over to register at to register at indiaunut.com/clearwriting. indiaunut.com/clearwriting. indiaunut.com/clearwriting. That's indiaunut.com/clearwriting. That's indiaunut.com/clearwriting. That's indiaunut.com/clearwriting. Being a good writer doesn't require Being a good writer doesn't require god-given talent, just a willingness to god-given talent, just a willingness to work hard and a clear idea of what you work hard and a clear idea of what you need to do to refine your skills. I can need to do to refine your skills. I can help you. Welcome back to the scene and the Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still chatting with a man of unseen. I'm still chatting with a man of infinite patience and infinite wisdom. infinite patience and infinite wisdom. Minar pimp play minar. So you know uh Minar pimp play minar. So you know uh tell me now about the Bombay years that tell me now about the Bombay years that you've you know up to the sixth standard you've you know up to the sixth standard you've been in care and now you've gone you've been in care and now you've gone to Bombay where as you described you to Bombay where as you described you have an indulgent grandfather and uh you have an indulgent grandfather and uh you can do uh things that you want. But tell can do uh things that you want. But tell me about this phase in your development. me about this phase in your development. What's life like in the big city in the What's life like in the big city in the new school? new school? new school? So I shifted after I finished sixth So I shifted after I finished sixth standard in K for seventh standard I standard in K for seventh standard I came to Mumbai. came to Mumbai. One of the background that you should One of the background that you should know is my father used to be in home know is my father used to be in home guards. So he you know we used to have a guards. So he you know we used to have a rifle at home of the home guards. They rifle at home of the home guards. They used to go for hunting of the rabbits used to go for hunting of the rabbits and you know we'll get some rabbit meat and you know we'll get some rabbit meat once upon a time. And why that is once upon a time. And why that is important is uh during that period the important is uh during that period the good Marathi medium schools I come from good Marathi medium schools I come from Marati medium school uh were very much Marati medium school uh were very much in demand. in demand. in demand. Uh and because of his homeg guard Uh and because of his homeg guard background there was some kind of a kota background there was some kind of a kota for people who were in that kind of a for people who were in that kind of a service. service. service. So in that kota when we applied we had So in that kota when we applied we had to give three top schools that we are to give three top schools that we are interested in. interested in. interested in. So the topmost school was Chikis Sakamo So the topmost school was Chikis Sakamo Shirrokar High School then Arian Vidya Shirrokar High School then Arian Vidya Mandrir and then Rammon Royand that Mandrir and then Rammon Royand that those are the three schools Marati those are the three schools Marati medium schools in Gir quite well known medium schools in Gir quite well known for their own things. Chikisak was on for their own things. Chikisak was on the top because that time Chikisak had a the top because that time Chikisak had a history of having people uh you know history of having people uh you know standing first second third in the 11th standing first second third in the 11th standard what we call board exams standard what we call board exams and Chikag also was known for school for and Chikag also was known for school for ministers kids is officers kids that ministers kids is officers kids that time this thing of English medium school time this thing of English medium school wasn't that high so good Marati medium wasn't that high so good Marati medium schools were really respected and schools were really respected and Chikisak was one of those kinds of Chikisak was one of those kinds of schools and fortunately because of that schools and fortunately because of that particular quot that my father had about particular quot that my father had about the home guard I got into Chikisak the home guard I got into Chikisak school. Now Chikisak is in Kandari it's school. Now Chikisak is in Kandari it's in the heart of Giro. in the heart of Giro. Uh the by name itself it's a school run Uh the by name itself it's a school run by Sarats. Uh so you have the Saraswat by Sarats. Uh so you have the Saraswat Brahmin kind of a dominant class. uh in Brahmin kind of a dominant class. uh in a way the elite of the Marathi uh a way the elite of the Marathi uh community uh going to that school and as community uh going to that school and as I said the de minister's kids and you I said the de minister's kids and you know you would have when our school will know you would have when our school will finish you'll have the lalbati finish you'll have the lalbati ambassadors white ambassadors standing ambassadors white ambassadors standing to pick up the kids uh that time I to pick up the kids uh that time I didn't know whether it was legal or not didn't know whether it was legal or not legal now I of course very well know legal now I of course very well know that it is used for personal things is that it is used for personal things is not correct but you had is officers and not correct but you had is officers and that kind of kids that kind of kids so that's where I got into the school so that's where I got into the school that was good at one level on the other that was good at one level on the other hand hand hand also as I told you I didn't do first also as I told you I didn't do first standard so when I came into the seventh standard so when I came into the seventh standard I was just 11 years or standard I was just 11 years or something of that kind so I was the something of that kind so I was the youngest in the class I was pre- puberty youngest in the class I was pre- puberty so I was still wearing those I don't so I was still wearing those I don't know whether even the new generation know whether even the new generation will ever know you used to have those will ever know you used to have those nylon shorts which used to fit to your nylon shorts which used to fit to your body and those are the shorts I used to body and those are the shorts I used to wear so you know I I have had wear so you know I I have had humiliation of those shorts being pulled humiliation of those shorts being pulled down in the school in that sense. The down in the school in that sense. The other thing which really created a huge other thing which really created a huge thing in terms of impact for me I told thing in terms of impact for me I told you that I was highest in English with you that I was highest in English with 23 marks highest but fail in English 23 marks highest but fail in English in the very first week I was asked the in the very first week I was asked the question what is the meaning of money m question what is the meaning of money m o n e y money and now you'll see what o n e y money and now you'll see what was my English knowledge in seventh was my English knowledge in seventh standard I had no idea money means standard I had no idea money means money. I said money is a name of a money. I said money is a name of a kitten because that in Marathi kitten because that in Marathi the kitten is called money you know the the kitten is called money you know the cats cats cats and the whole class really laughed at me and the whole class really laughed at me and now this is where some of the and now this is where some of the personality factors come into play. personality factors come into play. They could have been my response when I They could have been my response when I reflect back my response could have been reflect back my response could have been me sucking myself in and becoming you me sucking myself in and becoming you know constrained and not or the other know constrained and not or the other thing is not publicly declaring but thing is not publicly declaring but almost in my mind I said there will be almost in my mind I said there will be time when these guys who are laughing at time when these guys who are laughing at me will not be able to speak to me in me will not be able to speak to me in English there's a kind of a anger English there's a kind of a anger challenge challenge challenge you won't believe Amit uh Marathi who you won't believe Amit uh Marathi who are listen the Marati listeners of you are listen the Marati listeners of you yours will know there used to be yours will know there used to be something called Turkar English primers something called Turkar English primers So I came home and I told my father that So I came home and I told my father that not exactly what happened because I was not exactly what happened because I was too ashamed to say that I answered this. too ashamed to say that I answered this. I said I want to have the so he got me I said I want to have the so he got me all the three primers of Tarkar which all the three primers of Tarkar which was Marathi in Marathi was Marathi in Marathi English language. The second book that English language. The second book that became my continuous friend during that became my continuous friend during that period was Rain and Martin. I'm sure period was Rain and Martin. I'm sure Rean Martin is known to many Rean Martin is known to many and I asked my grandfather to start and I asked my grandfather to start Times of India and I had a English Times of India and I had a English dictionary every word I will get stuck I dictionary every word I will get stuck I will not move in that u uh in that uh will not move in that u uh in that uh news without understanding that uh news without understanding that uh meaning of that word. meaning of that word. Then next stage I brought thesaurus Then next stage I brought thesaurus synonyms and antonyms. What will be synonyms and antonyms. What will be other words that could be used or what other words that could be used or what what are the opposite words? All that I what are the opposite words? All that I started from seven standard with this started from seven standard with this one incidence of being humiliated if you one incidence of being humiliated if you want to put it in that in that fashion. want to put it in that in that fashion. I joined that time this used to be a I joined that time this used to be a kind of a coaching classes. So there was kind of a coaching classes. So there was a very close by coaching class in Gir a very close by coaching class in Gir called Mandreker which was opposite the called Mandreker which was opposite the Japanese garden. So I started there Japanese garden. So I started there basic English. Then I there was another basic English. Then I there was another coaching class opposite her in the coaching class opposite her in the hospital called pingage classes. There I hospital called pingage classes. There I joined for the advance English joined for the advance English and I forgot the name of the person who and I forgot the name of the person who used to do this um which was with the um used to do this um which was with the um that time it was called some American that time it was called some American society affiliation on public speaking. society affiliation on public speaking. So I joined those classes one after the So I joined those classes one after the other to improve my English, to improve other to improve my English, to improve my vocabulary, to improve my confidence my vocabulary, to improve my confidence in in in English because I knew that in in in English because I knew that this is one subject where uh I was good this is one subject where uh I was good at maths, I was good at sciences. Those at maths, I was good at sciences. Those subjects I liked. Uh I was good in subjects I liked. Uh I was good in marathi language. Hindi I was fine marathi language. Hindi I was fine because I had done also the pime primary because I had done also the pime primary uh Hindi national exam. Sanskrit was a uh Hindi national exam. Sanskrit was a new thing but u you know I was getting new thing but u you know I was getting along with Sanskrit not too bad but along with Sanskrit not too bad but English was a almost like a either I'll English was a almost like a either I'll do it or not do it kind of break break do it or not do it kind of break break or whatever you call it in English uh or whatever you call it in English uh and that is how I focused again again and that is how I focused again again fortunately and I must acknowledge that fortunately and I must acknowledge that that's not possible for everybody it's that's not possible for everybody it's because I had a grandfather who had the because I had a grandfather who had the resources and who didn't know what I was resources and who didn't know what I was doing but trusted me to pay all those doing but trusted me to pay all those fees. None of this came free. Starting fees. None of this came free. Starting times of India didn't come free because times of India didn't come free because he was only reading Marati. Even in my he was only reading Marati. Even in my grandfather at mother's house, he was grandfather at mother's house, he was reading Marati. So we we used to have a reading Marati. So we we used to have a regular Marati newspaper. regular Marati newspaper. Uh but English starting English getting Uh but English starting English getting the English dictionary getting Turkar the English dictionary getting Turkar all that was additional expenses. Rain all that was additional expenses. Rain and Martin. and Martin. and Martin. So that was very useful for me to build So that was very useful for me to build my confidence and that that is the time my confidence and that that is the time when I started especially I think when I when I started especially I think when I was in eighth or ninth standard and when was in eighth or ninth standard and when I joined the public speaking class I joined the public speaking class uh that is the time when I started. So uh that is the time when I started. So one of the subject on which I was one of the subject on which I was supposed to give a speech was my dreams supposed to give a speech was my dreams and somewhere I must be having it some and somewhere I must be having it some old papers it must be. So I wrote a old papers it must be. So I wrote a dream and that is when that is the dream and that is when that is the beginning of the thinking and some beginning of the thinking and some influences that I had gathered. So what influences that I had gathered. So what was my dream that time? My dream was was my dream that time? My dream was to become a electronics engineer to become a electronics engineer and to build technology for rural areas. and to build technology for rural areas. That was my dream. I had no clue other That was my dream. I had no clue other than my life in K. I had not seen even than my life in K. I had not seen even in the rural areas or the tribal areas. in the rural areas or the tribal areas. I had not visited any any other part. My I had not visited any any other part. My only two geographic reference point was only two geographic reference point was K in Ratnagay district and Mumbai. K in Ratnagay district and Mumbai. There's no other third reference point There's no other third reference point other than going for this jatras with my other than going for this jatras with my grandfather. He'll go to Gangapur in grandfather. He'll go to Gangapur in Karnataka. He will go to Pali Gpati Karnataka. He will go to Pali Gpati temple. He will go to Gpati Puri Gpati temple. He will go to Gpati Puri Gpati temple because those are part of those temple because those are part of those annual rituals that you know people with annual rituals that you know people with money and people who were religious money and people who were religious would do. So my geographic footprint was would do. So my geographic footprint was very limited to Maharashtra partly very limited to Maharashtra partly Karnataka only for that Karnataka only for that data mandr in in Karnataka at Gangapur data mandr in in Karnataka at Gangapur uh but this thing of somewhere I had uh but this thing of somewhere I had this so when I was thinking what was my this so when I was thinking what was my dream so I remember that speech I wrote dream so I remember that speech I wrote before I gave that speech was about this before I gave that speech was about this becoming a electronics engineer becoming a electronics engineer uh so that's the first kind of a glimpse uh so that's the first kind of a glimpse that I remember after seventh standard that I remember after seventh standard uh that I had something that I had uh that I had something that I had articulated knowingly unknowingly articulated knowingly unknowingly uninformed informed whatever there was uninformed informed whatever there was something called a dream which I was something called a dream which I was asked to define for my public speech. asked to define for my public speech. Second thing which happened Second thing which happened simultaneously because of this simultaneously because of this humiliation in the English piece as I humiliation in the English piece as I said in the village I was like the uh said in the village I was like the uh you know uh disabled cow among the you know uh disabled cow among the calves. So I had a level of confidence calves. So I had a level of confidence right. So the second thing I chose uh right. So the second thing I chose uh from the seventh standard onwards is to from the seventh standard onwards is to join up with the drama group. So there join up with the drama group. So there used to be a kind of a competition uh uh used to be a kind of a competition uh uh interchool competition called Kumar interchool competition called Kumar Kalakendra competition where different Kalakendra competition where different schools will present their plays. So I schools will present their plays. So I joined that and I became like a joined that and I became like a assistant director to the teacher who assistant director to the teacher who would always you know and then I would would always you know and then I would also I've done all kinds of crazy also I've done all kinds of crazy things. So one there was one scene with things. So one there was one scene with the train. So that time you used to have the train. So that time you used to have those all those big tape recorders. So I those all those big tape recorders. So I would go and stand in Churn Road station would go and stand in Churn Road station you know when the train is approaching you know when the train is approaching to get the actual sounds of the train to get the actual sounds of the train which could be used as a background which could be used as a background music for the play kind of things all music for the play kind of things all those kind of stupid things I now I find those kind of stupid things I now I find stupid but that time that was the only stupid but that time that was the only thing you could do there was nothing thing you could do there was nothing that you could take a clip from here and that you could take a clip from here and clip from there uh and so that was the clip from there uh and so that was the in Kumar Kalakandra I did that for about in Kumar Kalakandra I did that for about two or three years and twice we won the two or three years and twice we won the prize once second prize and once third prize once second prize and once third prize Though of course the credit goes prize Though of course the credit goes to the director who is a teacher not to to the director who is a teacher not to the assistant directors and the music the assistant directors and the music directors but that in a way gave me a directors but that in a way gave me a booster of a confidence. So I think that booster of a confidence. So I think that was the second thing that happened. was the second thing that happened. Third thing being a youngest and in a Third thing being a youngest and in a way in comparison to all my other way in comparison to all my other classmates a little bit for because they classmates a little bit for because they were older people they had already were older people they had already attended puberty so they some of the attended puberty so they some of the women it was a co-ed school so girls women it was a co-ed school so girls used to be even bigger than me sometimes used to be even bigger than me sometimes some of them were like double my size some of them were like double my size kind of thing you know big uh in terms kind of thing you know big uh in terms of because like fully grown up body of because like fully grown up body right and I was like uh in terms of phys right and I was like uh in terms of phys physicality I was very timid in because physicality I was very timid in because I was almost one year ahead of the in I was almost one year ahead of the in terms of the time and everything but terms of the time and everything but that in a way helped me to build good that in a way helped me to build good relationships at uh and girls would be relationships at uh and girls would be relating with me because they were relating with me because they were seeing me as some younger kid they were seeing me as some younger kid they were not seeing as somebody who would have a not seeing as somebody who would have a vested interest in relating with them vested interest in relating with them you understand the kind of this now is you understand the kind of this now is my postrelection during that period I my postrelection during that period I didn't think like this at all but there didn't think like this at all but there were girls who would be helpful to me in were girls who would be helpful to me in terms of you know this class is there terms of you know this class is there now this is the homework that you need now this is the homework that you need to be doing you know the people who to be doing you know the people who would offer that help. would offer that help. Boys were most disastrous in terms of Boys were most disastrous in terms of you know pulling my pants the nylon you know pulling my pants the nylon pants down and being ga kind of thing. pants down and being ga kind of thing. No, it's like gawara. No, it's like gawara. Then I started getting into sports. So Then I started getting into sports. So one is the drama thing. one is the drama thing. Uh I was I was like the 12th player in Uh I was I was like the 12th player in the cricket team. So the person who the cricket team. So the person who carried the water and all that in the carried the water and all that in the brakes. But I was good at wicket brakes. But I was good at wicket keeping. So uh you know only one or two keeping. So uh you know only one or two matches have played on the grounds of matches have played on the grounds of the grand medical college. If you know the grand medical college. If you know that Hindu Hindu Jim Khana and all those that Hindu Hindu Jim Khana and all those the first Jim Khana is a grand medical the first Jim Khana is a grand medical college that is to be hired by our college that is to be hired by our school for the uh you know school for the uh you know cricket cricket cricket then hollyball I started playing then hollyball I started playing hollyball hollyball hollyball during that period where I was staying during that period where I was staying in Kachi. Now Kajiari also has a in Kachi. Now Kajiari also has a history. It was owned by somebody called history. It was owned by somebody called Routth who was a fisher folk and he was Routth who was a fisher folk and he was a leader of the peasant and workers a leader of the peasant and workers party. So in a way in that frame of a party. So in a way in that frame of a socialist so he owned that whole so we socialist so he owned that whole so we had like had like had like 13 CH Charles 13 CH Charles and one building which was a and one building which was a self-contained flats. So Charles means self-contained flats. So Charles means exactly like you know common washrooms exactly like you know common washrooms and then one kitchen and one room and and then one kitchen and one room and then you had a common passage that you then you had a common passage that you could pass that kind of a thing that's could pass that kind of a thing that's where I was staying before my where I was staying before my grandfather bought another flat in grandfather bought another flat in Mangali which is close to Chro station Mangali which is close to Chro station but that is where all my 10th and 12th but that is where all my 10th and 12th everything I did staying there. everything I did staying there. So in the flat system you had a richer So in the flat system you had a richer people in Kachiwari. So you had doctor people in Kachiwari. So you had doctor Dr. Sam was known then there was another Dr. Sam was known then there was another business family called her who during business family called her who during that period had two Mercedes cars you that period had two Mercedes cars you know so elite kind of thing and uh know so elite kind of thing and uh somehow uh I got introduced to the two somehow uh I got introduced to the two girls of the hero carers and then I used girls of the hero carers and then I used to be like a badminton partner of of the to be like a badminton partner of of the younger one. So in a way I was because younger one. So in a way I was because of my age because maybe the way I was of my age because maybe the way I was looking or whatever I could get into looking or whatever I could get into some of this spaces which generally some of this spaces which generally maybe from their perspective out of oh maybe from their perspective out of oh he's somebody whom we can take under our he's somebody whom we can take under our wings because I was younger I was you wings because I was younger I was you know searching whatever is their know searching whatever is their motivation but for me I was getting into motivation but for me I was getting into the spaces which were generally would the spaces which were generally would have been blocked if I didn't have some have been blocked if I didn't have some of the things that like a confidence of of the things that like a confidence of a lame cow you know that helped in that a lame cow you know that helped in that sense. So I think some of those parts sense. So I think some of those parts helped me build my confidence in a way helped me build my confidence in a way in that in that process till then in that in that process till then standard. standard. standard. Are you still in touch with the Herodka Are you still in touch with the Herodka sister? sister? sister? Yes. Uh so Reena Herodkar was a very Yes. Uh so Reena Herodkar was a very dear friend of mine. Uh she married in dear friend of mine. Uh she married in Belgrade thing. It was just a catch up in terms thing. It was just a catch up in terms of what what has she done in life and of what what has she done in life and where she is and kind of thing. her where she is and kind of thing. her elder sister uh was a microbiologist and elder sister uh was a microbiologist and is a microbiologist and she did some is a microbiologist and she did some fantastic work interesting work uh in in fantastic work interesting work uh in in the area of microbiology and she's in uh the area of microbiology and she's in uh in carvar and rein bail uh so I'm still in carvar and rein bail uh so I'm still in touch with them I you know we are in touch with them I you know we are connected on WhatsApp we connected on connected on WhatsApp we connected on Facebook so that's that's that's good uh Facebook so that's that's that's good uh so that's the kind of thing till 10th so that's the kind of thing till 10th standard standard standard when I pass 10th standard I wasn't a when I pass 10th standard I wasn't a great student till 10th standard. I got great student till 10th standard. I got some 55% or something like that in 10th some 55% or something like that in 10th standard. standard. standard. But because I was this privileged But because I was this privileged grandson of a silver smmith's family, my grandson of a silver smmith's family, my grandfather in front of our factory, the grandfather in front of our factory, the silver factory was a factory for making silver factory was a factory for making mities. So he bought those big thals two mities. So he bought those big thals two big ths of pedas to be distributed to big ths of pedas to be distributed to anybody and everybody. So people got anybody and everybody. So people got like because it was such a huge like because it was such a huge celebration that I first attempt 10th celebration that I first attempt 10th standard pass standard pass standard pass they got diabetes because you did well they got diabetes because you did well in the exams in the exams maybe I don't know maybe I don't know so uh because they were very happy now so uh because they were very happy now that is where the differentiation that is where the differentiation with them and mine begins with them and mine begins because it was very clear because that because it was very clear because that time there was a military school called time there was a military school called Satara military school in Satara where Satara military school in Satara where because of this I think it was very because of this I think it was very clear that I cannot join the forces or I clear that I cannot join the forces or I cannot join even the because of my hand cannot join even the because of my hand and because of the because you know this and because of the because you know this is this part is like the plastic surgery is this part is like the plastic surgery taken the skin is taken from my thigh taken the skin is taken from my thigh all those kinds of things. So the only all those kinds of things. So the only option that they were expecting me to option that they were expecting me to join the commerce but now you come back join the commerce but now you come back to the dream that I had in the eighth or to the dream that I had in the eighth or nth standard when I gave that public nth standard when I gave that public speech as part of my practice to become speech as part of my practice to become the electronics engineer. the electronics engineer. So I basically said no I want to go for So I basically said no I want to go for science and I was the first batch new 10 science and I was the first batch new 10 + 2 + 3 standard 75 1975 was when this + 2 + 3 standard 75 1975 was when this uh 10 + 2 + 3 was introduced and I was uh 10 + 2 + 3 was introduced and I was you know the first batch of the 10th you know the first batch of the 10th standard pass in the 1975. standard pass in the 1975. So then I chose for my junior college it So then I chose for my junior college it was called a junior college 11th and was called a junior college 11th and 12th of the called junior college I 12th of the called junior college I chose science as a stream rather than chose science as a stream rather than the um rather than uh commerce the um rather than uh commerce so far so good. So I joined science. I so far so good. So I joined science. I did my 11th did my 11th 12th standard. I had something 12th standard. I had something in I don't remember now but there was in I don't remember now but there was something in my back or something like something in my back or something like that which created a huge discomfort in that which created a huge discomfort in my last um what do you call those my last um what do you call those vertebra vertebra vertebra so I had to drop out of the exam. So in so I had to drop out of the exam. So in a way that was like a first experience a way that was like a first experience of a it was not a failure. I didn't fail of a it was not a failure. I didn't fail but for me it was interpreted as a but for me it was interpreted as a failure failure failure and that was in a way kind of a good and that was in a way kind of a good change during this period also what had change during this period also what had happened was happened was happened was because of the philanthropy background because of the philanthropy background of my father my grandfather my mother's of my father my grandfather my mother's father if you know in Mahim there is a father if you know in Mahim there is a something called vya patankar and their something called vya patankar and their kha is very famous for all the elements kha is very famous for all the elements of stomach and you know digestion of stomach and you know digestion Patanker and they had a workers their Patanker and they had a workers their workers staying in a chol near workers staying in a chol near Prabhadevi and their big shop was there Prabhadevi and their big shop was there in front of there. So that time one of in front of there. So that time one of the thing somehow I got introduced to the thing somehow I got introduced to this through one of the friends to this this through one of the friends to this Vapatankara and I said you know why not Vapatankara and I said you know why not start some classes for the children of start some classes for the children of this Vya patankara. this Vya patankara. the children of the workers of the the children of the workers of the Vapatan Krakara Vapatan Krakara Vapatan Krakara and you know in 1984 I established Yua and you know in 1984 I established Yua but that time I already established but that time I already established something called Yua coaching classes something called Yua coaching classes and UA book bank and UA book bank which year was this? This was uh which year was this? This was uh around so 78 around so 78 778 around that time 778 around that time when you were 17 or 18 years when you were 17 or 18 years 17 or 18 yeah that that's the time uh 17 or 18 yeah that that's the time uh because I had this whole impression because I had this whole impression about uh wanting to do something good about uh wanting to do something good for the society there's some sequential for the society there's some sequential issues that you we might face here issues that you we might face here because there were so many things because there were so many things happening in that that 2-year period happening in that that 2-year period which is what I call a period of a huge which is what I call a period of a huge uh turmoil in my thinking you know I uh turmoil in my thinking you know I wanted to pursue my engineering that's wanted to pursue my engineering that's how science all those wanting to do some how science all those wanting to do some social work because of this background social work because of this background that I had all that is happening that I had all that is happening and then I finished the 12th one year and then I finished the 12th one year later than the normal because of this later than the normal because of this one year drop during my 12th when I went one year drop during my 12th when I went back I was in Wilson college where I back I was in Wilson college where I took the drop then I went back to my took the drop then I went back to my school school school high high high There was a professor called Mr. Zooshi. There was a professor called Mr. Zooshi. He came from very close to Mumbai where He came from very close to Mumbai where there the nuclear plant. I forgot the there the nuclear plant. I forgot the name Wangani or something which is name Wangani or something which is beyond was and all those places. So uh beyond was and all those places. So uh he was the one who influenced me and he was the one who influenced me and that is what generated this Vapatan that is what generated this Vapatan Krakara classes. then why don't you Krakara classes. then why don't you somehow he saw that there's something in somehow he saw that there's something in me that will be interested in social me that will be interested in social work and social science and that kind of work and social science and that kind of thing so he encouraged me to do that and thing so he encouraged me to do that and I I did that I started doing that but I I did that I started doing that but that was all coming from a very that was all coming from a very altruistic kind of a thinking and altruistic kind of a thinking and motivation motivation motivation after my 12th standard there was I after my 12th standard there was I didn't have enough percentage to get didn't have enough percentage to get into engineering into engineering into engineering but there was a association called but there was a association called Indian telecommunication engineers Indian telecommunication engineers association they had a collaborative association they had a collaborative program with vizeti and that's where program with vizeti and that's where when I heard Sudhir's thing that's where when I heard Sudhir's thing that's where I saw some of the alignments uh so they I saw some of the alignments uh so they had a program for uh telecommunication had a program for uh telecommunication engineering okay so I was interested in engineering okay so I was interested in the electronics and telecommunication the electronics and telecommunication engineering so that was the the program engineering so that was the the program they were offering in collaboration with they were offering in collaboration with visiti so I joined that and I joined visiti so I joined that and I joined that that the first time I encountered that that the first time I encountered some of the leftleaning student groups some of the leftleaning student groups because you had left leaning students because you had left leaning students group in all these educational group in all these educational institutions and there's a background to institutions and there's a background to it because uh uh if you know in ' 62 it because uh uh if you know in ' 62 people like even Kumar Ketkar who was a people like even Kumar Ketkar who was a member of parliament they were a part of member of parliament they were a part of the first um student anti-five action the first um student anti-five action committee in ' 62 so you know ashaka committee in ' 62 so you know ashaka kumar ketu they were all part of kumar ketu they were all part of And post emergency in um 77 the student And post emergency in um 77 the student activism was coming up again activism was coming up again and because of the post emergency the and because of the post emergency the breath of fresh air people were getting breath of fresh air people were getting back into activism and that time the back into activism and that time the student movement was coming up and that student movement was coming up and that time also the safak was reinvented again time also the safak was reinvented again because that time also was a thing of because that time also was a thing of the antifad action committee and there the antifad action committee and there was something which Mumbai University was something which Mumbai University had introduced called foundation course had introduced called foundation course I don't know whether you remember that I don't know whether you remember that or not but a foundation course was made or not but a foundation course was made compulsory it was a add-on course to compulsory it was a add-on course to whichever stream of you know whether you whichever stream of you know whether you took science arts or commerce the took science arts or commerce the foundation course was compulsory so that foundation course was compulsory so that was a student's demand and was a student's demand and they had taken over the university they had taken over the university immediately after so I think May 77 or immediately after so I think May 77 or something of that kind the university something of that kind the university takeover had happened uh by the students takeover had happened uh by the students I was not part of that I was not part of that because I was just 1617 post emergency because I was just 1617 post emergency right right right and then once the students had taken and then once the students had taken over in 78 the I think university over in 78 the I think university established a commission called a mabhai established a commission called a mabhai commission to look into how the hell commission to look into how the hell students took over the university students took over the university appointed their own vice chancellor appointed their own vice chancellor appointed their own registar and kept appointed their own registar and kept the university in their command for one the university in their command for one full day how did this happen where where full day how did this happen where where did things go wrong did things go wrong and that was my first entry because and that was my first entry because that's the time when I got attracted to that's the time when I got attracted to this left groups on visiti and they this left groups on visiti and they introduced me to some of this left um introduced me to some of this left um students and this is all before I joined students and this is all before I joined the bachelor of social work bachelor of the bachelor of social work I joined in 79 so you can social work I joined in 79 so you can see now the evolution so I already had see now the evolution so I already had this Marxist kind of a analysis of the this Marxist kind of a analysis of the social work as a postindustrial social work as a postindustrial American uh system that is coming up in American uh system that is coming up in India Yeah. So I had that analysis and India Yeah. So I had that analysis and I'll come to there why I chose be battle I'll come to there why I chose be battle of social work. of social work. So one thing then I decided what am I So one thing then I decided what am I going to do by becoming a engineer. going to do by becoming a engineer. Of course, innovation was one but Of course, innovation was one but otherwise it will be earning money that otherwise it will be earning money that I could have done by joining my own I could have done by joining my own business also because they were needing business also because they were needing somebody of who is educated who speaks somebody of who is educated who speaks English or understands English and can English or understands English and can deal with all their taxation excise all deal with all their taxation excise all those issues and I was interested that those issues and I was interested that was part of my you know DNA. I had done was part of my you know DNA. I had done also some foray into small businesses also some foray into small businesses with some friends uh like uh you know with some friends uh like uh you know you had this big thing about you know you had this big thing about you know the private taxi hires. So you go you the private taxi hires. So you go you you know you buy two or three ambassador you know you buy two or three ambassador cars and put it on higher and then you cars and put it on higher and then you earn some money out of that. So I had earn some money out of that. So I had done some some for into those kinds of done some some for into those kinds of businesses. Uh I was into this from businesses. Uh I was into this from taking some monies from my grandfather taking some monies from my grandfather into investing monies into some into investing monies into some businesses to uh and then have a profit businesses to uh and then have a profit sharing. So it was part of that DNA that sharing. So it was part of that DNA that I I had and they and this I'm talking I I had and they and this I'm talking about 18 19 years old now basically. uh about 18 19 years old now basically. uh so basically that was my thinking that so basically that was my thinking that uh if I'm supposed to earn money I could uh if I'm supposed to earn money I could have joined the business and that made have joined the business and that made me think what I want to do in my life me think what I want to do in my life and that's the first time and that's the first time my aspirations and a real interest in me my aspirations and a real interest in me got aligned with what I chose got aligned with what I chose then that time people told me why don't then that time people told me why don't you look at sociology you look at sociology and do your bachelor's in sociology that and do your bachelor's in sociology that time head of the department was Dr. Rani time head of the department was Dr. Rani and he himself used to stay in Talasari and he himself used to stay in Talasari in the tribal village and he was the in the tribal village and he was the head of the sociology department which head of the sociology department which was at Kalina. So people said why don't was at Kalina. So people said why don't you visit Dr. you visit Dr. talk to him, check out with him and see talk to him, check out with him and see what he he advises. And some of these what he he advises. And some of these leftist friends uh one of them were the leftist friends uh one of them were the editor of Indian express Dhanjay um editor of Indian express Dhanjay um Kurkani Dhanjay Kurkani we used to call Kurkani Dhanjay Kurkani we used to call him Da uh in Hyderabad and uh he's him Da uh in Hyderabad and uh he's partner Mugdbe another person who writes partner Mugdbe another person who writes quite well in Marati she was in my uh quite well in Marati she was in my uh chikasak Samo in Cclass and this is chikasak Samo in Cclass and this is where again some of the alliances CEO of where again some of the alliances CEO of the division for the people who were in the division for the people who were in the scholarships and I was in a because the scholarships and I was in a because I was not in the scholarship thing. So, I was not in the scholarship thing. So, so he was like really the top of the so he was like really the top of the cream uh people. Anyway, so I went to cream uh people. Anyway, so I went to meet Dr. Rani in Talasari. This is in meet Dr. Rani in Talasari. This is in the May June type of a month the May June type of a month and uh I stayed there for two or three and uh I stayed there for two or three days along with this uh people days along with this uh people and what I experienced was the scabbies and what I experienced was the scabbies bodies full of scabbies because during bodies full of scabbies because during the months of May June they don't have the months of May June they don't have anything to eat so the two things that anything to eat so the two things that they were eating you know kane the they were eating you know kane the broken rice the small small pieces of broken rice the small small pieces of rice so just a watery thing of that and rice so just a watery thing of that and the tamarind uh water. So the uh it's the tamarind uh water. So the uh it's used is to call pae and the tamarind used is to call pae and the tamarind water that mix. So no nutrition. So the water that mix. So no nutrition. So the scabbies was very prevalent. scabbies was very prevalent. So again my social work thing coming up So again my social work thing coming up we should adopt villages and um you know we should adopt villages and um you know do some uh health camps and get rid of do some uh health camps and get rid of the scabbies help help them with the the scabbies help help them with the nutrition. nutrition. nutrition. That was my initial responses coming That was my initial responses coming again from that philanthropic thinking again from that philanthropic thinking with the thing that I had started with with the thing that I had started with this part this part this part workers. workers. workers. That was the first time I was exposed to That was the first time I was exposed to the issue of the lands and how the lands the issue of the lands and how the lands of the tribals have been illegally taken of the tribals have been illegally taken over by the landlords uh in that area over by the landlords uh in that area and how that is impacting their and how that is impacting their livelihood and how now they have become livelihood and how now they have become almost like a slave. So you know the almost like a slave. So you know the whole situation of bonded labor in the whole situation of bonded labor in the in those areas during this period I'm in those areas during this period I'm talking about 7879. So the bonded labor talking about 7879. So the bonded labor was very prevalent was very prevalent and that little bit awareness and and that little bit awareness and consciousness started coming into me. I consciousness started coming into me. I was very agnostic about the was very agnostic about the organizations. I didn't have a very organizations. I didn't have a very strong clue about who is who. But I knew strong clue about who is who. But I knew what are the right questions to ask. So what are the right questions to ask. So I was at ABVP camp in Dada where I asked I was at ABVP camp in Dada where I asked this question. But you know you have this question. But you know you have this one kalan ashram and you're doing this one kalan ashram and you're doing this work with this intalasari and all this work with this intalasari and all those but the real issue is uh you know those but the real issue is uh you know who owns the land who takes the produce who owns the land who takes the produce on the land you not doing anything so I on the land you not doing anything so I was then immediately branded as somebody was then immediately branded as somebody who is a not a thinker on the abbp line who is a not a thinker on the abbp line kind of thing you know but I had no I kind of thing you know but I had no I was just asking a question it was not was just asking a question it was not like I was committed to this ideology or like I was committed to this ideology or that ideology I was just asking a that ideology I was just asking a question based on that so when I met Dr. question based on that so when I met Dr. Rani when I was in Talasari one of the Rani when I was in Talasari one of the days we visited him so he of course days we visited him so he of course showed me he had a hunter on on his showed me he had a hunter on on his house in Talafari. So this is the house in Talafari. So this is the hunters that were used to actually bring hunters that were used to actually bring people in line to in terms of forced people in line to in terms of forced labor. labor. labor. Hunters being whips basically Hunters being whips basically whips yeah sorry for whipping not whips yeah sorry for whipping not hunters my English you see. hunters my English you see. No hunter is a kind of whip. So yeah No hunter is a kind of whip. So yeah this works. this works. this works. So then I when I I talked to Dr. Dr. Ran So then I when I I talked to Dr. Dr. Ran I said you know Dr. I'm looking for I said you know Dr. I'm looking for something where I can work with people something where I can work with people on a regular basis. So I'm looking for on a regular basis. So I'm looking for sociology. sociology. sociology. He said minar you'll be completely He said minar you'll be completely disillusioned in sociology. We have one disillusioned in sociology. We have one camp in a year of 15 days which is when camp in a year of 15 days which is when you go and do some sociological surveys you go and do some sociological surveys in the village. You are not regularly in the village. You are not regularly doing any all other time you are in the doing any all other time you are in the university attending the classes. And he university attending the classes. And he was the one who suggested if you're was the one who suggested if you're looking for something where the practice looking for something where the practice is part of your learning then join is part of your learning then join social work because in social work you social work because in social work you have 3 days of theory and 3 days of have 3 days of theory and 3 days of field work. That is what motivated me to field work. That is what motivated me to join the social work in college of join the social work in college of social work in 79. So that's where I social work in 79. So that's where I joined the bachelor of social work. gave joined the bachelor of social work. gave up my uh uh engineering uh diploma piece up my uh uh engineering uh diploma piece at visiti joined college of social work at visiti joined college of social work in BW in BW in BW during that period also the other thing during that period also the other thing that period is so many things happened that period is so many things happened it's unbelievable the kind of things I it's unbelievable the kind of things I was trying to do in that period I was was trying to do in that period I was influenced by Dr. core you know the influenced by Dr. core you know the rationalist rationalist rationalist uh and I was like looking at so I had uh and I was like looking at so I had read you know experiments with truth of read you know experiments with truth of Gandhi so I was trying to say what is Gandhi so I was trying to say what is true in in in all these things is the true in in in all these things is the rationalism the path to go is this rationalism the path to go is this religious practices religious practices religious practices so I used to keep in that 11th and 12th so I used to keep in that 11th and 12th that period Monday used to be my mavat I that period Monday used to be my mavat I didn't need to speak the whole 24 hours didn't need to speak the whole 24 hours on Mondays Thursdays used to be my on Mondays Thursdays used to be my yellow Thursday. So I would only eat yellow Thursday. So I would only eat yellow things and do you know I it was yellow things and do you know I it was just experiments basically to really just experiments basically to really understand does this make any sense understand does this make any sense and somewhere after all those and somewhere after all those experiments with oneself of fasting of experiments with oneself of fasting of monat all those kinds of things I monat all those kinds of things I basically became basically became basically became more on the Dr. core side rationalist. more on the Dr. core side rationalist. So your episode on atheism was very help So your episode on atheism was very help helpful. I used to till that till that helpful. I used to till that till that episode I used to say I'm a practicing episode I used to say I'm a practicing atheist. But your episode clarified atheist. But your episode clarified there is nothing to practice and that is there is nothing to practice and that is being aist. But anyway when I say being aist. But anyway when I say practicing atheist I basically say I practicing atheist I basically say I stand by that and I declare and I stand by that and I declare and I emphasize why it is important why that emphasize why it is important why that scientific thought is important. So it's scientific thought is important. So it's not like I'm going to though I respect not like I'm going to though I respect all religions but I'm not going to be all religions but I'm not going to be defending if some superstition is defending if some superstition is presented to me I will be speaking presented to me I will be speaking against that superstition and then with against that superstition and then with Dr. core and his understanding you know Dr. core and his understanding you know he had this standing challenge to any he had this standing challenge to any bua or any thing including satyasai Baba bua or any thing including satyasai Baba uh saying that you know I'll give you 10 uh saying that you know I'll give you 10 lakh if you prove any of the uh lakh if you prove any of the uh juggleries that you do for people I will juggleries that you do for people I will give you 10 lakh if you do it in a give you 10 lakh if you do it in a controlled environment where we have controlled environment where we have independently agreed observers who will independently agreed observers who will basically certify that what you're doing basically certify that what you're doing is uh really out of uh the faith that is uh really out of uh the faith that you have and nobody of of course you have and nobody of of course accepted his challenge till he died Dr. accepted his challenge till he died Dr. core. So that is that was the first this core. So that is that was the first this is all happening in that 11 12 it's also is all happening in that 11 12 it's also the time when lot of changes in the body the time when lot of changes in the body my societal understanding all that is my societal understanding all that is increasing I'm having this ab type of increasing I'm having this ab type of people working with me so some of the people working with me so some of the present people in the BJP people I have present people in the BJP people I have worked with uh ta you know ta who is now worked with uh ta you know ta who is now the general secretary of BJP all those the general secretary of BJP all those people I've worked with in that period people I've worked with in that period of time because I was a little bit of time because I was a little bit agnostic in terms of my feeling was you agnostic in terms of my feeling was you be do what needs to be done and whoever be do what needs to be done and whoever come alongs with you work with them and come alongs with you work with them and the difference between the SUFFAC of the difference between the SUFFAC of 1962 and SUFFAC of 1977 1962 and SUFFAC of 1977 1962 student Antifa action committee was 1962 student Antifa action committee was exclusively socialist and left oriented exclusively socialist and left oriented student wings while in 1977 it was ABVP student wings while in 1977 it was ABVP ISF SFI all these left and the right ISF SFI all these left and the right groups came together on the student groups came together on the student antifield so that big big difference in antifield so that big big difference in the 77 uh student uh mobilization and the 77 uh student uh mobilization and the 62 student mobilization. So I was in the 62 student mobilization. So I was in that that chunk. So I like between 17 18 that that chunk. So I like between 17 18 years that kind of thing. years that kind of thing. Uh then I told you about Dr. Core Uh then I told you about Dr. Core exciments with self that all that exciments with self that all that processes were happening around around processes were happening around around that time. Then I joined battle of that time. Then I joined battle of social work in 1979. social work in 1979. 1979 1979 1979 when I joined battle of social work. My when I joined battle of social work. My college began sometime in May or June or college began sometime in May or June or something like that when when the something like that when when the college colleges begin college colleges begin December of that year exactly on my December of that year exactly on my birthday 11th December 1979. birthday 11th December 1979. So 10th December night. Now that was a So 10th December night. Now that was a very interesting part where my very interesting part where my grandfather that is my mother's father grandfather that is my mother's father was fighting a property battle with his was fighting a property battle with his elder brother elder brother elder brother and that got resolved on 10th of and that got resolved on 10th of December 1979. So he became the sole December 1979. So he became the sole owner of the factory. owner of the factory. He paid off his uh elder brother, his He paid off his uh elder brother, his son, all that was done. A legal son, all that was done. A legal agreement was drawn up and he became the agreement was drawn up and he became the sole owner of the factory. 10 December sole owner of the factory. 10 December evening he went to a lawyer to tell him evening he went to a lawyer to tell him how what kind of a will he wants to do. how what kind of a will he wants to do. Came back from the lawyer had his dinner Came back from the lawyer had his dinner and that night he had a brain and that night he had a brain hemorrhage. hemorrhage. hemorrhage. So 11th December early morning he he was So 11th December early morning he he was dead. dead. dead. So the whole property allocation of what So the whole property allocation of what he wanted to do he wanted to do didn't get completed. So basically and didn't get completed. So basically and that was a big change that was a big change after that after that after that all the family dynamics I don't to get all the family dynamics I don't to get into the family dynamic happened but into the family dynamic happened but around the property issue the family around the property issue the family dynamics happened my mother and her dynamics happened my mother and her mother who couldn't stay away from one mother who couldn't stay away from one another because by that time by 75 my another because by that time by 75 my mother also had already shifted with um mother also had already shifted with um my two younger brothers they were my two younger brothers they were staying separately and I was staying staying separately and I was staying with my grandparents in two different with my grandparents in two different places places places all the relatives all the kinds of uh all the relatives all the kinds of uh machinations happened and there was a machinations happened and there was a big fight between my mother and her big fight between my mother and her mother. So my mother got isolated and mother. So my mother got isolated and her brother and her younger sister and her brother and her younger sister and her mother became one side and my mother her mother became one side and my mother became another side. So it just created became another side. So it just created that huge family dynamics. that huge family dynamics. I decided I don't want to get into this I decided I don't want to get into this dynamics because by that time I was dynamics because by that time I was adequately thinking all the evil of the adequately thinking all the evil of the challenges we have with this damn money challenges we have with this damn money and properties. and properties. and properties. So I just wanted to be away from So I just wanted to be away from both who my mother as well as from my both who my mother as well as from my grandmother. So I basically decided at grandmother. So I basically decided at the age of 19 or so 79 was I was 19 the age of 19 or so 79 was I was 19 years old to leave house and then years old to leave house and then um rented a place in Kotachi which is um rented a place in Kotachi which is now of course one of the heritage walk now of course one of the heritage walk sites in Mumbai sites in Mumbai uh for about from a friend at Raju Sam uh for about from a friend at Raju Sam who had introduced me to Vedankar. He who had introduced me to Vedankar. He had a place in Kotachi. So I rented that had a place in Kotachi. So I rented that and I requested college of social work and I requested college of social work saying that you know though technically saying that you know though technically I don't belong to economically weaker I don't belong to economically weaker section. section. section. I I'm not taking I have decided not to I I'm not taking I have decided not to take any money from my parents or my take any money from my parents or my grandparents which were supporting me so grandparents which were supporting me so far. So I am personally economically far. So I am personally economically visaction because I have nothing visaction because I have nothing basically. basically. basically. uh uh uh again there were few other things that again there were few other things that happened during that that period and happened during that that period and some some of these things are very very some some of these things are very very interesting I don't know how this some interesting I don't know how this some of these thoughts came in my mind of these thoughts came in my mind like I I used to I started driving at like I I used to I started driving at the age of 15 16 so I was already I got the age of 15 16 so I was already I got my driving license before completing 18 my driving license before completing 18 years old now when I got my driving years old now when I got my driving license license license that time I must be like 17 plus that time I must be like 17 plus something like that but not complete 188 something like that but not complete 188 I said I want a driving license where I I said I want a driving license where I could be a taxi driver also. So used to could be a taxi driver also. So used to get a driving license which are owner's get a driving license which are owner's driving license that time and used to driving license that time and used to get a driving license which would be get a driving license which would be driving public vehicle. Public vehicle driving public vehicle. Public vehicle would mean taxi. So somehow I don't know would mean taxi. So somehow I don't know what was in my mind that I said I want what was in my mind that I said I want that driving license which I could which that driving license which I could which would make me eligible for driving a would make me eligible for driving a public vehicle. So I had a driving public vehicle. So I had a driving license by which then I could apply for license by which then I could apply for a taxi permit. So that was the other a taxi permit. So that was the other thing that that happened. So somehow the thing that that happened. So somehow the the inclination of becoming uh the inclination of becoming uh selfsource self reliant was there not so selfsource self reliant was there not so articulated not so clear but some of articulated not so clear but some of these actions actually show show that these actions actually show show that that piece of mine. that piece of mine. So 79th December I said I became So 79th December I said I became independent. During that period also independent. During that period also when I left my um engineering when I left my um engineering electronics and telecommission electronics and telecommission engineering engineering engineering I had also got trained to do the repairs I had also got trained to do the repairs of the you know radios and um tape of the you know radios and um tape recorders so I could earn some money out recorders so I could earn some money out of that process. So in a way something of that process. So in a way something was happening in my mind of wanting to was happening in my mind of wanting to be away from all this and that I would be away from all this and that I would be able to earn my my own own uh own be able to earn my my own own uh own living. living. living. So all this was happening. So I left So all this was happening. So I left home. I went into that place. That place home. I went into that place. That place was 175 rupees uh per month rent which was 175 rupees uh per month rent which is quite expensive during that period is quite expensive during that period but it was a huge place. A lot of my uh but it was a huge place. A lot of my uh classmates used to come there to study classmates used to come there to study together from BW and all those things. together from BW and all those things. uh and then college of social work gave uh and then college of social work gave me that job uh which was where I was me that job uh which was where I was earning 250 rupees. So I had about 75 earning 250 rupees. So I had about 75 rupees per month to spend on myself. rupees per month to spend on myself. Fortunately Fortunately Fortunately uh during that period also I had friends uh during that period also I had friends who would support my uh eating and those who would support my uh eating and those kinds of things which is which is great kinds of things which is which is great and uh at a mast's level alpa was one of and uh at a mast's level alpa was one of them who was part of that support system them who was part of that support system because all of them had a good amount of because all of them had a good amount of pocket money which I didn't have because pocket money which I didn't have because I I had no monies other than uh and they I I had no monies other than uh and they would treat me for eating in Sanman or would treat me for eating in Sanman or whatever you know which I couldn't whatever you know which I couldn't afford because it was like a afford because it was like a self-imposed thing. You would see a kind self-imposed thing. You would see a kind of a declass process where when I was of a declass process where when I was going to Wilson College, I had going to Wilson College, I had ambassador car dropping me and then ambassador car dropping me and then bringing back. Then I went on to I told bringing back. Then I went on to I told you Chetak after 12th standard I had a you Chetak after 12th standard I had a scooter. scooter. scooter. Then I decided to give up the scooter. Then I decided to give up the scooter. One of my friends brother had a bicycle One of my friends brother had a bicycle which I bought and then I from scooter I which I bought and then I from scooter I went to bicycle and then from bicycle I went to bicycle and then from bicycle I came to public transport. So it was a came to public transport. So it was a process of completely declassifying process of completely declassifying what do you call it declassing oneself what do you call it declassing oneself at one level and now I call it at one level and now I call it declassing but that is how I basically declassing but that is how I basically said that my dependencies on any of this said that my dependencies on any of this should so I used to drive from gone a should so I used to drive from gone a bicycle from churchgate to manur bicycle from churchgate to manur uh you know children's home and those uh you know children's home and those kinds of things kinds of things uh and that time it was easy it was not uh and that time it was easy it was not like not a lot of traffic that we are like not a lot of traffic that we are facing now and then public transport I facing now and then public transport I came into public transport. So became came into public transport. So became like any other commoner who is hanging like any other commoner who is hanging around in the trains in the buses and around in the trains in the buses and those kinds of things. So that all that those kinds of things. So that all that process was till about 7980 process was till about 7980 and then I was surviving by myself uh and then I was surviving by myself uh with this small amount of money. My with this small amount of money. My mother had made up till then with me and mother had made up till then with me and come to the terms that okay he's still come to the terms that okay he's still our son. So sometimes she would send a our son. So sometimes she would send a tiffen to me to get a good food because tiffen to me to get a good food because otherwise I was ending up having I otherwise I was ending up having I couldn't even afford Amul butter during couldn't even afford Amul butter during that period. So I used to have there is that period. So I used to have there is there is this thing called GA. So the there is this thing called GA. So the GAR butter which was like 1/4 of the GAR butter which was like 1/4 of the price of the Amul butter and then the price of the Amul butter and then the garlic chutney and bread was sometime my garlic chutney and bread was sometime my staple in in that that period of time. I staple in in that that period of time. I very thin actually. very thin actually. What happened to the property by the What happened to the property by the way? Who was it supposed to go to? your way? Who was it supposed to go to? your grandfather's property. grandfather's property. grandfather's property. No, that is why the whole challenge was No, that is why the whole challenge was that that was not sorted because he that that was not sorted because he didn't do the will. didn't do the will. Exactly. So eventually like who was he Exactly. So eventually like who was he going to give it to and who did it go to going to give it to and who did it go to eventually? eventually? eventually? So he was wanting to give 25% to my So he was wanting to give 25% to my father because my father was running the father because my father was running the factory and the remaining he was to factory and the remaining he was to allocate among the two sisters that is allocate among the two sisters that is one of them is my mother and uh mama. So one of them is my mother and uh mama. So that is how the thing was. Now that that is how the thing was. Now that didn't happen. My father became didn't happen. My father became completely non plus because he was not completely non plus because he was not in the uh hierarchy of the claimments. in the uh hierarchy of the claimments. So only claimments technically became uh So only claimments technically became uh my mother, her sister and her brother. my mother, her sister and her brother. So finally it went on to a long course So finally it went on to a long course of uh legal litigation and finally the of uh legal litigation and finally the property was divided uh between u the property was divided uh between u the three families my mother her sister and three families my mother her sister and my mama so these three families were and my mama so these three families were and that's another story now I'm dealing that's another story now I'm dealing with the property which has come to my with the property which has come to my mother because that's now that is in a mother because that's now that is in a way between three three brothers so way between three three brothers so that's another part of the story. But that's another part of the story. But anyway, that was the it was a long legal anyway, that was the it was a long legal battle of almost 10 15 years by the time battle of almost 10 15 years by the time that was sorted and then finally my that was sorted and then finally my mother got her peace in the factory land mother got her peace in the factory land she got one um where originally had she got one um where originally had stayed in Karachi that room came to her stayed in Karachi that room came to her so these were the kinds of things that so these were the kinds of things that she got and she got onethird of the she got and she got onethird of the factory factory place factory factory place uh so anyway so that whole period was uh uh so anyway so that whole period was uh experiments itself uh exploring experiments itself uh exploring political ideology where I should be political ideology where I should be aligned those kinds of things then comes aligned those kinds of things then comes the BW the BW the BW in the BW first year itself you know in the BW first year itself you know king's cross station so there were king's cross station so there were students placed from our college uh in students placed from our college uh in the san hospital and as the extension of the san hospital and as the extension of the san hospital work they would go to the san hospital work they would go to the busties the slums on the two sides the busties the slums on the two sides of the railway track are on King's of the railway track are on King's Cross. That whole busty was being Cross. That whole busty was being demolished. So the students put up a demolished. So the students put up a notice in the college. The second year notice in the college. The second year BW students were part of that. Put up a BW students were part of that. Put up a notice saying that you know such and notice saying that you know such and such threats we are facing. If any of such threats we are facing. If any of you want to volunteer, please volunteer you want to volunteer, please volunteer and join us in helping these families to and join us in helping these families to gain their gain their rights in that gain their gain their rights in that sense. sense. sense. So I being me I was one of the ones who So I being me I was one of the ones who jumped into it immediately. That time we jumped into it immediately. That time we had a political economy teacher called had a political economy teacher called Mr. Ki. Mr. Ki. Mr. Ki. He said by yourselves you guys cannot do He said by yourselves you guys cannot do much as students. much as students. He then introduced us to what is called He then introduced us to what is called then Lokshaiaka. then Lokshaiaka. then Lokshaiaka. Lokshai is democratic rights Lokshai is democratic rights organization and Raji Desai was the organization and Raji Desai was the chair of that organization. Lok Satnam. chair of that organization. Lok Satnam. That is how I got introduced to Rajni in That is how I got introduced to Rajni in 79 during my BW year and that is my 79 during my BW year and that is my journey beginning with the Lok Shiaak journey beginning with the Lok Shiaak Sangata Sangata Sangata anyway. So that's all that piece in that anyway. So that's all that piece in that 778 79 is all this turmoil of deciding 778 79 is all this turmoil of deciding but when I came to college of social but when I came to college of social work I felt at home I felt of working 3 work I felt at home I felt of working 3 days in the communities and as I said days in the communities and as I said the community that was given to me was the community that was given to me was the construction labor who are working the construction labor who are working on the Maharashtra assembly and working on the Maharashtra assembly and working with their kids with their kids that expanded my contacts also. There that expanded my contacts also. There used to be one uh Cindi gentleman who used to be one uh Cindi gentleman who used to come to the couprage ground used to come to the couprage ground where I used to conduct these classes where I used to conduct these classes for the kids uh to distribute food in for the kids uh to distribute food in the morning. Everyday morning he would the morning. Everyday morning he would come. So I got friendly with that come. So I got friendly with that family. Then you know I visited their family. Then you know I visited their house in Kaba very rich family running a house in Kaba very rich family running a kind of air conditioning business at kind of air conditioning business at Mahim. Uh so I got that I was the first Mahim. Uh so I got that I was the first one who was allowed to employ somebody. one who was allowed to employ somebody. I myself a student in first year. I I myself a student in first year. I employed somebody called Hanuman Gaudi employed somebody called Hanuman Gaudi who was the son of a constable and who I who was the son of a constable and who I employed under me to assist me in that employed under me to assist me in that uh classes for this construction work uh classes for this construction work kids. So that happened. So that was kids. So that happened. So that was during first year of the BW during first year of the BW and that gave me a lot of satisfaction and that gave me a lot of satisfaction in terms of work and in terms of you in terms of work and in terms of you know doing something different. But my know doing something different. But my rebellious character was I used to say rebellious character was I used to say you know you want all this to be you know you want all this to be recorded. We used to call something recorded. We used to call something called fieldwork recording. You know called fieldwork recording. You know every day what you did, what was the every day what you did, what was the thing that was useful, what was not thing that was useful, what was not useful. I used to find that most boring. useful. I used to find that most boring. I used to enjoy working but recording I used to enjoy working but recording all that was very difficult. And that all that was very difficult. And that time I had a teacher Mrs. Rajni time I had a teacher Mrs. Rajni Paranspe. Paranspe. Paranspe. Her husband who retired as the chief Her husband who retired as the chief secretary government of Maharashtra Mr. secretary government of Maharashtra Mr. Paranspe she was a very interesting Paranspe she was a very interesting teacher. She's still there. She works in teacher. She's still there. She works in Punea now uh with a doorstep school. She Punea now uh with a doorstep school. She runs that NGO and uh so she said Minina runs that NGO and uh so she said Minina you're doing such interesting work if you're doing such interesting work if you can't write it down you record it on you can't write it down you record it on a recorder and give it to us we'll we'll a recorder and give it to us we'll we'll work that work it out that way no work that work it out that way no problem so she gave me a lot of options problem so she gave me a lot of options and was very supportive that time you and was very supportive that time you had this people who were students of MSW had this people who were students of MSW they had one subject called social work they had one subject called social work supervision so they would be assigned as supervision so they would be assigned as a supervisor to people like me who were a supervisor to people like me who were in the BW in the BW So, so I had one one one of those So, so I had one one one of those students and I told Mrs. Parans I said students and I told Mrs. Parans I said she doesn't understand anything. I don't she doesn't understand anything. I don't want to be supervised by her. If you can want to be supervised by her. If you can supervise me it's okay. So I was like supervise me it's okay. So I was like from the first year itself I was like I from the first year itself I was like I don't know somehow this arrogance that I don't know somehow this arrogance that I talked about and some of those because I talked about and some of those because I did have a more clearer understanding of did have a more clearer understanding of what the issues are than many of this what the issues are than many of this which I said came from a particular which I said came from a particular kinds of background. kinds of background. Uh so that is the journey from seven Uh so that is the journey from seven standard till I came to college of standard till I came to college of social work and before I started getting social work and before I started getting involved in a much more organized left involved in a much more organized left till that time I was exploring I was till that time I was exploring I was getting touching base with various getting touching base with various people Dr. Dr. Rani was more people Dr. Dr. Rani was more socialistoriented. socialistoriented. socialistoriented. Mugda Dhanjay, Prattab Bhanu, Prattab Mugda Dhanjay, Prattab Bhanu, Prattab Bhanu was the head of the uh adult Bhanu was the head of the uh adult education education education department in Bombay University. All department in Bombay University. All these were working in working in Dhanu these were working in working in Dhanu and Talasari got in touch with them but and Talasari got in touch with them but they were more radical left kind of they were more radical left kind of thing. So one had got got that kind of a thing. So one had got got that kind of a uh process till I joined social work and uh process till I joined social work and then this major change in the family uh then this major change in the family uh pushed me into uh further um becoming pushed me into uh further um becoming autonomous and independent. autonomous and independent. You mentioned earlier that uh you were a You mentioned earlier that uh you were a voracious reader during this phase. So voracious reader during this phase. So tell me a little bit about that because tell me a little bit about that because I'm also curious in understanding your I'm also curious in understanding your sort of intellectual evolution during sort of intellectual evolution during this time. what what were you reading? this time. what what were you reading? What were the kind of ideas that What were the kind of ideas that influenced you? Uh who were the authors influenced you? Uh who were the authors that you were inspired by? Give me give that you were inspired by? Give me give me a sense of that. me a sense of that. Why I'm laughing? Because just yesterday Why I'm laughing? Because just yesterday in one of the chats you mentioned about in one of the chats you mentioned about an Rand during that period uh an Rand during that period uh uh this is you were attending the life uh this is you were attending the life lessons course and I didn't mention lessons course and I didn't mention Rand. I I don't like Rand. Someone else Rand. I I don't like Rand. Someone else mentioned mentioned mentioned no someone else mentioned but you no someone else mentioned but you commented on that thing that I don't commented on that thing that I don't consider as a consider as a but during that period because lot of but during that period because lot of the student leaders used to come from the student leaders used to come from Eelfinston or Ze college I was not from Eelfinston or Ze college I was not from any of these colleges any of these colleges and for that time it was a fashion to and for that time it was a fashion to carry carry carry uh and uh Rand's books in your hand uh and uh Rand's books in your hand publicly visible it was a fashion among publicly visible it was a fashion among the students the students the students not so much uh um marks and lane in not so much uh um marks and lane in those books those books were part of the those books those books were part of the study groups uh smaller study groups study groups uh smaller study groups uh so I think I I because again one uh so I think I I because again one thing you must realize is because I was thing you must realize is because I was not coming from the English medium some not coming from the English medium some of this English reading wasn't a very of this English reading wasn't a very easy thing for me especially the writing easy thing for me especially the writing which was more complex which was more complex whether I would still attempt to do it whether I would still attempt to do it or not I would attempt to do it it's not or not I would attempt to do it it's not like I was not attempting to do it like I was not attempting to do it because of the the discipline that I had because of the the discipline that I had built in trying to use the dictionary built in trying to use the dictionary trying to but once I started getting trying to but once I started getting into uh social work I read lot on the into uh social work I read lot on the social work and the radical schools of social work and the radical schools of social work from UK from Australia social work from UK from Australia uh which were more aligned to my uh which were more aligned to my thinking of creating change agents than thinking of creating change agents than the people who will be engaged in the people who will be engaged in remedial work. Okay. So that change into remedial work. Okay. So that change into one one hand then on the other hand have one one hand then on the other hand have I got into BW1 BW2 when I was also I got into BW1 BW2 when I was also moving in the student movement and moving in the student movement and sharpening my understanding in the sharpening my understanding in the Marxist Lenist kind of a spear. Marxist Lenist kind of a spear. Those readings were much more in terms Those readings were much more in terms of reading of reading of reading manifesto, communist manifesto. Uh manifesto, communist manifesto. Uh reading much more on uh because we were reading much more on uh because we were working on the urban issues, reading working on the urban issues, reading angles on Manchester angles on Manchester uh you know the mill workers and what uh you know the mill workers and what that kind of a comparison between Mumbai that kind of a comparison between Mumbai mill workers and the Manchester mill mill workers and the Manchester mill workers situation or urban context. workers situation or urban context. uh then getting into more um reading of uh then getting into more um reading of the philosophical things on dialectics the philosophical things on dialectics uh philosophical essays by Lenin. Those uh philosophical essays by Lenin. Those are the kinds of things that I was are the kinds of things that I was because all this was uh in the light of because all this was uh in the light of the um you know you being joining in the um you know you being joining in that kind of a left circle. that kind of a left circle. What is interesting is till then Fle What is interesting is till then Fle Ambedkar I have not yet come there. Ambedkar I have not yet come there. That realization came with the Mandal That realization came with the Mandal commission much more strongly and the commission much more strongly and the introduction of the Mandal commission introduction of the Mandal commission then in a way when because that time then in a way when because that time this whole conversation about the cast this whole conversation about the cast about the other backward communities about the other backward communities uh till then I had not even thought of uh till then I had not even thought of myself as somebody belonging to other myself as somebody belonging to other backward communities. I have never used backward communities. I have never used any reservations of the other backward any reservations of the other backward communities. Never. Uh because I always communities. Never. Uh because I always had this had this had this belief that those who are economically belief that those who are economically better off should not be using better off should not be using reservations at all because then you reservations at all because then you capture the reservations and those who capture the reservations and those who actually deserve and who need that actually deserve and who need that support are deprived of it. That's support are deprived of it. That's somewhere not driven by any data but somewhere not driven by any data but just as a kind of a broad social just as a kind of a broad social thinking that is the belief I have had thinking that is the belief I have had and that still continues. So none of us and that still continues. So none of us generally what happens is then you know generally what happens is then you know you can your son can use it this that you can your son can use it this that and the other I never used any of that and the other I never used any of that never never never but that you know exposure to filt and but that you know exposure to filt and ambedka started during the mandal ambedka started during the mandal commission agitation we were all commission agitation we were all arrested and kept in a jail for a day arrested and kept in a jail for a day and that time those conversations in the and that time those conversations in the custody is something interesting so custody is something interesting so that's when you I got started learning that's when you I got started learning about fle and then I started reading about fle and then I started reading about fool but marati not in English about fool but marati not in English because flea's literature is in Marathi because flea's literature is in Marathi started reading about Ambedkar and started reading about Ambedkar and I went to the extent during that period I went to the extent during that period looking at the constitutional debates looking at the constitutional debates and Ammedka's position the famous book and Ammedka's position the famous book that I remember is the Gandhi and that I remember is the Gandhi and Ambedkar Ambedkar Ambedkar debate which is in the puna puna pact debate which is in the puna puna pact what is called a puna pact and the what is called a puna pact and the debate which precedes that puna pact debate which precedes that puna pact but this is like I don't know 40 years but this is like I don't know 40 years back I'm order back I'm order and then that shaped me shaped my and then that shaped me shaped my thinking around and that's where some of thinking around and that's where some of the disillusionment of with the Marxist the disillusionment of with the Marxist Lenist thinking because the the time the Lenist thinking because the the time the on two issues basically I had a lot of on two issues basically I had a lot of difference one was that the cast issues difference one was that the cast issues will get resolved with the class will get resolved with the class revolution revolution revolution and uh women's operation the patriarchy and uh women's operation the patriarchy will get resolved with the class will get resolved with the class revolution. Both of these were not revolution. Both of these were not convincing propositions to me at all. convincing propositions to me at all. And during that period my one of my And during that period my one of my girlfriend was a very strong feminist girlfriend was a very strong feminist and she would in a way orient me in and she would in a way orient me in thinking on what what what is wrong with thinking on what what what is wrong with the uh the way the classical Marxist the uh the way the classical Marxist lenist approach this issues and that lenist approach this issues and that time I was very close to somebody called time I was very close to somebody called professor Arun Kamal who unfortunately professor Arun Kamal who unfortunately died afterwards and I actually was died afterwards and I actually was working with him quite closely he gave working with him quite closely he gave me a lot of exposure me a lot of exposure uh around the issues of cast and ambit's uh around the issues of cast and ambit's writing writing writing So that helped me broaden this and then So that helped me broaden this and then I was broadly coming to the feeling that I was broadly coming to the feeling that you know you in case of India you have you know you in case of India you have to look at class cast and patriarchy in to look at class cast and patriarchy in terms of frames of analysis if you want terms of frames of analysis if you want to really make a dent in this situation. to really make a dent in this situation. So that's a kind of a formulation. So of So that's a kind of a formulation. So of course there were a whole political course there were a whole political party called Marak Swat Fawad Ammed party called Marak Swat Fawad Ammed Kurad Mafua that is how he used to call Kurad Mafua that is how he used to call you know if you know this name professor you know if you know this name professor Shhat Patil was the one of the biggest Shhat Patil was the one of the biggest proponents of the Marxist proponents of the Marxist Fi and Amirkarite as a kind of a Fi and Amirkarite as a kind of a combination of the analytical frame to combination of the analytical frame to review and to understand the Indian review and to understand the Indian society society society but that I would say that evolution but that I would say that evolution is somewhere where where I was is somewhere where where I was looking at you know BW2 BW3 so 1980 8182 looking at you know BW2 BW3 so 1980 8182 that's so as I started maturing in my that's so as I started maturing in my thinking that is where I came to land thinking that is where I came to land and but I still continued to be part of and but I still continued to be part of the Marxist leness grouping in in that the Marxist leness grouping in in that in that uh in that whole period in that uh in that whole period uh and I was part of the revolution uh and I was part of the revolution student organization I was part of the student organization I was part of the people's cultural forum Um I told you people's cultural forum Um I told you about the theater I did as part of the about the theater I did as part of the school uh as part of the people's school uh as part of the people's cultural forum when the Asian games cultural forum when the Asian games happened in Delhi. We did a play called happened in Delhi. We did a play called Safu Safu Safu and uh I as part of the political and uh I as part of the political process I had visited Kolkata. I had process I had visited Kolkata. I had interacted with Badal Sarcar and I interacted with Badal Sarcar and I attended his two days workshop on the attended his two days workshop on the street theater and then I got inspired street theater and then I got inspired of how his training was and then I came of how his training was and then I came and then I was part of the people's and then I was part of the people's culture forum loss used to call it culture forum loss used to call it Marati and we did this uh play called Marati and we did this uh play called Safu and the day um Asian games began we Safu and the day um Asian games began we started and every day we would do about started and every day we would do about 8 to 10 shows so you can imagine the 8 to 10 shows so you can imagine the kind of strength we had to do that do kind of strength we had to do that do that um play. So we had about 200 shows that um play. So we had about 200 shows during that whole period of um and during that whole period of um and Safarum means as you know it's a white Safarum means as you know it's a white elephant that's that's in English elephant that's that's in English and Apu was a mascot of the Asian and Apu was a mascot of the Asian of the of the Asian games. Yeah. of the of the Asian games. Yeah. So I did that the the play which really So I did that the the play which really created and I I directed and acted in created and I I directed and acted in that play this is something which touch that play this is something which touch really at the core of my uh being in really at the core of my uh being in that during that period. It's called that during that period. It's called numberra prasad. uh if you remember numberra prasad. uh if you remember people's union of civil liberties was people's union of civil liberties was led by justice tarund he was the led by justice tarund he was the national chairperson of the people's national chairperson of the people's union of civil liberties union of civil liberties so one of the thing he had launched was so one of the thing he had launched was releasing the undertrial prisoners releasing the undertrial prisoners and as part of that releasing of the and as part of that releasing of the undertrial prisoners what happened was undertrial prisoners what happened was one of the person who got released was one of the person who got released was some somewhere in Bihar from one of the some somewhere in Bihar from one of the uh jails in Bihar uh jails in Bihar And when that person was presented to And when that person was presented to the press when people asked him what is the press when people asked him what is his name uh he basically could only say his name uh he basically could only say number prasad. Prasad is of course number prasad. Prasad is of course common thing we attach and Indian common thing we attach and Indian express wrote a big story about it express wrote a big story about it called numberra prasad. He was caught called numberra prasad. He was caught traveling without ticket and he was traveling without ticket and he was under trial for some 30 plus years in under trial for some 30 plus years in surviving in Bihar jail and on the surviving in Bihar jail and on the Indian express story I forgot the name Indian express story I forgot the name of the author one of the authors wrote a of the author one of the authors wrote a play called number prasad play called number prasad and I was very inspired by that play and and I was very inspired by that play and I was inspired by the story you know how I was inspired by the story you know how people are forced to lose their identity people are forced to lose their identity at at one you know it's almost like your at at one you know it's almost like your essence is being taken away from you essence is being taken away from you when you lose even you forget your name when you lose even you forget your name and that number is and that number is I directed that play I did that play I directed that play I did that play means I acted in that play because it means I acted in that play because it was a single character play but I had of was a single character play but I had of course props human props not um physical course props human props not um physical props so it was four people who would props so it was four people who would know depending on the scene would change know depending on the scene would change the way they they were organized in the way they they were organized in terms of you know operation to terms of you know operation to liberation type of a process flow and liberation type of a process flow and that was also street play. So some of that was also street play. So some of those plays in a way and some of those those plays in a way and some of those stories in a way they are human interest stories in a way they are human interest stories right impacted me quite quite a stories right impacted me quite quite a bit and somewhere while bit and somewhere while being excited about the analytical work being excited about the analytical work analysis and thinking and you know analysis and thinking and you know arguing with the pro Albbania group and arguing with the pro Albbania group and the all that nonsense which was going on the all that nonsense which was going on in the in the movement. This is what in the in the movement. This is what kept me going that you know we are kept me going that you know we are trying to bring out the stories human trying to bring out the stories human stories to people and actually telling stories to people and actually telling them how oppressive the state is and how them how oppressive the state is and how violent the state is and what happens violent the state is and what happens with that violence on a person who was with that violence on a person who was caught traveling without ticket man 30 caught traveling without ticket man 30 years life gone in a way and it's a it's years life gone in a way and it's a it's a kind of a symbolic story of many a kind of a symbolic story of many people they may not be in real jails but people they may not be in real jails but they are in another forms of jails in they are in another forms of jails in that sense. So the way I had directed that sense. So the way I had directed was it ended with a kind of lot of was it ended with a kind of lot of questions that you know questions that you know we are not in jails jails but are we we are not in jails jails but are we really free kind of questions in the in really free kind of questions in the in that sense which I think philosophically that sense which I think philosophically quite important questions to ask oneself quite important questions to ask oneself and to ask others. So I think so I had a and to ask others. So I think so I had a lot of this cultural work that I was lot of this cultural work that I was doing. I was a student organizer. So I doing. I was a student organizer. So I used to be doing classes for IIT Mumbai used to be doing classes for IIT Mumbai student group where we had we had a student group where we had we had a student group uh in uh in regional student group uh in uh in regional engineering college in Nagpur and I met engineering college in Nagpur and I met some interesting people uh you know one some interesting people uh you know one of who is now a very dear friend of mine of who is now a very dear friend of mine SAS Patil he was the son of Indephat uh he was part of the student movement uh he was part of the student movement along with me now we are very dear along with me now we are very dear friends he is now of course a US citizen friends he is now of course a US citizen staying in best staying in best but you know it's like you really but you know it's like you really interact with a large amount of people interact with a large amount of people there. We had our convention of a there. We had our convention of a student um student gathering there student um student gathering there during the time when the host were were during the time when the host were were empty people had gone out and we had empty people had gone out and we had captured the host nobody knew that we captured the host nobody knew that we are having a student convention kind of are having a student convention kind of thing. So we we did all those kinds of thing. So we we did all those kinds of things. I was almost on the verge of things. I was almost on the verge of becoming a full-timer. As part of our becoming a full-timer. As part of our training, I was also assigned to training, I was also assigned to organized the kink cutters union in organized the kink cutters union in Ahmed Nagara. I remember one Diwali when Ahmed Nagara. I remember one Diwali when I visited I was staying in the Bodhara I visited I was staying in the Bodhara the the the what do you call the you know where the what do you call the you know where the lower cast who are basically the ken lower cast who are basically the ken cutters stay. cutters stay. cutters stay. And uh I remember from my own childhood And uh I remember from my own childhood uh during Diwali there is one particular uh during Diwali there is one particular special thing it's done to give it to special thing it's done to give it to people who would come to ask for a people who would come to ask for a Diwali blessing. So they were called Diwali blessing. So they were called bears. So it's simple wheat flour mixed bears. So it's simple wheat flour mixed with jaggery and fried. Okay. So that with jaggery and fried. Okay. So that was a Diwali uh thing which was meant was a Diwali uh thing which was meant not for consumption in the house but to not for consumption in the house but to be distributed. be distributed. be distributed. So I was staying on the bod during the So I was staying on the bod during the Diwali period. In the morning when I Diwali period. In the morning when I woke up they brought this bear to me and woke up they brought this bear to me and said that you know to me I knew exactly what what it meant that I knew exactly what what it meant that they had basically got it from the they had basically got it from the village and they were giving it to me. village and they were giving it to me. So you know some of those kinds of So you know some of those kinds of things and that's one of the time when things and that's one of the time when first time I face u what do you call the first time I face u what do you call the death at a close encounter in that sense death at a close encounter in that sense so what happened was we were having a so what happened was we were having a meeting with this all these laborers meeting with this all these laborers and uh in villages as you would know and and uh in villages as you would know and it still happens what they would do is it still happens what they would do is if they want to disrupt your meetings if they want to disrupt your meetings they would put a hook on the they would put a hook on the wires electric wires So it will short wires electric wires So it will short circuit the lights will go off your circuit the lights will go off your speaker will go off. So that that's one speaker will go off. So that that's one way the the um powerful control all the way the the um powerful control all the what happening in the village. what happening in the village. So that happened. We were in the meeting So that happened. We were in the meeting and then you suddenly see the police and then you suddenly see the police vans coming in to where our meeting was vans coming in to where our meeting was happening and uh and uh and uh it if any wrong move even one of the it if any wrong move even one of the persons would have thrown a stone or persons would have thrown a stone or anything like that on the police vehicle anything like that on the police vehicle they would have fired. They would have they would have fired. They would have started firing. started firing. started firing. Somehow I felt that you know it's that's Somehow I felt that you know it's that's a good opportunity to just get a singing a good opportunity to just get a singing going so that everybody is focused on going so that everybody is focused on singing and doesn't do because the best singing and doesn't do because the best way that people's movements are captured way that people's movements are captured is provoking them to the extent and then is provoking them to the extent and then we basically think we did firing in we basically think we did firing in self-defense. That's a normal kind of a self-defense. That's a normal kind of a logic. logic. logic. So one that wrong move could have been So one that wrong move could have been basically created at least few of us basically created at least few of us getting killed in in that process. So we getting killed in in that process. So we started singing started singing started singing and calm down the crowd and basically and calm down the crowd and basically you know after the crowd was calm then you know after the crowd was calm then you basically go and negotiate and tell you basically go and negotiate and tell the police okay we are dispersing we are the police okay we are dispersing we are uh taking this u you know people we are uh taking this u you know people we are asking people to go back home and go asking people to go back home and go back to their villages because if you back to their villages because if you have people coming from other villages have people coming from other villages also also also so that you have those kinds of so that you have those kinds of incidences that you do as do do incidences that you do as do do experience as part of part of that experience as part of part of that movement. The third thing which happened movement. The third thing which happened in that whole period and that in a way in that whole period and that in a way strengthens you as a as a human being. strengthens you as a as a human being. The philosophy was that if I come to The philosophy was that if I come to your village your village your village uh you will organize my fair for my next uh you will organize my fair for my next round. So if I'm going from Amanagar to round. So if I'm going from Amanagar to say Pune or Satara, you will organize my say Pune or Satara, you will organize my fair and give me the shidori. Shorim is fair and give me the shidori. Shorim is tiffen of something that I can eat on tiffen of something that I can eat on the way and you'll organize fair train the way and you'll organize fair train fair and if they're not able to organize fair and if they're not able to organize then you you have to travel in a then you you have to travel in a unreserved kind of thing. So once I have unreserved kind of thing. So once I have done that only once from Nagpur to done that only once from Nagpur to Mumbai in a third class compartment you Mumbai in a third class compartment you have the small parties on which you keep have the small parties on which you keep the bags literally because it's that the bags literally because it's that time it was like 22 hours journey now it time it was like 22 hours journey now it is I think 18 hours journey uh on the is I think 18 hours journey uh on the train train train uh so that in a way uh so that in a way makes you makes you makes you that you you see this is the reality in that you you see this is the reality in that sense and it was like me that sense and it was like me inviting it uh and voluntarily doing it. inviting it uh and voluntarily doing it. It was not something which was forced. It was not something which was forced. And this is what gave me a lot of um And this is what gave me a lot of um what satisfaction centeredness I don't what satisfaction centeredness I don't know what's the correct word. It's not know what's the correct word. It's not necessarily satis centeredness of being necessarily satis centeredness of being uh being meaningful in what you're doing uh being meaningful in what you're doing and that kind of thing. and that kind of thing. I want to ask you about I want to ask you about almost two simultaneous journeys which almost two simultaneous journeys which you would imagine are synchronous but you would imagine are synchronous but are gener but but are not synchronous. are gener but but are not synchronous. For example, one journey in your case For example, one journey in your case would be that you start getting into would be that you start getting into social work because number one there is social work because number one there is a sense of empathy towards people who a sense of empathy towards people who are worse off and who are suffering. are worse off and who are suffering. From this empathy arises the impulse to From this empathy arises the impulse to help in any way you can. From this help in any way you can. From this arises action where you decide okay I'm arises action where you decide okay I'm going to do XYZ. As you move further going to do XYZ. As you move further along this journey you start collecting along this journey you start collecting human stories and expressing those human human stories and expressing those human stories through the kind of theater that stories through the kind of theater that you were doing. And that's one journey you were doing. And that's one journey that arises from empathy and the desire that arises from empathy and the desire to make a difference and the action that to make a difference and the action that um um constitute your efforts to make um um constitute your efforts to make that difference. The other journey is that difference. The other journey is placing a frame of reference to make placing a frame of reference to make sense of all of this. that okay how do I sense of all of this. that okay how do I look at this and you take a particular look at this and you take a particular lens and you apply that lens and as you lens and you apply that lens and as you go along the journey you might realize go along the journey you might realize that this lens doesn't quite fit and you that this lens doesn't quite fit and you modify it at some other point you might modify it at some other point you might realize that this lens is a completely realize that this lens is a completely foreign imposition that I have to figure foreign imposition that I have to figure this out on my own it doesn't this out on my own it doesn't really explain anything and then really explain anything and then eventually you might find other lenses eventually you might find other lenses adapt some of them discard them and come adapt some of them discard them and come up with your own way of looking at the up with your own way of looking at the world and these lenses of course would world and these lenses of course would be to begin with um you know Marxist be to begin with um you know Marxist Leninist ideology and uh initially you Leninist ideology and uh initially you you know whenever you dis discover a fra you know whenever you dis discover a fra frame whether it is through Marx or frame whether it is through Marx or Lenin or whether it is through Rand or Lenin or whether it is through Rand or wherever it is it is deeply seductive wherever it is it is deeply seductive because it seems to explain the world because it seems to explain the world and it becomes your one hammer for every and it becomes your one hammer for every nail till you find that wait a minute it nail till you find that wait a minute it it is not the you know there's a lot it is not the you know there's a lot more the world is deeply complex and you more the world is deeply complex and you go along that journey like you pointed go along that journey like you pointed out that the shortcomings of the Marxist out that the shortcomings of the Marxist Leninist uh framework became became Leninist uh framework became became apparent to you when you encountered apparent to you when you encountered cast and when you encountered feminism cast and when you encountered feminism and you said no India is deeply complex and you said no India is deeply complex that one frame doesn't explain anything that one frame doesn't explain anything and offline you were telling me also and offline you were telling me also about your whole this affection with about your whole this affection with Marxism Leninism per se and why you left Marxism Leninism per se and why you left that movement with an angry letter that movement with an angry letter because you know so tell me a little bit because you know so tell me a little bit about how these two journeys are taking about how these two journeys are taking place for you whether you've in a sense place for you whether you've in a sense described both of them a little bit but described both of them a little bit but then how do you begin to get to that then how do you begin to get to that process of using your experiences to process of using your experiences to form your own frame which would have form your own frame which would have aspects of all of these different frames aspects of all of these different frames that you've gone got from Fle and that you've gone got from Fle and Ambedkar and the left but e equally Ambedkar and the left but e equally realizing that no one hammer is realizing that no one hammer is appropriate for every nail that the appropriate for every nail that the world is complex. So take me through world is complex. So take me through some of your journey. some of your journey. So the the two journeys one is a more So the the two journeys one is a more intellectual journey another is a intellectual journey another is a experiential journey in that sense. So experiential journey in that sense. So learning through doing where I get a learning through doing where I get a very firsthand very firsthand very firsthand feel of what what it is to live in the feel of what what it is to live in the situation that people are living uh or situation that people are living uh or forced to live in a way. So that was one forced to live in a way. So that was one part and second part and second is to try and understand why is it so is to try and understand why is it so what it what is it that keeps them the what it what is it that keeps them the way they are or are forced them to be way they are or are forced them to be the way they are kept so that it is the way they are kept so that it is those two kind of a explorations on a those two kind of a explorations on a simultaneous basis simultaneous basis simultaneous basis and some of this you'll find in then the and some of this you'll find in then the articulation when I started Yua in that articulation when I started Yua in that articulation you'll see some of this articulation you'll see some of this coming to a more fruition. coming to a more fruition. So we may be one of the very few NGOs So we may be one of the very few NGOs who said you know we'll use Marx Fle who said you know we'll use Marx Fle Ambedkar for analysis Ambedkar for analysis in terms of action in terms of action in terms of action frameworks we'll use Gandhi in terms of frameworks we'll use Gandhi in terms of the you know satyagraha and you know in the you know satyagraha and you know in terms of uh speaking truth and you know terms of uh speaking truth and you know doing that nonviolent action and Paulo doing that nonviolent action and Paulo Frera which is more awakening you Frera which is more awakening you that kind of thing and in terms of that kind of thing and in terms of tactics we will use some somebody like tactics we will use some somebody like Solalinski. So now you'll see a more Solalinski. So now you'll see a more holistic kind of a picture emerging holistic kind of a picture emerging and uh and that gets reflected when I and uh and that gets reflected when I start building UI 1984 start building UI 1984 and if you look at that period we may be and if you look at that period we may be a very early stage where I'm just trying a very early stage where I'm just trying to give you the reflection of the five to give you the reflection of the five core values of UA which were formed very core values of UA which were formed very early stage social justice gender early stage social justice gender justice secularism and democracy honesty justice secularism and democracy honesty and integ integrity, environmental and integ integrity, environmental sustainability. These are the five sustainability. These are the five values which when there was no values which when there was no conversation about climate change. I'm conversation about climate change. I'm talking about 84 when UA was started talking about 84 when UA was started this kind of articulation came sometime this kind of articulation came sometime in 8586 in 8586 in 8586 or there one of the annual reports I or there one of the annual reports I remember we had this kind of a remember we had this kind of a ideological statement generally NGOs's ideological statement generally NGOs's don't declare ideological statement don't declare ideological statement where I explain this what is your frame where I explain this what is your frame of reference what is from where the so of reference what is from where the so it was more kind of a um iterative way it was more kind of a um iterative way of looking at the world uh ensuring of looking at the world uh ensuring there is adaptability ensuring there there is adaptability ensuring there values which align to who we are and values which align to who we are and also all this fits with the Indian also all this fits with the Indian constitution at the meta frame where constitution at the meta frame where some of this is already articulated it's some of this is already articulated it's not something that we are inventing new not something that we are inventing new in in that sense so if you look at these in in that sense so if you look at these five values we are not taking position five values we are not taking position on the economic model or anything like on the economic model or anything like that these values are coming straight that these values are coming straight from the constitution but which then from the constitution but which then need to be practiced so all this need to be practiced so all this cumulative experience experience that I cumulative experience experience that I have had from 79 to 84 in a way reflects have had from 79 to 84 in a way reflects in the way uh UA gets located in that in the way uh UA gets located in that broad frame of uh what it's um how it is broad frame of uh what it's um how it is going to perceive its work. going to perceive its work. The other frame that came because of the The other frame that came because of the particular dominance of the structures particular dominance of the structures is is is a social work framework is to go out and a social work framework is to go out and help people because the basic belief is help people because the basic belief is people cannot help themselves. people cannot help themselves. Same framework at one level becomes a Same framework at one level becomes a framework even in the language of framework even in the language of empowerment in the uh in the left kind empowerment in the uh in the left kind of a thing where uh you know people of a thing where uh you know people don't know how how things are to be done don't know how how things are to be done what they need to be doing. So we are what they need to be doing. So we are the ones who are telling them. So if you the ones who are telling them. So if you look at it this two frames social frame look at it this two frames social frame and the left frame is ultimately still and the left frame is ultimately still basically treating people as the objects basically treating people as the objects rather than people having agency. In rather than people having agency. In case of you, one of the big from the case of you, one of the big from the beginning the slogan that we we we had beginning the slogan that we we we had was was was the person who is facing the problem the person who is facing the problem should lead. Our role is to give them should lead. Our role is to give them tools, give them uh uh you know uh tools, give them uh uh you know uh support them to develop them to to be support them to develop them to to be available for them for them to build available for them for them to build that leadership and exercise that that leadership and exercise that leadership on their issues because they leadership on their issues because they are the best people who know what that are the best people who know what that problem is because they're experiencing problem is because they're experiencing it. Me going from outside leading on it. Me going from outside leading on their issue if something where I'm their issue if something where I'm taking away their agency. So that I taking away their agency. So that I think some of this how the UA got think some of this how the UA got informed and formed in 1984 was based on informed and formed in 1984 was based on some of these experiences and uh when some of these experiences and uh when you look at the ISDM case study you'll you look at the ISDM case study you'll find some of those kind of a find some of those kind of a evolutionary thoughts and I was 23 years evolutionary thoughts and I was 23 years old when you was formed I was not like old when you was formed I was not like some 26 28 years old I was 23 in August some 26 28 years old I was 23 in August of 1984 I was 23 years old and uh so of 1984 I was 23 years old and uh so so they were this kind of a what do you so they were this kind of a what do you call inner uh reflection call inner uh reflection uh thinking was going on and on and on uh thinking was going on and on and on and on. It wasn't getting the expression and on. It wasn't getting the expression till the time uh it was decided that we till the time uh it was decided that we are going to start um this NGO called UI are going to start um this NGO called UI and I we'll come to that at some stage. and I we'll come to that at some stage. Why was you formed? What was the kind of Why was you formed? What was the kind of context in which UA got formed? Why was context in which UA got formed? Why was I chose to be the person who would lead I chose to be the person who would lead this uh lead this organization? We'll this uh lead this organization? We'll come to that part. I'm just answering come to that part. I'm just answering your question that the the accumulation your question that the the accumulation of some of this experience and of some of this experience and intellectual exploration intellectual exploration intellectual exploration uh and tactics and study understanding uh and tactics and study understanding then in a way reflected in case of you then in a way reflected in case of you where I finally said that you know we where I finally said that you know we have to treat all this in the Indian have to treat all this in the Indian constitutional framework that's our goto constitutional framework that's our goto and within that framework they're the and within that framework they're the core values which are non-negotiable core values which are non-negotiable And I'm to be honest at one level I feel And I'm to be honest at one level I feel very proud that this were formed in some very proud that this were formed in some 86 87 tell me one value which is not 86 87 tell me one value which is not relevant today if you look at it in that relevant today if you look at it in that way we may have to change a little bit way we may have to change a little bit here and there environmental here and there environmental sustainability you may have to add sustainability you may have to add environmental sustainability with environmental sustainability with climate change we may have to do that climate change we may have to do that kind of thing uh but other than that I kind of thing uh but other than that I don't see huge don't see huge shift in terms of the core values that shift in terms of the core values that uh we need to or anybody needs to uh we need to or anybody needs to undertake this values could be for any undertake this values could be for any organization. Why should they be only organization. Why should they be only for one organization? for one organization? Second thing which got informed and Second thing which got informed and during my student days movement also during my student days movement also when I was the I used to edit a magazine when I was the I used to edit a magazine called Patik. Pik is a kind of a called Patik. Pik is a kind of a Sanskritized name for a fellow traveler. Sanskritized name for a fellow traveler. uh I always believed you know each of uh I always believed you know each of our small small groups would have their our small small groups would have their own magazines because they had a own magazines because they had a particularly distinct kind of a point of particularly distinct kind of a point of view. So I was the one who went to view. So I was the one who went to everybody and said you know all our everybody and said you know all our magazines you are giving 200 out you are magazines you are giving 200 out you are giving another 200 out I said why not giving another 200 out I said why not bring all these resources together bring bring all these resources together bring one magazine if you have a difference of one magazine if you have a difference of opinion on particular issue we'll opinion on particular issue we'll publish both the points of views in the publish both the points of views in the magazine we can have a editorial board magazine we can have a editorial board belonging to all the all the belonging to all the all the organization we can review that and but organization we can review that and but at least our resources are combined so at least our resources are combined so rather than it going to 200 people, the rather than it going to 200 people, the magazine will go to 1,000 people. magazine will go to 1,000 people. Nobody would accept that because Nobody would accept that because everybody had to look at how their point everybody had to look at how their point of view is so important. You and I of view is so important. You and I differ on the three world theory coming differ on the three world theory coming from where? China. And that distinction from where? China. And that distinction will make us different in the city of will make us different in the city of Mumbai. Mumbai. Mumbai. and and some of those frustrations in a and and some of those frustrations in a way because I just could never way because I just could never understand because I was trying to see understand because I was trying to see if he work together then we build our uh if he work together then we build our uh resources together but the dogmatism of resources together but the dogmatism of some of this thinking Amit was some of this thinking Amit was unparallel unparallel unparallel and uh so without me going through life and uh so without me going through life lessons I think the agility and the lessons I think the agility and the flexib not a compromise on core values flexib not a compromise on core values But the agility and flexibility to But the agility and flexibility to approach to move things so that you know approach to move things so that you know it's it's it's believe that people can think of what believe that people can think of what opinion they want to accept but let's opinion they want to accept but let's put all those opinions together rather put all those opinions together rather than you propagating your opinion I than you propagating your opinion I propagating my opinion what's the big propagating my opinion what's the big deal about it but there are simple deal about it but there are simple things I could not do and those were the things I could not do and those were the parts of frustrations that I that I parts of frustrations that I that I faced uh during during the time when I faced uh during during the time when I was part of the movement and then of was part of the movement and then of course I told you the culmination of it course I told you the culmination of it where I basically uh said that you know where I basically uh said that you know I joined the movement to create aic form I joined the movement to create aic form of future society what I experience is a of future society what I experience is a concentration expression of the existing concentration expression of the existing society society society this is through the Marxist Linist party this is through the Marxist Linist party and uh and uh that's why I'm stepping and uh and uh that's why I'm stepping back uh again somewhere influence of back uh again somewhere influence of communism communist thinking where you communism communist thinking where you don't give up you basically step back don't give up you basically step back till I gather my strength again but then till I gather my strength again but then of course I joined on the UA UA journey of course I joined on the UA UA journey which of course many people then said ah which of course many people then said ah see left is becoming a NGO that's see left is becoming a NGO that's another kind of a criticism that one another kind of a criticism that one faces faces faces you know this is profoundly interesting you know this is profoundly interesting to me because even today my biggest bug to me because even today my biggest bug bear with the left is uh of always bear with the left is uh of always preaching down to people looking at preaching down to people looking at people as objects looking at society as people as objects looking at society as something to be improved and educated something to be improved and educated and not actually accepting that and not actually accepting that individuals have their agency and their individuals have their agency and their autonomy me and I'm uh really sort of uh autonomy me and I'm uh really sort of uh impressed by the way you articulated impressed by the way you articulated that you might use marks and lenin and that you might use marks and lenin and fle and ambitkar for analysis but when fle and ambitkar for analysis but when it comes to action you are looking at it comes to action you are looking at Gandhi and Paulo Fer and Solinski and Gandhi and Paulo Fer and Solinski and I'll ask you at this point to educate me I'll ask you at this point to educate me and my listeners that take me through and my listeners that take me through the thought process that brings you to the thought process that brings you to this decision and while I know a bit this decision and while I know a bit about Gandhi u I don't know anything about Gandhi u I don't know anything about FA or so Do tell me about them and about FA or so Do tell me about them and just tell me what as like why uh uh take just tell me what as like why uh uh take me through the why behind this and u the me through the why behind this and u the key aspects to each person's thinking key aspects to each person's thinking that made you feel that they are um uh that made you feel that they are um uh you know crucial to the philosophy of you know crucial to the philosophy of how to take yoga forward and of course how to take yoga forward and of course we'll come to the founding of it later we'll come to the founding of it later but even though you said you founded it but even though you said you founded it when you were only 23 what strikes me is when you were only 23 what strikes me is that you were actually working in social that you were actually working in social work actively since you were 17 right so work actively since you were 17 right so you have these years of experience and you have these years of experience and thinking about it before you even get thinking about it before you even get there. So take me through um that there. So take me through um that experiential journey which led you to experiential journey which led you to the intellectual awakening that know the intellectual awakening that know when it comes to action these are the when it comes to action these are the three people we have to follow. What three people we have to follow. What aspects of their philosophy were aspects of their philosophy were attractive to you? attractive to you? So Gandhi FRA and Solinski were part of So Gandhi FRA and Solinski were part of our curricula in college of social work our curricula in college of social work uh as part of the community organization uh as part of the community organization theory and practice of community theory and practice of community organization. and they were part of it. organization. and they were part of it. Uh Gandhi's uh book which impressed me Uh Gandhi's uh book which impressed me and then I was actually a guest lecture and then I was actually a guest lecture on that was Nalim New Education where he on that was Nalim New Education where he basically combined the theory and basically combined the theory and practice that if you want people to be practice that if you want people to be properly educated they have to also properly educated they have to also practice what they're learning. And if practice what they're learning. And if that combination makes you better uh at that combination makes you better uh at doing things in life and there's a link doing things in life and there's a link to that what what I was discussing about to that what what I was discussing about fle with you. So if you look at the the fle with you. So if you look at the the I think 1957 if I remember correctly the I think 1957 if I remember correctly the letter of fool wrote to lord mule I may letter of fool wrote to lord mule I may not be pronouncing his name them not be pronouncing his name them correctly. Some of these aspects were correctly. Some of these aspects were already written by fool in terms of what already written by fool in terms of what kind of education we are looking at. I kind of education we are looking at. I must at this m moment tell our listeners must at this m moment tell our listeners that uh um Minar is referring to a that uh um Minar is referring to a conversation about file we had during conversation about file we had during lunch but as that was not recorded if lunch but as that was not recorded if you need to go through some of it again you need to go through some of it again and not assume the listener knows uh for and not assume the listener knows uh for context. No. So in terms of Mahatma Fle, context. No. So in terms of Mahatma Fle, I I raised this point Amit with you I I raised this point Amit with you because I said you know lot of the you because I said you know lot of the you know the influential people that you know the influential people that you talk about are talk about are legitimately so come from outside of legitimately so come from outside of India. some of the Indian people who India. some of the Indian people who unfortunately wrote in the languages unfortunately wrote in the languages which were not international languages which were not international languages but like file was the contemporary of but like file was the contemporary of Kal Mars and he wrote extensively one of Kal Mars and he wrote extensively one of his famous book is Shhatkarata Assur his famous book is Shhatkarata Assur Assur is you know again the whip that Assur is you know again the whip that you're talking about or on the cast you're talking about or on the cast system or on the lot of the social norms system or on the lot of the social norms related to he and Savvitri Flev the related to he and Savvitri Flev the founder ers of making education founder ers of making education available to non-brahical cast including available to non-brahical cast including women from even brahminical class women from even brahminical class without Saudi Fle and Mahatma Fule's without Saudi Fle and Mahatma Fule's effort even the upper class women effort even the upper class women wouldn't have been educated let's be wouldn't have been educated let's be honest about it so that is what I was honest about it so that is what I was referring to and not only that he he referring to and not only that he he started running orphanages for children started running orphanages for children of the Brahmin widows which is like a of the Brahmin widows which is like a very revolutionary step he made his own very revolutionary step he made his own how the well in his v in his because how the well in his v in his because he's from puna v for open for you know he's from puna v for open for you know dalit community now these are like in dalit community now these are like in doing this in mid 19th century is doing this in mid 19th century is nothing less than revolutionary and nothing less than revolutionary and miraculous from my perspective that's miraculous from my perspective that's why I was referring to and one of the why I was referring to and one of the famous thing that I told you to look at famous thing that I told you to look at is the 1957 or something like that and I is the 1957 or something like that and I can pass that on to you the letter that can pass that on to you the letter that he wrote to he wrote to 1857 uh sorry 1857 he the letter he 1857 uh sorry 1857 he the letter he wrote to Lord Mule whose education wrote to Lord Mule whose education system we are still following and that system we are still following and that later is so visionary because lot of the later is so visionary because lot of the issues he raises in that later are we issues he raises in that later are we are living still in 2025 and especially are living still in 2025 and especially I was referring to your education I was referring to your education episode on uh everything is everything episode on uh everything is everything where some of these references I think where some of these references I think it will be good for you to bring up and it will be good for you to bring up and that's where some of my you know I got that's where some of my you know I got to fillet day after I've got to marks to fillet day after I've got to marks lenin ma. Uh but that was a lenin ma. Uh but that was a kind of a aha moment and a kind of kind of a aha moment and a kind of opening of my eyes as some of you would opening of my eyes as some of you would know that Dr. Ambedka treated Fle as his know that Dr. Ambedka treated Fle as his guru. Shahu Maharaj which is one of the guru. Shahu Maharaj which is one of the most progressive royals in the state of most progressive royals in the state of Maharashtra uh treated Fle as his as his Maharashtra uh treated Fle as his as his guru and lot of the changes that he he guru and lot of the changes that he he brought about in his administration like brought about in his administration like for example scholarship for shulkas and for example scholarship for shulkas and shribe community shribe community shribe community long time ago this is before India got long time ago this is before India got independence but you know some of those independence but you know some of those thing that you see or the traditions thing that you see or the traditions which were there that the you know which were there that the you know dalits would always have they cannot dalits would always have they cannot spit in the roar all those traditions spit in the roar all those traditions were broken down in in those periods by were broken down in in those periods by the royal decrees so even if he was a the royal decrees so even if he was a royalty the lot of the social reform royalty the lot of the social reform work that he did needs to be recognized work that he did needs to be recognized in that sense so that's what that's the in that sense so that's what that's the reference I was giving and while talking reference I was giving and while talking about Gandhi so na talim in terms of the about Gandhi so na talim in terms of the educational process how people become educational process how people become autonomous autonomous autonomous does the present education system does the present education system actually enslaves us in thinking frames actually enslaves us in thinking frames or does it liberate us? Does it give you or does it liberate us? Does it give you the confidence of living life as a the confidence of living life as a autonomous individual within the within autonomous individual within the within the groups that you belong to whatever the groups that you belong to whatever or not? Those are the kinds of questions or not? Those are the kinds of questions Naim raises. I'm sure you have read the Naim raises. I'm sure you have read the Ivan deschooling society which is where Ivan deschooling society which is where I see some of those parallels coming I see some of those parallels coming into play uh of the of the Gandhian way into play uh of the of the Gandhian way of thinking. Ivaniches deschooling of thinking. Ivaniches deschooling society kind of a conception. society kind of a conception. Coming to Paulo Fra, Paulo Fra was a Coming to Paulo Fra, Paulo Fra was a educationist, Brazilian educationist. He educationist, Brazilian educationist. He basically started using adult education basically started using adult education process as a way of organizing the uh process as a way of organizing the uh agriculture communities in Brazil. So agriculture communities in Brazil. So that is when he basically conceptualized that is when he basically conceptualized how does the practice reflection uh how does the practice reflection uh practice reflection process brings practice reflection process brings something which is practis which takes a something which is practis which takes a practice at a different level. So it practice at a different level. So it basically is saying I know you know basically is saying I know you know there are areas which I do not know you there are areas which I do not know you do not know let's have a humility to do not know let's have a humility to explore it together you know so that's a explore it together you know so that's a kind of a philosophical frame that uh kind of a philosophical frame that uh that you know Frera comes from and that that you know Frera comes from and that now you see this this again is if you now you see this this again is if you look at naleim it's also exploration of look at naleim it's also exploration of self and society same thing for Paulo self and society same thing for Paulo and he used that methodology for and he used that methodology for organizing organizing organizing groups and communities. groups and communities. Coming to Solinsky, people should read Coming to Solinsky, people should read Solinsky. Very interesting interesting Solinsky. Very interesting interesting guy, but I made a tactical level not at guy, but I made a tactical level not at a kind of a strategy while Paulo Fer a kind of a strategy while Paulo Fer Gandhi you look at more as a strategy Gandhi you look at more as a strategy thinkers. thinkers. thinkers. Solinsky introduced kind of out of box Solinsky introduced kind of out of box methodologies. One of the very famous methodologies. One of the very famous examples of his and I'm sure some of examples of his and I'm sure some of your uh listeners have read it is when your uh listeners have read it is when he organized uh some of the uh what do he organized uh some of the uh what do you call them the people who clean the you call them the people who clean the washrooms on the airport. Uh they were washrooms on the airport. Uh they were looking at higher wages which yesterday looking at higher wages which yesterday got discussed on the on the life lessons got discussed on the on the life lessons and um the the airport administration and um the the airport administration was not willing. So one of the tactics was not willing. So one of the tactics he came up with is you know that 6 a.m. he came up with is you know that 6 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. period all the people would to 7:00 a.m. period all the people would basically occupy all the toilets and sit basically occupy all the toilets and sit in the toilets and see what happens in the toilets and see what happens and that created a cha at the airport and that created a cha at the airport and it actually seems very Gandhian to and it actually seems very Gandhian to me also. me also. me also. No no so that that's why it's it's a No no so that that's why it's it's a nonviolent tactic and a very impactful nonviolent tactic and a very impactful tactic. So and he gives you a number of tactic. So and he gives you a number of examples. So you find that Solinski now examples. So you find that Solinski now again as I said you know some of this I again as I said you know some of this I have read like 40 years back you know have read like 40 years back you know 20s and 25 and 22 and 21 but so that is 20s and 25 and 22 and 21 but so that is what the formulation for Yua then came what the formulation for Yua then came about and that time I used to literally about and that time I used to literally do lot of internal training processes so do lot of internal training processes so that people understand these frames at that people understand these frames at least at the if some of them want to go least at the if some of them want to go deeper they should read very clear but deeper they should read very clear but if they want to understand why UI is if they want to understand why UI is promoting this kind of a framework these promoting this kind of a framework these are the basics are the basics so I it's very interesting you are doing so I it's very interesting you are doing life lessons that time around I was 26 life lessons that time around I was 26 27 years old uh I used to discuss with 27 years old uh I used to discuss with my colleagues in UI you know what are my colleagues in UI you know what are those books to be a composite activist those books to be a composite activist what are the things that you need to what are the things that you need to know in psychology in political economy know in psychology in political economy in economics in economics in economics in you know organization design and in you know organization design and development in uh you know human development in uh you know human resource and now of resource and human resource and now of course the wording is talent management. course the wording is talent management. So I had like defined different So I had like defined different categories and I said this this this categories and I said this this this areas if you read this and understand areas if you read this and understand this you are on the journey to become a this you are on the journey to become a more composite holistic more composite holistic activist who are impactful in the activist who are impactful in the societal context. But if you don't know, societal context. But if you don't know, you are like that uh you know elephant you are like that uh you know elephant and the seven blind men who have touched and the seven blind men who have touched one part and think that is a elephant one part and think that is a elephant that is a and this is I was like 27 28 that is a and this is I was like 27 28 years old years old years old and did you make that list you have that and did you make that list you have that list? list? list? I had made that list. I don't know where I had made that list. I don't know where it is. I have to really search for some it is. I have to really search for some of these things but please find and of these things but please find and share share share because it was so and people used to say because it was so and people used to say but how do you think how all this is but how do you think how all this is linked? I said all this is linked linked? I said all this is linked because society because society because society is evolving on all these areas and if is evolving on all these areas and if you don't understand you will have a you don't understand you will have a misstep in how you are defining your misstep in how you are defining your strategy and tactics. So all this strategy and tactics. So all this together culmination of all this into together culmination of all this into you will make you a better informed you will make you a better informed activist. That was my basic uh activist. That was my basic uh hypothesis in that in that process. hypothesis in that in that process. Everything is everything Everything is everything and yeah everything is everything and yeah everything is everything fundamentally fundamentally fundamentally and so why why I'm telling this I mean and so why why I'm telling this I mean so these are not frames which are uh so these are not frames which are uh where you are need to be stuck these are where you are need to be stuck these are frames which are also you have to keep frames which are also you have to keep continuously evolving because there is continuously evolving because there is continuously newer and and that also I continuously newer and and that also I keep emphasizing all the time in one of keep emphasizing all the time in one of the thing that I keep telling I said see the thing that I keep telling I said see even at this age any opportunity I get even at this age any opportunity I get to learn something new so just last to learn something new so just last month I was the National University of month I was the National University of Singapore doing a oneweek program on uh Singapore doing a oneweek program on uh you know leading transformation you know leading transformation organizational transformations uh for organizational transformations uh for agility and flexibility. Why would I go agility and flexibility. Why would I go as a student at the age of 64 for a as a student at the age of 64 for a program such as this? because I want to program such as this? because I want to understand what are the things which are understand what are the things which are working in the this is complete I was working in the this is complete I was the only not for-p profofit person the only not for-p profofit person everybody was from all the profit sector everybody was from all the profit sector people basically you know from Panasonic people basically you know from Panasonic this that India the um Japanese this that India the um Japanese companies Singaporean companies but I companies Singaporean companies but I want to understand what the private want to understand what the private sector is doing which may be of sector is doing which may be of relevance to what the not for profofits relevance to what the not for profofits should be doing in that sense why should should be doing in that sense why should we be left behind but I don't see that we be left behind but I don't see that unfortunately happening unfortunately happening unfortunately happening uh in the social sector as much that uh in the social sector as much that that it should happen. Maybe it's just that it should happen. Maybe it's just the lack of resources, it's just a lack the lack of resources, it's just a lack of thinking, lack of vision of the of thinking, lack of vision of the leadership uh that is coming up because leadership uh that is coming up because if you are committed to social change if you are committed to social change and social transformation, you have to and social transformation, you have to do this hard work. You're not going to do this hard work. You're not going to it's not going to happen if you don't it's not going to happen if you don't have this cascade of leaders who think have this cascade of leaders who think in this in this fashion. That's that's in this in this fashion. That's that's the kind of belief from where I came the kind of belief from where I came when I started UA also in that sense when I started UA also in that sense that UA should become a factory of that UA should become a factory of creating uh leaders. And then the second creating uh leaders. And then the second thing of course we'll talk about UA much thing of course we'll talk about UA much more in detail was from the beginning more in detail was from the beginning one of the thing that drove me and I I one of the thing that drove me and I I declared that to my board in ' 84 I said declared that to my board in ' 84 I said see I am here to build a centurion see I am here to build a centurion organization. I said why should it be a organization. I said why should it be a prerogative of the private sector prerogative of the private sector companies who have gone above 100 years companies who have gone above 100 years why should not be that even amnesty why should not be that even amnesty oxfam these are all 65 70 year old oxfam these are all 65 70 year old organizations organizations organizations red cross maybe 100 plus I don't know uh red cross maybe 100 plus I don't know uh in India inactive organizations maybe in India inactive organizations maybe like pratana sama 100 plus years but if like pratana sama 100 plus years but if you want to be vibrant and relevant even you want to be vibrant and relevant even at the age of 100 is you need to at the age of 100 is you need to inculcate some of these processes. So inculcate some of these processes. So it's been 20 years since I left UI. I it's been 20 years since I left UI. I left UI in 2004 and I'm very happy that left UI in 2004 and I'm very happy that even at 2024 when they celebrated their even at 2024 when they celebrated their 40 years, it's still a good functioning 40 years, it's still a good functioning organization you know which is great and organization you know which is great and I basically said you know you should now I basically said you know you should now look at you at 50 and then uh you know look at you at 50 and then uh you know you should hand over the baton for you should hand over the baton for somebody to take it you add 75 you know somebody to take it you add 75 you know or you add 60 or you add 70. So that's a or you add 60 or you add 70. So that's a kind of a cascade of leaders that you kind of a cascade of leaders that you need to build uh with that kind of a need to build uh with that kind of a passion, clarity, commitment and if you passion, clarity, commitment and if you do that on an ongoing basis and I see do that on an ongoing basis and I see life lessons as one of those of course life lessons as one of those of course here that's much more focused on here that's much more focused on individuals here I'm focused much more individuals here I'm focused much more in terms of the broader societal in terms of the broader societal transformation processes which are as transformation processes which are as much important from my perspective but much important from my perspective but that's something which I find uh and that's something which I find uh and that's what uh that's what uh uh in a way that's something which I uh in a way that's something which I continuously feel disturbed about why continuously feel disturbed about why people don't for me these are simple people don't for me these are simple truths truths truths what you call first principle these are what you call first principle these are simple truths why people don't simple truths why people don't appreciate why people don't even appreciate why people don't even understand that if you don't do this understand that if you don't do this you're not going to leave a better you're not going to leave a better society society society for next generation to come if you do for next generation to come if you do this hopefully it will be better than this hopefully it will be better than what we lived in what we lived in sorry sorry I went into a rant sorry sorry I went into a rant no it's not a rant at all these are no it's not a rant at all these are these are these are the soul of the show these are these are the soul of the show and the best part of it. Before we and the best part of it. Before we actually start talking about the journey actually start talking about the journey that brings you to Yua and talk about UI that brings you to Yua and talk about UI itself, I want to again digress a little itself, I want to again digress a little bit or it's not really a digression but bit or it's not really a digression but ask you about what's happening inside ask you about what's happening inside you in terms of how you look at what you in terms of how you look at what your journey is going to be and your your journey is going to be and your life designed. And I'm talking about life designed. And I'm talking about when you're in your early 20s, you when you're in your early 20s, you embarked upon this journey before you embarked upon this journey before you get to U because um you know you already get to U because um you know you already decided that okay I'm not going to do decided that okay I'm not going to do engineering. I'm not going to do uh I'm engineering. I'm not going to do uh I'm not going to be a constable. I'm not not going to be a constable. I'm not going to do XYZ. I'm going to do social going to do XYZ. I'm going to do social work. and you've decided on social work. work. and you've decided on social work. At the same time, uh when one reaches At the same time, uh when one reaches that age, there is all the social that age, there is all the social pressure on one and perhaps pressure pressure on one and perhaps pressure from family that hey, you got to get a from family that hey, you got to get a job, you got to get an income, you're job, you got to get an income, you're going to have a family like what the going to have a family like what the hell are you doing? There's enough of hell are you doing? There's enough of this. Uh your mom, as you said, made this. Uh your mom, as you said, made that disparaging uh remark about you that disparaging uh remark about you making chapatis for 4Gs. And how were making chapatis for 4Gs. And how were you thinking of yourself in terms of you thinking of yourself in terms of what is my journey? What do I do next? what is my journey? What do I do next? How do I feed myself? Because you made How do I feed myself? Because you made that what appears to me to be a very that what appears to me to be a very impressive decision that people tend to impressive decision that people tend to make much later in life. The decision to make much later in life. The decision to play the long game. The decision to say play the long game. The decision to say that I know the journey. I don't know that I know the journey. I don't know the destination. But this is the right the destination. But this is the right thing to do and therefore I will do it. thing to do and therefore I will do it. But you did that at 23. You know I can But you did that at 23. You know I can say I do it today or Aja can say he does say I do it today or Aja can say he does it today. But it took us decades to it today. But it took us decades to arrive at that. You arrived at that at arrive at that. You arrived at that at 23. Explain that to me like what was the 23. Explain that to me like what was the journey you took in your mind to get you journey you took in your mind to get you there. there. there. You know the lot of the work that I had You know the lot of the work that I had done before you were was all in the done before you were was all in the frame of doing voluntary work for frame of doing voluntary work for radical transformation. If I want to radical transformation. If I want to capture it in that kind of a one capture it in that kind of a one sentence much more in that Marxist than sentence much more in that Marxist than this kind of a frame. this kind of a frame. when I decided to establish UA when I decided to establish UA and it was part of the growth from the and it was part of the growth from the college of social work. I was already college of social work. I was already employed in college of social work as a employed in college of social work as a coordinator of something called a youth coordinator of something called a youth project. So UI is a extension of that project. So UI is a extension of that youth project. Right? So as a youth project. Right? So as a professional professional professional of social work I was already paid as a of social work I was already paid as a youth project coordinator. So I wasn't youth project coordinator. So I wasn't going to be doing voluntary work with going to be doing voluntary work with you. Of course, you would have joined my you. Of course, you would have joined my business, you would have continued with business, you would have continued with my in electronics and telecommission my in electronics and telecommission engineering, I would have earned much engineering, I would have earned much bigger monies than um you if I tell you bigger monies than um you if I tell you my salaries when I began, you'll laugh my salaries when I began, you'll laugh at it. Uh and some of the principles I at it. Uh and some of the principles I followed at that very at that very age followed at that very age and that very stage, but we'll come to and that very stage, but we'll come to that when we come to UI and how some of that when we come to UI and how some of those principles have shaped the those principles have shaped the organizational culture. organizational culture. organizational culture. So it wasn't out of uh volunteerism that So it wasn't out of uh volunteerism that I were joining you. I had decided that I were joining you. I had decided that if you want to have organizations which if you want to have organizations which are built for as a centurion are built for as a centurion organizations then they have to be organizations then they have to be professionalized. professionalized. professionalized. So that was very clear. Was social work So that was very clear. Was social work enough for my professionalization? No. enough for my professionalization? No. So UA was started in August 1984. So UA was started in August 1984. Immediately after U was established, I Immediately after U was established, I went for a training program of went for a training program of management of youth organization at management of youth organization at Vishui Kendra uh in Delhi uh which was Vishui Kendra uh in Delhi uh which was run by a very very interesting person uh run by a very very interesting person uh who was a former part of the United who was a former part of the United Nations development program and then of Nations development program and then of course I happened to join the UNP myself course I happened to join the UNP myself at a later stage in my life. uh but I at a later stage in my life. uh but I was very clear I want to build this was very clear I want to build this organization which is committed to organization which is committed to certain core values is passionate about certain core values is passionate about change in the society but that cannot be change in the society but that cannot be done. I was not keen to have the jola done. I was not keen to have the jola social work image very clear you know I social work image very clear you know I was very clearly saying that we have to was very clearly saying that we have to run this organization on very strongly run this organization on very strongly aligned professional basis aligned professional basis one part and again we'll discuss it in one part and again we'll discuss it in more detail when we discuss about UI is more detail when we discuss about UI is this was also quest what is the quest this was also quest what is the quest what was the search what was the search you remember I talking about that the you remember I talking about that the model of social work education ation in model of social work education ation in practice is predominantly borrowed from practice is predominantly borrowed from American context. American context. American context. So I said if you want to be more So I said if you want to be more impactful social work education and impactful social work education and practice we need to have examples practice we need to have examples from this land of creating that from this land of creating that educational framework and creating that educational framework and creating that social work practice which is aligned to social work practice which is aligned to the way I was thinking of creating the way I was thinking of creating social change agents rather than social social change agents rather than social workers. But me saying it as a slogan workers. But me saying it as a slogan doesn't help. I have to show it in doesn't help. I have to show it in practice. So when UA began very practice. So when UA began very interestingly for first five years interestingly for first five years all our general body members were all our general body members were masters of social work we didn't take masters of social work we didn't take anybody who was not from the social work anybody who was not from the social work profession on the general body of UA. profession on the general body of UA. Okay. All the staff including the first Okay. All the staff including the first community organizer that I that I community organizer that I that I recruited was a paraprofessional social recruited was a paraprofessional social worker who who had done one year worker who who had done one year certificate program with me as a certificate program with me as a coordinator of the youth youth program coordinator of the youth youth program in college of social work. So basically in college of social work. So basically we wanted to establish that social work we wanted to establish that social work education and practice can be done which education and practice can be done which is aligned to what is need in the Indian is aligned to what is need in the Indian context. So it had that dual purpose of context. So it had that dual purpose of and again it goes back to earlier what and again it goes back to earlier what what I said that I have always had this what I said that I have always had this thinking that you know your practice thinking that you know your practice should inform your theory should develop should inform your theory should develop your theory your develop theory should your theory your develop theory should advance your practice your advanced advance your practice your advanced practice should advance your theory that practice should advance your theory that is a kind of iterative dialectical is a kind of iterative dialectical process you must continuously go and process you must continuously go and that is what will make you your life that is what will make you your life your thinking much better so that was your thinking much better so that was how you was formed that it was in a way how you was formed that it was in a way a challenge to the present social work a challenge to the present social work practice and education. There was a practice and education. There was a great thinker in social work education great thinker in social work education and that's very interesting. Professor and that's very interesting. Professor Daz Gupta, Daz Gupta, Daz Gupta, he actually wrote a quite a sizable book he actually wrote a quite a sizable book on radical social work in Indian context on radical social work in Indian context and I had already got a exposure to and I had already got a exposure to radical social work in Australia. In UK radical social work in Australia. In UK 1985 was the first time I was in UK and 1985 was the first time I was in UK and I happened to participate because of the I happened to participate because of the connections I had in the interviews for connections I had in the interviews for the Bachelor of Social Work students in the Bachelor of Social Work students in UK in the radical school of social work. UK in the radical school of social work. They were talking about development They were talking about development economist and questions related to economist and questions related to development economics at the entry level development economics at the entry level of bachelor of social work. of bachelor of social work. In our curriculum of bachelor of social In our curriculum of bachelor of social work, development economics not even was work, development economics not even was a subject in the three years of bachelor a subject in the three years of bachelor of social work. So you can you can of social work. So you can you can imagine the distinction that one one imagine the distinction that one one could see and and this is 1985. I was could see and and this is 1985. I was like 24 years old to the first first like 24 years old to the first first trip of my my trip to Europe. trip of my my trip to Europe. So you know that quest Amit actually So you know that quest Amit actually shaped in a way what I wanted to do and shaped in a way what I wanted to do and after five years when we did the first after five years when we did the first strategic thinking of UI in 1990 84 strategic thinking of UI in 1990 84 August we got established 1990 was our August we got established 1990 was our first strategic thinking workshop that first strategic thinking workshop that we did with the whole of UA and that is we did with the whole of UA and that is when we then opened it up but you I can when we then opened it up but you I can give you so many examples even board give you so many examples even board I that you know it's not the issue of I I that you know it's not the issue of I know Amit Amit no and so get them on the know Amit Amit no and so get them on the board no what is the competency board no what is the competency of the existing board members look at of the existing board members look at each board member what are the each board member what are the competencies which are missing if they competencies which are missing if they have to perform their effective have to perform their effective oversight function what is missing and oversight function what is missing and only those people who have that skill only those people who have that skill set which will fill that gap should be set which will fill that gap should be brought on board then that board will brought on board then that board will become a really efficient effective become a really efficient effective board otherwise it will be a rubber board otherwise it will be a rubber stamp board. So with the board also we stamp board. So with the board also we started a process of from compliance started a process of from compliance board to performance board to board to performance board to missiondriven boards you know steps all missiondriven boards you know steps all organization in the beginning is started organization in the beginning is started by friends and family. Okay so those are by friends and family. Okay so those are like rubber stamp boards which are like rubber stamp boards which are driven by compliance. How do you driven by compliance. How do you professionalize it next step and how do professionalize it next step and how do we get the board to be missiondriven of we get the board to be missiondriven of that organization. So the board is fully that organization. So the board is fully aligned to the mission of the aligned to the mission of the organization and they do their role to organization and they do their role to drive the mission of the organization. drive the mission of the organization. Now that thinking in you will not find Now that thinking in you will not find many NGOs having that thinking even many NGOs having that thinking even today this I'm talking about when we today this I'm talking about when we started in 84 and at 90 in 6 years time started in 84 and at 90 in 6 years time we came to this kind of conclusions we we came to this kind of conclusions we did the full board analysis I got did the full board analysis I got somebody from uh you know who was with somebody from uh you know who was with the RPG group head of their group HR and the RPG group head of their group HR and he he became the member of the board he he became the member of the board so and that took a lot of preparation on so and that took a lot of preparation on our side Arun Zooshi who was earlier our side Arun Zooshi who was earlier head of the HR in Cadbury's he was then head of the HR in Cadbury's he was then head of the HR in RPG group I got him on head of the HR in RPG group I got him on the board because so he could then think the board because so he could then think so you always think big in terms of even so you always think big in terms of even if you're not going to be like a RPG if you're not going to be like a RPG group with so many multi,000 cr company group with so many multi,000 cr company but we those practices are important and but we those practices are important and how those practices can be ingrained how those practices can be ingrained from the beginning so that we have a from the beginning so that we have a cascade of leadership so even if minar cascade of leadership so even if minar play goes away there's a leadership play goes away there's a leadership which will take over which will take over and that is exactly what happened that's and that is exactly what happened that's how the you have survived of course with how the you have survived of course with the ups and downs which is part of life the ups and downs which is part of life but had survived 20 years in a way and but had survived 20 years in a way and exactly the same thing I did for Oxfam exactly the same thing I did for Oxfam also but we'll come to that when we talk also but we'll come to that when we talk about a little more on those experiences about a little more on those experiences what I did for the chair of the Oxfam what I did for the chair of the Oxfam board board board lot lot else to talk about let's take lot lot else to talk about let's take another break and on the other side of another break and on the other side of the break we'll talk about are long before I was a podcaster, I was a long before I was a podcaster, I was a writer. In fact, chances are that many writer. In fact, chances are that many of you first heard of me because of my of you first heard of me because of my blog India Uncut, which was active blog India Uncut, which was active between 2003 and 2009 and became between 2003 and 2009 and became somewhat popular at the time. I love the somewhat popular at the time. I love the freedom the form gave me and I feel I freedom the form gave me and I feel I was shaped by it in many ways. I was shaped by it in many ways. I exercised my writing muscle every day exercised my writing muscle every day and was forced to think about many and was forced to think about many different things because I wrote about different things because I wrote about many different things. Well, that phase many different things. Well, that phase in my life ended for various reasons and in my life ended for various reasons and now it is time to revive it. Only now now it is time to revive it. Only now I'm doing it through a newsletter. I I'm doing it through a newsletter. I have started the India uncut newsletter have started the India uncut newsletter at india uncut.substack.com at india uncut.substack.com where I will write regularly about where I will write regularly about whatever catches my fancy. I'll write whatever catches my fancy. I'll write about some of the themes I cover in this about some of the themes I cover in this podcast and about much else. So please podcast and about much else. So please do head on over to indiaun do head on over to indiaun uncut.substack.com uncut.substack.com uncut.substack.com and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign up, each new installment that I write up, each new installment that I write will land up in your email inbox. You will land up in your email inbox. You don't need to go anywhere. So subscribe don't need to go anywhere. So subscribe now for free. The India uncut newsletter now for free. The India uncut newsletter at indiaunut.substack.com. at indiaunut.substack.com. at indiaunut.substack.com. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome back to the scene and the Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still chatting with Minat. unseen. I'm still chatting with Minat. Um uh you know a night has passed in Um uh you know a night has passed in fact and we have convened in the morning fact and we have convened in the morning and we are fresh because uh to talk and we are fresh because uh to talk about what we're going to talk about now about what we're going to talk about now which is his journey uh first building which is his journey uh first building ywa which he headed for 20 years and ywa which he headed for 20 years and which was a very different kind of which was a very different kind of organization and then all the work that organization and then all the work that he did at the UN requires a fresh mind he did at the UN requires a fresh mind and lots of energy and minar has come and lots of energy and minar has come dutifully prepared but so tell me in dutifully prepared but so tell me in this intervening night between the first this intervening night between the first half of the conversation and what we are half of the conversation and what we are about to embark on what were your about to embark on what were your thoughts did Do you do some more thoughts did Do you do some more reflection? reflection? reflection? Uh in terms of the past um as I was Uh in terms of the past um as I was sharing the question which a little bit sharing the question which a little bit unsettled me because I had nobody had unsettled me because I had nobody had asked me that question directly the way asked me that question directly the way you asked and I had never asked that you asked and I had never asked that question to myself which is uh do you question to myself which is uh do you love your mother and does your mother love your mother and does your mother love you. So that as I explained it was love you. So that as I explained it was a little bit of unsettling question and a little bit of unsettling question and legitimately so because legitimately so because in the times and the age like I was born in the times and the age like I was born in 60s. Uh even the word love was had a in 60s. Uh even the word love was had a lot of connotations which were not lot of connotations which were not necessarily uh positive connotation in necessarily uh positive connotation in in terms of the kind of a popular kind in terms of the kind of a popular kind of a norms and beliefs. So that was a of a norms and beliefs. So that was a very interesting question to reflect. very interesting question to reflect. The second thing that came uh for me The second thing that came uh for me which I was again sharing with you was which I was again sharing with you was you know it was very interesting that I you know it was very interesting that I spoke quite uh warmly about my spoke quite uh warmly about my friendships before I left cade uh formed friendships before I left cade uh formed till about sixth standard and some of till about sixth standard and some of those friendships are still continuing those friendships are still continuing and I I literally gave you five people's and I I literally gave you five people's name whom and out of those two people I name whom and out of those two people I regularly meet when I go to k but the regularly meet when I go to k but the seventh to the 12th standard those six seventh to the 12th standard those six years I know the names of people but I years I know the names of people but I don't have friends during that whole don't have friends during that whole period. So that was like and I was period. So that was like and I was trying to look out for what is the trying to look out for what is the hypothesis what was it and maybe as I hypothesis what was it and maybe as I explained that was a period of self explained that was a period of self search search search uh looking at the identity a little bit uh looking at the identity a little bit of a displacement from the rural to of a displacement from the rural to urban area not feeling uh um insider but urban area not feeling uh um insider but more like a outsider insider more like a outsider insider uh being for the first time being in a uh being for the first time being in a way cut off from your mother and the way cut off from your mother and the immediate siblings you know two of my immediate siblings you know two of my brothers and staying by myself. The uh brothers and staying by myself. The uh the other adults in the family were two the other adults in the family were two of my grandparents and my father of my grandparents and my father who as I said is a Buddhist in that who as I said is a Buddhist in that sense little bit detached. So he's not sense little bit detached. So he's not somebody who is going to be very somebody who is going to be very intensely interacting with you or you intensely interacting with you or you know that kind of thing. So I was know that kind of thing. So I was missing all those I suppose and then the missing all those I suppose and then the whole search for am I going to be a whole search for am I going to be a religious person? I'm going to be a religious person? I'm going to be a rationalist. I mentioned Dr. Core rationalist. I mentioned Dr. Core yesterday. So all those um search uh you yesterday. So all those um search uh you must also understand that I didn't I must also understand that I didn't I didn't come from a family where you had didn't come from a family where you had people to guide you in terms of your people to guide you in terms of your careers what you'll be doing next and in careers what you'll be doing next and in the quote unquote normal middle class the quote unquote normal middle class family who are second third fourth family who are second third fourth generation education this will be the generation education this will be the time when those discussions will be time when those discussions will be happening in the families that was not happening in the families that was not the case in as far as I'm I'm concerned the case in as far as I'm I'm concerned the clear view was that uh you know the clear view was that uh you know after the good dream of my grandfather after the good dream of my grandfather of me becoming a sub inspector uh who of me becoming a sub inspector uh who shared it off because of the uh uh great shared it off because of the uh uh great adventure I had done at the age of five adventure I had done at the age of five and my fingers being plastic surgery. Uh and my fingers being plastic surgery. Uh basically the only other thing that my basically the only other thing that my family knew as any artisal family would family knew as any artisal family would know is that their kids join in their know is that their kids join in their business as business as business as learn the business and I was showing learn the business and I was showing some tendencies towards that basically. some tendencies towards that basically. So that was something So that was something but in all this mix of all this I really but in all this mix of all this I really missed the friendships in the school. I missed the friendships in the school. I did have friends side friends outside did have friends side friends outside the school. I mentioned some of the the school. I mentioned some of the people staying in my uh you know my lane people staying in my uh you know my lane uh where I used to be like a joining for uh where I used to be like a joining for badminton play with you know the two badminton play with you know the two hero girls and those kinds of things. So hero girls and those kinds of things. So I had it was not like I was socially cut I had it was not like I was socially cut off fully but I didn't have a kind of a off fully but I didn't have a kind of a memorable friendship. So I think those memorable friendship. So I think those were the two major reflections and the were the two major reflections and the first one was unsettling. Second one was first one was unsettling. Second one was more like trying to form a hypothesis more like trying to form a hypothesis why it would have happened what could be why it would have happened what could be the reasoning. So it's almost like going the reasoning. So it's almost like going back 40 years to search for those back 40 years to search for those answers which is not very easy but some answers which is not very easy but some of those hypothesis that I came up with of those hypothesis that I came up with in the in the night basically. in the in the night basically. Yeah. The uh unsettling question is Yeah. The uh unsettling question is unsettling for me also which is why I'm unsettling for me also which is why I'm interested in how others respond to it interested in how others respond to it because more and more I think about how because more and more I think about how we take certain relationships for we take certain relationships for granted and especially with parents granted and especially with parents where you see them as having that job where you see them as having that job description as it were the JD of mom or description as it were the JD of mom or dad and always look at them through that dad and always look at them through that lens and not as real people and when you lens and not as real people and when you do see them as real people the question do see them as real people the question then comes up is that what is it that then comes up is that what is it that you actually feel about them and how you actually feel about them and how much comes from a sense of what you much comes from a sense of what you should feel towards them just the habit should feel towards them just the habit and the comfort and how much is how much and the comfort and how much is how much arises a new out of the people that arises a new out of the people that there are and interesting and unsettling there are and interesting and unsettling question I haven't uh fully answered uh question I haven't uh fully answered uh yet and as for friendships as I was yet and as for friendships as I was telling you I've um all my friends are telling you I've um all my friends are really uh post internet friends in the really uh post internet friends in the sense that I look at my life in two sense that I look at my life in two parts first I was constrained by parts first I was constrained by communities of circumstance which is communities of circumstance which is usually geography or profession or usually geography or profession or whatever and then it's communities of whatever and then it's communities of choice where through the internet you choice where through the internet you can just reach out to disperse people can just reach out to disperse people all over the place who might share your all over the place who might share your sensibilities or your interests and that sensibilities or your interests and that works out wonderfully well and um and works out wonderfully well and um and when I look look back on myself is at 20 when I look look back on myself is at 20 I wonder why anyone would want to be a I wonder why anyone would want to be a friend with me because I just didn't friend with me because I just didn't like the person that I was and a shallow like the person that I was and a shallow arrogant fool etc etc so I was actually arrogant fool etc etc so I was actually surprised when I came across someone who surprised when I came across someone who knew me at that age in college in a very knew me at that age in college in a very peripheral way and said that you know peripheral way and said that you know you influence me a lot with XYZ Z you influence me a lot with XYZ Z whatever and I was like wait a minute whatever and I was like wait a minute that is simply not possible because I that is simply not possible because I had zero depth I was nothing you know I had zero depth I was nothing you know I mean I was a chuty so but uh so so it's mean I was a chuty so but uh so so it's interesting how selectively we sometimes interesting how selectively we sometimes uh tend to remember the past but um um uh tend to remember the past but um um let's let's move on from that past to let's let's move on from that past to something in the future of that past but something in the future of that past but in the past of this present which is in the past of this present which is just one comment on the parental just one comment on the parental relationship one reflection relationship one reflection I'm sure there are parents who evolve I'm sure there are parents who evolve themselves over the time and those themselves over the time and those parents who have that capacity to evolve parents who have that capacity to evolve would would have the you know continuous would would have the you know continuous process with their kids of evolving process with their kids of evolving relationships relationships relationships but that's not the fortune many people but that's not the fortune many people have. uh most of the parents are in a have. uh most of the parents are in a way frozen um in the past and they look way frozen um in the past and they look at the present also from the lens of the at the present also from the lens of the past and that is when this challenges of past and that is when this challenges of because you have evolved you have because you have evolved you have changed you're no more minar of when you changed you're no more minar of when you was 8 years old or 7 years old and you was 8 years old or 7 years old and you mother your mother had a particular mother your mother had a particular relationship with you that has changed relationship with you that has changed but she has not changed she still looks but she has not changed she still looks at minar as she knew before I left for at minar as she knew before I left for Mumbai which was like when I was 10 Mumbai which was like when I was 10 years 11 years old so I think that thing years 11 years old so I think that thing of uh you know whether your parents of uh you know whether your parents ability to also evolve themselves and ability to also evolve themselves and I'm sure in the new like for example I'm sure in the new like for example with my own son because I'm evolving with my own son because I'm evolving continuously I'm reflecting on the continuously I'm reflecting on the reality so there is still a common point reality so there is still a common point of conversation he's 34 I'm 64 which is of conversation he's 34 I'm 64 which is not what I would have expected or which not what I would have expected or which didn't happen in in my particular case didn't happen in in my particular case uh of course the education forms are uh of course the education forms are kind of and I'm sure listeners would kind of and I'm sure listeners would apply what applies to them in in terms apply what applies to them in in terms of their relationship with their of their relationship with their parents. parents. parents. But as a father, how did you then think But as a father, how did you then think of your fatherhood? Because to a lot of of your fatherhood? Because to a lot of people, parentthood is just something people, parentthood is just something that happens. They haven't thought about that happens. They haven't thought about it. And in my opinion, many just don't it. And in my opinion, many just don't take it seriously enough and they just take it seriously enough and they just kind of go through with it with it as kind of go through with it with it as you know one more parav. you know one more parav. But in your case, how much intentional But in your case, how much intentional intentionality did you put into it? How intentionality did you put into it? How did your relationship with your son did your relationship with your son evolve? And would you say that you guys evolve? And would you say that you guys are friends now and he can see you as are friends now and he can see you as you know not just as a father per se but you know not just as a father per se but as uh as a human being with his own as uh as a human being with his own flaws and his own idiosyncrasies. flaws and his own idiosyncrasies. No. So I I must uh state here that both No. So I I must uh state here that both Alpa and me uh brought a lot of Alpa and me uh brought a lot of intentionality uh in terms of even the intentionality uh in terms of even the decision uh whether to have the child or decision uh whether to have the child or not. That was so after our uh you know not. That was so after our uh you know when we decided to get married it was 3 when we decided to get married it was 3 years before we actually took the years before we actually took the decision of having our first and only decision of having our first and only child. So even that decision was based child. So even that decision was based on intentionality. on intentionality. on intentionality. Uh second which is quite important is Uh second which is quite important is what type of a value system that he what type of a value system that he should grow in. So there's a whole should grow in. So there's a whole intentionality about what type of intentionality about what type of schools that we should look out for. So schools that we should look out for. So we're fortunate that he got the we're fortunate that he got the admission in a mont montisery school admission in a mont montisery school which is run on a montary principle. So which is run on a montary principle. So the first four years he had like film the first four years he had like film actors and those kinds of people's kids actors and those kinds of people's kids and he had drivers kids from the slum and he had drivers kids from the slum communities from jogeshwari and that I communities from jogeshwari and that I think made and created a base of his think made and created a base of his value system. value system. value system. In terms of value framework, we fully In terms of value framework, we fully aligned and that we could see from the aligned and that we could see from the very beginning because when he grew with very beginning because when he grew with that Montesary kind of a culture uh that Montesary kind of a culture uh where where the classes are small, the where where the classes are small, the methodology is very very participatory methodology is very very participatory involving challenging your creativity. involving challenging your creativity. Uh so there was a lot of intentionality Uh so there was a lot of intentionality in in in that that part. uh we were also in in in that that part. uh we were also both as being a trained social workers both as being a trained social workers we also had a knowledge about the early we also had a knowledge about the early childhood development stages blah blah childhood development stages blah blah blah. So that uh happened quite you know blah. So that uh happened quite you know quite naturally because of the because quite naturally because of the because of our professional background. Uh and of our professional background. Uh and then we already knew that what kind of a then we already knew that what kind of a kid he's going to be will pretty much in kid he's going to be will pretty much in terms of the psychological makeup will terms of the psychological makeup will be formalized by the age of seven. Uh so be formalized by the age of seven. Uh so that was a period when we interacting that was a period when we interacting taking him out like he traveled with us taking him out like he traveled with us at the age of 6 months he was joining in at the age of 6 months he was joining in some of the board meeting that Alpa and some of the board meeting that Alpa and I would have and he would be on on the I would have and he would be on on the board table while the board meeting is board table while the board meeting is on. He would join all the UA staff on. He would join all the UA staff meetings because we didn't have that meetings because we didn't have that kind of salaries or anything like that kind of salaries or anything like that where he could be just put in a some where he could be just put in a some kind of a caretaking thing and we didn't kind of a caretaking thing and we didn't want to do it. I think want to do it. I think the second thing like he traveled with the second thing like he traveled with me to when I was participating in the me to when I was participating in the Nmada Bachawa save Narmmada campaign Nmada Bachawa save Narmmada campaign that's the first time he met Nana Patara that's the first time he met Nana Patara he was like 7 years old kid uh you know he was like 7 years old kid uh you know on the in a tent outside on the on the on the in a tent outside on the on the banks of Nadada river where Baba used to banks of Nadada river where Baba used to stay his and there were tents for all of stay his and there were tents for all of us who had gone to visit for that us who had gone to visit for that particular event he he was fine so the particular event he he was fine so the whole idea of making him know that what whole idea of making him know that what we are into and that we face all these we are into and that we face all these issues is something which I think he issues is something which I think he grew up with. So it was not a it was grew up with. So it was not a it was never a kind of a protected kind of a never a kind of a protected kind of a childhood that many kids go through. childhood that many kids go through. uh building his immunity he drinking uh building his immunity he drinking water in so many different places water in so many different places otherwise when I see some of the young otherwise when I see some of the young parents now and the way they treat the parents now and the way they treat the kids in terms of the almost the kids in terms of the almost the seclusion that they create around the seclusion that they create around the kid I don't know whether that's a good kid I don't know whether that's a good idea or not a good idea we felt that idea or not a good idea we felt that that exposure made made his base quite that exposure made made his base quite strong uh on uh his social thinking or strong uh on uh his social thinking or on his emotional uh resilience and on his emotional uh resilience and strength u and then what kind of choices strength u and then what kind of choices he made for himself um in life. So I he made for himself um in life. So I think that was pretty pretty think that was pretty pretty intentional. I must also admit in spite intentional. I must also admit in spite of the being a feminist in terms of of the being a feminist in terms of thinking when it comes to child rearing thinking when it comes to child rearing uh whether you like it or not even in uh whether you like it or not even in the most progressive households mothers the most progressive households mothers play a very dominant role. So that's so play a very dominant role. So that's so that I think has to be acknowledged very that I think has to be acknowledged very clearly that mother's contribution and clearly that mother's contribution and the availability becomes extremely the availability becomes extremely critical. However progressive your thing critical. However progressive your thing may be you may be changing nappies and may be you may be changing nappies and those kinds of things which are fine those kinds of things which are fine symbols but in terms of really nurturing symbols but in terms of really nurturing taking care of all the emotive needs taking care of all the emotive needs knowing what that kid is going through knowing what that kid is going through that intuition is very strong. Um even that intuition is very strong. Um even if you are a very progressive father uh if you are a very progressive father uh but it is it is with the mother but it is it is with the mother predominantly and that we faced when he predominantly and that we faced when he became little bit uh older uh at the age became little bit uh older uh at the age of eight he had the competence of of eight he had the competence of telling both of us very clearly made us telling both of us very clearly made us sit down and say now henceforth I need sit down and say now henceforth I need one of you to be spending more time with one of you to be spending more time with me because we used to travel quite a bit me because we used to travel quite a bit both of us that was the early phase of both of us that was the early phase of UA Alpa was working with Yua with me and UA Alpa was working with Yua with me and we were building UA so it There were we were building UA so it There were times when I would be flying in from times when I would be flying in from Delhi and she's going out somewhere. So Delhi and she's going out somewhere. So we'll literally be handing over things we'll literally be handing over things at the airport and then I'll come home at the airport and then I'll come home uh to take care of Nitan. And of course uh to take care of Nitan. And of course we had somebody who who took care of we had somebody who who took care of him. He was almost like his quasi mother him. He was almost like his quasi mother called Chanchchalben. Uh so but still it called Chanchchalben. Uh so but still it was a difficult uh thing and then we had was a difficult uh thing and then we had to basically decide when he when he put to basically decide when he when he put this thing down very clearly uh we had this thing down very clearly uh we had to be very practical about it in terms to be very practical about it in terms of whose earnings are bigger earnings of whose earnings are bigger earnings and who can then we can sustain with one and who can then we can sustain with one source of income and then unfortunately source of income and then unfortunately it was my income which is bigger. So it was my income which is bigger. So then Alpa took a break for about 7 8 then Alpa took a break for about 7 8 years till the time he finished his uh years till the time he finished his uh 10th and 12th and that kind of thing. So 10th and 12th and that kind of thing. So because she needed that kind of a very because she needed that kind of a very uh intellectual um kind of a interaction uh intellectual um kind of a interaction beyond just the uh caring. beyond just the uh caring. So I think that's so it was a very So I think that's so it was a very intentional process and then I wanted to intentional process and then I wanted to have a a second child not our own in have a a second child not our own in terms of the biological child but I terms of the biological child but I wanted to adopt a girl very keen on wanted to adopt a girl very keen on having a girl in the mix and alpa put having a girl in the mix and alpa put her foot down and said no way because her foot down and said no way because you know this 8 years I have already you know this 8 years I have already given in terms of nitant and I want to given in terms of nitant and I want to go back to my own profession. uh and uh go back to my own profession. uh and uh we had to just respect it and I I just we had to just respect it and I I just said okay. Uh but then of course I said okay. Uh but then of course I became a guardian for another uh became a guardian for another uh colleague of mine who adopted a girl colleague of mine who adopted a girl child and those kinds of things which child and those kinds of things which like more what do you call a little bit like more what do you call a little bit distance but you still fulfill some of distance but you still fulfill some of those feelings that you those some of those feelings that you had for a girl child. Anyway that's I had for a girl child. Anyway that's I think in ter that's enough in terms of think in ter that's enough in terms of uh the uh childaring and the uh the uh childaring and the intentionality around it. Most people intentionality around it. Most people when they go through life they don't when they go through life they don't actually explicitly formulate a set of actually explicitly formulate a set of values for themselves and think about values for themselves and think about okay this is our value system this is okay this is our value system this is how this is what we will live by this is how this is what we will live by this is what defines us etc etc you guys clearly what defines us etc etc you guys clearly did that so my next question is that did that so my next question is that were there clashes through your life were there clashes through your life between the values you espoused and the between the values you espoused and the values that you live by like did you values that you live by like did you ever feel ever feel ever feel but am I a hypocrite am I but am I a hypocrite am I there have been instances a lot of them there have been instances a lot of them to do with the external systems to do with the external systems and Nitan was born in 1990. Now it has and Nitan was born in 1990. Now it has become a common practice that the kids become a common practice that the kids don't have a surname. He doesn't have a don't have a surname. He doesn't have a surname. Alpa never changed her surname surname. Alpa never changed her surname after wedding. She's still Alpa. I'm after wedding. She's still Alpa. I'm Minar Pimp. So when his birth Minar Pimp. So when his birth certificate we went to take his birth certificate we went to take his birth certificate the system was there certificate the system was there father's name minaras pimp mother's name father's name minaras pimp mother's name alpaka krishna daswora uh child's name alpaka krishna daswora uh child's name nitant alpinar how can that be so we nitant alpinar how can that be so we have to fight it at every level amit have to fight it at every level amit passport office same difficulties that passport office same difficulties that time if you remember a ration card was time if you remember a ration card was like the most important piece of proof like the most important piece of proof this is all before Aadhaar and all those this is all before Aadhaar and all those things. So many people even may not know things. So many people even may not know what a ration card is all about. So if what a ration card is all about. So if you're not using the ration, you needed you're not using the ration, you needed the damn ration card and on the ration the damn ration card and on the ration card Alpa head of the household minar card Alpa head of the household minar was impre husband and nitant alpa minar was impre husband and nitant alpa minar son and that ration officer was like son and that ration officer was like going completely crazy how can you first going completely crazy how can you first of all how can you have a woman at the of all how can you have a woman at the head of the household? How can uh your head of the household? How can uh your son doesn't take your surname? Uh how son doesn't take your surname? Uh how come she has not changed her surname? I come she has not changed her surname? I said show me the law which insists on said show me the law which insists on change. Now there is a positive law change. Now there is a positive law which encourages people to keep their which encourages people to keep their names and you've seen some of these names and you've seen some of these things happening even in the ministers things happening even in the ministers now talking about their first name their now talking about their first name their mother's name their father's name but mother's name their father's name but still the surname is of the father not still the surname is of the father not of the mother and I didn't want to have of the mother and I didn't want to have this logic of you know some of the this logic of you know some of the famous marati like bakti buramara so my famous marati like bakti buramara so my mother was insistent but at least ask mother was insistent but at least ask alpa to make it alpa pimp I said no alpa to make it alpa pimp I said no should I then make uh you know minar should I then make uh you know minar pimpa that she said no no how can you pimpa that she said no no how can you change your surname and add another change your surname and add another surname to you I said the same thing why surname to you I said the same thing why she she add my surname so there were she she add my surname so there were those kinds of fights those kinds of fights the one issue which I remember because the one issue which I remember because that time of the era of the landlines that time of the era of the landlines you didn't have the um mobiles and those you didn't have the um mobiles and those kinds of things kinds of things and uh we got our landline and uh we got our landline and it you had to pay a 500 bribe to get and it you had to pay a 500 bribe to get the landline activated the landline activated So installing the phone is one thing and So installing the phone is one thing and then getting that activated was then getting that activated was dependent on that 500 rupee uh note uh dependent on that 500 rupee uh note uh without that time I don't think 500 without that time I don't think 500 rupee note even existed it was like 100 rupee note even existed it was like 100 batch note so some of those compromises batch note so some of those compromises we have surely made uh in terms of you we have surely made uh in terms of you know in my life I would say no know in my life I would say no corruption so in yath's case I don't corruption so in yath's case I don't remember any instance where we had to be remember any instance where we had to be participating in corruption practices. participating in corruption practices. But this in personal life because you But this in personal life because you know with having a small child at home know with having a small child at home the uh landline became extremely crucial the uh landline became extremely crucial because that was the only way we could because that was the only way we could call and check how things are and those call and check how things are and those kinds of things and that was the only kinds of things and that was the only way the caretakers could call us and say way the caretakers could call us and say something is wrong. So there were those something is wrong. So there were those kinds of compromises which are which are kinds of compromises which are which are you know which go against the kind of you know which go against the kind of values of honesty and integrity that values of honesty and integrity that I've talked about all the time. I've talked about all the time. So I think other than that uh now there So I think other than that uh now there are parts of the system where after I've are parts of the system where after I've come back uh from to India in September come back uh from to India in September 2024 2024 2024 one thing which is really impacting me one thing which is really impacting me is how institutionalized the corruption is how institutionalized the corruption processes are. I'm uh when we talk about processes are. I'm uh when we talk about my present uh thing I have I'm now a my present uh thing I have I'm now a managing trustee of some of the trust managing trustee of some of the trust which came traditionally from Alpat's which came traditionally from Alpat's father because she's the only child and father because she's the only child and she cannot join any trust till the time she cannot join any trust till the time she's in a UNICEF employment because you she's in a UNICEF employment because you know as when I was in UN I had to resign know as when I was in UN I had to resign from all boards all that is the UN from all boards all that is the UN strictures so I have been because he's strictures so I have been because he's 95 I I am in a way taking some of the 95 I I am in a way taking some of the responsibilities simple things like uh responsibilities simple things like uh change of user uh for a building that change of user uh for a building that you have which was earlier considered you have which was earlier considered residential because it was orphanage for residential because it was orphanage for uh girls uh girls uh girls simple thing like that the kind of simple thing like that the kind of monies that are asked for in cash is monies that are asked for in cash is unbelievable so this is like just two unbelievable so this is like just two days back as a trustees we take a days back as a trustees we take a decision we took a decision we are not decision we took a decision we are not going to go that go that way because going to go that go that way because it's a bottomless pit and once we get in it's a bottomless pit and once we get in that it's like there is no way way back. that it's like there is no way way back. So we took a decision that decision has So we took a decision that decision has huge implications on us in terms of uh huge implications on us in terms of uh if we are offering some part of that if we are offering some part of that institution's building uh as a to a institution's building uh as a to a tenant it is going to be problematic tenant it is going to be problematic kind of thing. kind of thing. So you know so these are like daily So you know so these are like daily struggles in terms of your value system struggles in terms of your value system and the way the external system it's and the way the external system it's it's like almost like having a red card it's like almost like having a red card basically want to do this this is the basically want to do this this is the payment this if you want to do this this payment this if you want to do this this is the payment and you have no way out is the payment and you have no way out of it if you want to get anything done of it if you want to get anything done we are facing the same situation with we are facing the same situation with where the building where we stay it is where the building where we stay it is supposed to go under redevelopment the supposed to go under redevelopment the conveyance of the building building from conveyance of the building building from the builder to the cooperative society the builder to the cooperative society which is very functional have not which is very functional have not happened and without conveyance happened and without conveyance completed you can't go under completed you can't go under redevelopment exactly the same situation redevelopment exactly the same situation we're facing so how do we do that and we're facing so how do we do that and there are people when you're talking there are people when you're talking about a building you're talking you're about a building you're talking you're not talking about one family you're not talking about one family you're talking about the whole cooperative talking about the whole cooperative different people will have different different people will have different perspectives some people are extremely perspectives some people are extremely keen for it to go under redevelopment so keen for it to go under redevelopment so that they can get a 1,500 ft² flat the that they can get a 1,500 ft² flat the from the 1,000 that they have so I'm from the 1,000 that they have so I'm just expl explaining to you the the kind just expl explaining to you the the kind of situations and then how of situations and then how that leaves you a level of discomfort uh that leaves you a level of discomfort uh you know which almost then tells you at you know which almost then tells you at least in Singapore in London I didn't least in Singapore in London I didn't have to face all these issues uh you have to face all these issues uh you know where I could live a life with a a know where I could live a life with a a huge amount of integrity without all huge amount of integrity without all this uh nonsense of bribing at every this uh nonsense of bribing at every stage and anything that you need to do stage and anything that you need to do in life in life in life so those dilemas continue it's not I so those dilemas continue it's not I have resolved those dilemas but those have resolved those dilemas but those are real dilemas. are real dilemas. I mean that's the the the the one kind I mean that's the the the the one kind of area where you can you find yourself of area where you can you find yourself having to compromise your principles is having to compromise your principles is when you're interfacing with the state when you're interfacing with the state or the real world and like what do you or the real world and like what do you do if you want to get something done you do if you want to get something done you got to make that compromise but another got to make that compromise but another kind of compromise would be with no kind of compromise would be with no external factor involved but just you. external factor involved but just you. For example, you might have the value For example, you might have the value that me and my partner would um share that me and my partner would um share all the housework absolutely equally. all the housework absolutely equally. But then when you see her automatically, But then when you see her automatically, instinctively by habit uh doing more instinctively by habit uh doing more than you, sometimes you just, you know, than you, sometimes you just, you know, you don't amend that situation. You're you don't amend that situation. You're just happy to let it happen because you just happy to let it happen because you know, so I mean I'm off the top of my know, so I mean I'm off the top of my head, I'm giving you one kind of example head, I'm giving you one kind of example and I think it happens in every thinking and I think it happens in every thinking person's life. But did you ever look at person's life. But did you ever look at yourself personally and say Uh actually from the very beginning it's Uh actually from the very beginning it's again depend you know because of the again depend you know because of the class that both of us come from our class that both of us come from our mother one of the good things about mother one of the good things about because we were boys all boys without we because we were boys all boys without we contributing to preparation of the food contributing to preparation of the food uh there will be no food she was very uh there will be no food she was very clear and including my father it was not clear and including my father it was not like if there's a Sunday he would be like if there's a Sunday he would be doing cutting onions is that so my doing cutting onions is that so my mother was extremely clear she will mother was extremely clear she will never never never get our plates on the table or off the get our plates on the table or off the table that's our business so that was table that's our business so that was somehow ingrained as I said in the somehow ingrained as I said in the yesterday that she was a very strong yesterday that she was a very strong woman so that some of those things I woman so that some of those things I don't know if there would have been a don't know if there would have been a sister that we would have had in a mix sister that we would have had in a mix whether she would have been as strict as whether she would have been as strict as she was with us I don't know in terms of she was with us I don't know in terms of the value frame but that helped us do the value frame but that helped us do that right in case of Alpa and me when that right in case of Alpa and me when we got married Alpa had zero clue about we got married Alpa had zero clue about cooking and it was our end salad were cooking and it was our end salad were not something that we could every day not something that we could every day that time of course this tomato spy none that time of course this tomato spy none of that existed uh so many times our of that existed uh so many times our morning breakfast was going to Irani morning breakfast was going to Irani cafe opposite now it has become cafe opposite now it has become McDonald's as many other Iranian cafes McDonald's as many other Iranian cafes opposite Anderi station and eat our opposite Anderi station and eat our omelette pow the cheapest thing and a omelette pow the cheapest thing and a chai and in the night there's a there's chai and in the night there's a there's another restaurant there I forgot the another restaurant there I forgot the name which is a Muslim restaurant and name which is a Muslim restaurant and that offered a good quality cheap food that offered a good quality cheap food but many times we used to return home by but many times we used to return home by 10:00 and then I would cook I would cook 10:00 and then I would cook the basic dal bath you know dal rice the basic dal bath you know dal rice some subji because I knew cooking and some subji because I knew cooking and there's some background about that which there's some background about that which I didn't mention when in the in the I didn't mention when in the in the chikisak where I was I wasn't selected chikisak where I was I wasn't selected for the NCC because I wasn't like others for the NCC because I wasn't like others had already like fully developed. I had already like fully developed. I wasn't. So I was pushed in scouts and I wasn't. So I was pushed in scouts and I became a petrol leader in scouts. So in became a petrol leader in scouts. So in the scout camps you had to learn cooking the scout camps you had to learn cooking because you you have all those tents because you you have all those tents where you're staying and you so the and where you're staying and you so the and I because of this my mother's insistence I because of this my mother's insistence we already knew the process in that we already knew the process in that sense. So I used to be a cook at that sense. So I used to be a cook at that time. The uh some of this conf time. The uh some of this conf confrontations came to head during the confrontations came to head during the covid time. Who does what? Okay. So if covid time. Who does what? Okay. So if I'm doing cooking then Nitant Nitant I'm doing cooking then Nitant Nitant also used to be with us here that time. also used to be with us here that time. Uh and Alpa would do the uh cleaning and Uh and Alpa would do the uh cleaning and sorting out. I generally like things to sorting out. I generally like things to be in place. So I myself will do lot of be in place. So I myself will do lot of the my u cooking table while cooking the my u cooking table while cooking will not be a mess as in many other it's will not be a mess as in many other it's all pretty organized. I'll cut all pretty organized. I'll cut everything. It's all organized in the everything. It's all organized in the sequence in which it will go into the sequence in which it will go into the cooking pans. All that is pretty cooking pans. All that is pretty organized. But during that period this organized. But during that period this tension used to come because we had no tension used to come because we had no support system. Right. Uh so who will support system. Right. Uh so who will put the washing machine on? Who'll take put the washing machine on? Who'll take the clothes from the washing machine and the clothes from the washing machine and put it for the drying? All those were put it for the drying? All those were like uh regular kinds of choice but it like uh regular kinds of choice but it was not a male female or that kind of was not a male female or that kind of thing. It was just a simple thing of are thing. It was just a simple thing of are are we each one doing adequate things. are we each one doing adequate things. Fortunately our son also is a good cook. Fortunately our son also is a good cook. So he will do soups and you know So he will do soups and you know sandwiches and those kinds of things. Uh sandwiches and those kinds of things. Uh and so each one had a different days and so each one had a different days different kinds of things. It's a simple different kinds of things. It's a simple Gujati Dalbat rotish shak will be Alpa's Gujati Dalbat rotish shak will be Alpa's business. I will do something a little business. I will do something a little more exotic you know maybe Thai curry or more exotic you know maybe Thai curry or something of that kind vegetarian uh and something of that kind vegetarian uh and our son will do much more on those our son will do much more on those healthy types of food. So that was a healthy types of food. So that was a kind of a very clear division and then kind of a very clear division and then the division in terms of the things. So the division in terms of the things. So that those issues we never faced. Um and that those issues we never faced. Um and uh you know the now the present uh you know the now the present understanding is there are times when understanding is there are times when she's on phone calls all the time till she's on phone calls all the time till you know almost 9 9:30. So if she's on you know almost 9 9:30. So if she's on phone calls then it's my business to phone calls then it's my business to organize the food and serve the food and organize the food and serve the food and you know then wind up things because you know then wind up things because she's busy. Uh if I'm busy because there she's busy. Uh if I'm busy because there used to be phone calls that I would be used to be phone calls that I would be on then she will do that. So it has on then she will do that. So it has worked through naturally. It was not worked through naturally. It was not like a big confrontational um uh things like a big confrontational um uh things that uh that happens uh or have happened that uh that happens uh or have happened in the past. in the past. Let's talk about you. What strikes me Let's talk about you. What strikes me about you is that again like we about you is that again like we mentioned yesterday, you were just 23 at mentioned yesterday, you were just 23 at the time. The founders included some of the time. The founders included some of your teachers included two people who your teachers included two people who I'd like you to talk about who were an I'd like you to talk about who were an influence on Unafisa and Dominic Duza influence on Unafisa and Dominic Duza also. Um tell me about that phase like also. Um tell me about that phase like what led you to the phase where you felt what led you to the phase where you felt the need of actually founding an the need of actually founding an organization like this and what gave you organization like this and what gave you the confidence to just step up and be the confidence to just step up and be the leader despite the fact that uh you the leader despite the fact that uh you know uh so many of the people were more know uh so many of the people were more digg than you as it were. digg than you as it were. So it's there is some kind of a and that So it's there is some kind of a and that is what you call the the surface of is what you call the the surface of serendipity right serendipity right serendipity right it came at a time when I had finished my it came at a time when I had finished my bachelor's in social work I was already bachelor's in social work I was already a coordinator as I said uh that I had to a coordinator as I said uh that I had to take a 2-year break to have enough money take a 2-year break to have enough money to do the MSW because I wasn't drawing to do the MSW because I wasn't drawing any money from the so all my education any money from the so all my education happened basically by either scholarship happened basically by either scholarship that college of social work provided by that college of social work provided by making exception because technically I making exception because technically I wasn't fitting into their economically wasn't fitting into their economically backward community but I was backward community but I was economically backward uh driving taxis economically backward uh driving taxis in the night doing this morning uh job in the night doing this morning uh job for the college of social work uh so for the college of social work uh so that was the BW period right then I that was the BW period right then I became the coordinator of the youth became the coordinator of the youth project and I was a project director project and I was a project director that is how the thing was faculty would that is how the thing was faculty would be a project director and then you have be a project director and then you have staff so I was a staff in the youth staff so I was a staff in the youth project now what happened they decided project now what happened they decided to give up their lecturership and shift to give up their lecturership and shift to aratikala in Andhra Pradesh to work to aratikala in Andhra Pradesh to work with the tribal communities which is a with the tribal communities which is a very that time of course everybody also very that time of course everybody also told them uh what the hell why are you told them uh what the hell why are you taking this decision you have like taking this decision you have like permanent jobs you know you have a permanent jobs you know you have a housing loan still to pay because they housing loan still to pay because they had a flat in Malad why do you why but had a flat in Malad why do you why but they were very clear that that is where they were very clear that that is where they want to go and shift they want to go and shift uh and then the question was who will uh and then the question was who will run the youth project because of my own run the youth project because of my own background there were mixed feelings in background there were mixed feelings in the college of social look about me and the college of social look about me and I'm now here being very honest. I'm now here being very honest. There were people who liked me, liked There were people who liked me, liked the kind of questions I was asking. Uh the kind of questions I was asking. Uh you know the vice principal Armadi desai you know the vice principal Armadi desai that I talk about uh was one of those that I talk about uh was one of those inspiration. She always used to tell the inspiration. She always used to tell the teachers if he's asking questions uh teachers if he's asking questions uh it's not his problem that you don't have it's not his problem that you don't have the answers is the problem you So I the answers is the problem you So I thought it so she would convince the thought it so she would convince the teachers who were upset with because teachers who were upset with because they would feel me asking those they would feel me asking those questions in the open class of 20 30 questions in the open class of 20 30 people I'm almost putting them down by people I'm almost putting them down by showing that they are not up to date showing that they are not up to date with the knowledge with the knowledge one incident I must say it's one incident I must say it's unfortunately uh that professor of mine unfortunately uh that professor of mine is no more and that is where it began in is no more and that is where it began in terms of the other grouping which was terms of the other grouping which was not form in our pimp play not which was not form in our pimp play this was in bachelor of social work this was in bachelor of social work number year two there was a class let me number year two there was a class let me not specify the class there was a class not specify the class there was a class and one teacher comes into the class and one teacher comes into the class with her notebooks with her notebooks and she basically says you know I'm and she basically says you know I'm using the notebooks when I was a student using the notebooks when I was a student and me being uh me being me that that and me being uh me being me that that means since then you haven't learned means since then you haven't learned anything new that was my public comment anything new that was my public comment in the class I don't think she ever in the class I don't think she ever forgave me for that comment and even forgave me for that comment and even others were stunned how can minar say others were stunned how can minar say something like that I of course as I something like that I of course as I explained yesterday there was a p kind explained yesterday there was a p kind of arrogance trick in me of arrogance trick in me and um and um and um you sound like me when I was 20 actually you sound like me when I was 20 actually I I had that very strong uh streak I I had that very strong uh streak and I would only then focus on the and I would only then focus on the content I would ask the qu what was the content I would ask the qu what was the what was wrong in my that question tell what was wrong in my that question tell me as a teacher when she's teaching us me as a teacher when she's teaching us in in in 1980 1980 1980 Shouldn't she be aware of what has Shouldn't she be aware of what has happened in that area from 67 when she happened in that area from 67 when she was a student to 1980? There's a lot was a student to 1980? There's a lot which has happened. Can I interrupt with which has happened. Can I interrupt with a nice anecdote? So Albert Einstein was a nice anecdote? So Albert Einstein was once teaching physics and he had a once teaching physics and he had a teaching assistant. So there was one teaching assistant. So there was one year where he gave a set of assignment year where he gave a set of assignment questions to his class. Then the next questions to his class. Then the next year he gave the same set of assignment year he gave the same set of assignment questions to that uh class which they questions to that uh class which they had already got the previous year. So had already got the previous year. So his teaching assistant asked him that his teaching assistant asked him that what's the matter you know the questions what's the matter you know the questions are the same and Einstein said yes but are the same and Einstein said yes but the answers have changed and I the answers have changed and I absolutely loved that and speaks to the absolutely loved that and speaks to the spirit of exactly uh what you're saying spirit of exactly uh what you're saying but please continue I couldn't tell but please continue I couldn't tell no so I think that was one incident no so I think that was one incident which I think changed my equation which I think changed my equation uh with one teacher which also had a uh with one teacher which also had a group as you would see in any college group as you would see in any college you'll have a groups of teachers and you'll have a groups of teachers and then those groups of teachers. So there then those groups of teachers. So there were other other teacher who used to were other other teacher who used to talk about the problems of development talk about the problems of development which would say population is the cause which would say population is the cause of poverty and I would question that. I of poverty and I would question that. I would say none of the data says that uh would say none of the data says that uh the data is actually very different. The the data is actually very different. The sociology teacher who would basically sociology teacher who would basically insist uh criminal is the crime of the insist uh criminal is the crime of the person. I said what you're telling me is person. I said what you're telling me is exactly what the Britishers did with the exactly what the Britishers did with the denotified tribes because they denotified tribes because they considered that whole tribe to be considered that whole tribe to be criminal and they were basically extern criminal and they were basically extern from the villages. So I said you're from the villages. So I said you're talking about something which is like talking about something which is like 100 year old. You're a sociology 100 year old. You're a sociology teacher. There's a lot of evolution that teacher. There's a lot of evolution that has happened and so all these people has happened and so all these people were like were like were like anti-minar play kind of a camp. anti-minar play kind of a camp. So that camp and as soon as Dominic and So that camp and as soon as Dominic and Nafiza who were in a way my cover and Nafiza who were in a way my cover and Armati Desai was my cover. Armati Desai Armati Desai was my cover. Armati Desai had by that time shifted as the director had by that time shifted as the director of Tata instead of social science. Okay. of Tata instead of social science. Okay. So I had this big intellectual cover. I So I had this big intellectual cover. I had Dominic and Nafi as my mentors. They had Dominic and Nafi as my mentors. They were shifting. Armati had gone already were shifting. Armati had gone already to Tata institute. Some of the to Tata institute. Some of the progressive teachers who liked my progressive teachers who liked my questioning liked or say who didn't mind questioning liked or say who didn't mind my questioning. Let me put it in that my questioning. Let me put it in that fashion. had left with Armite to join fashion. had left with Armite to join TISS because she wanted her group of TISS because she wanted her group of thinkers along with her in Tata thinkers along with her in Tata Institute of Social Sciences. Institute of Social Sciences. So in that reality Dominic and Nafisa So in that reality Dominic and Nafisa was told very clearly by the remainder was told very clearly by the remainder of the faculty group that we want to of the faculty group that we want to continue with the youth project but we continue with the youth project but we do not want Minar to continue and head do not want Minar to continue and head it. Nafisa was adamant and Dominic it. Nafisa was adamant and Dominic supported her because Nafa was my supported her because Nafa was my immediate project director said youth immediate project director said youth project if it has to continue Minar has project if it has to continue Minar has worked with me for last 3 years from BW2 worked with me for last 3 years from BW2 BW3 and then the as soon as I finished BW3 and then the as soon as I finished my BW I was a full-time employee so he my BW I was a full-time employee so he said he has worked with me he exactly said he has worked with me he exactly knows how those programs get designed knows how those programs get designed how to what kind of a catchment area we how to what kind of a catchment area we get those students from how to select get those students from how to select those students so that they can do those students so that they can do better in in work that they're doing in better in in work that they're doing in the communities is he knows the nature the communities is he knows the nature of fieldwork that they need to be given of fieldwork that they need to be given so that they also get a they get a so that they also get a they get a intellectual exposure and they get a a intellectual exposure and they get a a con connect with the field experience. con connect with the field experience. So she was very adamant and she said So she was very adamant and she said youth project continuing without minar youth project continuing without minar is out of question. That was her is out of question. That was her position. But of course uh it would be position. But of course uh it would be only recommendation because she was not only recommendation because she was not going to be in the management. She was going to be in the management. She was leaving and that is when that incidence leaving and that is when that incidence of we going to puna uh comes in and of we going to puna uh comes in and that's where we I always keep saying that's where we I always keep saying about that deck and queen story and about that deck and queen story and again how philosophy played a role. again how philosophy played a role. Dominic was a horicious reader and he Dominic was a horicious reader and he was reading some khalil jibran he used was reading some khalil jibran he used to read sufi and all kinds of things so to read sufi and all kinds of things so we're all a little bit down because I we're all a little bit down because I had already got the admission in Tata had already got the admission in Tata instead of social science to do my instead of social science to do my postgraduation postgraduation postgraduation so you know we were almost coming to a so you know we were almost coming to a conclusion conclusion conclusion fight youth project let them manage let fight youth project let them manage let them continue minar will go and join tis them continue minar will go and join tis I had started looking for other jobs uh I had started looking for other jobs uh because I knew that I will not be because I knew that I will not be allowed to continue the coordinator of allowed to continue the coordinator of youth project but I needed a job uh to youth project but I needed a job uh to do my post-graduation do my post-graduation all that was happening and we were all all that was happening and we were all in that kind of a little bit of a gloom in that kind of a little bit of a gloom you call it gloom mood and we were you call it gloom mood and we were traveling so suddenly Dominic quotes traveling so suddenly Dominic quotes something from I think he was reading something from I think he was reading kal jibr something and then just lights kal jibr something and then just lights up all of us and and then nafiza in her up all of us and and then nafiza in her kind of a very she was a very kind of a very she was a very silent speaker while Dominic was more silent speaker while Dominic was more aggressive type person. So she says uh aggressive type person. So she says uh you know she was she will always make a you know she was she will always make a statement which is which sounds statement which is which sounds tentative but uh she knew very clearly tentative but uh she knew very clearly what she's saying a very beautiful art what she's saying a very beautiful art of saying that said you know Dom and she of saying that said you know Dom and she used to call her husband Dom and in my used to call her husband Dom and in my because we we had become friends by then because we we had become friends by then Norman Mina what I'm thinking is why not Norman Mina what I'm thinking is why not take a risk of asking Adi take a risk of asking Adi if the youth project becomes a if the youth project becomes a independent organization will he be independent organization will he be willing to support or not? willing to support or not? And then we said ah that's a good idea. And then we said ah that's a good idea. We are we were meeting Adi Patel who was We are we were meeting Adi Patel who was a another Aia personality. I don't want a another Aia personality. I don't want to talk about him but he's a very very to talk about him but he's a very very fantastic human being. fantastic human being. And this happened on a train. And this happened on a train. This our conversation happened on the This our conversation happened on the train. That day evening we were meeting train. That day evening we were meeting Adip Patel at his house in Pune a Adip Patel at his house in Pune a beautiful bungalow in the contonement beautiful bungalow in the contonement area. He had a German wife. He had just area. He had a German wife. He had just come back. The family had come back from come back. The family had come back from Germany. He had all the afterm and you Germany. He had all the afterm and you know German beers and all those kinds of know German beers and all those kinds of things that he had carried. So he had things that he had carried. So he had invited us for you know next day was our invited us for you know next day was our workshop in the KM hospital in Pune for workshop in the KM hospital in Pune for their outreach workers to help them their outreach workers to help them understand how the community outreach understand how the community outreach needs to be structured and undertaken needs to be structured and undertaken blah blah blah. blah blah blah. So we post dinner we are sitting with a So we post dinner we are sitting with a kind of a leure that also he had got and kind of a leure that also he had got and then after packets packet is kept there then after packets packet is kept there Nafida opened the subject again in a Nafida opened the subject again in a tentative fashion adi you know we tentative fashion adi you know we thinking both me and Dominic are leaving thinking both me and Dominic are leaving we going youth project college of social we going youth project college of social is saying uh they will continue but they is saying uh they will continue but they don't want Mina to be a coordinator of don't want Mina to be a coordinator of the youth project and we were wondering the youth project and we were wondering and we were ask wanting to check with and we were ask wanting to check with you if you are became if Youth project you if you are became if Youth project became independent that time you are became independent that time you are name exist and we registered a separate name exist and we registered a separate organization will you be still willing organization will you be still willing to support to support to support very tentative kind of a questioning his very tentative kind of a questioning his first response what do you think I was first response what do you think I was funding college of social no I was funding college of social no I was funding because you guys were running it funding because you guys were running it and that just oh wow fantastic that and that just oh wow fantastic that means that he has the full endorsement means that he has the full endorsement of supporting uh youth youth project of supporting uh youth youth project outside of the niranal nikatan frame and outside of the niranal nikatan frame and I must appreciate nirman I must appreciate nirman Till the time all the legalities about Till the time all the legalities about forming UA getting all the compliances forming UA getting all the compliances in place, charity commissioner, society in place, charity commissioner, society registration, registration, registration, FC that time the FC was just introduced FC that time the FC was just introduced uh post emergency uh post emergency uh so all those permissions needed. So uh so all those permissions needed. So till that time college of social work till that time college of social work agreed to pass the monies coming from agreed to pass the monies coming from tra trader homes to them to us to run tra trader homes to them to us to run the youth project and that's the beauty the youth project and that's the beauty of college of social work they provided of college of social work they provided me you can imagine a MSW two students me you can imagine a MSW two students student who is in the classroom till student who is in the classroom till 4:00 and then after 4 he has a office 4:00 and then after 4 he has a office for himself in in the project room so I for himself in in the project room so I had a table I had a chair where you you had a table I had a chair where you you was running from so two years during my was running from so two years during my masters in social work. They provided me masters in social work. They provided me all the facilities. Not only that the all the facilities. Not only that the cupboard and that is mentioned there cupboard and that is mentioned there cupboard which TDH had given college of cupboard which TDH had given college of social for the youth project they said social for the youth project they said this is you take it when you guys have this is you take it when you guys have your own office. Uh and then because I your own office. Uh and then because I think that was very clear because I knew think that was very clear because I knew by that time I had like network of 40 40 by that time I had like network of 40 40 youth groups in so many different youth groups in so many different communities from Gat Coper, Raabay, Amir communities from Gat Coper, Raabay, Amir Karnagar which came became famous after Karnagar which came became famous after the firing uh to Joeshwari to Dharavi the firing uh to Joeshwari to Dharavi and many of those youth are still in a and many of those youth are still in a way good friends. they they keep meeting way good friends. they they keep meeting on whenever you have this uh anniversary on whenever you have this uh anniversary celebrations I beat them. Uh and they celebrations I beat them. Uh and they they worked with me throughout that they worked with me throughout that whole whole period. So that was a kind whole whole period. So that was a kind of a you can see the kind of twists and of a you can see the kind of twists and turns that that happened and how UA came turns that that happened and how UA came into my lap for me to develop in that into my lap for me to develop in that sense. sense. sense. I want to double click a lot into the I want to double click a lot into the work that you did and the organization work that you did and the organization that you build. But before that a that you build. But before that a digression that when I think of you and digression that when I think of you and Robert Dairo you know I think that there Robert Dairo you know I think that there is one thing you have in common which is is one thing you have in common which is that you are both actors obviously you that you are both actors obviously you also acted in plays and all that but also acted in plays and all that but there is one way in which you are there is one way in which you are different and uh if I may say so you are different and uh if I may say so you are superior. Uh what is that way? What is superior. Uh what is that way? What is that way? that way? that way? I don't know. I don't know. He he he only played the part of a taxi He he he only played the part of a taxi driver. You actually were a taxi driver. driver. You actually were a taxi driver. I was a taxi driver. I was a taxi driver. Yeah. So uh I'm fascinated by that Yeah. So uh I'm fascinated by that because you know you used to go after because you know you used to go after work and 4 hours till 1:00 a.m. you work and 4 hours till 1:00 a.m. you would drive attack Kalipili and would drive attack Kalipili and whatever. Tell me about that experience whatever. Tell me about that experience like what was that like boss? So some like what was that like boss? So some bad habits during that period. If you bad habits during that period. If you know you had something called a ka you know you had something called a ka you know that in the pan shop you get the know that in the pan shop you get the pan pan pan but we without the bitter leaf all the but we without the bitter leaf all the masala inside with tobacco because one masala inside with tobacco because one needed to keep awake needed to keep awake or maybe that's a justification or maybe that's a justification I'm sure for a bad habit I I'm sure I'm sure for a bad habit I I'm sure but uh that's one thing that uh that I but uh that's one thing that uh that I had developed had developed had developed I got to know the city of Mumbai in its I got to know the city of Mumbai in its intricacies intricacies intricacies like how many people know the way I know like how many people know the way I know say what is called gurut badur singagar say what is called gurut badur singagar and which are the best places we'll get and which are the best places we'll get a good kiwada prawn authentic koloda a good kiwada prawn authentic koloda prawn I would know that I would know prawn I would know that I would know where you get the best of the kebabs where you get the best of the kebabs with a nice mint chutney I would know with a nice mint chutney I would know kotachi in pretty much in detail kotachi in pretty much in detail so that taxi driving was the experience so that taxi driving was the experience in me really understanding the geography in me really understanding the geography of Mumbai of Mumbai of Mumbai and getting into areas in so many and getting into areas in so many different ways. Other thing because it different ways. Other thing because it used to be a night driving you are used to be a night driving you are interacting with all kinds of characters interacting with all kinds of characters right people who are drunk. There was right people who are drunk. There was one instance where there was a assistant one instance where there was a assistant lecturer from my college. Uh she didn't lecturer from my college. Uh she didn't recognize me. She was with her her recognize me. She was with her her boyfriend sitting behind in the taxi. So boyfriend sitting behind in the taxi. So you have had those kinds of instances you have had those kinds of instances also right? also right? also right? And what happened? Did you And what happened? Did you No, I didn't introduce myself. I didn't No, I didn't introduce myself. I didn't want to disturb their um their want to disturb their um their conversation and intimacy and I didn't conversation and intimacy and I didn't want to make it um odd for her. want to make it um odd for her. Uh so you have all those kinds of Uh so you have all those kinds of incidences. Uh you make new friendships incidences. Uh you make new friendships because you know in some places so taxi because you know in some places so taxi drivers have their own kind of a court. drivers have their own kind of a court. That time it was only Kali right. So if That time it was only Kali right. So if you're staying in one place for half an you're staying in one place for half an hour and you're not getting a customer hour and you're not getting a customer taxi driver would say means you go there there you have more means you go there there you have more chances of getting a customer I'm chances of getting a customer I'm staying here because it's my closure staying here because it's my closure time. Okay. So that was that was so that time. Okay. So that was that was so that kind of a solidarity among taxi drivers kind of a solidarity among taxi drivers was very interesting. Again my honesty was very interesting. Again my honesty played a huge role in all those because played a huge role in all those because I would always take what is what is I would always take what is what is there there otherwise in the dada there there otherwise in the dada station and the vit station. Uh there station and the vit station. Uh there are taxi drivers who are known for are taxi drivers who are known for fleecing you because they know exactly fleecing you because they know exactly who is the new person arriving in Mumbai who is the new person arriving in Mumbai and they will take out 300 bucks very they will take out 300 bucks very clearly. you can't fight fight fight the clearly. you can't fight fight fight the system in but that was existing then system in but that was existing then also very clearly also very clearly the other very interesting thing and the other very interesting thing and this is again linked to my mother this is again linked to my mother is the taxi permit was mine okay the is the taxi permit was mine okay the taxi loan was gotten because I had the taxi loan was gotten because I had the permit from a Bombay mercantile bank the permit from a Bombay mercantile bank the loan was on my name loan was on my name she had of course made the initial she had of course made the initial investment the difference between the investment the difference between the loan and the amount that needed to be loan and the amount that needed to be paid paid paid But she would tell me very clearly means whether you have a business of the means whether you have a business of the tax whether you do a good business or tax whether you do a good business or not I don't care 80 rupees which was a not I don't care 80 rupees which was a rent that I was supposed to pay rent that I was supposed to pay something like that I must get that 80 something like that I must get that 80 rupees and that is like that's my mother rupees and that is like that's my mother in terms of is that very clear this is a in terms of is that very clear this is a business relationship and then I used to business relationship and then I used to say the permit is mine on my came. Now say the permit is mine on my came. Now that time the permits were restricted. that time the permits were restricted. Only so many permits you could get. Now Only so many permits you could get. Now of course it's all become open fully. So of course it's all become open fully. So you could also rent your permit to other you could also rent your permit to other people. Means you don't have your own people. Means you don't have your own taxi but you rent a permit. And that's taxi but you rent a permit. And that's what exactly they did afterwards. And what exactly they did afterwards. And then my mother and my then my mother and my brother were the people my mother and my brother were the people who were managing all those permit thing who were managing all those permit thing because by that time I had gone out or because by that time I had gone out or whatever and I had got to involved with whatever and I had got to involved with you. you. you. But I'm just trying to tell you how the But I'm just trying to tell you how the relationships and that I still remember. relationships and that I still remember. I said she was so bloody strict with me I said she was so bloody strict with me that that that whether you do a business or not because whether you do a business or not because see it's like the in a way you are see it's like the in a way you are paying to the owner quote unquote owner paying to the owner quote unquote owner based on how much is your earning but based on how much is your earning but that is that rate is fixed how much you that is that rate is fixed how much you have to give because it's 4 hours 80 have to give because it's 4 hours 80 rupees 8 hours whatever 160 rupees rupees 8 hours whatever 160 rupees whatever the rates were. So that's again whatever the rates were. So that's again a very interesting reflection in terms a very interesting reflection in terms of where the mother and son relationship of where the mother and son relationship because by that time they were they were because by that time they were they were already in Mumbai uh with both my already in Mumbai uh with both my brother she was already in Mumbai. So brother she was already in Mumbai. So that's a very interesting sometime I that's a very interesting sometime I remind that to my brother I said you remind that to my brother I said you know this that uh when I used to drive know this that uh when I used to drive taxi there was no concession uh I had to taxi there was no concession uh I had to pay even if I my earning was less that pay even if I my earning was less that day I still had to pay whatever agreed day I still had to pay whatever agreed amount that needed to be paid. amount that needed to be paid. Tell me this. I did an episode with Tell me this. I did an episode with Hussein Hedri and he brought up this Hussein Hedri and he brought up this beautiful metaphor where he said that beautiful metaphor where he said that you know when you think of Mohammad Ali you know when you think of Mohammad Ali road uh you know uh most people people road uh you know uh most people people like you and me would think of Madali like you and me would think of Madali road as we see it from above the road as we see it from above the flyover. He said it looks different when flyover. He said it looks different when you're below the fly over looking up. you're below the fly over looking up. And I found that's a beautiful metaphor. And I found that's a beautiful metaphor. And I think a similar metaphor can apply And I think a similar metaphor can apply here that when you think of going around here that when you think of going around the city in a taxi, it is you see one the city in a taxi, it is you see one thing from the back seat and another thing from the back seat and another thing from the front seat thing from the front seat when you're driving. when you're driving. When you're driving because like you When you're driving because like you mentioned uh you know your assistant mentioned uh you know your assistant professor came in and sat behind and professor came in and sat behind and didn't recognize you because this is the didn't recognize you because this is the scene and the unseen. We will see people scene and the unseen. We will see people who are on the back seat with us but the who are on the back seat with us but the taxi driver is a nameless figure in a taxi driver is a nameless figure in a brown uh uniform unseen to us. So what brown uh uniform unseen to us. So what was it like being on the other side of was it like being on the other side of the divide? What did you see the divide? What did you see differently? what I saw differently because you are what I saw differently because you are in the front so you could see all the in the front so you could see all the tamasha that's happening on the street tamasha that's happening on the street which is like a Bombay even that time which is like a Bombay even that time and the timing that I was that 10 to 1 and the timing that I was that 10 to 1 that kind of a timing is a timing where that kind of a timing is a timing where a other part of Mumbai comes alive now a other part of Mumbai comes alive now of course that 1:00 has got extended of course that 1:00 has got extended till 4:00 in some parts of the city but till 4:00 in some parts of the city but it was not then it was already after 9 it was not then it was already after 9 most of the law abiding putting it in most of the law abiding putting it in courts, law-abiding families would be courts, law-abiding families would be already fast asleep. So, you are only already fast asleep. So, you are only dealing with people who have dared to be dealing with people who have dared to be out and there's some kind of a out and there's some kind of a illegality around it. You know, they're illegality around it. You know, they're going to either illegal bar which is not going to either illegal bar which is not supposed to sell the sell the booze or supposed to sell the sell the booze or they are getting some drugs from they are getting some drugs from somewhere. So, all those illegalities somewhere. So, all those illegalities are part of that that night scene which are part of that that night scene which is not a day scene at all in that sense. is not a day scene at all in that sense. uh the police who ask for the night uh the police who ask for the night shift also must be very interesting shift also must be very interesting because uh the earnings in the night because uh the earnings in the night shift is much much higher than the day shift is much much higher than the day shift shift shift both traffic police as well as the khaki both traffic police as well as the khaki police police police uh so you you you felt and experienced uh so you you you felt and experienced all this I was pretty young let me be all this I was pretty young let me be honest you know so it was not like I was honest you know so it was not like I was 25 or 26 years old I'm talking about 25 or 26 years old I'm talking about this like 19 20 21 that's the time when this like 19 20 21 that's the time when I was doing my bachelor's in social work I was doing my bachelor's in social work uh so that's the time so it's not a like uh so that's the time so it's not a like uh and in a way I was like a young kid uh and in a way I was like a young kid so fortunately I wasn't never looted uh so fortunately I wasn't never looted uh as a young kid I always had a support of as a young kid I always had a support of this elder taxi dada dada dada not in a this elder taxi dada dada dada not in a negative sense negative sense negative sense who are like older than me who would who are like older than me who would give all these tips and where to go and give all these tips and where to go and where to stand so you had that kind of a where to stand so you had that kind of a very supporting uh support system that very supporting uh support system that that I I remember very clearly. Uh that I I remember very clearly. Uh the other station was one of those I the other station was one of those I used to start my taxi from Giru and then used to start my taxi from Giru and then the other station was many times the the other station was many times the place where I would come and stand for place where I would come and stand for my last bharat going back into the city. my last bharat going back into the city. uh and that's where I would get either uh and that's where I would get either the chunabati that's the gurutbadur the chunabati that's the gurutbadur singagar or kotachiari you know people singagar or kotachiari you know people who are now going back sometimes I would who are now going back sometimes I would come up to bandra but not many times come up to bandra but not many times because again going back from bandra because again going back from bandra into the city would have taken more into the city would have taken more longer time because you you have to have longer time because you you have to have some bhana going towards you where you some bhana going towards you where you going to park your car so 1:00 is a kind going to park your car so 1:00 is a kind of a thing sometimes you are already in of a thing sometimes you are already in girab at 12:30 then you'll say girab at 12:30 then you'll say because you're already close to where because you're already close to where you are supposed to park the car or you are supposed to park the car or sometime it could be 1:30 because the sometime it could be 1:30 because the the last bhara you're waiting and you the last bhara you're waiting and you finally you got the bhara going towards finally you got the bhara going towards gira from where you can so you're not gira from where you can so you're not driving the taxi too much of a empty driving the taxi too much of a empty because that that eats into your petrol because that that eats into your petrol and that petrol you have to fill so you and that petrol you have to fill so you get the petrol fill tank when you take get the petrol fill tank when you take the taxi and then when you give it the the taxi and then when you give it the give the taxi you have to fill the give the taxi you have to fill the petrol again so that that so those are petrol again so that that so those are the norms of the system the norms of the system Uh the only other thing which I remember Uh the only other thing which I remember because I had that triangular brass because I had that triangular brass batch which I still have. So somehow I batch which I still have. So somehow I think with Alpad's think with Alpad's collusion when I left UA in 2004 collusion when I left UA in 2004 uh if sometime if you get time you uh if sometime if you get time you should visit Yua center that was my last should visit Yua center that was my last big project for UA and in that in that big project for UA and in that in that center there is a dancing girl from center there is a dancing girl from Harapan civilization you know looking Harapan civilization you know looking into the future in that kind of a really into the future in that kind of a really very very very very famous statue very famous statue so that statue is the very famous statue so that statue is the iconic statue I built in the UA center iconic statue I built in the UA center the identity of you know it's a a center the identity of you know it's a a center which builds that feminist uh looking which builds that feminist uh looking into the future type of the leadership into the future type of the leadership that we are we are trying to build in that we are we are trying to build in this center. Of course it got very this center. Of course it got very famous the Indian architect the profital famous the Indian architect the profital journal of the Indian architect did a journal of the Indian architect did a front page story and they on the front front page story and they on the front page they played with the words building page they played with the words building on human rights. So what my colleagues on human rights. So what my colleagues did they made a smaller statue and in did they made a smaller statue and in front of the statue they attached this front of the statue they attached this my brass three you know because that is my brass three you know because that is in my uh jewelry box so you can you can in my uh jewelry box so you can you can imagine the kind of attachment that is imagine the kind of attachment that is the first jewelry that I still adore and the first jewelry that I still adore and keep it uh so it is there that brass bag keep it uh so it is there that brass bag now I don't know those brass badges you now I don't know those brass badges you don't wear the other thing which you don't wear the other thing which you mentioned about the khaki uniform if mentioned about the khaki uniform if you're a owner know you're supposed to you're a owner know you're supposed to wear the white uniform. If you are a wear the white uniform. If you are a taxi driver owned by somebody else, you taxi driver owned by somebody else, you are supposed to wear a khaki uniform. So are supposed to wear a khaki uniform. So that's very interesting. So when I used that's very interesting. So when I used to go for the renewal of the permit, to go for the renewal of the permit, which I had to go, I had to wear a white which I had to go, I had to wear a white uniform. But otherwise, I'm renting but uniform. But otherwise, I'm renting but I always used to wear a white uniform. I always used to wear a white uniform. That was one of my rebellion against my That was one of my rebellion against my mom that even if she technically I was mom that even if she technically I was the owner, right, legally speaking, but the owner, right, legally speaking, but even if she's the owner to whom I'm even if she's the owner to whom I'm paying the rent, I'm still the owner. paying the rent, I'm still the owner. But so I would wear a white uniform. and But so I would wear a white uniform. and noted a khaki uniform but that was like noted a khaki uniform but that was like a rebellion streak against that a rebellion streak against that imposition whether you your business happens or not whether you your business happens or not 80 bucks must come to me kind of 80 bucks must come to me kind of did people talk to you differently while did people talk to you differently while you were a taxi driver like in the taxi you were a taxi driver like in the taxi you know depending on who would be you know depending on who would be behind I would be conscious with whom I behind I would be conscious with whom I will engage in the conversation if many will engage in the conversation if many times you would have people who are times you would have people who are already a little bit thulli already a little bit thulli so you then don't want to take a risk so you then don't want to take a risk and because I was young uh I didn't want and because I was young uh I didn't want to take a risk of getting into any to take a risk of getting into any because you know any word can be because you know any word can be misinterpreted and you will get into a misinterpreted and you will get into a fight because and generally around that fight because and generally around that time you would have either the families time you would have either the families which is fine because the kids will sit which is fine because the kids will sit in the front the parents will sit behind in the front the parents will sit behind and then you will chat with the kids and and then you will chat with the kids and you chat with the parents that that's you chat with the parents that that's normal thing normal thing normal thing you know Marathi Hindi whatever because you know Marathi Hindi whatever because all those languages I'm comfortable even all those languages I'm comfortable even Gujarati I was pretty comfortable Gujarati I was pretty comfortable because of the business background so because of the business background so knowing Three languages always helps knowing Three languages always helps because you can then see what they are because you can then see what they are talking and then you can interject. But talking and then you can interject. But the you know the young young couples who the you know the young young couples who are a little bit already are a little bit already drunk or who are already in the fight or drunk or who are already in the fight or in the intimacy scene in the intimacy scene keep to your focus drop then get your keep to your focus drop then get your get your bar and go away. That was a get your bar and go away. That was a kind of a normal thing which which I had kind of a normal thing which which I had developed during that period. But that I developed during that period. But that I must say that was a hugely important must say that was a hugely important experience for me to be doing that. Of experience for me to be doing that. Of course I had hardly no sleep hygiene at course I had hardly no sleep hygiene at all because I would go back sleep at all because I would go back sleep at 1:30. My rental place was in Kotachi. I 1:30. My rental place was in Kotachi. I would park the car in Kachiari. So would park the car in Kachiari. So another 5 7 minutes walk from the another 5 7 minutes walk from the parking to where I was uh staying parking to where I was uh staying and then sleep and then up by 6:30 uh by and then sleep and then up by 6:30 uh by 6:30 to go to go for my uh class with 6:30 to go to go for my uh class with the kids of the uh construction workers the kids of the uh construction workers at 7:00 at Couprage. Tell me about all of that. Tell me about Tell me about all of that. Tell me about the youth project which later became the youth project which later became Yuba. Like I've heard about the work you Yuba. Like I've heard about the work you did in the Jeshwari slums. uh you did in the Jeshwari slums. uh you mentioned these construction worker kids mentioned these construction worker kids etc etc. Tell me a bit about what that etc etc. Tell me a bit about what that work was. What was what were the work was. What was what were the impressions you took going into the work impressions you took going into the work and what did you learn about the work and what did you learn about the people and what did you learn about the people and the places as you got into it. and the places as you got into it. So let me start with the first thing So let me start with the first thing that I did with the copage grounds. So I that I did with the copage grounds. So I told you about the Cindi family. So the told you about the Cindi family. So the father and the son sometime only father father and the son sometime only father he had started this process of he had started this process of distributing the food. So all these distributing the food. So all these construction workers uh um wives and construction workers uh um wives and their kids would come at at coupidge to their kids would come at at coupidge to basically get the food. That was the basically get the food. That was the first motivation because that was going first motivation because that was going on before I started my work there. on before I started my work there. So that was seen as a potential place of So that was seen as a potential place of organizing. If some people know Kraidge organizing. If some people know Kraidge ground, it is where all the earlier ground, it is where all the earlier times you had all the horses and you times you had all the horses and you know you could do a horse ride. Uh next know you could do a horse ride. Uh next to behind coupage ground is a kind of a to behind coupage ground is a kind of a um uh RTO uh thing where you could learn um uh RTO uh thing where you could learn the turns and all all those kinds of the turns and all all those kinds of things the signals and that kind of things the signals and that kind of exposure to traffic and how to uh exposure to traffic and how to uh maneuver the traffic. So you had that maneuver the traffic. So you had that that piece going on there. that piece going on there. uh so the the what college of social uh so the the what college of social work basically thought that that's a work basically thought that that's a good entry entry point to really look at good entry entry point to really look at what the what is the situation of the what the what is the situation of the construction workers. So children in a construction workers. So children in a way become quite it's much easier when way become quite it's much easier when you go with the with children and start you go with the with children and start work with children whether you start work with children whether you start with the play group from play group then with the play group from play group then you get into some basic you know you get into some basic you know numeracy basic literacy the mothers are numeracy basic literacy the mothers are hanging around they had come basically hanging around they had come basically for food and they feel happy because for food and they feel happy because those one and two hours the kids are off those one and two hours the kids are off their head somebody else is managing their head somebody else is managing them so they can sit and chat among them so they can sit and chat among themselves because as soon as they take themselves because as soon as they take the kids back home, they're going and the kids back home, they're going and joining their husbands on the joining their husbands on the construction site. So that is so like a construction site. So that is so like a hard day ahead. So it was like a good hard day ahead. So it was like a good good break for them. So I think it good break for them. So I think it played for everybody basically. played for everybody basically. How much did we really get into the How much did we really get into the construction workers that was that construction workers that was that became another project of college of became another project of college of social called Nirahana uh which was then social called Nirahana uh which was then focused on the construction workers and focused on the construction workers and their rights which I was not involved their rights which I was not involved with. I was involved in this first year with. I was involved in this first year creating that entry point and from creating that entry point and from second year onwards basically once I got second year onwards basically once I got into the youth project. Uh again this is into the youth project. Uh again this is college of social works magnanmity college of social works magnanmity generally every year you are supposed to generally every year you are supposed to have a different field work to get you a have a different field work to get you a different exposure from second year different exposure from second year onwards they kept my fieldwork at youth onwards they kept my fieldwork at youth project. Then I worked in the youth project. Then I worked in the youth project in college of social work. Then project in college of social work. Then UA was founded just before I were UA was founded just before I were joining the masters in social work. So joining the masters in social work. So both those years UA was my fieldwork both those years UA was my fieldwork field fieldwork placement. So they had field fieldwork placement. So they had been very considerate uh in spite of all been very considerate uh in spite of all the challenges they must have had with the challenges they must have had with me me me as a student who was questioning number as a student who was questioning number of things. Uh so that was the only first of things. Uh so that was the only first year when this this this happened and year when this this this happened and then this Nirmman project came and they then this Nirmman project came and they then started work and organizing the then started work and organizing the construction workers not only in the in construction workers not only in the in the site of the um assembly building but the site of the um assembly building but many other parts of the of the city that many other parts of the of the city that time Chandivi inheri east was one of time Chandivi inheri east was one of those booming area of construction. So those booming area of construction. So they started developing groups there uh they started developing groups there uh and some of the basic rights in terms of and some of the basic rights in terms of self uh um what what do you call the self uh um what what do you call the health and safety kinds of issues the health and safety kinds of issues the gears you you won't believe during that gears you you won't believe during that period none of those were like mandatory period none of those were like mandatory the laws were there but the the the laws were there but the the contractors never gave any of those uh contractors never gave any of those uh uh suits the even the uh helmets to uh suits the even the uh helmets to protect their heads and you have had protect their heads and you have had some incidences where people have died some incidences where people have died by falling off and those kinds of things by falling off and those kinds of things there no harnesses that are attached there no harnesses that are attached when you are working on a on a height. when you are working on a on a height. All those things then started as part of All those things then started as part of part of Nirvan which I was not part of. part of Nirvan which I was not part of. I then basically focused on the uh youth I then basically focused on the uh youth uh youth project from BSW2. uh youth project from BSW2. So BW2 BW3 youth project joined uh as a So BW2 BW3 youth project joined uh as a coordinator of the youth project. I was coordinator of the youth project. I was already working as a part-time on the already working as a part-time on the youth project getting some money paid to youth project getting some money paid to you know because I had to survive. The you know because I had to survive. The college scholarship is one thing but college scholarship is one thing but still I needed something to eat which I still I needed something to eat which I was explaining to and pay my rent. Uh so was explaining to and pay my rent. Uh so that that happened and that was I think that that happened and that was I think till 1984. So I finished my bachelor's till 1984. So I finished my bachelor's in social work in 1982. 8283 8384 I in social work in 1982. 8283 8384 I worked in college of social work. 84 was worked in college of social work. 84 was the time when Damnik and Nafida shifted the time when Damnik and Nafida shifted and I don't know whether you know this and I don't know whether you know this unfortunately they just died um December unfortunately they just died um December of last year and then I did lot of their of last year and then I did lot of their memory memory things here in Mumbai uh memory memory things here in Mumbai uh and very very interesting Dominic died and very very interesting Dominic died around I think 26th or 27th of December around I think 26th or 27th of December and in about 10 days 11th or 12th of and in about 10 days 11th or 12th of January Nafa right so in a way they they January Nafa right so in a way they they it was seen by many I'm not a religious it was seen by many I'm not a religious person that they they were united also person that they they were united also departing from this earth kind of thing. departing from this earth kind of thing. Um Um Um and I was with them on 20th of December and I was with them on 20th of December in Vishaka. Uh because knowing that in Vishaka. Uh because knowing that Nafiza was suffering with cancer and she Nafiza was suffering with cancer and she had decided not to undergo any incisive had decided not to undergo any incisive treatments, Dominic was already treatments, Dominic was already suffering with number of ailments. suffering with number of ailments. Uh so I had ma made both of them and Uh so I had ma made both of them and they were really still active. I was the they were really still active. I was the founding president of the organization founding president of the organization that they started LEA. As much as Nafida that they started LEA. As much as Nafida was the founding president of Yua, I was the founding president of Yua, I then agreed to be the founding president then agreed to be the founding president of LIA. The LEA is rhythm. Uh that's the of LIA. The LEA is rhythm. Uh that's the organization they founded which is organization they founded which is called a tribal resource center based called a tribal resource center based out of Artikala and then they shifted to out of Artikala and then they shifted to Visak Vishkapatnam. Visak Vishkapatnam. Visak Vishkapatnam. So we did some interesting work here a So we did some interesting work here a memory meeting and then we did a panel memory meeting and then we did a panel discussion on the three themes that they discussion on the three themes that they were very uh climate change um you know were very uh climate change um you know land rights of the indigenous people uh land rights of the indigenous people uh and you know basically looking at uh and you know basically looking at uh towards the end of their life last 5 towards the end of their life last 5 years or so they were looking at years or so they were looking at spirituality and justice in in the in spirituality and justice in in the in that kind of a comp context uh you know that kind of a comp context uh you know and what are the sources and they were and what are the sources and they were in at one level Both their kids' names in at one level Both their kids' names one is Sidhar, another is Karuna. So one is Sidhar, another is Karuna. So they're already aligned though Nafia was they're already aligned though Nafia was a Bhori Muslim and Dominic was a a Bhori Muslim and Dominic was a Catholic Christian uh they had aligned Catholic Christian uh they had aligned towards Buddhism in a much much bigger towards Buddhism in a much much bigger way and that reflects in the names that way and that reflects in the names that they gave their kids. Anyway that's a they gave their kids. Anyway that's a kind of a background. kind of a background. So 1984 then UA war begins and what is So 1984 then UA war begins and what is key in the UA for so by that time I have key in the UA for so by that time I have already had this experience already had this experience uh May of 1984 uh May of 1984 I resigned from where I was as part of I resigned from where I was as part of my Marxist leness engagements where I my Marxist leness engagements where I said yesterday's sentence that I said said yesterday's sentence that I said was my last sentence of my letter of was my last sentence of my letter of resignation that I joined uh the party resignation that I joined uh the party to create an embronic form of future to create an embronic form of future socially what experience is the socially what experience is the concentrated expression of the existing concentrated expression of the existing society. That was in May 1984. society. That was in May 1984. So I had freed myself from the political So I had freed myself from the political kind of a structures that I was engaged kind of a structures that I was engaged in earlier. So in a way I was ready to in earlier. So in a way I was ready to take on the new challenge and then this take on the new challenge and then this serendipity comes in the way where these serendipity comes in the way where these guys are leaving guys are leaving college of social work that time wasn't college of social work that time wasn't willing to accept me to continue and willing to accept me to continue and Adip Patel says it was you guys whom I Adip Patel says it was you guys whom I wanted to support so all those factors wanted to support so all those factors come into the play and then 1st of come into the play and then 1st of August 1984 August 1984 August 1984 I was given a responsibility of forming I was given a responsibility of forming UA and UA's foundation day is 30th UA and UA's foundation day is 30th August 1984 because uh by the time we August 1984 because uh by the time we got our registration our hand it was got our registration our hand it was 30th August 1984 uh so that's why the 30th August 1984 uh so that's why the foundation day is 30th August 30th foundation day is 30th August 30th August is a foundation day of UA but I August is a foundation day of UA but I was employed from 1st of August by the was employed from 1st of August by the board which was chaired by Nafiza uh board which was chaired by Nafiza uh Farida Lambbe was there who is pretty Farida Lambbe was there who is pretty now well-known figure with Pratam now well-known figure with Pratam Educational Foundation with Mad Chawan Educational Foundation with Mad Chawan and others she co-ounded Pratam and others she co-ounded Pratam Educational Initiative Dominic was a Educational Initiative Dominic was a member of the board and we had a good member of the board and we had a good good mix of people on the board but good mix of people on the board but social work professionals basically uh social work professionals basically uh and that was something which I was and that was something which I was insisting because I wanted to try and insisting because I wanted to try and create a alternate uh education and the create a alternate uh education and the practice paradigm for social work so practice paradigm for social work so while continuing to work on social while continuing to work on social justice issues uh one of my obsessions justice issues uh one of my obsessions which I was been telling you since which I was been telling you since yesterday is to reflect and theorize yesterday is to reflect and theorize because um you can't theorize if you because um you can't theorize if you don't practice uh and if you don't learn don't practice uh and if you don't learn from that practice you can't build from that practice you can't build theories is so that has been one of the theories is so that has been one of the things that one can see as a as the UI things that one can see as a as the UI journey goes on and I'm sure when you journey goes on and I'm sure when you read the case study you found that as a read the case study you found that as a everything we kind of wanted to create a everything we kind of wanted to create a frame uh you know what is the framework frame uh you know what is the framework in which we are doing things so it's not in which we are doing things so it's not just a kind of a uh good intention just a kind of a uh good intention people working in a bad system but good people working in a bad system but good intention people uh working with a full intention people uh working with a full understanding of the system so that was understanding of the system so that was the kind of a thing because there was a the kind of a thing because there was a book written by one of the there was a book written by one of the Jesuit priest is exactly this name good Jesuit priest is exactly this name good intention people working in the bad intention people working in the bad system basically people have good system basically people have good intention but they just don't understand intention but they just don't understand uh A or A or C of a system so they may uh A or A or C of a system so they may be doing great work but doesn't impact be doing great work but doesn't impact anybody anywhere doesn't change anything anybody anywhere doesn't change anything in the system so that I think is a kind in the system so that I think is a kind of a founding of a founding process both in terms of the structures process both in terms of the structures as well as the thinking as well as the thinking this is a good time to take a step back this is a good time to take a step back and zoom out a little bit and talk about and zoom out a little bit and talk about social work in India per se like in my social work in India per se like in my limited understanding and tell me where limited understanding and tell me where I am wrong and you'd like to add nuance I am wrong and you'd like to add nuance earlier on let us say pre-B British earlier on let us say pre-B British times or whatever traditionally in our times or whatever traditionally in our society social work is really happening society social work is really happening out of um uh you know religious out of um uh you know religious organizations community organizations organizations community organizations there is a notion of dan there is a there is a notion of dan there is a notion of sava uh you know when sikism notion of sava uh you know when sikism comes gurudaras will have their lungers comes gurudaras will have their lungers and they'll feed people uh and even and they'll feed people uh and even community organizations like even the community organizations like even the RSS uh you know does a lot of social RSS uh you know does a lot of social work and you could say that that is a work and you could say that that is a prehistory of social work how society prehistory of social work how society how it happens organically in society how it happens organically in society and is sort of given a framework by and is sort of given a framework by religion then in British British times religion then in British British times you have different kinds of social you have different kinds of social reform movements coming up like the reform movements coming up like the Brahmo samaj the arry samaj or gopal Brahmo samaj the arry samaj or gopal krishna go servants of India society and krishna go servants of India society and whatever different people organizing in whatever different people organizing in different ways um uh with different different ways um uh with different impetus. Then post independence you have impetus. Then post independence you have movements happening like the Budhan movements happening like the Budhan movement and you have the state leading movement and you have the state leading some of it. You also have organizations some of it. You also have organizations from abroad taking interest in trying to from abroad taking interest in trying to do things like the Ford Foundation would do things like the Ford Foundation would try to do a lot of work in India and try to do a lot of work in India and a lot of it in fact punish work for a lot of it in fact punish work for example you know the whole focus on example you know the whole focus on population control and all of that was population control and all of that was pushed really hard as an agenda by them pushed really hard as an agenda by them and might even have contributed to and might even have contributed to Sanjay Gandhi's madness during emergency Sanjay Gandhi's madness during emergency and the ' 70s onwards you have a new set and the ' 70s onwards you have a new set of like the Dalith Panthers come up in of like the Dalith Panthers come up in 1970 72 inspired by the Black Panthers. 1970 72 inspired by the Black Panthers. Mid 80s you have the Nmada Bacha uh Mid 80s you have the Nmada Bacha uh Andul Andulan um you have more stuff Andul Andulan um you have more stuff happening and uh then from the '9s happening and uh then from the '9s onwards there is a flood of foreign onwards there is a flood of foreign money whereas India opens up money whereas India opens up liberalization happens this also uh this liberalization happens this also uh this also leads to reputational issues like I also leads to reputational issues like I remember the phrase briefcase NOS's that remember the phrase briefcase NOS's that you know there's a lot of scammy stuff you know there's a lot of scammy stuff going on equally uh NOS's more and more going on equally uh NOS's more and more get into adversarial stance with the get into adversarial stance with the government uh uh in various different government uh uh in various different ways and then you come to modern times ways and then you come to modern times where uh the government is just cracking where uh the government is just cracking down hard on any kind of social work and down hard on any kind of social work and they're using an extremely blunt tool. they're using an extremely blunt tool. So it is not just their political So it is not just their political enemies per se uh who also they should enemies per se uh who also they should leave alone but it is just about you leave alone but it is just about you know the whole field is getting affected know the whole field is getting affected and badly impacted and this is kind of and badly impacted and this is kind of uh my broad sense of the way the uh my broad sense of the way the landscape evolved. So I want you to take landscape evolved. So I want you to take me a little deeper into understanding on me a little deeper into understanding on where this landscape is at that point in where this landscape is at that point in time in the early 80s when you're time in the early 80s when you're getting into it because it seems to me getting into it because it seems to me that what you were trying to do with that what you were trying to do with your organization is actually a step your organization is actually a step beyond what has happened so far in the beyond what has happened so far in the sense that you are saying that we will sense that you are saying that we will not just do social work per se but we not just do social work per se but we will a have a clearly articulated set of will a have a clearly articulated set of values such as feminism such as values such as feminism such as everything you talked talked about everything you talked talked about yesterday which will guide us as an yesterday which will guide us as an organization and we will not just do organization and we will not just do social work but we will build an social work but we will build an ecosystem of social workers by nurturing ecosystem of social workers by nurturing um leaders like you had a 10 Sundays um leaders like you had a 10 Sundays leadership program which is famous and leadership program which is famous and so on and so forth. So, and you so on and so forth. So, and you formulating this thought with your formulating this thought with your friends Dominic and Afiza and the and friends Dominic and Afiza and the and your other fellow travelers are all your other fellow travelers are all extremely young people at this point in extremely young people at this point in time and you're taking that step forward time and you're taking that step forward which is almost like a little bit of a which is almost like a little bit of a paradigm shift happening. So, this is a paradigm shift happening. So, this is a picture that I'm getting up to this picture that I'm getting up to this point. So, fill me in onto this. point. So, fill me in onto this. Yeah. So basically in terms of the Yeah. So basically in terms of the social work profession as Tata have been social work profession as Tata have been pioneers in number of things it was the pioneers in number of things it was the Tata Institute of Social Science if I Tata Institute of Social Science if I remember correctly was formed in 1936. remember correctly was formed in 1936. So it was the first pioneering So it was the first pioneering institution that was uh that started and institution that was uh that started and literally got the whole uh literally got the whole uh professionalization element and they professionalization element and they started offering diploma in uh social started offering diploma in uh social work and that kind of thing. sometime in work and that kind of thing. sometime in 60s uh institutions like Nirmal Nikan 60s uh institutions like Nirmal Nikan came there was a time when I was a came there was a time when I was a student there it was the only student there it was the only institution affiliated to university of institution affiliated to university of Mumbai of social work now I don't know Mumbai of social work now I don't know team numbers are there because education team numbers are there because education has become a big business so social work has become a big business so social work also institution for giving social work also institution for giving social work education also have become big business education also have become big business so early stage if I remember correctly so early stage if I remember correctly the director of the Tata Institute of the director of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences came from US or UK Social Sciences came from US or UK because that from where the curricula because that from where the curricula were coming. If I I have to check check were coming. If I I have to check check that fact but I if I remember correctly that fact but I if I remember correctly that is when because they also got the that is when because they also got the teachers from there. So that uh because teachers from there. So that uh because like when I was a student in Nirmalikan like when I was a student in Nirmalikan uh the principal of Nirmalan was a Doti uh the principal of Nirmalan was a Doti Becka who is who was the American and Becka who is who was the American and Armadi Desai was a vice principal. Uh so Armadi Desai was a vice principal. Uh so you you see that continuation. So it was you you see that continuation. So it was not just the knowledge but also people not just the knowledge but also people who held that knowledge actually came who held that knowledge actually came and run of run those institutions at one and run of run those institutions at one level. So that strand then led to the level. So that strand then led to the social work professional education in social work professional education in different parts of the country uh with different parts of the country uh with some of this kind of a premier premier some of this kind of a premier premier institutions coming up like college of institutions coming up like college of social work blah blah blah. So that social work blah blah blah. So that happened few of those kinds of happened few of those kinds of institutions set up. So that was institutions set up. So that was happening at one level. happening at one level. what happened in the post emergency what happened in the post emergency period period period one thing and yesterday I mentioned one thing and yesterday I mentioned about Paulo FRA right so the book that about Paulo FRA right so the book that Paulo one can look at is the pedagogy of Paulo one can look at is the pedagogy of the oppressed that's a book that so that the oppressed that's a book that so that is when the whole issue of the is when the whole issue of the conscientization conscientization conscientization came into play and the government which came into play and the government which came after emergency was very focused came after emergency was very focused because it had this tendency of jaash because it had this tendency of jaash narand's total revolution He had narand's total revolution He had conceptualized that whole thing. conceptualized that whole thing. Chhatria Shwahini was one of the youth Chhatria Shwahini was one of the youth organization that was inspired by the organization that was inspired by the Jay Praashar and thought process and Jay Praashar and thought process and they almost took the uh you know total they almost took the uh you know total revolution as as their kind of a revolution as as their kind of a manifesto. manifesto. manifesto. So you had those groups and during the So you had those groups and during the Jantaap party period there was a very Jantaap party period there was a very clear recognition at the government clear recognition at the government level itself that we need to do a large level itself that we need to do a large scale adult education and really uh scale adult education and really uh reduce this literacy gap reduce this literacy gap and now to get government grants you and now to get government grants you can't just have a unregistered social can't just have a unregistered social movement you needed some form of legal movement you needed some form of legal form so that was a one step by which form so that was a one step by which some of this groups came up in Bihar in some of this groups came up in Bihar in Uttar Pradesh which basically were Uttar Pradesh which basically were motivated to implement government's motivated to implement government's adult education program fundamentally adult education program fundamentally right that I'm just giving you a kind of right that I'm just giving you a kind of a very brief uh uh lay of the land so a very brief uh uh lay of the land so that was happening then you had the that was happening then you had the Gandhians because you had socialists you Gandhians because you had socialists you had Gandhians in the in the whole uh you had Gandhians in the in the whole uh you know post emergency era you had of know post emergency era you had of course the um RSS and RSS scattered that course the um RSS and RSS scattered that time Jansen BJP was not formed so all time Jansen BJP was not formed so all those scers took advantage of that those scers took advantage of that opening in the post emergency period opening in the post emergency period where some of the issues so the issues where some of the issues so the issues were about adult education and learning. were about adult education and learning. Second issues were about the how do we Second issues were about the how do we make the agriculture more more make the agriculture more more productive because we had already gone productive because we had already gone through the whole PL480 where dependence through the whole PL480 where dependence on wheat coming from the US was that on wheat coming from the US was that needed to be dealt with and that time needed to be dealt with and that time you have people like MS Swaminatan you have people like MS Swaminatan starting that whole revolution in terms starting that whole revolution in terms of agriculture. of agriculture. of agriculture. So all that is happening. So in each of So all that is happening. So in each of these areas and that's the time when these areas and that's the time when Anand was coming up and Anand then set Anand was coming up and Anand then set up the Irma Institute of Rural up the Irma Institute of Rural Management. So you had the Indian Management. So you had the Indian Institute of Managements and there was a Institute of Managements and there was a need for people who are committed to need for people who are committed to rural management. Unfortunately that rural management. Unfortunately that became Irma graduates joined things like became Irma graduates joined things like Hindustan lever for their marketing Hindustan lever for their marketing specialist for rural areas which is but specialist for rural areas which is but some of them who were committed to the some of them who were committed to the philosophy of cooperatives philosophy of philosophy of cooperatives philosophy of really building the rural economies went really building the rural economies went into that area. So you had a into that area. So you had a institutions being set up, you had institutions being set up, you had NGOs's being set up in each of these NGOs's being set up in each of these areas. areas. areas. uh and you had also the government uh and you had also the government support and government acknowledgement support and government acknowledgement that we need these kinds of groupings that we need these kinds of groupings and that's the time when people like and that's the time when people like Rajni Kotari who was uh articulating on Rajni Kotari who was uh articulating on this issues or Hasheti who are this issues or Hasheti who are articulating and rearticulating what's articulating and rearticulating what's the role of the civil society they came the role of the civil society they came up with this formation called non-party up with this formation called non-party political formations that we don't want political formations that we don't want NOS's who are only providing services NOS's who are only providing services and in a filling the gap because the and in a filling the gap because the challenge in the Indian state has always challenge in the Indian state has always been what what do you call the last mile been what what do you call the last mile connectivity or last mile delivery. connectivity or last mile delivery. Okay, things get blocked. Uh and then of Okay, things get blocked. Uh and then of course you had this whole famous which course you had this whole famous which of course became much more famous with of course became much more famous with Rajiv Gandhi making that statement but Rajiv Gandhi making that statement but all of us knew that lot of the all of us knew that lot of the government resources get blocked and government resources get blocked and what actually gets translated to the what actually gets translated to the real benefit is very minuscule. So how real benefit is very minuscule. So how do you deal with that? So you had so do you deal with that? So you had so using adult education as a methodology using adult education as a methodology of organizing communities to claim their of organizing communities to claim their rights or entitlements if you want to rights or entitlements if you want to put it like that. So you had that that put it like that. So you had that that strand. strand. strand. Now in my case and you's case what Now in my case and you's case what happened we had the benefit of being happened we had the benefit of being trained into social work profession trained into social work profession which many of this you know chhatria which many of this you know chhatria colleagues or you know uh Gandhian colleagues or you know uh Gandhian colleagues or the people who did the colleagues or the people who did the work with venova on budan and that kind work with venova on budan and that kind of thing didn't have that exposure. So of thing didn't have that exposure. So you had people from setting up some you had people from setting up some institutions people from social work institutions people from social work colleges setting up some institutions. colleges setting up some institutions. I remember from my batch I remember from my batch number of people went and joined social number of people went and joined social movements full-time movements full-time movements full-time you know I may be one of the person who you know I may be one of the person who went into setting up Yua but also went into setting up Yua but also supportive of social movement so from 84 supportive of social movement so from 84 onwards when maida started invachand you onwards when maida started invachand you was very much involved with that openly was very much involved with that openly and clearly that time we didn't have and clearly that time we didn't have this kind of issues at this point of this kind of issues at this point of time which exists now but you was very time which exists now but you was very much part of uh supporting the narad much part of uh supporting the narad naradava vegetation and I'll come to naradava vegetation and I'll come to that story a little bit some of those uh that story a little bit some of those uh learnings from there. So the to to learnings from there. So the to to respond to your question this is all respond to your question this is all cumulatively and fortunately because of cumulatively and fortunately because of my particular background before you are my particular background before you are it was not only social profession it was it was not only social profession it was also the student movement background also the student movement background when I had seen some of the actors who when I had seen some of the actors who in a postemergency era also took up some in a postemergency era also took up some of these kinds of roles either through of these kinds of roles either through the socialist strands or to Gandhian the socialist strands or to Gandhian strands or through ABP kind of strands. strands or through ABP kind of strands. uh so that all is then you see the uh so that all is then you see the accumulation in case of UI in terms of accumulation in case of UI in terms of forming the tactics and strategy forming forming the tactics and strategy forming that broad vision what are we here for that broad vision what are we here for uh what are we trying to solve because uh what are we trying to solve because that's the first thing that you ask in that's the first thing that you ask in anything right what am I trying to solve anything right what am I trying to solve if that is not clear your strategy and if that is not clear your strategy and tactics is going to be completely off tactics is going to be completely off from the target from the target so what we're trying to solve is now of so what we're trying to solve is now of course in the new articulation we speak course in the new articulation we speak about entitlement much more strongly. about entitlement much more strongly. That time we never use the word That time we never use the word entitlement. We use the word what is entitlement. We use the word what is people's rights. We don't want that people's rights. We don't want that mayabark if you see that expression mayabark if you see that expression where government is supposed to be where government is supposed to be giving services and providing goodies to giving services and providing goodies to the people. We want people's rights to the people. We want people's rights to be established so that irrespective of be established so that irrespective of which government comes into the into the which government comes into the into the play they will have the rights that need play they will have the rights that need to be protected and those rights are to be protected and those rights are guaranteed uh by the court of law. guaranteed uh by the court of law. you're talking about at least some you're talking about at least some functioning system where uh you can functioning system where uh you can enforce those rights to be ensured. uh enforce those rights to be ensured. uh so that was a kind of a idea before you so that was a kind of a idea before you but all this was happening but all this was happening simultaneously and because of my simultaneously and because of my background I was linked to all this background I was linked to all this while some of the other NOS's whom while some of the other NOS's whom you're talking about the brificus NGOs's you're talking about the brificus NGOs's so there was a lot of people who came up so there was a lot of people who came up you won't believe there was a time uh you won't believe there was a time uh when the FC organizations in states like when the FC organizations in states like Bihar were given the dowy in the in the Bihar were given the dowy in the in the marriages uh this may completely come as marriages uh this may completely come as a shocking to you a shocking to you only in India only in India that can only in India that can happen because having a FC organization happen because having a FC organization uh was seen as a big asset uh uh was seen as a big asset uh organization which had the FC organization which had the FC certification. So some of the tightening certification. So some of the tightening of FC has happened for a right reason. of FC has happened for a right reason. But the way it is implemented is also But the way it is implemented is also and again if you talk about the history and again if you talk about the history of FC from uh emergency time from you of FC from uh emergency time from you know 75 when the legislation came it was know 75 when the legislation came it was a part of the emergency legislation a part of the emergency legislation emergency time legislation uh in a way emergency time legislation uh in a way and then how it evolved in different and then how it evolved in different points of time. So uh all parties are points of time. So uh all parties are part of that um strengthening that law. part of that um strengthening that law. So I don't particularly hold uh one So I don't particularly hold uh one particular regime as you you'll see the particular regime as you you'll see the evolution of that and how at different evolution of that and how at different point of time different people were point of time different people were targets when you see the first attack on targets when you see the first attack on the NOS's after Ind Gandhi came back the NOS's after Ind Gandhi came back after the Jantaaparti government failed after the Jantaaparti government failed the first attack was on the Gandhian the first attack was on the Gandhian NGOs so you would you would hear the NGOs so you would you would hear the whole you know Gandhi peace foundation whole you know Gandhi peace foundation in Delhi all those uh institutions would in Delhi all those uh institutions would attack in 8284 that was the first phase attack in 8284 that was the first phase And it was not the present regime. It And it was not the present regime. It was the earlier regime 2010 when the was the earlier regime 2010 when the first tightening of FC happened. It was first tightening of FC happened. It was the UPA government in under which the the UPA government in under which the first tightening happened. Uh and then first tightening happened. Uh and then of course the next one next tightening of course the next one next tightening happened in 2022 uh 2020. So if you look happened in 2022 uh 2020. So if you look at the history everybody is is involved at the history everybody is is involved in tightening and I say there are in tightening and I say there are elements which were problematic uh that elements which were problematic uh that needed to be correct but whether needed to be correct but whether bringing this kind of a thing and making bringing this kind of a thing and making everybody almost like a criminal. So everybody almost like a criminal. So it's almost become now a situation where it's almost become now a situation where you are a FC holder organization. You you are a FC holder organization. You are seen with suspicion uh by the state are seen with suspicion uh by the state and its agencies which is a big and its agencies which is a big problematic in in my my perspective that problematic in in my my perspective that you have people who by using that money you have people who by using that money are extremely accountable not only to are extremely accountable not only to the government uh who are fully the government uh who are fully compliant as far as government is compliant as far as government is concerned but also accountable to the concerned but also accountable to the constituencies they work with and constituencies they work with and they're very open and transparent in they're very open and transparent in everything that they do. But they also everything that they do. But they also get uh in a way challenged with this get uh in a way challenged with this kind of a regime when it is everybody kind of a regime when it is everybody becomes a becomes a suspect and not becomes a becomes a suspect and not everybody there are every regime had everybody there are every regime had their own uh likable institutions who their own uh likable institutions who were never scrutinized fully uh and were never scrutinized fully uh and those who were not likable institutions those who were not likable institutions were will be scrutinized fully. were will be scrutinized fully. Now that respond to you in terms of the Now that respond to you in terms of the evolution of all the trends and evolution of all the trends and tendencies but Paulo Fred came in much tendencies but Paulo Fred came in much more big big way in India. Of course we more big big way in India. Of course we learned it as part of college of social learned it as part of college of social work uh and in the you know pedagogy of work uh and in the you know pedagogy of the operas was one of the books as part the operas was one of the books as part of our curriculum but a lot of the uh of our curriculum but a lot of the uh adult education work that many many adult education work that many many organization did and I specifically organization did and I specifically mentioned praep prabhu's organization mentioned praep prabhu's organization kashtagar sata and dhanu very unique kashtagar sata and dhanu very unique situation that whole area was a situation that whole area was a dominance of uh you know if you remember dominance of uh you know if you remember gurutkar who was in the post gurutkar who was in the post independence period was a CPM activist independence period was a CPM activist there she was she came in that and she there she was she came in that and she was very almost treated in a demigod was very almost treated in a demigod fashion. Uh you had a continuous member fashion. Uh you had a continuous member of parliament from the CPM coming from of parliament from the CPM coming from Rahanu region and then Prahep Prahu type Rahanu region and then Prahep Prahu type of organization comes up which Rajini of organization comes up which Rajini calls it nonparty political formation. calls it nonparty political formation. When I'm saying Rajani I'm talking about When I'm saying Rajani I'm talking about Rajni Kotari uh because he was the one Rajni Kotari uh because he was the one who articulated that whole thing. who articulated that whole thing. uh it's a very very stressful situation. uh it's a very very stressful situation. You have a left as the uh ruling and You have a left as the uh ruling and controlling the area and you have this controlling the area and you have this organization which is also talking about organization which is also talking about the similar situations of rights of the the similar situations of rights of the tribal communities their land rights tribal communities their land rights issues issues issues uh but not belonging to a party outside uh but not belonging to a party outside the party. So that creates interesting the party. So that creates interesting dynamics. So you have had a situation on dynamics. So you have had a situation on FC there have been attacks from the left FC there have been attacks from the left as well as the right uh so you know as well as the right uh so you know where the the famous kind of a book where the the famous kind of a book written by Praash Praash Kar uh on NGOs written by Praash Praash Kar uh on NGOs as the foreign kind of a almost meaning as the foreign kind of a almost meaning that NGOs and the foreign funding as that NGOs and the foreign funding as part of the uh foreign agent kind of part of the uh foreign agent kind of agenda. So you had uh so it's not that agenda. So you had uh so it's not that anybody is uh not culpable in that anybody is uh not culpable in that framework of uh shutting down or uh framework of uh shutting down or uh restricting the space of the genuine restricting the space of the genuine civil society activism. civil society activism. Coming to the last point Coming to the last point so what had changed globally? Globally so what had changed globally? Globally after 70s there were the whole thinking after 70s there were the whole thinking that you know research advocacy that you know research advocacy are all part of uh civil society are all part of uh civil society activism. So it's not that you are activism. So it's not that you are providing services. So humanitarian work providing services. So humanitarian work is important. Dealing with the poverty is important. Dealing with the poverty issues by providing services is issues by providing services is important. But alongside that if you important. But alongside that if you want to go to a causal relationship you want to go to a causal relationship you have to go to understand why that have to go to understand why that situation of poverty is coming up. So to situation of poverty is coming up. So to do that you want to then look at social do that you want to then look at social policies influence the social policies policies influence the social policies create alternatives on those policies create alternatives on those policies and be one more stakeholder alongside and be one more stakeholder alongside the elected represent. Nobody was taking the elected represent. Nobody was taking away their right because they are the away their right because they are the fundament people who actually legislate fundament people who actually legislate if not the NGOs who legislate if not the NGOs who legislate but if they get added information added but if they get added information added data added uh you know uh stories from data added uh you know uh stories from the ground uh so that they are more the ground uh so that they are more aware and do the policy formulation in a aware and do the policy formulation in a more informed fashion. more informed fashion. Why not was the question and that is why Why not was the question and that is why then you have this mix of uh people who then you have this mix of uh people who were engaged in research advocacy uh were engaged in research advocacy uh campaigning for particular perspective campaigning for particular perspective as part of the uh non-governmental as part of the uh non-governmental organization or reportor of activities organization or reportor of activities and that's a big big shift happened and and that's a big big shift happened and this again began in the very country this again began in the very country which is USA which is USA was the first country where you had a was the first country where you had a whole institution set up called advocacy whole institution set up called advocacy institute in Washington DC which was institute in Washington DC which was training people to be advocates because training people to be advocates because till the time you only had the industry till the time you only had the industry lobbies high-end industry lobbies doing lobbies high-end industry lobbies doing the lobbying with the Congress and the the lobbying with the Congress and the Senate uh to get the policies passed on Senate uh to get the policies passed on their behalf. So that's an interesting their behalf. So that's an interesting situation. We haven't blocked any of situation. We haven't blocked any of those industry lobbies who are doing those industry lobbies who are doing exactly the same thing, right? Advocacy exactly the same thing, right? Advocacy policy lobbying with our MPs or this policy lobbying with our MPs or this that and the other. They are continuing that and the other. They are continuing to do that. They there no restrictions to do that. They there no restrictions on that. They are funded by the private on that. They are funded by the private sector fully. Uh so they could be in the sector fully. Uh so they could be in the form of think tanks. But anything which form of think tanks. But anything which is questioning uh some of those policym is questioning uh some of those policym and giving alternatives is something and giving alternatives is something which is seen as uh antinational you which is seen as uh antinational you know that's so I think it's important to know that's so I think it's important to recognize that nuance you know it's not recognize that nuance you know it's not that everybody's banned. It's certain that everybody's banned. It's certain types get banned. types get banned. Yeah. And and our argument would be no Yeah. And and our argument would be no one should get banned, not that everyone one should get banned, not that everyone should be. should be. should be. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. And and I see the attacks on every on FC And and I see the attacks on every on FC and so on as a very blunt tool um and so on as a very blunt tool um following a very blunt narrative that following a very blunt narrative that there is something dangerous about there is something dangerous about social work that NGOs's antinational. I social work that NGOs's antinational. I mean it's almost become a cuss word in mean it's almost become a cuss word in India. Let's move to a larger question. India. Let's move to a larger question. Another larger question that I have that Another larger question that I have that when I think of so and thank you for when I think of so and thank you for your very lucid narrative of how um uh your very lucid narrative of how um uh you know the field of social work has you know the field of social work has sort of evolved. If you look at social sort of evolved. If you look at social work is beginning from that impulse that work is beginning from that impulse that there are things wrong in society, I there are things wrong in society, I want to do something about them. You want to do something about them. You begin with that impulse. Then movements begin with that impulse. Then movements may form where you have a tactical aim may form where you have a tactical aim or a strategic aim and you want to or a strategic aim and you want to reform some aspect of society or the reform some aspect of society or the other. All of it kind of makes sense and other. All of it kind of makes sense and it's a natural evolution. One bug bear I it's a natural evolution. One bug bear I have about this sector is that what has have about this sector is that what has happened possibly um you know I I can't happened possibly um you know I I can't put a timeline to it because I don't put a timeline to it because I don't know enough but I guess it would be from know enough but I guess it would be from the time that more and more ideological the time that more and more ideological influence foreign ideological influences influence foreign ideological influences come into the world of NOS's is that one come into the world of NOS's is that one common thing to these NOS's is that they common thing to these NOS's is that they tend to be incredibly leftist and tend to be incredibly leftist and therefore by default suspicious of free therefore by default suspicious of free markets and this to me is completely markets and this to me is completely bizarre because in the social work bizarre because in the social work sector. I completely uh support the fact sector. I completely uh support the fact that you challenge the state. You all that you challenge the state. You all the state has a monopoly on violence. the state has a monopoly on violence. You always have to question it. You have You always have to question it. You have to speak truth to power. You have to to speak truth to power. You have to comfort the afflict and afflict the comfort the afflict and afflict the comfortable etc etc. But markets are the comfortable etc etc. But markets are the greatest counterbalance to this. They greatest counterbalance to this. They are the greatest force of empowerment. are the greatest force of empowerment. The 1991 liberalization for example The 1991 liberalization for example which you mentioned that you were which you mentioned that you were initially skeptical of uh but later not initially skeptical of uh but later not so much. A lot of people in the social so much. A lot of people in the social sector at that point would have said, sector at that point would have said, "Oh, neoliberalism this and oppression "Oh, neoliberalism this and oppression of the capitalist class." But no, I mean of the capitalist class." But no, I mean the capitalist class only oppresses you the capitalist class only oppresses you when it's in cahoots with the state and when it's in cahoots with the state and it's cronyism. But otherwise, it was the it's cronyism. But otherwise, it was the greatest liberating force in human greatest liberating force in human history. Hundreds of millions of people history. Hundreds of millions of people came out of poverty in India in the came out of poverty in India in the years since ' 91 specifically in the 20 years since ' 91 specifically in the 20 years after 911. You know, it's we've years after 911. You know, it's we've gone a little backwards since 2011. Uh, gone a little backwards since 2011. Uh, and I'm being party agnostic when I say and I'm being party agnostic when I say this. It's just a movement in the wrong this. It's just a movement in the wrong direction. And I wonder how one deals direction. And I wonder how one deals with this because I would say that you with this because I would say that you know Manmuan Singh with his 91 reforms know Manmuan Singh with his 91 reforms did more for all the oppressed did more for all the oppressed categories that you speak of than every categories that you speak of than every NGO in India combined simply because of NGO in India combined simply because of the massive empowering uh effect of just the massive empowering uh effect of just coming out of poverty. And I know that coming out of poverty. And I know that you get this as an individual but uh you get this as an individual but uh across a lot of the NGO sector I find across a lot of the NGO sector I find that the frameworks through which people that the frameworks through which people look at it are just extremely flawed look at it are just extremely flawed frameworks that don't take it into frameworks that don't take it into account because after all what are account because after all what are markets? Markets are society solving its markets? Markets are society solving its own problems through voluntary action. own problems through voluntary action. To me markets and good NOS's uh and good To me markets and good NOS's uh and good social work is in exactly the same social work is in exactly the same category and the common enemy is the category and the common enemy is the oppression of the state and we must oppression of the state and we must never collude with the state. We must never collude with the state. We must keep fighting the state, fighting the keep fighting the state, fighting the oppression of the state, filling the oppression of the state, filling the gaps where we can, right? And that is gaps where we can, right? And that is one thing that I've never kind of one thing that I've never kind of understood this ideological dogmatism understood this ideological dogmatism that I often see in this particular that I often see in this particular sector. Whereas I'm like, no, you know, sector. Whereas I'm like, no, you know, I mean, I've had people on the show who I mean, I've had people on the show who rage against markets and then after the rage against markets and then after the recording, I'll be ordering an Uber for recording, I'll be ordering an Uber for them. And I simply do not get that them. And I simply do not get that massive disconnect that you exist, you massive disconnect that you exist, you have the awesome life that you have have the awesome life that you have because of markets and everything that because of markets and everything that is wrong with our country today is a is wrong with our country today is a result of the oppression of the state result of the oppression of the state and uh so so these ideological blinkers and uh so so these ideological blinkers uh you know and you would have seen this uh you know and you would have seen this on your journey as well that you are on your journey as well that you are coming from the ground up so you have coming from the ground up so you have that extremely nuanced view and frankly that extremely nuanced view and frankly every social worker that I respect and every social worker that I respect and there have been many people who've come there have been many people who've come on this show great feminist thinkers uh on this show great feminist thinkers uh some amazing women I've learned a lot some amazing women I've learned a lot from. They all have a very nuanced view. from. They all have a very nuanced view. They've seen it from the grounds up. They've seen it from the grounds up. They won't have these ideological They won't have these ideological frames. But the moment you get frames. But the moment you get especially when you get to social media especially when you get to social media warriors, it's just ideological warriors, it's just ideological dogmatism and no connection with the dogmatism and no connection with the real world. So what is your sense of real world. So what is your sense of this in your journey? this in your journey? So let's first get to the you know the So let's first get to the you know the data set that you're referring to. If data set that you're referring to. If you actually look at the you actually look at the registered NGO circuit, if you put it in registered NGO circuit, if you put it in that fashion, that fashion, that fashion, the majority almost 70% of the the majority almost 70% of the registered NOS's including those who registered NOS's including those who have FC have FC have FC are religious based organizations are religious based organizations whether they're Hindu, Muslim, whether they're Hindu, Muslim, Christian, you know, so that's almost Christian, you know, so that's almost 70%. 70%. 70%. So that's huge. Okay. So that's huge. Okay. Broadly speaking, you'll have few Broadly speaking, you'll have few strands in those which may belong to the strands in those which may belong to the category that you're talking about. You category that you're talking about. You know, who may be a little bit, you know, know, who may be a little bit, you know, thinking on the liberation theology side thinking on the liberation theology side and really looking at not necessarily and really looking at not necessarily from the uh system of economic from the uh system of economic organization but in terms of what that organization but in terms of what that system is doing to the poor in that from system is doing to the poor in that from that perspective. Liberation theology that perspective. Liberation theology never took a position. It sounds leftist never took a position. It sounds leftist but it never took a position in terms of but it never took a position in terms of the system of how the system is the system of how the system is organized. organized. organized. So that 70% is out. Okay. Then the So that 70% is out. Okay. Then the remainder 30%. remainder 30%. remainder 30%. Most of them are in the two major areas Most of them are in the two major areas which is education and health. Okay. which is education and health. Okay. delivering education and health and delivering education and health and that's almost like another 20 25% that's almost like another 20 25% because that's has a business as a because that's has a business as a potential that has a very demonstratable potential that has a very demonstratable service which attracts money and then service which attracts money and then you have a very small percentage of you have a very small percentage of people who do this thing of you know people who do this thing of you know people with uh you know old age people with uh you know old age orphanages those kinds of things and orphanages those kinds of things and some now have started coming up on the some now have started coming up on the skilling side. So actually the kind of skilling side. So actually the kind of NGOs because they're more vocal and NGOs because they're more vocal and they're more in the public domain they're more in the public domain maybe 3 to 5%. So you're not really maybe 3 to 5%. So you're not really talking about a large plethora of the talking about a large plethora of the NGO sector that one is talking about NGO sector that one is talking about maybe they make a disproportionate noise maybe they make a disproportionate noise in the public because they are in the in the public because they are in the public sphere right they're in the public sphere right they're in the public sphere. public sphere. public sphere. Now let's look at the three which have Now let's look at the three which have become like the epidome of the become like the epidome of the controversy in India. controversy in India. Greenpeace, Amnesty International, Greenpeace, Amnesty International, Oxfam. If you look at all these three Oxfam. If you look at all these three organizations organizations organizations in terms of in terms of how they would like uh the economy to how they would like uh the economy to be, none of them have basically taken a be, none of them have basically taken a position on that we are looking at a position on that we are looking at a controlled socialist type of economy. controlled socialist type of economy. Not at all. rather in amnesty. It's been Not at all. rather in amnesty. It's been always a struggle with a small minority always a struggle with a small minority of the people who are trying to of the people who are trying to interpret human rights from the um uh interpret human rights from the um uh you know only from the soioeconomic you know only from the soioeconomic rights perspective which then sounds rights perspective which then sounds more like a socialistic way of because more like a socialistic way of because again if you know the history of human again if you know the history of human rights the civil and political rights rights the civil and political rights convention was pushed by the US and its convention was pushed by the US and its lobbies the civil and pol the social lobbies the civil and pol the social economic cultural rights convention was economic cultural rights convention was pushed by Soviet Union and its lobbies. pushed by Soviet Union and its lobbies. So if the bill of human rights, So if the bill of human rights, universal declaration of human rights universal declaration of human rights and these two conventions form the bill and these two conventions form the bill of human rights. So that is that that of human rights. So that is that that reflection. reflection. reflection. But if you look at all these three, they But if you look at all these three, they are absolutely operating and completely are absolutely operating and completely supporting of the free free market as a supporting of the free free market as a as a philosophy. as a philosophy. Oxfam's trade report before it also Oxfam's trade report before it also started focusing on the whole inequality started focusing on the whole inequality issue. If you look at the trade report, issue. If you look at the trade report, what the trade report is saying that the what the trade report is saying that the trade regime trade regime trade regime is actually uh negatively biased towards is actually uh negatively biased towards southern countries and we have had southern countries and we have had people like Manmun Singh when he was a people like Manmun Singh when he was a member of the south center in Geneva member of the south center in Geneva actually propagating a particular line actually propagating a particular line on trade and that was a whole southern on trade and that was a whole southern conglomeration of countries which had conglomeration of countries which had that vision that you know till the time that vision that you know till the time the trade the trade the trade terrain be does not become a you know terrain be does not become a you know playing field where each one is playing playing field where each one is playing as equals is going to be problematic and as equals is going to be problematic and that's when the question of the that's when the question of the agriculture subsidies in US in European agriculture subsidies in US in European Union came as a big question which was Union came as a big question which was also distorting their markets but it's also distorting their markets but it's not only distorting their markets they not only distorting their markets they were distorting the global trade in were distorting the global trade in agriculture produce which was at the agriculture produce which was at the cost of uh agriculture produce from the cost of uh agriculture produce from the developing countries so why I'm why I'm developing countries so why I'm why I'm giving you these details is the three giving you these details is the three organizations which have become like a organizations which have become like a much talked out all those organizations much talked out all those organizations have never taken a position that you're have never taken a position that you're talking about in terms of a left dogma talking about in terms of a left dogma kind of a position. kind of a position. So from where is this this narrative So from where is this this narrative coming you know so that was very coming you know so that was very interesting I don't know again in the FC interesting I don't know again in the FC journey there was a report in 2014 when journey there was a report in 2014 when the present government came into play the present government came into play done by IB done by IB and in the first time there was the and in the first time there was the assertion assertion assertion that this NGO activism is reducing the that this NGO activism is reducing the GDP of the country by 3 to 4%. GDP of the country by 3 to 4%. This kind of stuff is such nonsense like This kind of stuff is such nonsense like this. This was done by a agency of the this. This was done by a agency of the government. It was not some uh think government. It was not some uh think tank report. You're talking about a you tank report. You're talking about a you know intelligence bureau which is part know intelligence bureau which is part of the government machinery. of the government machinery. All government All government All government right? It's not some you know some right? It's not some you know some coroner agency doing some research and coroner agency doing some research and publishing those figures. publishing those figures. And so you have this thing also which is And so you have this thing also which is part of creating narrative. So my only part of creating narrative. So my only only caution to you would be don't get I only caution to you would be don't get I I I know that there are angels who will I I know that there are angels who will take for the sake of whatever whether take for the sake of whatever whether it's under foreign influence whether for it's under foreign influence whether for their legitimacy in the context they are their legitimacy in the context they are working it could be either it could be working it could be either it could be both or taking particular positions both or taking particular positions which are which are which are quote politically correct positions let quote politically correct positions let me put it in that fashion for that uh me put it in that fashion for that uh ecosystem in which they're operating But ecosystem in which they're operating But I would only request you don't I would only request you don't generalize it as the NGOs like you read generalize it as the NGOs like you read this whole case study on UAB. Tell me this whole case study on UAB. Tell me anywhere. Of course, we have had our own anywhere. Of course, we have had our own own issues because we only are viewing own issues because we only are viewing things from how anything is impacting things from how anything is impacting the poor. Is anything that is being done the poor. Is anything that is being done is that going to lead to make them is that going to lead to make them become a more active and empowered become a more active and empowered citizen? citizen? citizen? Anything that is not working for that Anything that is not working for that needs to be questioned you know so it's needs to be questioned you know so it's not the issue of dos issue of what they not the issue of dos issue of what they being provided because what is the being provided because what is the bottom line quest we are building a bottom line quest we are building a democracy in this country if you're democracy in this country if you're building democracy the core component of building democracy the core component of dem democracy is a active informed dem democracy is a active informed citizen citizen citizen but if all your machinery is but if all your machinery is you know aimed at either making them you know aimed at either making them subservient through dole system of subservient through dole system of subservient through unleashing the subservient through unleashing the violence of the state then there is a violence of the state then there is a problem you you you you're getting from problem you you you you're getting from where where we are trying to come where where we are trying to come here's the thing I agree with you here's the thing I agree with you entirely uh like I think UI is an entirely uh like I think UI is an awesome organization that's why I awesome organization that's why I invited you because I've spoken so much invited you because I've spoken so much with you and I um know exactly how you with you and I um know exactly how you think and respect you deeply also 100% think and respect you deeply also 100% without caveats love the work amnesty without caveats love the work amnesty has done in India I think Akar is just has done in India I think Akar is just one of the bravest and finest people out one of the bravest and finest people out there in fact you brought him into there in fact you brought him into amnesty So thank you for that and so all amnesty So thank you for that and so all of that I completely get but you know of that I completely get but you know even in this UR report that you speak of even in this UR report that you speak of is it online by the way we should link is it online by the way we should link it from the show notes since I've it is it from the show notes since I've it is online online online it is online so we'll link it from the it is online so we'll link it from the show notes very good report in UA where show notes very good report in UA where Minar's been interviewed at length as Minar's been interviewed at length as well but even in this report you well but even in this report you mentioned that when the 91 reforms mentioned that when the 91 reforms happened that uh uh you know you were happened that uh uh you know you were skeptical at first because you thought skeptical at first because you thought of how it would affect the poor and um of how it would affect the poor and um uh you know even elsewhere a lot of uh you know even elsewhere a lot of people instinctively people instinctively people instinctively were against the reforms because they were against the reforms because they thought it would widen the gaps between thought it would widen the gaps between the rich and the poor which to me is a the rich and the poor which to me is a completely irrelevant point because a completely irrelevant point because a point I've made repeatedly is that point I've made repeatedly is that inequality and poverty are very inequality and poverty are very different things. Our moral imperative different things. Our moral imperative is to remove poverty and not to is to remove poverty and not to grandstand about inequality because grandstand about inequality because people can get richer at different people can get richer at different rates. I've written an essay on this and rates. I've written an essay on this and I have an episode on this which I'll I have an episode on this which I'll publish in the show notes. I won't publish in the show notes. I won't belabor the point here. But we hear a belabor the point here. But we hear a lot of this rhetoric like uh you know lot of this rhetoric like uh you know the only place where I'll hear the word the only place where I'll hear the word neoliberal which has no connection with neoliberal which has no connection with reality. Like whenever I hear someone reality. Like whenever I hear someone use the word neoliberal I I immediately use the word neoliberal I I immediately stop listening to them because there is stop listening to them because there is they've got narratives from academia they've got narratives from academia which have no connection with reality at which have no connection with reality at all and their frameworks are completely all and their frameworks are completely wrong. And you you hear a lot of that wrong. And you you hear a lot of that narrative still coming from the left. narrative still coming from the left. Now as you've correctly pointed out if Now as you've correctly pointed out if 70% of the NOS's out there are religious 70% of the NOS's out there are religious NOS's and if uh all these great NOS's and if uh all these great organizations I respect are actually organizations I respect are actually pretty pro market like yesterday I I'm 2 pretty pro market like yesterday I I'm 2 days ago in the life lessons webinar you days ago in the life lessons webinar you will remember I you know made a point in will remember I you know made a point in defense of sweat shops quoting an Oxfam defense of sweat shops quoting an Oxfam report and a UNICEF report. So you know report and a UNICEF report. So you know they are essentially out there speaking they are essentially out there speaking truth to power and uh which they should truth to power and uh which they should continue doing. So I agree with all continue doing. So I agree with all that. I was just wondering if in your that. I was just wondering if in your journey through the NGO world because journey through the NGO world because you spent a long time in the UN of you spent a long time in the UN of course which we'll come to later and course which we'll come to later and talk about that that whether this kind talk about that that whether this kind of rhetoric can sometimes be a problem of rhetoric can sometimes be a problem because you know on the one hand you've because you know on the one hand you've got to stay grounded in the real world got to stay grounded in the real world where the state is a problem the where the state is a problem the oppression of the state is a problem and oppression of the state is a problem and markets are a way out and at the same markets are a way out and at the same time there will be people who will have time there will be people who will have these outdated lenses which uh don't these outdated lenses which uh don't work. work. work. Yeah. So when the 91 reform happened Yeah. So when the 91 reform happened let's not forget in terms of the kind of let's not forget in terms of the kind of a journey that I have come come through a journey that I have come come through it is also quite of a quite a bit of a it is also quite of a quite a bit of a re relearning in from my perspective re relearning in from my perspective right in terms of you know even this right in terms of you know even this this frame that we came up with which is this frame that we came up with which is a post 911 frame as far as UI is a post 911 frame as far as UI is concerned that the era of building just concerned that the era of building just people's organizations fighting for the people's organizations fighting for the rights that is not going to be adequate rights that is not going to be adequate you also have to build what we call you also have to build what we call people's instit institutions because people's instit institutions because people's institutions could be you know people's institutions could be you know housing cooperatives of the slum housing cooperatives of the slum dwellers could be a uh self-help groups dwellers could be a uh self-help groups of women who make credit facility of women who make credit facility available to them because they need available to them because they need access to credit even if she's selling access to credit even if she's selling vegetables she needs access to credit vegetables she needs access to credit because the credit is available to her because the credit is available to her at a exorbitant rate you know she gets at a exorbitant rate you know she gets 300 rupees credit and next day she's 300 rupees credit and next day she's paying 330 which is like 10% one day paying 330 which is like 10% one day that is a kind of situation So if we that is a kind of situation So if we don't and these two things require a don't and these two things require a totally different skill sets and that is totally different skill sets and that is when I actually recruited people who are when I actually recruited people who are MBA finance. I had a whole unit called MBA finance. I had a whole unit called housing and infrastructure development housing and infrastructure development unit uh which was run by uh you know unit uh which was run by uh you know civil engineers planners because I civil engineers planners because I basically said that the activist type of basically said that the activist type of work that the people's organization work that the people's organization needs is very different than the asset needs is very different than the asset building work. asset building needs and building work. asset building needs and I gave the example of the Narava Chandal I gave the example of the Narava Chandal in one of the dams where they got the in one of the dams where they got the right uh to fish in that pond in that right uh to fish in that pond in that dam uh the people who the lands had gone dam uh the people who the lands had gone into the into the dam but then they had into the into the dam but then they had zero clue in terms of how to harvest the zero clue in terms of how to harvest the fish at a larger scale. How to transport fish at a larger scale. How to transport the fish in a kind of you know the fish in a kind of you know refrigerated vans to the appropriate refrigerated vans to the appropriate market. What fish sells in what seas? market. What fish sells in what seas? Now although so what happened some of Now although so what happened some of the ta that they had got as the the ta that they had got as the legitimate claimants as a right of legitimate claimants as a right of people who were impacted because of the people who were impacted because of the dam they sold off those takers to the dam they sold off those takers to the same old contractors who were already same old contractors who were already fishing in the in those areas. So you fishing in the in those areas. So you got the right you could not could not got the right you could not could not translate that right into assets because translate that right into assets because you had no competencies in doing that you had no competencies in doing that and in effect what happened was you lost and in effect what happened was you lost that right because then the same people that right because then the same people who had got the right to do fishing who had got the right to do fishing became the laborers for the contractors became the laborers for the contractors to do the fishing. So that example I to do the fishing. So that example I it's it's in the and that is what it's it's in the and that is what happened. So uh so when I proposed this happened. So uh so when I proposed this kind of thing there there was a lot of kind of thing there there was a lot of conversation is this our role is this conversation is this our role is this what we need to be doing. I said for the what we need to be doing. I said for the constituency that we are working with constituency that we are working with who is going to do it? who is going to do it? Is HDFC going to come and help the slum Is HDFC going to come and help the slum dwellers housing cooperative? dwellers housing cooperative? Are they equipped to do something like Are they equipped to do something like that? Are they capable of doing that? Are they capable of doing something like that? Uh do they have a something like that? Uh do they have a frame in which they can operate in this frame in which they can operate in this kind of a fashion? They can do you know kind of a fashion? They can do you know support middle-class housing. they know support middle-class housing. they know that this money is guaranteed to come that this money is guaranteed to come back everything back everything back everything and I have had conversation with Deepak and I have had conversation with Deepak Deepak Parak in terms of we did some Deepak Parak in terms of we did some work with him uh in the holy village in work with him uh in the holy village in Lur uh after the earthquake and so it's Lur uh after the earthquake and so it's very clear that you need that gap to be very clear that you need that gap to be filled and interacting so I had this I filled and interacting so I had this I used to use this word for our work with used to use this word for our work with the governments and um I said you know the governments and um I said you know you have to have a kick and kick you have to have a kick and kick strategy there are areas where we need strategy there are areas where we need to be ready to kick them and really show to be ready to kick them and really show them what is the what is the truth, what them what is the truth, what is the reality and what they and there is the reality and what they and there are areas when we need to be working are areas when we need to be working with them closely. So that kick and kiss with them closely. So that kick and kiss strategy. So I remember so many strategy. So I remember so many instances where in the morning our instances where in the morning our colleagues would have had a gout the colleagues would have had a gout the additional municipal commissioner additional municipal commissioner because they carried out some illegal because they carried out some illegal demolition. In the afternoon I'm sitting demolition. In the afternoon I'm sitting with the Mr. K the municipal with the Mr. K the municipal commissioner on the Sakshar Takamiti commissioner on the Sakshar Takamiti which is the adult literacy committee which is the adult literacy committee for the whole city of Mumbai and if Mr. for the whole city of Mumbai and if Mr. K would say what did your guys do in the K would say what did your guys do in the morning I said Mr. That is one one part. morning I said Mr. That is one one part. No. And this is another part. I am No. And this is another part. I am committed to the full literacy of the committed to the full literacy of the city of Mumbai. As much as I am city of Mumbai. As much as I am committed to defending anything which is committed to defending anything which is being done illegally. So and there was a being done illegally. So and there was a time in the bureaucracy that time in the bureaucracy that appreciation existed and they could see appreciation existed and they could see that and it went to the extent of one of that and it went to the extent of one of the municipal commissioner Mr. Boy when the municipal commissioner Mr. Boy when he was on the last week of his he was on the last week of his retirement calls me. He says minar I'm retirement calls me. He says minar I'm now retiring I want you to use my now retiring I want you to use my services in after my retirement and I services in after my retirement and I have looked at so many so many have have looked at so many so many have interacted I only know you guys are interacted I only know you guys are doing something interesting I want to doing something interesting I want to join you and then he worked with us for join you and then he worked with us for 3 years as a consultant he was the 3 years as a consultant he was the addition municipal commissioner in in addition municipal commissioner in in the city of Mumbai he was a secretary the city of Mumbai he was a secretary labor in the government of Maharashtra labor in the government of Maharashtra so that opening I mean the point is now so that opening I mean the point is now some of this would be seen as I don't some of this would be seen as I don't know that What is it called? know that What is it called? Co you getting Co you getting you're co-opting them or capture. you're co-opting them or capture. Yeah. No, you you being co-opted by Yeah. No, you you being co-opted by them. them. them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Kind of a thing. Copulation or something Kind of a thing. Copulation or something like that. There's a particular English like that. There's a particular English word. word. word. I don't quite think coopation is a word. I don't quite think coopation is a word. Co-option. Co-option. Co-option. Oh yeah. Being co-opted by them or Oh yeah. Being co-opted by them or whatever. But I always resisted that. I whatever. But I always resisted that. I said no. We said no. We one of the beliefs I had is no system is one of the beliefs I had is no system is monolith. monolith. monolith. Every system Every system Every system has has has uh people who think differently. uh people who think differently. But I know when I worked with the World But I know when I worked with the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, Bank and the Asian Development Bank, some of the movement people were very some of the movement people were very critical of us. I said, you know, if critical of us. I said, you know, if World Bank wants this assistance from us World Bank wants this assistance from us and they're going to pay for it, why why and they're going to pay for it, why why shouldn't I take it up? And some of shouldn't I take it up? And some of those consultancies got those consultancies got helped me build the U center before I helped me build the U center before I left India because you get big incomes left India because you get big incomes out of those processes which is great out of those processes which is great and if you're using it for proper cause and if you're using it for proper cause not pocketing the money yourself it's not pocketing the money yourself it's great because you have so many great because you have so many individual consultants to World Bank and individual consultants to World Bank and Asian Development Bank Asian Development Bank huge amounts of monies. huge amounts of monies. I think during the course of this I think during the course of this podcast every two hours I've been saying podcast every two hours I've been saying let's take a break and then talk about let's take a break and then talk about you. I'll say that again. Let's take a you. I'll say that again. Let's take a break and then deep dive even further break and then deep dive even further into yoga because we barely scratched into yoga because we barely scratched the surface. the surface. the surface. I thought we were talking about you I thought we were talking about you only. only. only. Huh? But there is so much there is so Huh? But there is so much there is so much much there is so much there is so much to talk about. to talk about. Okay, let's take a break. Okay, let's take a break. Many of the things I have learned in my Many of the things I have learned in my life I had to learn on my own. I think life I had to learn on my own. I think you'll agree with me that our education you'll agree with me that our education system doesn't teach us so many things system doesn't teach us so many things that we need to make the most of that we need to make the most of ourselves in this world. I learned my ourselves in this world. I learned my lessons when life happened to me and I lessons when life happened to me and I happen to be paying attention. For many happen to be paying attention. For many years now, I've been thinking what are years now, I've been thinking what are the essential life lessons that everyone the essential life lessons that everyone should learn to be able to live a should learn to be able to live a complete life. I invited my friend Ajay complete life. I invited my friend Ajay Sha to join me on the intellectual Sha to join me on the intellectual challenge of figuring this out. And then challenge of figuring this out. And then we decided to put together a course we decided to put together a course where we would actually teach this where we would actually teach this stuff. So we created life lessons which stuff. So we created life lessons which you can check out at lifelesssons.co.in. you can check out at lifelesssons.co.in. In this 5we course running across five In this 5we course running across five Saturdays, we have put together 15 Saturdays, we have put together 15 webinars that are intended to help webinars that are intended to help launch you down journeys of discovery. launch you down journeys of discovery. We will speak about learning how to We will speak about learning how to learn, learning how to think, mindsets, learn, learning how to think, mindsets, mental models, clear writing, how to mental models, clear writing, how to communicate better, quantitative communicate better, quantitative intuition, probabilistic thinking, the intuition, probabilistic thinking, the history of thought, the foundations of history of thought, the foundations of economics, and even practical matters economics, and even practical matters like how to think about personal finance like how to think about personal finance and how to think about personal health. and how to think about personal health. People who do the course also get to be People who do the course also get to be part of a larger community that will part of a larger community that will have in-person meetups once a year. have in-person meetups once a year. Basically, while we've always been Basically, while we've always been sharing what we have learned in a sharing what we have learned in a peacemeal way in our show and our peacemeal way in our show and our writings here and there diffused, this writings here and there diffused, this is an effort to synthesize our knowledge is an effort to synthesize our knowledge for you. So, please head on over to for you. So, please head on over to check out life lessons at check out life lessons at lifelesssons.co.in. lifelesssons.co.in. lifelesssons.co.in. Never stop learning. Never stop learning. Welcome back to the scene and the Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still with minar pimp play unseen. I'm still with minar pimp play and we had promised to talk about ya now and we had promised to talk about ya now which we will but before that he brought which we will but before that he brought up a subject as we were having lunch and up a subject as we were having lunch and said I don't know if I should talk about said I don't know if I should talk about this and I said no no no you absolutely this and I said no no no you absolutely should talk about this uh and you could should talk about this uh and you could call this chapter therefore my call this chapter therefore my experiments with sexuality uh minar experiments with sexuality uh minar kind kindly kindly take us into some of kind kindly kindly take us into some of your experiments with sexuality your experiments with sexuality so so so it's more than sexuality I think it's it's more than sexuality I think it's more in terms of how you view the more in terms of how you view the relationships, right? Uh so at a very relationships, right? Uh so at a very early stage I had this uh feeling that early stage I had this uh feeling that you know for you know for different types of needs we as human different types of needs we as human beings have uh you are not going to get beings have uh you are not going to get one person who is able to fulfill all one person who is able to fulfill all those needs in that sense. So whether it those needs in that sense. So whether it is your intellectual strive and is your intellectual strive and intellectual needs, whether your intellectual needs, whether your emotional needs, whether your emotional needs, whether your psychosocial needs, whether your psychosocial needs, whether your physical in terms of sexual um needs. So physical in terms of sexual um needs. So each of this is uh if you if you believe each of this is uh if you if you believe that the relationship is the uh highest that the relationship is the uh highest uh in any of these areas, you're not uh in any of these areas, you're not going to get one person. what you'll get going to get one person. what you'll get a common denominator across these four. a common denominator across these four. So I always used to have this things and So I always used to have this things and being kind of open relations. Uh so being kind of open relations. Uh so there was a time you know I had about there was a time you know I had about three active relationships with and all three active relationships with and all three of them knowing about one another three of them knowing about one another because that goes to my what we spoke because that goes to my what we spoke yesterday about authenticity. I cannot yesterday about authenticity. I cannot be untruthful. be untruthful. be untruthful. uh so you know and I can very clearly uh so you know and I can very clearly identify I'm not going to say who with identify I'm not going to say who with what but there was the relationship what but there was the relationship which was very strongly intellectually which was very strongly intellectually driven there was a relationship which driven there was a relationship which was very strongly driven by um you know was very strongly driven by um you know sexual alignment and that kind of thing sexual alignment and that kind of thing and there was a a relationship which was and there was a a relationship which was driven by very strong emotional driven by very strong emotional alignment and that that kind of a alignment and that that kind of a process you do go through in in your in process you do go through in in your in your young period your young period uh you know I don't know about others uh you know I don't know about others but at some stage in my growing up part but at some stage in my growing up part uh I did have a kind of a same sex kind uh I did have a kind of a same sex kind of a relationships at a very brief of a relationships at a very brief passing phase in that sense as part of I passing phase in that sense as part of I think experimentation think experimentation think experimentation uh in in in that in that side. uh but I uh in in in that in that side. uh but I think what bottom line what drives you think what bottom line what drives you in this is whatever you do uh in the in this is whatever you do uh in the relationship and uh exploration of relationship and uh exploration of sexuality is part of those relationships sexuality is part of those relationships in that sense. It's not something which in that sense. It's not something which is which is independent of of those is which is independent of of those those relationships. those relationships. those relationships. So being fully aware that you know So being fully aware that you know you're not going to get everything in you're not going to get everything in one relationship and in spite of that one relationship and in spite of that then you choose a life partner and then then you choose a life partner and then being very very truthful and authentic being very very truthful and authentic in that relationship uh is something in that relationship uh is something that that is a kind of a continuous uh that that is a kind of a continuous uh alignment and realignment of your your alignment and realignment of your your persona in in that in that phase. So I persona in in that in that phase. So I had written a kind of a small essay on had written a kind of a small essay on relationships at one level again as a relationships at one level again as a very young kid in terms of exploring very young kid in terms of exploring some of these themes and you know I'd some of these themes and you know I'd shared with some of my friends and so shared with some of my friends and so this is what I've written up on the on this is what I've written up on the on the there was the time when I used to the there was the time when I used to write poetry there were there were the write poetry there were there were the time when I used to write this kind of time when I used to write this kind of short pieces somehow since I got engaged short pieces somehow since I got engaged work with you and others my ability to work with you and others my ability to write and to create poetry all that is write and to create poetry all that is somehow I somehow I somehow I when you have so obsessed with doing when you have so obsessed with doing something that everything else becomes something that everything else becomes almost negligent or negligible that what almost negligent or negligible that what that's what might have happened but some that's what might have happened but some of this that I express in those kinds of of this that I express in those kinds of small uh pieces of writing which is self small uh pieces of writing which is self exploration but I would share with exploration but I would share with friends uh and you know get their get friends uh and you know get their get their feedback and thinking but I think their feedback and thinking but I think the times that I lived in to you know the times that I lived in to you know that some of this thinking was pretty that some of this thinking was pretty radical ical from my perspective that radical ical from my perspective that you know you because generally the you know you because generally the broader course is generally you you know broader course is generally you you know you have one girlfriend or whatever you have one girlfriend or whatever whatever is your sexual preference and whatever is your sexual preference and then you stick with it or you experiment then you stick with it or you experiment with one or two and then you broadly with one or two and then you broadly stick with one one person and then move stick with one one person and then move on kind of thing and then it may end up on kind of thing and then it may end up in marriage or it may end up in living in marriage or it may end up in living together or whatever whatever whatever together or whatever whatever whatever but at that point of time having some of but at that point of time having some of this kind of a conception and thinking I this kind of a conception and thinking I thought at that time was pretty uh thought at that time was pretty uh pretty out of the box if not radical pretty out of the box if not radical from that perspective. So that is why I from that perspective. So that is why I mentioned it to you saying that you know mentioned it to you saying that you know this is something which is also another this is something which is also another track that because for me I think all track that because for me I think all these tracks these tracks these tracks align as uh where you you a little align as uh where you you a little different not that because you want to different not that because you want to be different but there is something in be different but there is something in your wiring as you would call it or a your wiring as you would call it or a DNA which makes you different than uh so DNA which makes you different than uh so it's not necessarily that I I bring it's not necessarily that I I bring something new to myself but it is something new to myself but it is something that I naturally come something that I naturally come And you know as far as uh you know uh And you know as far as uh you know uh your having left poetry and uh those your having left poetry and uh those creative pursuits aside is concerned all creative pursuits aside is concerned all I would tell you is one of my favorite I would tell you is one of my favorite novel is Penalopey Filter Gerald started novel is Penalopey Filter Gerald started writing novels when she was in her 60s writing novels when she was in her 60s and my favorite book of hers gate of and my favorite book of hers gate of angels was written when I think she was angels was written when I think she was 75. So there is time for you yet minar 75. So there is time for you yet minar uh I am happy to help you in whatever uh I am happy to help you in whatever little way I can and and you had in fact little way I can and and you had in fact signed up for my clear writing course signed up for my clear writing course also. So you know somewhere uh that also. So you know somewhere uh that spark may be lit. Um let me continue spark may be lit. Um let me continue down the track that you started taking down the track that you started taking me on like here's a wider observation me on like here's a wider observation I've been thinking about for a while and I've been thinking about for a while and uh you know tell me your thoughts on it uh you know tell me your thoughts on it and your observations from what you said and your observations from what you said see in our society. Men and women see in our society. Men and women fundamentally want different things for fundamentally want different things for reasons to do with both nature and reasons to do with both nature and nurture and society and all of that. And nurture and society and all of that. And uh one convenient equilibrium which had uh one convenient equilibrium which had come about so they can kind of uh manage come about so they can kind of uh manage to uh live together and society can to uh live together and society can function was marriage. But I view function was marriage. But I view marriage today as almost an outdated marriage today as almost an outdated equilibrium. And the fundamental facet equilibrium. And the fundamental facet of it that um uh you know one has to of it that um uh you know one has to grapple with is that marriage was grapple with is that marriage was fundamentally a bundle of different fundamentally a bundle of different things. So you're bundling together sex things. So you're bundling together sex and companionship and parenthood and and companionship and parenthood and friendship and a whole bunch of friendship and a whole bunch of different things. And we don't think of different things. And we don't think of what happens when an unbundling happens what happens when an unbundling happens where exactly as you said different where exactly as you said different needs can be met by different people or needs can be met by different people or are not met by one person. And it is um are not met by one person. And it is um in some senses it can be a trap to think in some senses it can be a trap to think of it as all or nothing as many people of it as all or nothing as many people do that you know it is all or nothing. do that you know it is all or nothing. And yet uh you know while the um And yet uh you know while the um convention itself is an artifact uh that convention itself is an artifact uh that might no longer be relevant in these might no longer be relevant in these times nothing has replaced its place. So times nothing has replaced its place. So people are floundering and struggling people are floundering and struggling with different ways of associating and with different ways of associating and different ways of living and for a while different ways of living and for a while you seem to have found your own little you seem to have found your own little equilibrium there as you mentioned with equilibrium there as you mentioned with you know three different partners. So you know three different partners. So what do you think about this larger what do you think about this larger proposition that I just made and also proposition that I just made and also when you look around us at society and when you look around us at society and at the relationships of people across at the relationships of people across class classes and strata and so on what class classes and strata and so on what what what is your sense of this? what what is your sense of this? See coming from a little bit of a See coming from a little bit of a Marxist orientation in the beginning of Marxist orientation in the beginning of looking at the world you know there are looking at the world you know there are very clear kind of a Marxist hypothesis very clear kind of a Marxist hypothesis on marriage as institution. on marriage as institution. Marriage's institution is a product of Marriage's institution is a product of surplus production. So that's a kind of surplus production. So that's a kind of a you know it sounds very unromantic a you know it sounds very unromantic but that is at one level a reality. When but that is at one level a reality. When you have a production beyond hunter you have a production beyond hunter gather stage that we keep talking about gather stage that we keep talking about in the life lessons. What happens is uh in the life lessons. What happens is uh you're not consuming what you are you're not consuming what you are earning for that day. So you have earning for that day. So you have something that is being left behind and something that is being left behind and when you get into the agriculture phase when you get into the agriculture phase it's much bigger a challenge in terms of it's much bigger a challenge in terms of land uh that you are you know given land uh that you are you know given boundaries into the production that is boundaries into the production that is happening on that land and then who is happening on that land and then who is the is the person who is going to the is the person who is going to inherit that after me kinds of inherit that after me kinds of questions. So in a way uh you know till questions. So in a way uh you know till the time when you had a lot of the time when you had a lot of materiality in the society where even materiality in the society where even kids were basically known by who is kids were basically known by who is their mother nobody even bothered who is their mother nobody even bothered who is their father because that was not the their father because that was not the relevant question to ask the the key relevant question to ask the the key question was who is their mother and question was who is their mother and that was very much very very well known that was very much very very well known and established. and established. and established. But when you start uh establishing that But when you start uh establishing that that kind of a thing where the men that kind of a thing where the men become a kind of a dominant owners of become a kind of a dominant owners of the resources of production or the resources of production or production resources and then the production resources and then the surplus which is created how do I ensure surplus which is created how do I ensure that that surplus surplus is inherited that that surplus surplus is inherited inherited by my by my progeny uh and inherited by my by my progeny uh and that's when the challenge of uh and that's when the challenge of uh and there is some very interesting book I there is some very interesting book I think in Marati also if I remember the think in Marati also if I remember the writer or Raj I think who wrote on the writer or Raj I think who wrote on the you know bharti kutumbasta what is the you know bharti kutumbasta what is the kind of aum you know family in in the kind of aum you know family in in the Indian Indian context and there some of Indian Indian context and there some of this propositions and hypothesis also this propositions and hypothesis also are also outlined there so that that's are also outlined there so that that's where you basically begin what are the where you basically begin what are the need for um and as you have said in the need for um and as you have said in the we we need to build certain moors and we we need to build certain moors and certain norms in the societies to certain norms in the societies to function function function in in a kind of a given structure and in in a kind of a given structure and then you had the religion and then you then you had the religion and then you had the religious sanctions uh for had the religious sanctions uh for certain institutions that would be then certain institutions that would be then implanted as with a religious sanctity implanted as with a religious sanctity and marriage became one of those in and marriage became one of those in different religions at different points different religions at different points of time when that conjun conjunctures of time when that conjun conjunctures happen. I still hold that there is some happen. I still hold that there is some truth in the this hypothesis. truth in the this hypothesis. Uh in terms of marriage as an Uh in terms of marriage as an institution at this point of time when institution at this point of time when one starts looking at it is it really one starts looking at it is it really required if required if required if you think whatever you produce is is you think whatever you produce is is produced because of the social enabling produced because of the social enabling context that you got. So in that sense context that you got. So in that sense it is more societal ownership rather it is more societal ownership rather than your individual ownership. than your individual ownership. How soon will arrive there? I don't How soon will arrive there? I don't know. And then as the institution, the know. And then as the institution, the marriage of the institution and a marriage of the institution and a defined progeny very clearly identified defined progeny very clearly identified as your progeny. Uh that need will as your progeny. Uh that need will finish that need will end. And to that finish that need will end. And to that extent then marriage as institution extent then marriage as institution would have no would have no material basis to exist. Now what has material basis to exist. Now what has happened is it has a material basis to happened is it has a material basis to exist because everybody is actually exist because everybody is actually earning much more than those who are earning much more than those who are earning and are having something that earning and are having something that they leaving behind. Leaving behind for they leaving behind. Leaving behind for whom? Not for the society at large who whom? Not for the society at large who has created that context for their has created that context for their earning but for their progeny. That's earning but for their progeny. That's what is happening. Now there could be a what is happening. Now there could be a completely different think about it that completely different think about it that you know where whatever you have earned you know where whatever you have earned at the end of your life that becomes at the end of your life that becomes a property to be distributed or you know a property to be distributed or you know whatever I I have not thought through it whatever I I have not thought through it carefully but there has to be something carefully but there has to be something by which that personal ownership of the by which that personal ownership of the property and there's some attempts done property and there's some attempts done through the done on this processes through the done on this processes through estate tax and those kinds of through estate tax and those kinds of things where um now whether that things where um now whether that taxation is seen as progressive or not taxation is seen as progressive or not progressive. I haven't applied my mind progressive. I haven't applied my mind because some countries do have those because some countries do have those kinds of taxation system where uh uh the kinds of taxation system where uh uh the state claims that uh all what you have state claims that uh all what you have been able to do is of course you plus been able to do is of course you plus all the enabling factors that were all the enabling factors that were created uh created for you to do what created uh created for you to do what you did and that is then uh you did what you did and that is then uh in a way uh you paying back to the in a way uh you paying back to the society uh in the forms of the um estate society uh in the forms of the um estate tax but as I said I've not thought tax but as I said I've not thought through it carefully but uh till the through it carefully but uh till the time that base of the marriage as time that base of the marriage as institution where the ownership of the institution where the ownership of the surplus that you leave behind that base surplus that you leave behind that base remains uh some form or the other uh remains uh some form or the other uh will you know even in the developed will you know even in the developed societies you have civil partnerships societies you have civil partnerships why civil partnerships are required if why civil partnerships are required if something happens with one partner then something happens with one partner then the other partner should not be left the other partner should not be left high and dry even if it is not a high and dry even if it is not a marriage there is there is that marriage there is there is that partnership that is that is negotiated partnership that is that is negotiated and agreed upon is exactly for this and agreed upon is exactly for this particular reason that you know there is particular reason that you know there is something that takes care of the something that takes care of the immediate and takes care of the people immediate and takes care of the people that you have taken responsibility for that you have taken responsibility for you may have a adopted kid not your own you may have a adopted kid not your own kid or you don't have may may not have a kid or you don't have may may not have a kid at all but you just have a partner kid at all but you just have a partner that needs to be taken care of that needs to be taken care of so so this is the area I mean it's so so this is the area I mean it's something which needs to be looked at as something which needs to be looked at as a part of uh evolution of next higher a part of uh evolution of next higher stage of thinking and next higher stage stage of thinking and next higher stage of being in my opinion but uh it's it's of being in my opinion but uh it's it's an interesting area that to to look at an interesting area that to to look at what how kind of society that it would what how kind of society that it would be. be. be. So you know I I I I will just say that So you know I I I I will just say that uh I am deeply skeptical of the Marxian uh I am deeply skeptical of the Marxian view. In fact I think it's completely view. In fact I think it's completely wrong because he didn't study Darwin uh wrong because he didn't study Darwin uh which you know understanding natural which you know understanding natural selection would have helped him better. selection would have helped him better. There's a book I'm going to gift to you. There's a book I'm going to gift to you. I'll take your snail mail address after I'll take your snail mail address after this. It's a book called the moral this. It's a book called the moral animal by Robert Wright where uh uh he animal by Robert Wright where uh uh he speaks about the evolution of morality speaks about the evolution of morality as it were and why uh it is entirely um as it were and why uh it is entirely um uh coherent that monogamy and polygamy uh coherent that monogamy and polygamy evolved separately in different places evolved separately in different places because both of them are different kind because both of them are different kind of equilibria. It's a fascinating book. of equilibria. It's a fascinating book. But as far as the whole inheritance But as far as the whole inheritance thing is concerned, look I I mean um I thing is concerned, look I I mean um I haven't chosen to have kids. Our friend haven't chosen to have kids. Our friend AJ hasn't chosen to have kids. We don't AJ hasn't chosen to have kids. We don't worry about that problem. This has I worry about that problem. This has I think simply never been uh a factor per think simply never been uh a factor per se and and my larger question was that se and and my larger question was that in society when we look at the relations in society when we look at the relations between men and women what do you make between men and women what do you make of it like I had done an episode with of it like I had done an episode with long ago with Srida Punam who' written long ago with Srida Punam who' written this great book called young Indians and this great book called young Indians and one of the tils in that is that women in one of the tils in that is that women in India number one have frameworks through India number one have frameworks through which they can look at uh their sort of which they can look at uh their sort of um uh you know their predicament in um uh you know their predicament in society feminist framework works etc are society feminist framework works etc are online and can even chart their own path online and can even chart their own path and progress whereas men don't have and progress whereas men don't have those frameworks and this is something those frameworks and this is something Nikl Tanja also brought out who's also Nikl Tanja also brought out who's also founded an organization called Yuva but founded an organization called Yuva but with a double A Nikl also brought out in with a double A Nikl also brought out in his super hit episode with me the his super hit episode with me the loneliness of the Indian man that men loneliness of the Indian man that men don't have those kind of frameworks and don't have those kind of frameworks and uh to to realize how much they are also uh to to realize how much they are also trapped by patriarchy and are therefore trapped by patriarchy and are therefore um uh floundering badly and you see this um uh floundering badly and you see this floundering like I look around me And I floundering like I look around me And I and I see that there is this disconnect. and I see that there is this disconnect. There is this floundering and um it it There is this floundering and um it it can have tragic consequences for both can have tragic consequences for both the men and the women much more for the the men and the women much more for the women because obviously life is much women because obviously life is much harder and worse for women in India but harder and worse for women in India but equally for the men and uh I was equally for the men and uh I was wondering if you know through your 30 40 wondering if you know through your 30 40 years doing social work and all of that years doing social work and all of that what have you seen with this regard what have you seen with this regard because young male anger for example is because young male anger for example is increasingly an issue around the world. increasingly an issue around the world. it plays into populist politics also etc it plays into populist politics also etc etc uh etc uh etc uh it gets used and exploited there it gets used and exploited there yeah you know both of us loved that yeah you know both of us loved that great Netflix show adolescence and um great Netflix show adolescence and um you know so what is your sense of what's you know so what is your sense of what's happening in India in the male psyche in happening in India in the male psyche in the female psyche I mean I'm using these the female psyche I mean I'm using these very general terms but I don't wish to very general terms but I don't wish to generalize it's nuanced and different generalize it's nuanced and different everywhere but are there any broader everywhere but are there any broader level observations you have of how level observations you have of how society is changing across these lines society is changing across these lines no the two three observations that I was no the two three observations that I was sharing with you uh it's whether you sharing with you uh it's whether you like it or not it's also linked to the like it or not it's also linked to the identity identity that you have so two identity identity that you have so two examples I was giving you the kind of examples I was giving you the kind of challenges I'm facing when I'm challenges I'm facing when I'm interacting with a lot of the Dalith interacting with a lot of the Dalith young Dalith men young Dalith men and uh lot of the tendencies that I see and uh lot of the tendencies that I see either moving towards alcoholism or either moving towards alcoholism or becoming suicidal becoming suicidal becoming suicidal both those I see as quite a quite a both those I see as quite a quite a pressure whether it is to to do pressure whether it is to to do something with the um pressure of uh something with the um pressure of uh being somebody that is being that is being somebody that is being put uh you know you keep talking being put uh you know you keep talking every every moment about Dr. every every moment about Dr. and his contribution and then at some and his contribution and then at some stage I'm sure it is hitting you what is stage I'm sure it is hitting you what is my contribution who am I what am I my contribution who am I what am I actually doing and then that either gets actually doing and then that either gets into that kind of a lumpinization into that kind of a lumpinization process I'm using that word a little process I'm using that word a little more carefully uh of uh you know doing more carefully uh of uh you know doing all those genties and doing those kinds all those genties and doing those kinds of external show which are very much of external show which are very much bordering onto the very strong masculine bordering onto the very strong masculine kind of a thinking and that and how it kind of a thinking and that and how it it evolves. it evolves. it evolves. While on the other hand, when I interact While on the other hand, when I interact with the Muslim uh Muslim youth uh I with the Muslim uh Muslim youth uh I find the kind of pressure it's it's like find the kind of pressure it's it's like a a a pressure cooker at one level where uh pressure cooker at one level where uh you know you're you're questioning you know you're you're questioning especially the I'm interacting with especially the I'm interacting with progressive youth. I'm not talking about progressive youth. I'm not talking about the youth which are not in that the youth which are not in that progressive era where you're questioning progressive era where you're questioning whether you do you have any identity do whether you do you have any identity do you have any future do you have anything you have any future do you have anything that is going to be recognized can you that is going to be recognized can you really uh from the other people's really uh from the other people's perception can you really move out of perception can you really move out of the identity uh of being a Muslim or not the identity uh of being a Muslim or not now those are kinds of questions and now those are kinds of questions and there I find lot of the psychological uh there I find lot of the psychological uh trauma that that one um sees and that trauma that that one um sees and that one experiences in in your interaction one experiences in in your interaction and that's broadly I'm saying though I and that's broadly I'm saying though I had much more deeper experiences with had much more deeper experiences with few people that I've interacted deeply few people that I've interacted deeply where and it just turns into some level where and it just turns into some level of a needing for some kind of a of a needing for some kind of a psychological help and and therapy psychological help and and therapy and on the other hand none of this is and on the other hand none of this is available as a societal uh forms of available as a societal uh forms of support And this I'm talking about support And this I'm talking about people who are in their you know 25 30 people who are in their you know 25 30 that kind of age group and that's where that kind of age group and that's where this this huge pressure of one on this this huge pressure of one on identity one on acceptance in the identity one on acceptance in the society one on what they aspire to be society one on what they aspire to be and what are the scopes and the and what are the scopes and the opportunity that are existing for that opportunity that are existing for that aspiration. I think that's there is that aspiration. I think that's there is that conundrum that that ex and these are all conundrum that that ex and these are all men I'm talking about. Well, I think men I'm talking about. Well, I think what what you refer that you find many what what you refer that you find many many women who are trying to break many women who are trying to break through some of this coming from the through some of this coming from the similar communities but break through similar communities but break through some of those things with a lot more some of those things with a lot more confidence. So there I don't want to confidence. So there I don't want to name people but there are examples in name people but there are examples in Maharashtra where you find some very Maharashtra where you find some very interesting work being done by young interesting work being done by young Dalith women uh in terms of not only Dalith women uh in terms of not only showing their own empowerment but also showing their own empowerment but also empowering so many other young women uh empowering so many other young women uh from from those communities and I'm from from those communities and I'm trying to understand some of those and trying to understand some of those and is there anything that we can learn from is there anything that we can learn from those experiences that may be useful for those experiences that may be useful for the main folk in those those communities the main folk in those those communities is something that one needs to also look is something that one needs to also look at very carefully. Okay. But they are at very carefully. Okay. But they are fundamentally different in terms of the fundamentally different in terms of the way they approach life and the way they way they approach life and the way they aspire for what they want to be in going aspire for what they want to be in going going forward. As I was explaining going forward. As I was explaining tomorrow I'll be meeting with lot of tomorrow I'll be meeting with lot of these people young people because lot of these people young people because lot of the unorganized sector in the city of the unorganized sector in the city of Mumbai basically comes from the this Mumbai basically comes from the this Dalith community and the Muslim Dalith community and the Muslim community and one of the expression that community and one of the expression that we are trying to give provide to them is we are trying to give provide to them is through their poetry through through through their poetry through through their plays through their dance forms uh their plays through their dance forms uh so that they have that expression and so that they have that expression and they can they can actually share that in they can they can actually share that in a larger kind of a gathering which also a larger kind of a gathering which also in a way reinforces some of their uh in a way reinforces some of their uh recognition, identity, the um without recognition, identity, the um without saying that they have been accepted but saying that they have been accepted but there's that sense of acceptance that there's that sense of acceptance that there is a sense of uh um you know that there is a sense of uh um you know that my art or what I'm trying to do is my art or what I'm trying to do is recognized by by others. So, so some of recognized by by others. So, so some of those kinds of interventions is this is those kinds of interventions is this is not a complete fullfledged not this is not a complete fullfledged intervention but some of those are foray intervention but some of those are foray into that areas of creating those into that areas of creating those identities which are important which identities which are important which also will contribute more positively for also will contribute more positively for their social being and for the their social being and for the communities that they belong to their communities that they belong to their social being. So that's the area that I social being. So that's the area that I look at it from from that perspective look at it from from that perspective broadly. You mentioned that there's a broadly. You mentioned that there's a fundamental difference in the way that fundamental difference in the way that in these communities the men and the in these communities the men and the women approach it. What is that women approach it. What is that fundamental difference? Uh I hear now it's hypothesis. I hear now it's hypothesis. I mean it's not based on like I have I mean it's not based on like I have seen many many more women uh trying to seen many many more women uh trying to break through the shackles much much break through the shackles much much more easily and they're not into this uh more easily and they're not into this uh creation of a myth about themselves but creation of a myth about themselves but they're much more pragmatic in trying to they're much more pragmatic in trying to do something that they think they can do do something that they think they can do and have a stronger ambition to do and have a stronger ambition to do something more. So you mean the the they something more. So you mean the the they are less liable to fall for the are less liable to fall for the victimhood oppressor binary that a lot victimhood oppressor binary that a lot of um naive political ideologies will of um naive political ideologies will take you towards take you towards and men will be much more use that as a and men will be much more use that as a defense mechanism of the victimhood than defense mechanism of the victimhood than the women. It may be the way the society the women. It may be the way the society operates women don't get choices of uh operates women don't get choices of uh being you know screaming as victims being you know screaming as victims wallowing in the victimhood. Yeah. you wallowing in the victimhood. Yeah. you know they don't have those options while know they don't have those options while men do have those options and men then men do have those options and men then basically as I was explaining the one basically as I was explaining the one outlay is becoming alcoholic another outlay is becoming alcoholic another outlay is actually you know thinking outlay is actually you know thinking about one's life and whether that life about one's life and whether that life is worth living so you can you can see is worth living so you can you can see those two extremities while many women those two extremities while many women don't necessarily operate on those kinds don't necessarily operate on those kinds of choices they they don't take up to of choices they they don't take up to alcohol alcohol alcohol they they have a more larger they they have a more larger responsibility to towards their responsibility to towards their families. Uh so they don't easily think families. Uh so they don't easily think of um you know going on the road towards of um you know going on the road towards uh relooking at their life whether they uh relooking at their life whether they should leave at all or not. So but this should leave at all or not. So but this is hypothetical. I haven't really is hypothetical. I haven't really checked and tested and talked to some of checked and tested and talked to some of the activists that I I mentioned without the activists that I I mentioned without naming them. But I I'm I'm looking for naming them. But I I'm I'm looking for opportunity where I can really sit down opportunity where I can really sit down and really understand what what keeps and really understand what what keeps them going in spite of the environment them going in spite of the environment and the context not being so encouraging and the context not being so encouraging broadly speaking. Uh but I I think it's broadly speaking. Uh but I I think it's something that you need to we need to something that you need to we need to explore more with this with this women explore more with this with this women who are coming up with those steps. who are coming up with those steps. I'm really mad at you that you haven't I'm really mad at you that you haven't written five books by an hour. the the written five books by an hour. the the the I mean the the the there's a book in the I mean the the the there's a book in this alone if you actually you know get this alone if you actually you know get into it come on man start writing I will into it come on man start writing I will uh I will keep pushing you know every uh I will keep pushing you know every week you'll get messages on WhatsApp week you'll get messages on WhatsApp what have you written are you going to what have you written are you going to build a writing habit you commit do you build a writing habit you commit do you commit to it in public right now on this commit to it in public right now on this podcast you will build a writing habit podcast you will build a writing habit what are you going to do it what are you going to do it you know I know I have some resistance I you know I know I have some resistance I don't know what uh and I I have all the don't know what uh and I I have all the techniques and the technology and the techniques and the technology and the motivation that you talk about you motivation that you talk about you Don't bother about what you think. The Don't bother about what you think. The first is you're just mental dump. Get first is you're just mental dump. Get that out and then we'll see about how to that out and then we'll see about how to process it and that kind of thing. So I process it and that kind of thing. So I know all that but it's somewhere that know all that but it's somewhere that knowing and acting there is still some knowing and acting there is still some distance I have to uh distance I have to uh I have to travel. Let me put it that I have to travel. Let me put it that way. way. way. You will travel. Life will just be gone. You will travel. Life will just be gone. So again I want to talk about you are So again I want to talk about you are but also about you with this next but also about you with this next question which is about the fact that it question which is about the fact that it might seem to someone looking at your might seem to someone looking at your narrative that around the time you start narrative that around the time you start you are you're basically doing one thing you are you're basically doing one thing which is you're doing a particular kind which is you're doing a particular kind of social work and now you founded an of social work and now you founded an organization but if you look a little organization but if you look a little deeper actually you're wearing many hats deeper actually you're wearing many hats and performing very different functions and performing very different functions one is a function of the actual practice one is a function of the actual practice of social work you're going out there in of social work you're going out there in the slums and talking to slum kids or the slums and talking to slum kids or children of construction laborers or children of construction laborers or whatever and you're working with them. whatever and you're working with them. That's the actual work. Then there is That's the actual work. Then there is the second part of the practice that you the second part of the practice that you mentioned yesterday which is you're mentioned yesterday which is you're doing reflection on the work and doing reflection on the work and therefore you are an ideas person. therefore you are an ideas person. You're a theoretician. You are You're a theoretician. You are constantly revising your model of the constantly revising your model of the world rather than stick to something world rather than stick to something dogmatic because practice and theory are dogmatic because practice and theory are feeding into each other. The third thing feeding into each other. The third thing that you're doing is you become an that you're doing is you become an organization man that now you're leading organization man that now you're leading Juva and the job is that okay I got to Juva and the job is that okay I got to build this organization which means that build this organization which means that you're without using these terms maybe you're without using these terms maybe but you're putting HR in place you're but you're putting HR in place you're putting it in place you're uh you know putting it in place you're uh you know you you're getting all of that together you you're getting all of that together you are becoming a mentor to people you you are becoming a mentor to people you are becoming a manager of people and all are becoming a manager of people and all these are subtly different in and of these are subtly different in and of themselves and then what you're doing themselves and then what you're doing also is that you're trying to build the also is that you're trying to build the ecosystem by building future leaders and ecosystem by building future leaders and also while you're doing all of this also while you're doing all of this along with the practice of running an along with the practice of running an organization you are also thinking about organization you are also thinking about the theory of running an organization the theory of running an organization and here we get into pract practice and here we get into pract practice again so gradually while your first again so gradually while your first board may have people who've done their board may have people who've done their masters in social work it evolves to masters in social work it evolves to people who've been in corporate roles people who've been in corporate roles and all of that because you are picking and all of that because you are picking each board member according to a need each board member according to a need that you has in that moment in terms of that you has in that moment in terms of guidance and the direction that it is guidance and the direction that it is taking. Tell me about all of this taking. Tell me about all of this because it seems almost mind-blowing to because it seems almost mind-blowing to me that someone can handle all of this me that someone can handle all of this and succeed at it because um I find that and succeed at it because um I find that I might be good at one or two things but I might be good at one or two things but at some point I reach my level of at some point I reach my level of incompetence or the Peter principle as incompetence or the Peter principle as it were but in your case you just kept it were but in your case you just kept learning learning learning and going. So learning learning learning and going. So what was this for you? Were there what was this for you? Were there frustrations? Was there self-doubt? What frustrations? Was there self-doubt? What was hard? What was easy? Tell me about was hard? What was easy? Tell me about this. this. this. The one analogy that I use sometime in The one analogy that I use sometime in the early phase of yoga I used to call the early phase of yoga I used to call myself a dumbari. Dumbbari is a is a myself a dumbari. Dumbbari is a is a person who performs on the street. person who performs on the street. So if you look at all the things that a So if you look at all the things that a dumbari does what he does first he's dumbari does what he does first he's bitting his drums to gather people bitting his drums to gather people around then he's doing some acrobatics. around then he's doing some acrobatics. Uh if he has a companion he will make Uh if he has a companion he will make some acrobatics companions to do some some acrobatics companions to do some acrobatics. So he's training his next acrobatics. So he's training his next generation of acrobats to take on those generation of acrobats to take on those roles and then at the end take on those roles and then at the end of the show after entertaining the crowd of the show after entertaining the crowd for about an hour 45 minute uh you then for about an hour 45 minute uh you then are going around to pick up the money. are going around to pick up the money. So if you look at that it's a multiple So if you look at that it's a multiple roles. So even the very first thing that roles. So even the very first thing that a doaries do is clean up the space where a doaries do is clean up the space where they're going to be doing that act they're going to be doing that act because that's that's almost like a because that's that's almost like a praying to the praying to the land on praying to the land on which you're going to perform right in which you're going to perform right in the in the ritualistic kind of the in in the in the ritualistic kind of sense. So if you look at each of the sense. So if you look at each of the stages it's that analogy. So I used to stages it's that analogy. So I used to tell that to people in Yua that you know tell that to people in Yua that you know when I began I was like a dumbari I was when I began I was like a dumbari I was uh you know doing the jaru jadu in the uh you know doing the jaru jadu in the office. We had a very small office in office. We had a very small office in Mukbart which is like 10 by 10 room. So Mukbart which is like 10 by 10 room. So getting up I used to sleep there after getting up I used to sleep there after my taxi driving sometimes I would come my taxi driving sometimes I would come and sleep there get up at 8:39 go home and sleep there get up at 8:39 go home have shower and things like that bath have shower and things like that bath then come back at by 9 and then clean then come back at by 9 and then clean the place organize only one person had a the place organize only one person had a table and chair was the types everybody table and chair was the types everybody was sitting on the ground. So you each was sitting on the ground. So you each of these places each of this type of of these places each of this type of work that you get to do and that's the work that you get to do and that's the advantage I have had of really building advantage I have had of really building from nothing as as you would have from nothing as as you would have written uh read in the case study the uh written uh read in the case study the uh first thing I got a loan of 5,000 rupees first thing I got a loan of 5,000 rupees and that is what how you are began and that is what how you are began basically basically basically now this multiple things come from one now this multiple things come from one obsession that is outlined also in the obsession that is outlined also in the case study case study case study is somewhere I had this thing obsession is somewhere I had this thing obsession there let me put it two two factors one there let me put it two two factors one was this group that I talked about in was this group that I talked about in college of social work which basically college of social work which basically said this guy is cannot do anything said this guy is cannot do anything cannot develop anything he will become cannot develop anything he will become more individualistic he he doesn't have more individualistic he he doesn't have a capacity to build institution so that a capacity to build institution so that was one kind of a uh saying that I will was one kind of a uh saying that I will prove them wrong so there was that prove them wrong so there was that element at somewhere at the back of my element at somewhere at the back of my mind and the second which is more mind and the second which is more positive element which was my thinking positive element which was my thinking even at that stage that if I'm going to even at that stage that if I'm going to invest some time and energy in something invest some time and energy in something like this, I want to build a centurion like this, I want to build a centurion organization. Why should only organization. Why should only profit-making organizations should stay profit-making organizations should stay and live more than 100 years? Because and live more than 100 years? Because that time you had only examples of that time you had only examples of corporate sector organizations, many corporate sector organizations, many companies from US predominantly who had companies from US predominantly who had already cross 100. The organization that already cross 100. The organization that I was looking at Oxfam, Amnesty, they I was looking at Oxfam, Amnesty, they were in the 60 65 years kind of a age were in the 60 65 years kind of a age group. Only Red Cross I thought was group. Only Red Cross I thought was something which was more than 100. In something which was more than 100. In India we had institutions like Pratana India we had institutions like Pratana Samaj I mentioned uh who were more than Samaj I mentioned uh who were more than 100 years but they were no more relevant 100 years but they were no more relevant and vibrant in the time that I was and vibrant in the time that I was talking about. So I was talking about talking about. So I was talking about how do the institutions remain vibrant how do the institutions remain vibrant even if they are 100 years and 100 plus. even if they are 100 years and 100 plus. So that obsession So that obsession led to me trying to work at this led to me trying to work at this multiple levels. Second multiple levels. Second I as I may have mentioned to you I as I may have mentioned to you informally the first thing I did before informally the first thing I did before you started functioning August we got you started functioning August we got the registration the first thing I went the registration the first thing I went for a twomonth training program on for a twomonth training program on management of youth organization in management of youth organization in Delhi at Vishu Kendra. So from the get Delhi at Vishu Kendra. So from the get go I basically said there are areas what go I basically said there are areas what I understand is the analysis of the I understand is the analysis of the society. What I understand is what needs society. What I understand is what needs to be done but how to structure it. what to be done but how to structure it. what are the elements that I need to be are the elements that I need to be looking into? uh like I'm not a I wasn't looking into? uh like I'm not a I wasn't a accountant but uh you know sister a accountant but uh you know sister Magdalene from the Nirvalan college of Magdalene from the Nirvalan college of social work helped me to start doing the social work helped me to start doing the basic accounts how the basic accounts to basic accounts how the basic accounts to be kept and those kinds of things but I be kept and those kinds of things but I need a much higher understanding of need a much higher understanding of accounting and finance how I needed to accounting and finance how I needed to get all those from the structured get all those from the structured learning processes and I've been learning processes and I've been fortunate to do these kinds of learning fortunate to do these kinds of learning then I went to IM Bangalore then I went to IM Bangalore for 3 months training program on for 3 months training program on management of NGOs which is at a management of NGOs which is at a different level uh which was uh you know different level uh which was uh you know completely different level and you had completely different level and you had large NGOs's uh you know CEOs and large NGOs's uh you know CEOs and executive directors in that program um I executive directors in that program um I forgot her surname Gita was her first forgot her surname Gita was her first name she was also contestant for name she was also contestant for becoming the chief of the UN women uh becoming the chief of the UN women uh globally she was a professor in I am globally she was a professor in I am Bangalore uh so she was the head of that Bangalore uh so she was the head of that program and that just helped me quite a program and that just helped me quite a bit in terms of really looking at a bit in terms of really looking at a scale issue. You know, Vishuy Kendra scale issue. You know, Vishuy Kendra gave me the base knowledge. I am gave me the base knowledge. I am Bangalore gave me the scale kind of a Bangalore gave me the scale kind of a knowledge and then when it came after knowledge and then when it came after five six years of UI when we did that five six years of UI when we did that major shift in 1990 to move from major shift in 1990 to move from projects to program and I'll explain the projects to program and I'll explain the difference between the projects and difference between the projects and program in a minute. I attended a program in a minute. I attended a program at IM Ahmedabad on managing program at IM Ahmedabad on managing organizational change which was done by organizational change which was done by professor Parik. She's also very very professor Parik. She's also very very very well-known professor from the IMM. very well-known professor from the IMM. So I was always open to learning and So I was always open to learning and acquiring new skills. Many NOS's get um acquiring new skills. Many NOS's get um offified because their leaders either offified because their leaders either come from a approach that they know uh come from a approach that they know uh and they stop learning rather I had a and they stop learning rather I had a practice I don't know whether I practice I don't know whether I mentioned that even informally to you I mentioned that even informally to you I had a practice for 10 years where I used had a practice for 10 years where I used to do one adventure sport to check my to do one adventure sport to check my risk takingaking abilities so bungee risk takingaking abilities so bungee jumping sky jump catapult jumping sky jump catapult um river rafting all the in different um river rafting all the in different one adventure sport personally paid for one adventure sport personally paid for because you will not pay for it and one because you will not pay for it and one learning program where I'm a learner I learning program where I'm a learner I am not a trainer I'm not a facilitator am not a trainer I'm not a facilitator I'm not a public speaker nothing I'm I'm not a public speaker nothing I'm just as any other student and that just as any other student and that tremendously helped me uh Amit to really tremendously helped me uh Amit to really build that uh build that capabilities build that uh build that capabilities I was always a great listener at one I was always a great listener at one level so people many many people whom level so people many many people whom you met in the first part of in my life you met in the first part of in my life they'll say oh minar can go on and on they'll say oh minar can go on and on and on but I used to be listening very and on but I used to be listening very sharply and I then pick up the brains of sharply and I then pick up the brains of those people so this idea on the board those people so this idea on the board how to move the board from compliance how to move the board from compliance board compliance board what I call a board compliance board what I call a rubber stamp board it's basically all rubber stamp board it's basically all your first board generally in the injur your first board generally in the injur families whom people whom you trust who families whom people whom you trust who basically going to say basically going to say whatever you want to do do it we are whatever you want to do do it we are there you know and you bring your papers there you know and you bring your papers we'll sign those papers I was always we'll sign those papers I was always opposed to that idea and I learned some opposed to that idea and I learned some of this from a friend from Australia who of this from a friend from Australia who unfortunately died of cancer very unfortunately died of cancer very recently. So he first came and conducted recently. So he first came and conducted a workshop for the board. So many angels a workshop for the board. So many angels do lot of training programs for their do lot of training programs for their staff. I did this training for the staff. I did this training for the board. Think that what is the difference board. Think that what is the difference between a compliance board to a between a compliance board to a performancedriven board and what it will performancedriven board and what it will take for us to move from here to the take for us to move from here to the performancedriven board and the next performancedriven board and the next step what we should be aspiring is a step what we should be aspiring is a missiondriven board. Okay. So what are missiondriven board. Okay. So what are those steps that we need to take in those steps that we need to take in terms of changing of the membership of terms of changing of the membership of the board? What types of skill sets are the board? What types of skill sets are missing? like we were already getting missing? like we were already getting into this micro finance area. Right now into this micro finance area. Right now for having somebody who understand micro for having somebody who understand micro finance in in a larger context was finance in in a larger context was somebody important to be on the board. somebody important to be on the board. We were getting into housing and We were getting into housing and infrastructure development in the infrastructure development in the communities. So having somebody who communities. So having somebody who understands that and then to understand understands that and then to understand this complexity uh of ya somebody like this complexity uh of ya somebody like Arun Jooshi whom I got from the RPG Arun Jooshi whom I got from the RPG group who was a group HR head in the RPG group who was a group HR head in the RPG all these people is people whom I have all these people is people whom I have learned from and they have contributed. learned from and they have contributed. So I think that made me so yes it the So I think that made me so yes it the the catalyst the mover and shaker of all the catalyst the mover and shaker of all this was minar pimp play but was it only this was minar pimp play but was it only minar play's contribution? No all these minar play's contribution? No all these people what ability I had was that people what ability I had was that Dombari ability of gathering all the Dombari ability of gathering all the skill set that are required convincing skill set that are required convincing them that they need to be there and them that they need to be there and getting them in that board and locating getting them in that board and locating a role that they can play effectively a role that they can play effectively that they will feel energized they will that they will feel energized they will because a lot of the board meetings are because a lot of the board meetings are boring meetings as many people will tell boring meetings as many people will tell me. Uh I say no I my boarding my board me. Uh I say no I my boarding my board meeting should be a encouraging meeting meeting should be a encouraging meeting at the end of the board people should at the end of the board people should say when is the next meeting that's a say when is the next meeting that's a good sign of a good board a functioning good sign of a good board a functioning board uh other people just come for a board uh other people just come for a board meeting have a lunch and then go board meeting have a lunch and then go away and there's nothing new new away and there's nothing new new learning uh you know they have not learning uh you know they have not really it has not titilated their really it has not titilated their thinking or they are not thinking in thinking or they are not thinking in some new perspective so I think all some new perspective so I think all these factors contributed the last point these factors contributed the last point I'll make at a very early stage in you I'll make at a very early stage in you are because I always work with in are because I always work with in frames. So at a very early stage I had frames. So at a very early stage I had developed this frame called PDODHR. developed this frame called PDODHR. If program development our reason the If program development our reason the reason for existence is to deliver a reason for existence is to deliver a high quality impactful program for the high quality impactful program for the constituencies we work with. To do that constituencies we work with. To do that you need you need you need appropriately skilled, committed, appropriately skilled, committed, passionate professionals who need to be passionate professionals who need to be recruited and not only recruited recruited and not only recruited onboarded developed and their onboarded developed and their competencies are fully leveraged in the competencies are fully leveraged in the interest of the creating the impact on interest of the creating the impact on the ground and for them to be the ground and for them to be accommodated in the organization you accommodated in the organization you need the organizational structure and need the organizational structure and the systems where they feel aligned and the systems where they feel aligned and feel ownership of the organization. So feel ownership of the organization. So whether it is the you know pay scales whether it is the you know pay scales whether it is you know uh what kind of a whether it is you know uh what kind of a processes and one thing we did which was processes and one thing we did which was very interesting and that uh I learned very interesting and that uh I learned from uh people like uh Anand Gro and from uh people like uh Anand Gro and Indra J Singh uh they when they started Indra J Singh uh they when they started their law law firm and lawyers their law law firm and lawyers collective where lot of young lawyers collective where lot of young lawyers used to come so they had started a used to come so they had started a process called uh lawyers collective process called uh lawyers collective school and they used to do that once a school and they used to do that once a year they'll go somewhere in you know year they'll go somewhere in you know Lonala or Kandala and two three days all Lonala or Kandala and two three days all the young lawyers and them will stay the young lawyers and them will stay together and think through what should together and think through what should be the lawyers collective perspective. be the lawyers collective perspective. So I picked up that idea. I said if the So I picked up that idea. I said if the lawyers are doing it, why shouldn't I do lawyers are doing it, why shouldn't I do it for UI for UI? It was more complex it for UI for UI? It was more complex because we had people who were support because we had people who were support staff, people who were leading staff, people who were leading particular programs. U so you had a particular programs. U so you had a whole range of people and then because I whole range of people and then because I was a trainer at my mind, I could was a trainer at my mind, I could literally, you know, think and literally, you know, think and conceptualize if I'm conceptualizing a conceptualize if I'm conceptualizing a training program, the five elements need training program, the five elements need to be like into knowledge, skills, to be like into knowledge, skills, attitudes, perspective, and attitudes, perspective, and self-awareness. So how do I design a self-awareness. So how do I design a program for each of this layer in UA program for each of this layer in UA that they will feel engaged and there that they will feel engaged and there will be common common uh plenaries where will be common common uh plenaries where all of them will come together. So that all of them will come together. So that staff school program was something which staff school program was something which many others then followed and said I many others then followed and said I this is something very interesting this is something very interesting because spending five days together because spending five days together living together and that brought in lot living together and that brought in lot of interesting learning lot of issues of interesting learning lot of issues because you're living together so you because you're living together so you get to know who is who you know you get to know who is who you know you spending a night and then you know who spending a night and then you know who who what tendencies what people bring in who what tendencies what people bring in that would open up number of number of that would open up number of number of things somebody's misbehaving somebody things somebody's misbehaving somebody how do we pick that up all that And that how do we pick that up all that And that led to some of the things that we did led to some of the things that we did even before Supreme Court guidelines even before Supreme Court guidelines like UA had a women's committee even like UA had a women's committee even prior to the U Supreme Court mandated prior to the U Supreme Court mandated guidelines for setting up the women's guidelines for setting up the women's committee in the corporate sector and in committee in the corporate sector and in all all sectors where women are employed all all sectors where women are employed but it was we were already doing that but it was we were already doing that paternity leave has become mandatory paternity leave has become mandatory very recently I'm told but UA had a very recently I'm told but UA had a paternity leave long time ago before paternity leave long time ago before anybody even thought of the paternity anybody even thought of the paternity leave. So paternity leave, adoption leave. So paternity leave, adoption leave. So we were always encouraging leave. So we were always encouraging people if they want to adopt that they people if they want to adopt that they should get the time that they need for should get the time that they need for adopting a baby and you know to nurture adopting a baby and you know to nurture that baby in the beginning. So I think that baby in the beginning. So I think lot of those think came from that lot of those think came from that continuous thinking through of the continuous thinking through of the issues and uh this then was captured in issues and uh this then was captured in UI in a very early stage uh ideas in UI in a very early stage uh ideas in Sussex in UK did a organized study of UI Sussex in UK did a organized study of UI in terms of U practices how UI has in terms of U practices how UI has evolved. uh one of the person Rajas evolved. uh one of the person Rajas Matani she was a researcher and head of Matani she was a researcher and head of research department Tata instead of research department Tata instead of social science when she did her PhD on social science when she did her PhD on organizational behavior at IM Ahmedabad organizational behavior at IM Ahmedabad you have her case study so you can see you have her case study so you can see and I I I haven't seen some of those and I I I haven't seen some of those documents I must be having them documents I must be having them somewhere but those documents exist somewhere but those documents exist about you at that very early stage of about you at that very early stage of some of these practices that we but as I some of these practices that we but as I would say that though I was a person who would say that though I was a person who was a kind of a dumbari collecting and was a kind of a dumbari collecting and gathering and gathering everybody gathering and gathering everybody uh lot of this people's contributions uh lot of this people's contributions helped us to shape and work at this helped us to shape and work at this multiple layers and levels. But of multiple layers and levels. But of course I had immense energy. It was like course I had immense energy. It was like 24/7 where I had no limits of evenings, 24/7 where I had no limits of evenings, weekends. weekends. weekends. It was like you make yourself fully It was like you make yourself fully available to that cause literally and available to that cause literally and that I think that helped also. I should that I think that helped also. I should tell my listeners at this point that I tell my listeners at this point that I have met very few people with the kind have met very few people with the kind of limitless energy that Minar is of limitless energy that Minar is showing here. Jumbo piras are actually showing here. Jumbo piras are actually one secret to his success but we shall one secret to his success but we shall not get into jumbo piras. Now as I'm not get into jumbo piras. Now as I'm deepening my understanding of you deepening my understanding of you through this really stimulating through this really stimulating conversation. It strikes me that you are conversation. It strikes me that you are actually bringing two things together actually bringing two things together which often don't come together. One I which often don't come together. One I see in you as the go-getter much like see in you as the go-getter much like your mom. uh the go-getter who is also your mom. uh the go-getter who is also at the same time challenging at the same time challenging conventional wisdom in the classroom uh conventional wisdom in the classroom uh and is going out there and doing stuff and is going out there and doing stuff and in a sense there is this alpha male and in a sense there is this alpha male energy energy energy I'll bring people together I'll be the I'll bring people together I'll be the leader of the tribe and I'll get the job leader of the tribe and I'll get the job done at the same time I see a certain done at the same time I see a certain kind of humility where whatever the kind of humility where whatever the youthful arrogance might have been youthful arrogance might have been you're not getting carried away by that you're not getting carried away by that and you are on that constant learning and you are on that constant learning journey not later in life but right from journey not later in life but right from then that you go to Delhi to uh learn then that you go to Delhi to uh learn about how to uh run an NGO then you do about how to uh run an NGO then you do the other course on you know at IIM the other course on you know at IIM where you broadened that scale um you where you broadened that scale um you signed up for the art of clear writing signed up for the art of clear writing and life lessons and uh you know when I and life lessons and uh you know when I think about why a man of your think about why a man of your accomplishments and learning should sign accomplishments and learning should sign up for a course like that at first I up for a course like that at first I don't understand but then I immediately don't understand but then I immediately do because for anyone who wants to get do because for anyone who wants to get anywhere they realize that life is a anywhere they realize that life is a process of constant lifelong learning process of constant lifelong learning and yet you know and and even even that and yet you know and and even even that uh you know another indic another sign uh you know another indic another sign of this humility is the fact that you're of this humility is the fact that you're uh you move from a compliance board to a uh you move from a compliance board to a performance board and you start stacking performance board and you start stacking it with people who will hold you it with people who will hold you accountable and hold your feet to the accountable and hold your feet to the fire which is also tough. So what I feel fire which is also tough. So what I feel and I want your comment on this is that and I want your comment on this is that 99% of people don't have the second 99% of people don't have the second aspect especially if you're heading an aspect especially if you're heading an organization you will think that you organization you will think that you know all the answers or you can figure know all the answers or you can figure out all the answers and that humility out all the answers and that humility that that sense that I want to learn that that sense that I want to learn learn yesterday in yesterday's learn yesterday in yesterday's conversation you mentioned that you went conversation you mentioned that you went to Singapore recently and you did a to Singapore recently and you did a course out there yeah most people don't course out there yeah most people don't do this you know so I want to sort of do this you know so I want to sort of ask you about ask you about Like was this always intrinsic to you Like was this always intrinsic to you and do you wish more people did it? Like and do you wish more people did it? Like when you mentor people do you push them when you mentor people do you push them to do this because ultimately the world to do this because ultimately the world is changing so rapidly that the only is changing so rapidly that the only skill worth having is a skill of skill worth having is a skill of learning. learning. learning. No. So it it links with you remember No. So it it links with you remember when we spoke about my childhood. when we spoke about my childhood. Uh curiosity Uh curiosity Uh curiosity uh has been a kind of a mainstay though uh has been a kind of a mainstay though sometime it got expressed a most sometime it got expressed a most dangerous thing of bursting the cracker dangerous thing of bursting the cracker in the hands but curiosity of what in the hands but curiosity of what happens or you know the uh you know happens or you know the uh you know following the uh following the uh you know dead body to the crerematorium you know dead body to the crerematorium to see what happens after the body is to see what happens after the body is burnt where the where where where it burnt where the where where where it disappears. So I think curiosity to try disappears. So I think curiosity to try and I used to be a I used to ask all and I used to be a I used to ask all kinds of questions. People used to get kinds of questions. People used to get really worked up in terms of maybe that really worked up in terms of maybe that time they were stupid questions where as time they were stupid questions where as a as a child I would ask all kinds of a as a child I would ask all kinds of questions to my father to my teacher to questions to my father to my teacher to my mom. Not that every time I got my mom. Not that every time I got coherent answers but sometime I got shut coherent answers but sometime I got shut up sometime I got a slap up sometime I got a slap asking a wrong question at the wrong asking a wrong question at the wrong time. All that has happened but I never time. All that has happened but I never gave up that. I think that was that was gave up that. I think that was that was important. I think that that just important. I think that that just continued as a as a part of my overall continued as a as a part of my overall learning and that period that I talked learning and that period that I talked about from the seventh standard to the about from the seventh standard to the 12th standard and the turmulus kind of a 12th standard and the turmulus kind of a self-reflection change looking at uh you self-reflection change looking at uh you know whether I'm going to be a religious know whether I'm going to be a religious person or a rational person like Dr. person or a rational person like Dr. core uh all those is part of that uh core uh all those is part of that uh that curiosity. I told you I went for that curiosity. I told you I went for the u went for the Russian classes uh uh the u went for the Russian classes uh uh because uh I wanted to read the because uh I wanted to read the philosophical essays of lady in original philosophical essays of lady in original Russian and there I formed a very Russian and there I formed a very beautiful friendship with a very dear beautiful friendship with a very dear friend of mine uh who came to Russian friend of mine uh who came to Russian because he wanted to understand chess because he wanted to understand chess and the original chess moves by some of and the original chess moves by some of the Russian masters Vikran Safikar he's the Russian masters Vikran Safikar he's a very wellknown he's now been mentoring a very wellknown he's now been mentoring people uh he does lot of work on memory people uh he does lot of work on memory So very very dear friend. Uh just uh So very very dear friend. Uh just uh last Sunday we we just yesterday day last Sunday we we just yesterday day before yesterday we had a lunch together before yesterday we had a lunch together at my place. Uh so you know uh these are at my place. Uh so you know uh these are like friendships which are formed like friendships which are formed totally out of out of uh the thing. He totally out of out of uh the thing. He had nothing to do with any progressive had nothing to do with any progressive thinking nothing no idea about but I was thinking nothing no idea about but I was curious. I was curious about Vicki. I curious. I was curious about Vicki. I was curious about his interest in chess was curious about his interest in chess and you know I was not a chess player and you know I was not a chess player but I was curious and that's how that he but I was curious and that's how that he was not any left or any Marxist linker was not any left or any Marxist linker nothing but it just so you interest in nothing but it just so you interest in people has been a constant endeavor for people has been a constant endeavor for me so you know I I've like sat and me so you know I I've like sat and listened to people for hours together uh listened to people for hours together uh in the in the young days in Maharashtra in the in the young days in Maharashtra there is this form called kitan so you there is this form called kitan so you have the kitan karth and there There are have the kitan karth and there There are some very famous kitan cars who come and some very famous kitan cars who come and give kitans. They are actually invited give kitans. They are actually invited by paying a kind of honoraria uh to come by paying a kind of honoraria uh to come and uh address the gatherings. Not some and uh address the gatherings. Not some of this new age guru that one sees with of this new age guru that one sees with hundreds of thousands of people and you hundreds of thousands of people and you know all kinds of nonsense that happens. know all kinds of nonsense that happens. These kitten cars were for giving you These kitten cars were for giving you social lessons. So they will quote from social lessons. So they will quote from Naneshwar, they'll quote from Tukharam, Naneshwar, they'll quote from Tukharam, you know all those kinds of scent uh you know all those kinds of scent uh traditions that we have in Maharashtra. traditions that we have in Maharashtra. uh and in conan that was very dominant uh and in conan that was very dominant kind of a uh trend that one one got. So kind of a uh trend that one one got. So as as kid I would love any of these as as kid I would love any of these things. I remember how desperately I things. I remember how desperately I went for the meeting addressed by went for the meeting addressed by Baratab Takra when Shiva was formed and Baratab Takra when Shiva was formed and I was a young kid and I ran to listen to I was a young kid and I ran to listen to him or when Atalhari Wajpi came to Gira him or when Atalhari Wajpi came to Gira where I used to stay. I would never give where I used to stay. I would never give up any any of this important speeches. up any any of this important speeches. Not that I was understanding the Not that I was understanding the politics but just out of curiosity how politics but just out of curiosity how they speak you know so like the element they speak you know so like the element of pause I learned from Atal Bihari of pause I learned from Atal Bihari watch's speeches fantastic like that watch's speeches fantastic like that person's speaks so much by his pauses person's speaks so much by his pauses than what he speaks in words his pause than what he speaks in words his pause at the right time gives you such a huge at the right time gives you such a huge depth of understanding and I'm talking depth of understanding and I'm talking about as kids this I'm doing it as a kid about as kids this I'm doing it as a kid so That curiosity I think played into so That curiosity I think played into everything I did Amit and that is what everything I did Amit and that is what continues. continues. continues. So even now the people say why are you So even now the people say why are you behaving like a child? Why are you behaving like a child? Why are you asking that kind of a question? People asking that kind of a question? People get a little upset when I ask some get a little upset when I ask some stupid question at my age such questions stupid question at my age such questions are not asked. But I have always told are not asked. But I have always told people that you know it's better to be people that you know it's better to be fool once than to remain a fool for the fool once than to remain a fool for the whole life. So even if at that point of whole life. So even if at that point of time people think I'm a fool because I'm time people think I'm a fool because I'm asking that question. It's okay. But at asking that question. It's okay. But at least I know the correct answer if I'm least I know the correct answer if I'm asking the right person and it just asking the right person and it just avoids me being remaining a fool in that avoids me being remaining a fool in that area for a whole life. Like today I area for a whole life. Like today I learned from you about the MSG. Uh you learned from you about the MSG. Uh you know this is a myth. So now of course know this is a myth. So now of course I'll go back and read on it a little I'll go back and read on it a little more and then I'll deal with that myth more and then I'll deal with that myth and get rid of that myth. Uh so that's and get rid of that myth. Uh so that's how I act on things. So for me it how I act on things. So for me it doesn't stop just listening it's also doesn't stop just listening it's also testing validating checking and then I testing validating checking and then I told you about my English uh attempt to told you about my English uh attempt to learn English do times of India don't learn English do times of India don't move on the news till the time you have move on the news till the time you have understood that word and the next stage understood that word and the next stage not only understand that word what are not only understand that word what are the other words that can be used for the other words that can be used for that so my my wife says she comes from a that so my my wife says she comes from a very elite school called queen Mary's so very elite school called queen Mary's so our constant going you're a daughter our constant going you're a daughter daughter of the raj I am a son of a soil daughter of the raj I am a son of a soil that was the kind of a constant that was the kind of a constant bickering but I I still believe my bickering but I I still believe my vocabulary is much bigger than her vocabulary is much bigger than her vocabulary because some of these vocabulary because some of these attempts that I made and it's not it's attempts that I made and it's not it's not oneupmanship or anything like that. not oneupmanship or anything like that. just simply the fact that I did all this just simply the fact that I did all this and I did read so extensively that my and I did read so extensively that my vocabulary got built much bigger than uh vocabulary got built much bigger than uh even the English medium and the best even the English medium and the best English medium school lot of the English medium school lot of the celebrated women come from that one celebrated women come from that one school Armadai who became the UGC school Armadai who became the UGC chairperson came from that school queen chairperson came from that school queen Mary's in Nanach uh so very very very Mary's in Nanach uh so very very very elite school her sisters queen Mary so elite school her sisters queen Mary so you look at all those people who were you look at all those people who were committed to education at a really good committed to education at a really good quality education. The girls went to quality education. The girls went to Queen Mary that was so so normal and Queen Mary that was so so normal and common and I went to Chikisak which was common and I went to Chikisak which was a Marati medium school which is not bad a Marati medium school which is not bad but my six till 600 I was in Nagarisha but my six till 600 I was in Nagarisha school you know kind of a municipal school you know kind of a municipal council school at at K. So what I'm council school at at K. So what I'm trying to basically say some of those trying to basically say some of those things I still preserve uh even um even things I still preserve uh even um even in all conversations I pick up things in all conversations I pick up things and then I will follow uh so now uh you and then I will follow uh so now uh you know I want to really understand know I want to really understand frameworks that sudden frameworks that sudden obsessed with frameworks. I've tried to obsessed with frameworks. I've tried to build some frameworks in the work that I build some frameworks in the work that I have done. So I want to really have done. So I want to really understand how his frameworks he's understand how his frameworks he's applying in the in the MSME sector. uh applying in the in the MSME sector. uh because I was part of the MSME the we because I was part of the MSME the we were running that silver factory which were running that silver factory which is so what framework could I have used is so what framework could I have used for that kind of thing or if I do some for that kind of thing or if I do some foray into MSME sector ahead I would foray into MSME sector ahead I would have useful frameworks so I would have useful frameworks so I would interact with him so that I think that interact with him so that I think that motivation that um willingness to listen motivation that um willingness to listen and learn I think is somewhere have been and learn I think is somewhere have been um um um and I don't think it is something to do and I don't think it is something to do with the family I was never encouraged with the family I was never encouraged in that fashion. It's I think it's in that fashion. It's I think it's something which one has uh something which one has uh self-developed and evolved. Some of my self-developed and evolved. Some of my teachers have been extremely useful like teachers have been extremely useful like I I said in uh seventh standard 8th I I said in uh seventh standard 8th standard I used to speak on Naneshwari standard I used to speak on Naneshwari with authority you know really with authority you know really interpreting Naneshwari because it was I interpreting Naneshwari because it was I think her name was Patkar who fantastic think her name was Patkar who fantastic teacher and the way she she really teacher and the way she she really brought Naneshwari alive to us as kids brought Naneshwari alive to us as kids and then I was inspired about it and and then I was inspired about it and then I read Naneshwari and then I then I read Naneshwari and then I started looking at how to interpret what started looking at how to interpret what are the different angles what are the are the different angles what are the kinds kinds kinds life approaches that one can have in life approaches that one can have in that because every pair of naneshwari that because every pair of naneshwari can be interpreted from so many can be interpreted from so many different ways for your own life in that different ways for your own life in that sense right so whatever my capacity was sense right so whatever my capacity was in the seventh or eth standard I would in the seventh or eth standard I would put that to the maximum used to put that to the maximum used to interpret naneshwari or in my graduation interpret naneshwari or in my graduation level I was first in English starting level I was first in English starting with not coming from English media with not coming from English media background at bachelor of social work I background at bachelor of social work I first in English I'll now give you a first in English I'll now give you a simple example there may of caster was simple example there may of caster was there for my BSW3 and um all my sons of there for my BSW3 and um all my sons of Arthur Miller. These were the two books Arthur Miller. These were the two books and it started in BW1 me having a and it started in BW1 me having a contestation with the English teacher contestation with the English teacher called Mrs. Kotawala called Mrs. Kotawala fantastic teacher very empathetic fantastic teacher very empathetic teacher but I had a fight with her teacher but I had a fight with her saying that why do we need English for saying that why do we need English for social work because I was not good at social work because I was not good at English of course but still that was my English of course but still that was my contestation in the first year of BW. In contestation in the first year of BW. In the last year of BW I stood first while the last year of BW I stood first while all the other kids had come from the all the other kids had come from the English medium except for the two boys English medium except for the two boys who were with me. So three boys were who were with me. So three boys were non-English medium uh schools and the non-English medium uh schools and the interpretation I gave to mayor of interpretation I gave to mayor of Castro. Now this is again because of the Castro. Now this is again because of the particular analysis I basically said particular analysis I basically said this is a this describes the era of a this is a this describes the era of a transition of the British society from transition of the British society from the feudal era to the capitalist era the feudal era to the capitalist era because that is what it it it describes because that is what it it it describes of in terms of the frame of putting it of in terms of the frame of putting it putting that in the frame of economic putting that in the frame of economic development in in that in that country. development in in that in that country. So you know and that is something which So you know and that is something which nobody would think in that fashion right nobody would think in that fashion right they would think more in from the they would think more in from the literary perspective. I was thinking literary perspective. I was thinking more from the uh you know social and more from the uh you know social and economic perspective which that economic perspective which that distinguishing itself I think must have distinguishing itself I think must have blown the paper marker and must have blown the paper marker and must have been good and I got the highest marks been good and I got the highest marks because of some of these analysts. The because of some of these analysts. The same thing I did something on my all my same thing I did something on my all my sons of Artha really bringing in some of sons of Artha really bringing in some of the elements from the social social the elements from the social social factors what make what shape people in factors what make what shape people in the way they they they are shaped. Uh so the way they they they are shaped. Uh so I'm just what I'm trying to explain here I'm just what I'm trying to explain here uh Amit is the uh somewhere having that uh Amit is the uh somewhere having that ability to read something that ability to read something that identifies with you and that uh and then identifies with you and that uh and then not fearing stating it. Out of out of not fearing stating it. Out of out of every 100 people you worked with in the every 100 people you worked with in the social sector, how many have the same social sector, how many have the same curiosity and hunger as you do? curiosity and hunger as you do? Few very few to be honest. Few very few to be honest. Give me a number. Give me a number. If if you're talking about hundred, I If if you're talking about hundred, I would say about maybe seven or eight would say about maybe seven or eight people. people. people. So it's not a large number because uh So it's not a large number because uh and I think that reflects a little and I think that reflects a little broadly of the society. People start broadly of the society. People start getting oified. The the problem we have getting oified. The the problem we have with this traditional um kind of a path with this traditional um kind of a path that is being talked about you know that is being talked about you know education, education, education, job, marriage, kids, job, marriage, kids, retirement, pension, retirement, pension, retirement, pension, you get into that groove and you're you get into that groove and you're stuck. stuck. stuck. If you get into that groove and if you If you get into that groove and if you don't question that and challenge that don't question that and challenge that that's where people are stuck. So I did that's where people are stuck. So I did one experiment and people were some one experiment and people were some people were upset with me. people were upset with me. So all my friends whose parents were So all my friends whose parents were like 65 70 I I would request my friends like 65 70 I I would request my friends can I have a chat with your father or can I have a chat with your father or your mother and the question I would ask your mother and the question I would ask is give me a sense of what did you is give me a sense of what did you achieve in the 70 years of your life achieve in the 70 years of your life and then of course this normal guru will and then of course this normal guru will come up and they say okay but what did come up and they say okay but what did you achieve uh this you did for your you achieve uh this you did for your daughter this you did for your son this daughter this you did for your son this you did for your younger the all that you did for your younger the all that all that is fine but what did you all that is fine but what did you achieve and some would get into a real achieve and some would get into a real reflection on that that I have never reflection on that that I have never thought of that question some would be thought of that question some would be angry and not angry with me because I'm angry and not angry with me because I'm like a friend of their either a daughter like a friend of their either a daughter or a son but they will convey that to or a son but they will convey that to their daughter you know what kind of a person you bring you know what kind of a person you bring in to ask all these kind of stupid in to ask all these kind of stupid questions so I did that with almost like questions so I did that with almost like eight or 10 people of 65 70 year old eight or 10 people of 65 70 year old Again same curiosity you know how do Again same curiosity you know how do when people look back on their life uh when people look back on their life uh how they look back on their life and one how they look back on their life and one thing forget about the data that I thing forget about the data that I gathered but one thing I clearly said I gathered but one thing I clearly said I don't want to be in that situation where don't want to be in that situation where I can't answer that question you know I can't answer that question you know which is convincing to me forget about which is convincing to me forget about anybody else being convinced I need to anybody else being convinced I need to be convinced that I have been meaningful be convinced that I have been meaningful in my life and if that is what I need to in my life and if that is what I need to do then I need to lead life more do then I need to lead life more differently than what these guys have differently than what these guys have not that they were unhappy people they not that they were unhappy people they were very happy people they came from a were very happy people they came from a very nicely set up background they were very nicely set up background they were happy that their kids are doing well happy that their kids are doing well their daughter is some you know done her their daughter is some you know done her PhD blah blah blah blah great but when PhD blah blah blah blah great but when you ask that question what did you do you ask that question what did you do what did you get what did you get it's all externalized and that is what it's all externalized and that is what life tells us life tells us what did you get what did you get what did I did I get at the age of 64 I what did I did I get at the age of 64 I think uh my own learning which is think uh my own learning which is fundamental because I I I think I it has fundamental because I I I think I it has helped me to be a better and better and helped me to be a better and better and better person every year down the line. better person every year down the line. I I think I have got rid of lot of my I I think I have got rid of lot of my arrogance and those sharp ages that I arrogance and those sharp ages that I had in my life. I think I meaningfully had in my life. I think I meaningfully try and attempt to contribute in other try and attempt to contribute in other people's lives through my engagement on people's lives through my engagement on mentorship on uh trainings that I do. I mentorship on uh trainings that I do. I was with a very young youth animators was with a very young youth animators who work with young people 12 to 22 who work with young people 12 to 22 years day before yesterday and I did a years day before yesterday and I did a 3-hour session with them in terms of uh 3-hour session with them in terms of uh what are the kinds of qualities of a what are the kinds of qualities of a good animator who what what do you need good animator who what what do you need to understand to be a good animator and to understand to be a good animator and then again this five five frame five then again this five five frame five point framework uh what you need to be point framework uh what you need to be knowing in knowledge what you need to be knowing in knowledge what you need to be knowing in skills and what kind of knowing in skills and what kind of skills you need to be acquiring what skills you need to be acquiring what kind of attitude behavior behaviors you kind of attitude behavior behaviors you must should be having what kind of must should be having what kind of perspective political analysis the perspective political analysis the contextual analysis you need to be contextual analysis you need to be having and by while by while by while by while by while by while doing while by while by while by while doing all that what is the self-awareness you all that what is the self-awareness you have how you as a person comes across to have how you as a person comes across to them is what they will also be gathering them is what they will also be gathering it's not only they're not only listening it's not only they're not only listening to your knowledge peel but they're also to your knowledge peel but they're also seeing you as a person and that only seeing you as a person and that only will come when you are a highly will come when you are a highly self-aware person. So how do we build on self-aware person. So how do we build on all those five so that you can really all those five so that you can really create a transformatory change for create a transformatory change for yourself and for others. So I'm just yourself and for others. So I'm just giving you in a brief it's a 3-hour giving you in a brief it's a 3-hour session that I did with them. uh so if session that I did with them. uh so if out of those 25 people who were in that out of those 25 people who were in that training even if two or three people uh training even if two or three people uh follow 70 to 80% of what I talked about follow 70 to 80% of what I talked about they will make an impact on the you know they will make an impact on the you know they're working with you know hundreds they're working with you know hundreds of kids in the communities they will of kids in the communities they will make an impact on those kids make an impact on those kids and even that for me that's a big and even that for me that's a big satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction here's a another sort of largest here's a another sort of largest question one of the great privileges in question one of the great privileges in life of course is when you grow up in a life of course is when you grow up in a household where you're surrounded by household where you're surrounded by books and knowledge and you take it in books and knowledge and you take it in through osmosis and I've been incredibly through osmosis and I've been incredibly fortunate about this and I wish this was fortunate about this and I wish this was a problem you could just solve for a problem you could just solve for everybody. everybody. everybody. At the same time I came to realize that At the same time I came to realize that sometimes the absence of this the sometimes the absence of this the deprivation of this can be a feature and deprivation of this can be a feature and not a bug. I first realized this when I not a bug. I first realized this when I recorded I think one of my favorite recorded I think one of my favorite episodes of the show with the economist episodes of the show with the economist Samia Dhan Raj who u grew up as a kid of Samia Dhan Raj who u grew up as a kid of factory workers. So a very uh atypical factory workers. So a very uh atypical uh childhood grew up as a word um uh childhood grew up as a word um daughter of factory workers and her daughter of factory workers and her mother used to sell uh chai at the at a mother used to sell uh chai at the at a tea stall in the kimaturur highway etc tea stall in the kimaturur highway etc etc so she didn't have the good fortune etc so she didn't have the good fortune of reading books when she was young and of reading books when she was young and when she re reached college she was when she re reached college she was wasn't well read at all and started wasn't well read at all and started reading really late now normally I would reading really late now normally I would think this is the disadvantage but in think this is the disadvantage but in her case what it meant was she started her case what it meant was she started asking really fundamental questions asking really fundamental questions about things people took for granted about things people took for granted like what is a stock market? Why is a like what is a stock market? Why is a stock market? You know, something like stock market? You know, something like that. Whereas all of us know the that. Whereas all of us know the concept. We never question it. It is concept. We never question it. It is there. But she's saying why. And uh I'm taking one example, but And uh I'm taking one example, but asking fundamental questions about every asking fundamental questions about every damn thing which makes her one of my damn thing which makes her one of my favorite economists because nothing has favorite economists because nothing has received wisdom. Everything has been received wisdom. Everything has been questioned and it has been questioned questioned and it has been questioned because there is that great curiosity because there is that great curiosity and there is that great hunger. Now it and there is that great hunger. Now it is not my case that if you are deprived is not my case that if you are deprived you will have that hunger and that you will have that hunger and that curiosity. Uh there's a selection bias curiosity. Uh there's a selection bias in play but it is my case uh and you can in play but it is my case uh and you can correct me on this or you can tell me correct me on this or you can tell me your views. It is my case that that your views. It is my case that that hunger is far more likely to be there if hunger is far more likely to be there if you haven't been privileged enough to you haven't been privileged enough to lead the kind of closeted life that I lead the kind of closeted life that I had led for example right where you know had led for example right where you know you cannot take books for granted so you you cannot take books for granted so you read every book you can get your hands read every book you can get your hands on you cannot take knowledge for granted on you cannot take knowledge for granted so you soak it in and I wonder that in so you soak it in and I wonder that in your experience when and in your case your experience when and in your case also I see this that uh you know you've also I see this that uh you know you've come from K you've been there till the come from K you've been there till the sixth standard you come to Bombay Okay, sixth standard you come to Bombay Okay, there is that desperation. You ask the there is that desperation. You ask the meaning of money and everybody laughs at meaning of money and everybody laughs at you and there is the hunger and the you and there is the hunger and the desperation and the curiosity. The desperation and the curiosity. The reading times of India with the reading times of India with the thesaurus. I wish I had that kind of thesaurus. I wish I had that kind of discipline and hunger. My whole life discipline and hunger. My whole life would have been so much better. But would have been so much better. But unfortunately uh na but you had it. So unfortunately uh na but you had it. So when you say that okay you've seen maybe when you say that okay you've seen maybe seven out of 100 people have it. Do you seven out of 100 people have it. Do you think there is something to this? And do think there is something to this? And do you then think that it creates a you then think that it creates a parenting problem for parents who are parenting problem for parents who are well off that how do I give my child the well off that how do I give my child the best of everything but at the same time best of everything but at the same time somehow nurture this hunger in him or somehow nurture this hunger in him or her? I think you're really hitting the her? I think you're really hitting the nail on the head. In my case also there nail on the head. In my case also there were no books around. I told you that were no books around. I told you that sandoba I used to get once a year from sandoba I used to get once a year from my aunt who was the municipal school my aunt who was the municipal school teacher. teacher. teacher. Lok Sata or one of the Marati newspaper Lok Sata or one of the Marati newspaper used to come to house other than that used to come to house other than that there were no books. So even if I led a there were no books. So even if I led a quite a freewilling life before sixth quite a freewilling life before sixth standard, I may be one of the very few standard, I may be one of the very few kids who would go to the Nagar Palika kids who would go to the Nagar Palika library just for the heck of it and you library just for the heck of it and you know just hang out there. There are know just hang out there. There are people who are reading seriously older people who are reading seriously older people but I'll go there to hang out. people but I'll go there to hang out. Even just being in that context help me Even just being in that context help me even if I'm just playing around there even if I'm just playing around there and I will go walk in there and sit and I will go walk in there and sit there quietly you know flipping through there quietly you know flipping through something that had become a habit. When something that had become a habit. When I came to Mumbai, the first thing I did I came to Mumbai, the first thing I did was I became a member of a local was I became a member of a local library, a small very small library and library, a small very small library and I started reading some of the you know I started reading some of the you know Marathi novels and those kinds of Marathi novels and those kinds of things. Uh I started reading some things. Uh I started reading some serious books you know something like serious books you know something like Swami which is a very famous book by I Swami which is a very famous book by I think uh no no no this is a Marati book. think uh no no no this is a Marati book. Okay. Not Swami and friends. So I got Okay. Not Swami and friends. So I got No, I'm talking about Swami in in No, I'm talking about Swami in in Marathi. Marathi. Marathi. Uh which was about the whole Peshwai Uh which was about the whole Peshwai kind of way. I used to love historic kind of way. I used to love historic books. Uh so I started looking reading books. Uh so I started looking reading reading those kinds of things. uh which reading those kinds of things. uh which is because of that basically and then of is because of that basically and then of course in course in course in in chikisak I would go to the library in in chikisak I would go to the library in the bachelor of when I was doing my the bachelor of when I was doing my bachelor of social work in nirmalan bachelor of social work in nirmalan ketan and I met that assistant librarian ketan and I met that assistant librarian just at a wedding of one of the person just at a wedding of one of the person two months back and he said minar you two months back and he said minar you are such a naughty guy because see we are such a naughty guy because see we were allowed to only take two books so were allowed to only take two books so I'll collect two or three pe other I'll collect two or three pe other people's cards and take six or eight people's cards and take six or eight books at at one time from the library books at at one time from the library and he would know for so Chandra Khan and he would know for so Chandra Khan his name was Chandra Khan he would know his name was Chandra Khan he would know that Minina is doing this thing of that Minina is doing this thing of taking other people's cards but he would taking other people's cards but he would just ignore it he would just and I would just ignore it he would just and I would be sitting in the library after you know be sitting in the library after you know if I'm getting half an hour 1 hour if I'm getting half an hour 1 hour rather than just chatting about which I rather than just chatting about which I will also do do some mysti but also go will also do do some mysti but also go to the library and sit so some of these to the library and sit so some of these things came from that you know that things came from that you know that every opportunity like library used to every opportunity like library used to close at 8:00 before the exams they close at 8:00 before the exams they would extend hours of the library I would extend hours of the library I would be the last one chandagan would would be the last one chandagan would have to come and say halatara mean he have to come and say halatara mean he will come in almost like he's about to will come in almost like he's about to close the library said now get out close the library said now get out basically uh so that's something which basically uh so that's something which because at home there was no culture of because at home there was no culture of uh reading in that sense uh the other uh reading in that sense uh the other thing which I think even this fellow thing which I think even this fellow talked about sudhil talked about in very talked about sudhil talked about in very interesting thing in the Maharashtra the interesting thing in the Maharashtra the phenomenon of the Diwali yank during phenomenon of the Diwali yank during Diwali you get this compilations and lot Diwali you get this compilations and lot of new authors uh write on that. Uh so of new authors uh write on that. Uh so at least one uh diwari we used to get at at least one uh diwari we used to get at home and my mother used to read those home and my mother used to read those diwariang and then of course we will get diwariang and then of course we will get not manka type that he mentioned about not manka type that he mentioned about but you know like a or you know lok sata but you know like a or you know lok sata that kind of a so that was one thing but that kind of a so that was one thing but other than that there was no culture other than that there was no culture there there was not a book rack in the there there was not a book rack in the house yeah when I rented the place the house yeah when I rented the place the first thing because that's when I had first thing because that's when I had this strong belief the only property I this strong belief the only property I would ever have in my life is books would ever have in my life is books I don't want to be in don't want to have I don't want to be in don't want to have any other property other than the books any other property other than the books of course then the first property I was of course then the first property I was this the jew place that he visited is this the jew place that he visited is the first property where actually I have the first property where actually I have a property otherwise I have zero a property otherwise I have zero property and then the London flat but property and then the London flat but otherwise the books were the only thing otherwise the books were the only thing which got carried wherever I went which got carried wherever I went basically so most of the time my luggage basically so most of the time my luggage was 60 70% books nothing So that I think there is that element So that I think there is that element and what you're saying is a very and what you're saying is a very important fact like I don't see that important fact like I don't see that habitu in my own son Nant I don't see habitu in my own son Nant I don't see that habit alpa who comes from a much that habit alpa who comes from a much you know you know second third you know you know second third generation graduate doesn't have that generation graduate doesn't have that strong habit that I have of uh or I had strong habit that I have of uh or I had now I'm again trying to get back into it now I'm again trying to get back into it uh the reading habit she was she comes uh the reading habit she was she comes from books there the books the Salil's from books there the books the Salil's book on Gujarati I gave it to her father book on Gujarati I gave it to her father he said don't give it to me I'm not he said don't give it to me I'm not going to read it because it's such a going to read it because it's such a thick book Alpa promptly gave it to thick book Alpa promptly gave it to another Gujarati friend but he didn't another Gujarati friend but he didn't read it so now I said I'm going to get read it so now I said I'm going to get another book for you so that you can another book for you so that you can read what Gujarati have been and you read what Gujarati have been and you know somebody like Salil writes after know somebody like Salil writes after extensive research but I'm just telling extensive research but I'm just telling you the kind of thing and Nitant you the kind of thing and Nitant reads what is useful for his that he's reads what is useful for his that he's very thorough. So if he's doing a very thorough. So if he's doing a analysis of a particular company, he analysis of a particular company, he will read anything and everything about will read anything and everything about that company even from the uh whatever that company even from the uh whatever the deepest webs that he will search and the deepest webs that he will search and get under the information because they get under the information because they do a lot of forensic work right that but do a lot of forensic work right that but other than that I keep passing on some other than that I keep passing on some information to him some things look at information to him some things look at it look at that look at this sometimes it look at that look at this sometimes he will look at it and then he will say he will look at it and then he will say papa this is very good for me but for papa this is very good for me but for that hunger of not having now he's that hunger of not having now he's living in the all over surrounded by living in the all over surrounded by books in the in our house but the oneird books in the in our house but the oneird of the house is books nothing else of the house is books nothing else basically if you look at you just only basically if you look at you just only saw the living room the same thing is in saw the living room the same thing is in my bedroom same thing is outside in the my bedroom same thing is outside in the think even one of my book cupboards is think even one of my book cupboards is in in Nan's room so whether he likes it in in Nan's room so whether he likes it or not that damn thing is hanging there or not that damn thing is hanging there but but but so there is something about parenting so there is something about parenting that he talked about that some of these that he talked about that some of these people have got it easy one two they start at a totally different level they start at a totally different level in terms of you know so they can they in terms of you know so they can they have a luxury of taking many things for have a luxury of taking many things for granted which I didn't have and that granted which I didn't have and that helped in terms of the drive for because helped in terms of the drive for because I didn't have a base I have I've created I didn't have a base I have I've created a baseline now for the family going a baseline now for the family going forward right what are what is my base forward right what are what is my base on which I began if my father was a PhD on which I began if my father was a PhD or something like that that's a base on or something like that that's a base on which I build on but that base didn't which I build on but that base didn't exist for me I'm the first graduate from exist for me I'm the first graduate from both my families as I said in the both my families as I said in the yesterday. So I'm creating a base for yesterday. So I'm creating a base for myself and for others in that sense if myself and for others in that sense if you talk about family and family you talk about family and family histories and how families evolve. histories and how families evolve. So I think it's what you're saying there So I think it's what you're saying there is something to that that but at the is something to that that but at the same time when I travel quite a bit I same time when I travel quite a bit I see lot of young kids still with you see lot of young kids still with you know 9 year 8 year with the books even know 9 year 8 year with the books even at the airport with the with the break at the airport with the with the break others would be on their damn whatever others would be on their damn whatever those games and but you find some those games and but you find some especially girls I think there's especially girls I think there's something still driving girls to read something still driving girls to read than the young boys and I'm talking than the young boys and I'm talking about seven eight on the airport you see about seven eight on the airport you see no people hanging around and you no people hanging around and you I find that now my observation is not I find that now my observation is not scientific but you know I my thing scientific but you know I my thing immediately gets attracted oh this woman immediately gets attracted oh this woman is you know is reading a book physical is you know is reading a book physical book not even on Kindle uh that's that's book not even on Kindle uh that's that's impressive so I I only hope that people impressive so I I only hope that people start understanding the need for reading start understanding the need for reading and expanding their knowledge but I used and expanding their knowledge but I used to read as you said anything that I to read as you said anything that I would get to anything so in the villages would get to anything so in the villages everything grocery shop will put things everything grocery shop will put things in the um newspaper you know so those in the um newspaper you know so those newspapers because the old habits those newspapers because the old habits those newspapers will be brought to you know newspapers will be brought to you know strengthen and all I will read before strengthen and all I will read before they get into that pile of to be reused they get into that pile of to be reused again again again read what news there so this I think read what news there so this I think it's just the habit I suppose it's just the habit I suppose I love that observation you made about I love that observation you made about women reading more and it even seems to women reading more and it even seems to tie in with that earlier observation you tie in with that earlier observation you made about how in these communities made about how in these communities women are often uh you know they're women are often uh you know they're treated fundamentally differently from treated fundamentally differently from men. They're less likely to get trapped men. They're less likely to get trapped in uh those sort of uh uh narratives and in uh those sort of uh uh narratives and resilience resilience and and I want to resilience resilience and and I want to segue from this by talking about by segue from this by talking about by going back to Yua finally and talking going back to Yua finally and talking about talking about the very feminist about talking about the very feminist orientation that you consciously gave it orientation that you consciously gave it from the start. Like one thing that you from the start. Like one thing that you did at UA of course you pointed out how did at UA of course you pointed out how you you know predated what was what you you know predated what was what happened much later after Nirva and all happened much later after Nirva and all that you predated all that with the that you predated all that with the women's committee and all that. Another women's committee and all that. Another thing that I have uh uh read about a lot thing that I have uh uh read about a lot is how you would use women as agents of is how you would use women as agents of change that you know you would place change that you know you would place young women in key roles. You would young women in key roles. You would often get these young women from the often get these young women from the communities themselves and uh you know communities themselves and uh you know you would make them planners and you you would make them planners and you would make them leaders and that would would make them leaders and that would kind of work out. So tell me a little kind of work out. So tell me a little bit about how you sort of came to this bit about how you sort of came to this realization that uh you know that this realization that uh you know that this is the best way forward you know like is the best way forward you know like firstly at a level of ideas uh you know firstly at a level of ideas uh you know placing feminism at the heart of it and placing feminism at the heart of it and emphasizing its importance and then at emphasizing its importance and then at the level of practice at actually the level of practice at actually empowering women all across the chain uh empowering women all across the chain uh so that they are the ones who are doing so that they are the ones who are doing things and it is not a man on top giving things and it is not a man on top giving orders and uh you know telling them what orders and uh you know telling them what to toward setting the agenda. to toward setting the agenda. So the feminist piece is something one So the feminist piece is something one of my dear friends who was a feminist. of my dear friends who was a feminist. So it was a very interesting thing you So it was a very interesting thing you know like simple part which can be seen know like simple part which can be seen as very stupid and but you know which as very stupid and but you know which side of the road you walk into you know side of the road you walk into you know there are like simple things that happen there are like simple things that happen very naturally. uh and uh men would very naturally. uh and uh men would always put the women on the footpath always put the women on the footpath side and they would be on the outer side side and they would be on the outer side as a natural kind of a and some of those as a natural kind of a and some of those things um got um you know got pointed things um got um you know got pointed out. Now that sounds like such a what's out. Now that sounds like such a what's a big deal about it. Which side when you a big deal about it. Which side when you sit in the taxi which side a man sits a sit in the taxi which side a man sits a woman sits? woman sits? woman sits? Tell me tell me more about it. Tell me tell me more about it. Very interesting. No. So normally a man Very interesting. No. So normally a man would sit on the left side if you're would sit on the left side if you're sitting behind and a woman would sit on sitting behind and a woman would sit on the right side behind the driver. the right side behind the driver. Uh same thing while walking on the road Uh same thing while walking on the road a man will walk on the outside where the a man will walk on the outside where the cars are flowing and a woman is always cars are flowing and a woman is always uh walking on the inside towards the uh walking on the inside towards the footpath side. footpath side. footpath side. somewhere talking about man naturally somewhere talking about man naturally taking on the protective kind of a role. taking on the protective kind of a role. Now I was not aware of some of the are Now I was not aware of some of the are small things but they are important small things but they are important because they are part of your DNA. It because they are part of your DNA. It comes as a part of the DNA at one level comes as a part of the DNA at one level and this got pointed out in terms of and this got pointed out in terms of really thinking and then really really thinking and then really understanding and that's when I started understanding and that's when I started looking at the uh looking at the looking at the uh looking at the feminism. Uh I also happened to visit feminism. Uh I also happened to visit Europe when she was studying in Europe. Europe when she was studying in Europe. Um uh with Mariam, one of the German Um uh with Mariam, one of the German feminist who was the course director at feminist who was the course director at the institute of social studies where the institute of social studies where she was studying. Uh that got me she was studying. Uh that got me exposure to the like I had no idea about exposure to the like I had no idea about the whole LGBTIQ community because I not the whole LGBTIQ community because I not come from that kind of understanding or come from that kind of understanding or a background. That's the first time I a background. That's the first time I started really understanding what this started really understanding what this community means in totality. uh how they community means in totality. uh how they uh interact what love means for them uh interact what love means for them those kinds of things which I started those kinds of things which I started understanding so uh this I'm talking understanding so uh this I'm talking about 84 85 so UI is just beginning at about 84 85 so UI is just beginning at that stage right so there's lot to still that stage right so there's lot to still shape as far as UI is concerned so I shape as far as UI is concerned so I think some of that flowed into how do we think some of that flowed into how do we build organization with the feminist build organization with the feminist principles uh in all its not only in its principles uh in all its not only in its declaration but in its in its declaration but in its in its functioning functioning functioning by that time I had already finished by that time I had already finished about five six years of working in the about five six years of working in the community right before even you are community right before even you are started because I used to do that from started because I used to do that from college of social work one thing I had college of social work one thing I had noticed that the men are much strongly noticed that the men are much strongly manipulative though even if it is forced manipulative though even if it is forced by the nature of their being in you know by the nature of their being in you know it's a part of the survival tactics that it's a part of the survival tactics that you end up being manipulative if you are you end up being manipulative if you are in a slum community you cannot be in a slum community you cannot be completely honest and straightforward completely honest and straightforward the group which had still maintained the group which had still maintained that little bit of authenticity and that little bit of authenticity and honesty were the women. So somewhere uh honesty were the women. So somewhere uh I had already formulated again this I had already formulated again this links with my obsession with links with my obsession with authenticity and honesty. uh I had authenticity and honesty. uh I had formulated that you know if you want to formulated that you know if you want to really see change and build a leadership really see change and build a leadership not that we want to make men are the not that we want to make men are the enemies of the process but the enemies of the process but the leadership should be with women so that leadership should be with women so that they are less will be succumb to the they are less will be succumb to the alluration alluration alluration uh rewards and gifts that uh politicians uh rewards and gifts that uh politicians local western interests will offer them local western interests will offer them because they are very clear what they because they are very clear what they want to achieve. uh while men can be want to achieve. uh while men can be literally bought over pretty quickly. literally bought over pretty quickly. For like some of our struggles against For like some of our struggles against the um liquor businesses the um liquor businesses very clearly a natural allies is a the very clearly a natural allies is a the woman you men who are enjoying every woman you men who are enjoying every evening thing of the liquor at not your evening thing of the liquor at not your men ally it's woman who is facing the men ally it's woman who is facing the wrath of that damn thing at house in the wrath of that damn thing at house in the in the evening so I think that is what in the evening so I think that is what one thing which which so I always used one thing which which so I always used to say that the women have the highest to say that the women have the highest agency for change in the communities and agency for change in the communities and if we build their leadership that change if we build their leadership that change will be much more authentic and much will be much more authentic and much more sustainable because it is in their more sustainable because it is in their interest that change is and they would interest that change is and they would be the principal beneficiaries of that be the principal beneficiaries of that change. So somewhere that impacted in uh change. So somewhere that impacted in uh in that sense I used to be really like in that sense I used to be really like lot of the women shibies that I used to lot of the women shibies that I used to conduct women training I used to be conduct women training I used to be loved by them I love them so it was like loved by them I love them so it was like a very natural flow in those processes a very natural flow in those processes that uh and I could feel very energized that uh and I could feel very energized with working with women with men one has with working with women with men one has to be really conscious because you don't to be really conscious because you don't know who is spying for whom you know know who is spying for whom you know local you understand what I'm saying you're you understand what I'm saying you're dealing with all these dynamics on a dealing with all these dynamics on a day-to-day basis, right? Because you day-to-day basis, right? Because you have local carpenters who are who are have local carpenters who are who are very powerful and who whose people are very powerful and who whose people are there everywhere. Uh women will be much there everywhere. Uh women will be much more different. Things have changed. Let more different. Things have changed. Let me also say that in the recent time the me also say that in the recent time the things have changed because it was minar things have changed because it was minar who understood it long time ago. All who understood it long time ago. All political parties have understood it political parties have understood it very much in the last 8 10 years. So uh very much in the last 8 10 years. So uh now you see the level of manipulation now you see the level of manipulation politics that the women have been got politics that the women have been got into by various uh western interest into by various uh western interest parties is huge and when I see this now parties is huge and when I see this now a lot of lot of it the frontal part a lot of lot of it the frontal part you'll find is women now in many you'll find is women now in many especially on the rightist parties they especially on the rightist parties they are in the front not all rightist I'm are in the front not all rightist I'm not talking about only Hindu or any any not talking about only Hindu or any any other religion all rightist parties uh other religion all rightist parties uh because uh people have understood the because uh people have understood the potential ial of that that group or that potential ial of that that group or that population group or that constituency population group or that constituency but this I'm talking when I began and but this I'm talking when I began and some of those are still have maintained some of those are still have maintained the value system so there is somebody the value system so there is somebody called man by whom I respect from from called man by whom I respect from from Dharavi uh they they basically in the Dharavi uh they they basically in the cobbler community and they did lot of cobbler community and they did lot of work so she had a small factory of you work so she had a small factory of you know cleaning the chamra and getting all know cleaning the chamra and getting all the small purses big purses done as a the small purses big purses done as a part of the family part of the family herb extremely supportive of man she's a herb extremely supportive of man she's a leader So if Manibai goes the the whole leader So if Manibai goes the the whole jata of 8 10 women will follow Manibai. jata of 8 10 women will follow Manibai. So that that still happens you know this So that that still happens you know this I'm talking about I like this I worked I'm talking about I like this I worked with all of them before 20 years 20 22 with all of them before 20 years 20 22 years because by that time when I had years because by that time when I had become uh you are CEO I was not doing become uh you are CEO I was not doing day-to-day work with uh with in the day-to-day work with uh with in the communities uh but that you we still see communities uh but that you we still see that and this tomorrow Shiv I'll see that and this tomorrow Shiv I'll see some of those women with whom I have some of those women with whom I have worked from the informal sector uh the worked from the informal sector uh the canteen at UA center is run by a women canteen at UA center is run by a women cooperative uh you know So all those cooperative uh you know So all those things that we put as a kind of a things that we put as a kind of a traditions and giving the good traditions and giving the good opportunity and chance for women agency opportunity and chance for women agency to express itself fully uh in economic to express itself fully uh in economic areas, in social areas, in leadership areas, in social areas, in leadership areas and now not only that they have areas and now not only that they have gotten their daughter-in-laws, they have gotten their daughter-in-laws, they have gotten their daughters. Now that's a big gotten their daughters. Now that's a big thing for me because you know it's not thing for me because you know it's not that it's the change has not remained that it's the change has not remained with them. It is you can see that with them. It is you can see that percolating. So you know a percolating. So you know a daughter-in-law coming along for a daughter-in-law coming along for a women's shir along with her women's shir along with her mother-in-law is a big change man. It's mother-in-law is a big change man. It's a big change in in terms of the a big change in in terms of the community otherwise she would be left community otherwise she would be left behind to do the cooking when the behind to do the cooking when the mother-in-law is attending the Shabir mother-in-law is attending the Shabir attending that women's camp. That's not attending that women's camp. That's not happen that doesn't happen. So I think happen that doesn't happen. So I think those some of those things really have those some of those things really have inspired me quite a bit and that's what inspired me quite a bit and that's what uh so women as the leader youth at the uh so women as the leader youth at the backbone was one of my slogans in terms backbone was one of my slogans in terms of any community organization that and of any community organization that and men to be in the support function. So men to be in the support function. So not to alienate men not to make them not to alienate men not to make them enemies but in support function not put enemies but in support function not put them as leaders not put them as a them as leaders not put them as a backbone because they're pretty slippery backbone because they're pretty slippery sometimes. Beautifully put. Yeah. No, sometimes. Beautifully put. Yeah. No, no. Beautifully put and uh all of it no. Beautifully put and uh all of it resonates with me so much. resonates with me so much. Tell me about the evolution of you are Tell me about the evolution of you are through the years. Like you of course through the years. Like you of course led it for 20 years. Then you chose to led it for 20 years. Then you chose to move on and uh you had to your credit move on and uh you had to your credit you had built a sort of self- sustaining you had built a sort of self- sustaining organization where you weren't missed. organization where you weren't missed. It just continued smoothly without you It just continued smoothly without you and you even refused a seat on the board and you even refused a seat on the board and said I'm just a general body member and said I'm just a general body member and etc etc. And so um how did Yua and etc etc. And so um how did Yua evolve in the 20 years that you were in evolve in the 20 years that you were in charge in terms of all the things that charge in terms of all the things that it did? What was your journey like? You it did? What was your journey like? You mentioned that it wasn't just you. You mentioned that it wasn't just you. You were also a fellow traveler in the were also a fellow traveler in the Narnada Bachau and uh you were always Narnada Bachau and uh you were always learning stuff. You were doing adventure learning stuff. You were doing adventure sports though that's a separate thing sports though that's a separate thing and all of this was happening. So but and all of this was happening. So but tell me about how the organization tell me about how the organization evolved, how its work evolved, how you evolved, how its work evolved, how you looked at u uh the work and the role looked at u uh the work and the role that it and you played in that larger that it and you played in that larger ecosystem because building leaders for ecosystem because building leaders for the future was also something that you the future was also something that you cared about not just for yoga but in cared about not just for yoga but in general in that whole ecosystem. So tell general in that whole ecosystem. So tell me more about that. So when we began in me more about that. So when we began in 1984 1984 1984 uh the you know what was the oneline uh the you know what was the oneline mandate board gave me you shall mandate board gave me you shall intervene any issues of social justice intervene any issues of social justice that was a oneline mandate. Of course that was a oneline mandate. Of course the background I was that we want to the background I was that we want to create leaders because the best people create leaders because the best people to solve the problem are the people who to solve the problem are the people who are facing those problems. So was a very clear slogan we had. was a very clear slogan we had. So our role was that kind of a So our role was that kind of a facilitative role. So we uh what facilitative role. So we uh what advantage you had was UA had a committed advantage you had was UA had a committed resources committed from the trader resources committed from the trader homes. We had a committed uh kind of a homes. We had a committed uh kind of a support system from Nirmalanetan College support system from Nirmalanetan College of Social Work. They tolerated me, gave of Social Work. They tolerated me, gave me a space for two years to sit there. me a space for two years to sit there. My first uh recruitment of a typist was My first uh recruitment of a typist was done in Dhmal and she used to come and done in Dhmal and she used to come and sit in Dhmal and the typist of Yua. I sit in Dhmal and the typist of Yua. I remember the first God typewriter we remember the first God typewriter we bought was like a big celebration bought was like a big celebration because that was the first in a way kind because that was the first in a way kind of a big thing for you to to buy and the of a big thing for you to to buy and the first community organizer that I first community organizer that I recruited. Now this is where some of the recruited. Now this is where some of the philosophy and principle issues come in. philosophy and principle issues come in. My full-time salary was 1,500 that time My full-time salary was 1,500 that time because I was doing my masters. I said I because I was doing my masters. I said I cannot take the full-time salary because cannot take the full-time salary because as part of my masters I'm appointed for as part of my masters I'm appointed for a field work. Field work is part of my a field work. Field work is part of my learning. So I'm not supposed to take learning. So I'm not supposed to take money for that. So I only accepted money for that. So I only accepted half-time salary. So my salary monthly half-time salary. So my salary monthly was 750 for both those years of MSW1 and was 750 for both those years of MSW1 and MSW2. While my community organizer MSW2. While my community organizer salary was 900 rupees because he was a salary was 900 rupees because he was a full-timer. Okay. So his salary was full-timer. Okay. So his salary was pitched at basically 900 as a full-time pitched at basically 900 as a full-time my salary as a full-time was pitched at my salary as a full-time was pitched at 1500s but I was getting 750 and I think 1500s but I was getting 750 and I think that was very helpful from the beginning that was very helpful from the beginning to put some of those things very clearly to put some of those things very clearly what is what I'm I'm doing as part of my what is what I'm I'm doing as part of my studies should not be charged to you studies should not be charged to you that is contributing to UI yes it is that is contributing to UI yes it is contributing to you but it's also going contributing to you but it's also going to be fundamentally contribute for me to to be fundamentally contribute for me to get my master's degree so that is more get my master's degree so that is more principle than my contribution to you principle than my contribution to you right so I basically chose a part-time right so I basically chose a part-time salary of 750 rupees. So some of these salary of 750 rupees. So some of these principles also are are are important. principles also are are are important. So that first few years because we had So that first few years because we had all this network. So jogeshwari was the all this network. So jogeshwari was the area where uh you had lot of the people area where uh you had lot of the people because we had by that time finished because we had by that time finished three paraprofessional batches in three paraprofessional batches in college of social before you were college of social before you were started. So where did those people go started. So where did those people go who did the 11 months training program? who did the 11 months training program? The idea of the para profofession was The idea of the para profofession was you have people who are not qualified to you have people who are not qualified to do BSW because you needed 12th standard do BSW because you needed 12th standard pass. Okay. pass. Okay. pass. Okay. Youth from slum community many of them Youth from slum community many of them would drop out at the 10th if they in would drop out at the 10th if they in the first attempt they fail second the first attempt they fail second attempt they fail they are not going to attempt they fail they are not going to continue uh doing the education and they continue uh doing the education and they will never pass 12th standard. So will never pass 12th standard. So there's no scope of they becoming the there's no scope of they becoming the joining the bachelor of social work. So joining the bachelor of social work. So then what do we do for this kind of a then what do we do for this kind of a program and that is where Nafiza Dominic program and that is where Nafiza Dominic and myself came up with this idea of and myself came up with this idea of designing a program which is called a designing a program which is called a paraprofessional. So they're not full paraprofessional. So they're not full professional certified in the bachelor professional certified in the bachelor of social work master of social work but of social work master of social work but they are paraprofessional who will work they are paraprofessional who will work with the professional social workers and with the professional social workers and we'll design a 11 months means one one we'll design a 11 months means one one academic year 11 months was basically academic year 11 months was basically one academic year program for them one academic year program for them broadly on the lines of the BW. So 3 broadly on the lines of the BW. So 3 days um you know theoretical work, 3 days um you know theoretical work, 3 days of field work, uh lot of event days of field work, uh lot of event organizing all those activities organizing all those activities organizing all those kinds of things and organizing all those kinds of things and we had designed it on the basis of you we had designed it on the basis of you you will hear this knowledge, skill, you will hear this knowledge, skill, attitude, perspective, self-awareness as attitude, perspective, self-awareness as the five elements of any uh anybody to the five elements of any uh anybody to become a proper activist. Uh so getting become a proper activist. Uh so getting all those elements in while we did a all those elements in while we did a curriculum building for that 11 months curriculum building for that 11 months program. So there were three batches program. So there were three batches which had already happened. So the which had already happened. So the maximum number of people who had passed maximum number of people who had passed out those 11 months training program out those 11 months training program were based in Jeshwari. So that became were based in Jeshwari. So that became our natural catchment area to begin our our natural catchment area to begin our work. work. work. By that time there was a large project By that time there was a large project which Farida Lambbe led under the which Farida Lambbe led under the direction of Armati Desai was what direction of Armati Desai was what called municipal school social work. So called municipal school social work. So municipal school social work was to municipal school social work was to reduce the dropout and stagnation among reduce the dropout and stagnation among the kids who were coming from slum the kids who were coming from slum communities into municipal school. So communities into municipal school. So there were social workers appointed into there were social workers appointed into many of these municipal schools in Kaba, many of these municipal schools in Kaba, in Dharavi, in Jeshwari in whatever all in Dharavi, in Jeshwari in whatever all the major municipal schools had social the major municipal schools had social work students going for field work. Now work students going for field work. Now they were going only for 3 days. They they were going only for 3 days. They needed full-time people. So this needed full-time people. So this paraprofessional that we had trained got paraprofessional that we had trained got the jobs in municipal corporation as the jobs in municipal corporation as paraprofessional community organizers in paraprofessional community organizers in school. So that was the so the two school. So that was the so the two chunks of people were like people who chunks of people were like people who are still continuing in the slum are still continuing in the slum community then doing some work in the community then doing some work in the slum community and others who got proper slum community and others who got proper formal jobs in municipal municipal formal jobs in municipal municipal corporation and many of them are just corporation and many of them are just retiring now from that time when they retiring now from that time when they were they and as municipal employees were they and as municipal employees they they are retiring. they they are retiring. Uh so that is how jogeshwari was the Uh so that is how jogeshwari was the first project that we we started working first project that we we started working on. While we continued to relate with on. While we continued to relate with all the youth members all over the city all the youth members all over the city of Mumbai with whom we had contact of Mumbai with whom we had contact through the paragraph training program through the paragraph training program or a 10 weeks 10 Sunday leadership or a 10 weeks 10 Sunday leadership program because by that time we had a program because by that time we had a cohort of almost like you know 60 11 60 cohort of almost like you know 60 11 60 or so people who had gone through this or so people who had gone through this long training program and we had about long training program and we had about 200 youth who had gone through this 10 200 youth who had gone through this 10 days program. uh so you had that and days program. uh so you had that and they are supposed to be catalyst in they are supposed to be catalyst in those communities right so those were those communities right so those were like our natural things so jogeshwari like our natural things so jogeshwari then we designed a process called then we designed a process called comprehensive intervention with youth in comprehensive intervention with youth in jeshwari c or something of that kind of jeshwari c or something of that kind of a short form for that so how do we a short form for that so how do we mobilize those youth in the issues of mobilize those youth in the issues of the community so what are the issues of the community so what are the issues of the community water sanitation waste the community water sanitation waste management tenants uh because many of management tenants uh because many of them the tenants uh the tenants being them the tenants uh the tenants being troubled by their landlords the the troubled by their landlords the the Charles thing then of course illegal uh Charles thing then of course illegal uh bactis the bactis the bactis the leaker illegal liquor kind of thing u leaker illegal liquor kind of thing u broadly gundaism broadly gundaism broadly gundaism uh police excesses so you had a whole uh police excesses so you had a whole list of issues right list of issues right normal course for any of these people normal course for any of these people what is their first stop to go to if what is their first stop to go to if they face any any difficulty is the they face any any difficulty is the carporator is the nagar saiak that's the carporator is the nagar saiak that's the first stop in a normal normal basti kind first stop in a normal normal basti kind of a situation of a situation uh but that was not adequately uh uh but that was not adequately uh fulfilling this responsibilities so we fulfilling this responsibilities so we basically said why don't you start doing basically said why don't you start doing some of these things but don't alienate some of these things but don't alienate or don't create an antagonism with the or don't create an antagonism with the with the elected corporator keep them in with the elected corporator keep them in form bring them on the you know if there form bring them on the you know if there you got a new tap get the carporator to you got a new tap get the carporator to inaugurate he will he or she will get inaugurate he will he or she will get the credit for it. It doesn't matter. the credit for it. It doesn't matter. Point is people are getting the water. Point is people are getting the water. So we had to play that kind of a So we had to play that kind of a uh uh what do you say a little bit kind uh uh what do you say a little bit kind of a dynamic politics in that in that of a dynamic politics in that in that process. Now that is our our input to process. Now that is our our input to them because in a normal course what them because in a normal course what they would have done they would have done means why should we call a carpenter if means why should we call a carpenter if we have done this damn thing you know we have done this damn thing you know that would be a normal approach but then that would be a normal approach but then they when they started realizing they when they started realizing interacting with us saying that if you interacting with us saying that if you want to stay long-term then you'll have want to stay long-term then you'll have to keep them allies don't make them at to keep them allies don't make them at least enemies basically that's the kind least enemies basically that's the kind of logic so that is the kind of process of logic so that is the kind of process we we started also you must realize in we we started also you must realize in the first stage in any NGO first few the first stage in any NGO first few years you are scrambling for resources. years you are scrambling for resources. So you need to have uh at least some So you need to have uh at least some income coming in uh to support your income coming in uh to support your activities. activities. activities. And so in that sense in the first four And so in that sense in the first four five years we were opportunistic in that five years we were opportunistic in that sense. Then we started another program sense. Then we started another program called voluntary intervention with called voluntary intervention with deprived children VC deprived children VC and I had this great idea. Alpa used to and I had this great idea. Alpa used to go to ze college they had social service go to ze college they had social service league kind of and then they used to league kind of and then they used to have lectures and alpa used to have lectures and alpa used to coordinate those lectures so I told alpa coordinate those lectures so I told alpa I said why don't we get some volunteers I said why don't we get some volunteers saying that you know you are listening saying that you know you are listening to all the social issues in the social to all the social issues in the social service lectures do you want to do service lectures do you want to do something about it if you want to do something about it if you want to do something about it we are starting a something about it we are starting a program with uh kids on aadan uh just program with uh kids on aadan uh just about uh you know a continuation of about uh you know a continuation of metro theater uh starting some kind of metro theater uh starting some kind of open school program for the kids on the open school program for the kids on the pavements after college is finished at pavements after college is finished at 3:00. You go there 3:30, 5:30, spend 3:00. You go there 3:30, 5:30, spend time with them, do some educational time with them, do some educational activities, do some play activities. So activities, do some play activities. So we started getting volunteers from Ze we started getting volunteers from Ze College to work with those kids and some College to work with those kids and some of those kids are part of the Salam of those kids are part of the Salam Bombay film. So that's very interesting. Bombay film. So that's very interesting. So see how the kids have evolved and So see how the kids have evolved and actually then acted in the in in Salam actually then acted in the in in Salam Bombay from that that um that pavement. Bombay from that that um that pavement. So that is how the second project uh So that is how the second project uh started basically. So like that the started basically. So like that the evolution of projects in the first four evolution of projects in the first four five years was a continuous newer ideas, five years was a continuous newer ideas, newer projects newer projects newer projects and by 1990 then I said and by 1990 then I said this project based approach is not going this project based approach is not going to be very helpful. We have to really to be very helpful. We have to really start looking at city as a whole and start looking at city as a whole and conceptualize a program for the city of Mumbai and a program for the city of Mumbai and what are those areas on which we should what are those areas on which we should be concentrating concentrating on and be concentrating concentrating on and focusing on what others are doing how do focusing on what others are doing how do we synergize with them so that kind of we synergize with them so that kind of thinking started also happening around thinking started also happening around 1990 and that's when the first strategic 1990 and that's when the first strategic plan of your got got established uh to plan of your got got established uh to and then we moved from what I called and then we moved from what I called project approach to program approach. In project approach to program approach. In the meantime, one major incidents had the meantime, one major incidents had happened in 1985. happened in 1985. Um Um Um justice Chandraud it is Dhanjay justice Chandraud it is Dhanjay Chandraud's father who are the chief Chandraud's father who are the chief justice of Supreme Court on his last day justice of Supreme Court on his last day of in the bench of Supreme Court gave a of in the bench of Supreme Court gave a significant judgment in Olga versus significant judgment in Olga versus Bombay Municipal Corporation uh case Bombay Municipal Corporation uh case that case related to the inhuman that case related to the inhuman demolition of the pavement dweller demolition of the pavement dweller communities. is by barristister Antole communities. is by barristister Antole who was the chief minister and again who was the chief minister and again that may be the first time in the that may be the first time in the history of the high court but justice history of the high court but justice lentin who was the chief justice of lentin who was the chief justice of Bombay high court he actually visited Bombay high court he actually visited the pyramid so you you never have in the the pyramid so you you never have in the history a high court judge actually history a high court judge actually visiting a area where this has happened visiting a area where this has happened and this evictions happened in the month and this evictions happened in the month of June July when there was a huge of June July when there was a huge raining and justice This lentin was very raining and justice This lentin was very critical and basically put think that critical and basically put think that even if they are illegal occupants it's even if they are illegal occupants it's completely inhuman to evict them uh and completely inhuman to evict them uh and get them and that time what Anul had get them and that time what Anul had done was actually BST not BST ST buses done was actually BST not BST ST buses he loaded them on the ST buses with he loaded them on the ST buses with their whatever salmon they could gather their whatever salmon they could gather with their kids and everything. So with their kids and everything. So you're from Andra you're going to Andra you're from Andra you're going to Andra border and dumb them on Arab. You're border and dumb them on Arab. You're from Karnataka you're going to Karnataka from Karnataka you're going to Karnataka border. you are from UP. We are putting border. you are from UP. We are putting them into the bogies of the trains them into the bogies of the trains traveling to UP and police will be there traveling to UP and police will be there till the end of the Maharashtra till the end of the Maharashtra boundary. You cannot get out. boundary. You cannot get out. A Trumpian instinct before Trump. A Trumpian instinct before Trump. This is our great barristister. But This is our great barristister. But anyway, so that judgment came by anyway, so that judgment came by justice. Now that judgment is a duality. justice. Now that judgment is a duality. First time First time First time it interpreted the guidance of the you it interpreted the guidance of the you know the guidelines of the constitution know the guidelines of the constitution where life to live is life to live with where life to live is life to live with dignity and you cannot take away life dignity and you cannot take away life without the due procedure of law. So one without the due procedure of law. So one part that justice Chandra judgment part that justice Chandra judgment recognize recognize recognize that a housing is a part of a dignity of that a housing is a part of a dignity of a human being. Without the housing a human being. Without the housing person cannot live life with dignity. So person cannot live life with dignity. So housing got integrated as part of life housing got integrated as part of life uh right to life. But then the next uh right to life. But then the next sentence but municipal corporation is sentence but municipal corporation is authorized authorized authorized to demolish those houses because it is to demolish those houses because it is the illegal occupation because it is the illegal occupation because it is still you can take away that right still you can take away that right because it's by the due process of law because it's by the due process of law you understand the contradiction so that you understand the contradiction so that was a judgment and that's the time when was a judgment and that's the time when I in the case study it is mentioned I I in the case study it is mentioned I was in Europe that time this happened was in Europe that time this happened sometime judgment came I think sometime sometime judgment came I think sometime in um April uh May June sometimes the in um April uh May June sometimes the judgment came I was in Europe judgment came I was in Europe uh I was in Holland and uh the the in uh I was in Holland and uh the the in all these countries had working groups all these countries had working groups on India. Holland had a working group in on India. Holland had a working group in India. You were talking about the India. You were talking about the foreign contribution. Uh so some of foreign contribution. Uh so some of these groups were you know people who these groups were you know people who would visit India had fell in love with would visit India had fell in love with India and they would support some India and they would support some activities in India. So they were the activities in India. So they were the working group in India uh on India of working group in India uh on India of Holland. So they said so somebody got to Holland. So they said so somebody got to know that I am there and I was working know that I am there and I was working on this whole issue. So I was called to on this whole issue. So I was called to speak and when I came back the first speak and when I came back the first thing I did was I said this is not an thing I did was I said this is not an issue of one NGO we have to really do a issue of one NGO we have to really do a alliance of number of NGOs's bringing alliance of number of NGOs's bringing together and we formed the first together and we formed the first alliance which is called committee for alliance which is called committee for the right to housing about 60 NOS's uh I the right to housing about 60 NOS's uh I we gathered you are the secretariat of we gathered you are the secretariat of the committee for the right to housing the committee for the right to housing and you had church institutions we had and you had church institutions we had slumberless organizations you had you slumberless organizations you had you know housing affiliations all the kinds know housing affiliations all the kinds of people who who were part of the of people who who were part of the committee for the right to housing and committee for the right to housing and that was the first way that you are that was the first way that you are started organizing around right to started organizing around right to housing and that you can see that that housing and that you can see that that foray then build us because one of the foray then build us because one of the vision that I had was you can't only vision that I had was you can't only work in local level there are evictions work in local level there are evictions happening in all over the country there happening in all over the country there are people and organizations working on are people and organizations working on evictions in Bangalore in Kolkata in evictions in Bangalore in Kolkata in Delhi in uh all these places how do we Delhi in uh all these places how do we bring all this together that is Then bring all this together that is Then some of the people from Kolkata took the some of the people from Kolkata took the initiative form something called initiative form something called national campaign for housing rights national campaign for housing rights NCHR. NCHR. NCHR. Then the eviction issue not only for Then the eviction issue not only for India, it's also happening in Dhaka. India, it's also happening in Dhaka. It's also happening in Manila in It's also happening in Manila in Philippines. It's also happening in Philippines. It's also happening in Bangkok, in Thailand. And that is how Bangkok, in Thailand. And that is how was the motivator to build a Asian was the motivator to build a Asian coalition for housing rights. And then I coalition for housing rights. And then I was the lead for the eviction watch look was the lead for the eviction watch look actually document evictions happening actually document evictions happening anywhere in the Asia-Pacific region and anywhere in the Asia-Pacific region and build that. And then finally there were build that. And then finally there were the old institution run by planners and the old institution run by planners and uh architects globally called Habitat uh architects globally called Habitat International Council based in Danhag in International Council based in Danhag in Holland. So some of us said that this Holland. So some of us said that this institution run by planners and institution run by planners and architects is not going to be useful architects is not going to be useful globally and they had a representation globally and they had a representation with the United Nations UN Habitat. So with the United Nations UN Habitat. So we said we need to take over that and we said we need to take over that and restructure that institution at the restructure that institution at the you know Habitat International you know Habitat International Coalition. So names remain the same HIC Coalition. So names remain the same HIC but it will be instead of council it but it will be instead of council it will be coalition so that it becomes a will be coalition so that it becomes a broader coalition and as part of then broader coalition and as part of then building that habitat national coalition building that habitat national coalition where we represented lot of these issues where we represented lot of these issues in Nairobi because Nairobi was the in Nairobi because Nairobi was the headquarters of the UN habitat. So you headquarters of the UN habitat. So you can see in the housing area we started can see in the housing area we started uh doing work from the ground at a local uh doing work from the ground at a local level to national level to Asia-Pacific level to national level to Asia-Pacific level to global level because one thing level to global level because one thing I had realized and that is when some of I had realized and that is when some of these exposures that I had had of really these exposures that I had had of really interacting with people from in interacting with people from in institute of social studies is one of institute of social studies is one of those progressive institute in institute those progressive institute in institute in uh in in Holland uh where you had lot in uh in in Holland uh where you had lot of this fantastic thinkers on different of this fantastic thinkers on different kinds of issues. Uh so that was very kinds of issues. Uh so that was very helpful for me to really understand that helpful for me to really understand that how do you see the issue from the local how do you see the issue from the local to global and global to local and how do to global and global to local and how do we leverage each of those areas to bring we leverage each of those areas to bring in some um interesting uh kind of uh in some um interesting uh kind of uh aspect and the elevation more in the aspect and the elevation more in the policy terms and that is when the first policy terms and that is when the first housing policy in India was formulated housing policy in India was formulated uh of which we of course critiqued a lot uh of which we of course critiqued a lot first time after independent India India first time after independent India India in the Indian constitution there is a in the Indian constitution there is a provision called people's there is a provision called people's petition so if people didn't like petition so if people didn't like particular act or people want to propose particular act or people want to propose a act there is about what you needed a act there is about what you needed 300,000 people to sign up uh and he 300,000 people to sign up uh and he could present that petition to the could present that petition to the speaker of the parliament and then the speaker of the parliament and then the speaker of the parliament is in a way speaker of the parliament is in a way obliged by constitution to take up that obliged by constitution to take up that issue. So we did the people's petition issue. So we did the people's petition on demanding for a people's right to um on demanding for a people's right to um people's bill on housing rights. So that people's bill on housing rights. So that was a huge process we did globally was a huge process we did globally justice um Krushnire by that time had justice um Krushnire by that time had retired from the from the Supreme Court. retired from the from the Supreme Court. He was one of our strong mentors. One of He was one of our strong mentors. One of the judges who made waves he just the judges who made waves he just retired now justice Muri Dharan. So that retired now justice Muri Dharan. So that time we used to call him Murli. Uh he time we used to call him Murli. Uh he worked with us in drafting the worked with us in drafting the legislation. That time he was a young legislation. That time he was a young lawyer. Now he retired as a lawyer. Now he retired as a retired I think the justice from the retired I think the justice from the Delhi High Court Justice Murihan. Uh so Delhi High Court Justice Murihan. Uh so he was part of drafting the drafting the he was part of drafting the drafting the law which is the people's bill of law which is the people's bill of housing rights. So it just created a housing rights. So it just created a huge kind of a momentum but starting huge kind of a momentum but starting with one eviction process that happened with one eviction process that happened in the city of Mumbai in 1981 on which a in the city of Mumbai in 1981 on which a judgment came of Supreme Court in 1985 judgment came of Supreme Court in 1985 and that case was fought by of course and that case was fought by of course Indra Singh. She was the lawyer of Olga Indra Singh. She was the lawyer of Olga Telis. So then Indu and Anand all of us Telis. So then Indu and Anand all of us also became because we were all in that also became because we were all in that common struggle. So we became very good common struggle. So we became very good friends also as part of that process. friends also as part of that process. Beautiful. such a cascade of events in Beautiful. such a cascade of events in that journey from practice to learning that journey from practice to learning to theory and uh the loop that it to theory and uh the loop that it becomes. It's one thing for an becomes. It's one thing for an individual like you to make that journey individual like you to make that journey that you're constantly introspecting that you're constantly introspecting about the work that you do and coming up about the work that you do and coming up with new best practices. But what also with new best practices. But what also needs to be done and which you have done needs to be done and which you have done and enabled within the ecosystem at a and enabled within the ecosystem at a wider level is also the documentation of wider level is also the documentation of everything that you learn so that every everything that you learn so that every generation is building on the learnings generation is building on the learnings of the previous generation. You're never of the previous generation. You're never reinventing the wheel and having to reinventing the wheel and having to learn stuff all over again but that learn stuff all over again but that bedrock of knowledge just grows and bedrock of knowledge just grows and grows and grows and grows with time. grows and grows and grows with time. There is documentation, there is There is documentation, there is institutional memory, etc., etc. tell me institutional memory, etc., etc. tell me what you learned about this and all the what you learned about this and all the different things that you did to uh you different things that you did to uh you know build these practices. know build these practices. First let me put a disclaimer sitting First let me put a disclaimer sitting where I'm sitting now whether I'm happy where I'm sitting now whether I'm happy with the level of documentation we have with the level of documentation we have been able to have and the way we have been able to have and the way we have been able to preserve I'm not been able to preserve I'm not but the counterfactual is it could have but the counterfactual is it could have been much worse and been much worse and yeah no no it could have been nothing yeah no no it could have been nothing that is a counterfactual that is a counterfactual yes yes yes uh but uh it could have been much much uh but uh it could have been much much better if we wouldn't have had the huge better if we wouldn't have had the huge resource constraints you know that time resource constraints you know that time already you had the process processes of already you had the process processes of digitization, microfilms, all that had digitization, microfilms, all that had come in. So it was not that the come in. So it was not that the technology wasn't available but we technology wasn't available but we didn't have resources for that didn't have resources for that technology. Let's be honest about it one technology. Let's be honest about it one and two our day-to-day struggle on this and two our day-to-day struggle on this issues was so absorbing that thinking of issues was so absorbing that thinking of that and having somebody who is devoted that and having somebody who is devoted to thinking of that was also not to thinking of that was also not possible to be hired in in that frame. possible to be hired in in that frame. So yes, it is true that the So yes, it is true that the documentation that UI has been able to documentation that UI has been able to maintain. So we have a whole urban maintain. So we have a whole urban resource center in the U center and resource center in the U center and people still go there and really look people still go there and really look out for these documents from the out for these documents from the beginning and they're there most of it beginning and they're there most of it is there uh and people really learn from is there uh and people really learn from those processes which is which is great those processes which is which is great because again it's again the same because again it's again the same obsession of you you always go back to obsession of you you always go back to this point that I made centurion this point that I made centurion organizations centurion organizations organizations centurion organizations are built by having are built by having uh adaptable relevant programming ing a uh adaptable relevant programming ing a people capable of finding that relevance people capable of finding that relevance on ongoing basis. Minar may not be able on ongoing basis. Minar may not be able to find a relevant programming in 2025 to find a relevant programming in 2025 but you need but you need who is now the ED who has a much who is now the ED who has a much stronger pulse on what is happening to stronger pulse on what is happening to be the to be that person. So having that be the to be that person. So having that appropriate people having that drive to appropriate people having that drive to be cutting edge on programming and then be cutting edge on programming and then having organizational systems and having organizational systems and processes uh that support uh that processes uh that support uh that cutting edge programming those people cutting edge programming those people who want to deliver on that at that who want to deliver on that at that level I think that part has been level I think that part has been continuously being maintained and now continuously being maintained and now you have approached me to help in some you have approached me to help in some areas where I can especially in terms of areas where I can especially in terms of the if not the best term it's a too the if not the best term it's a too corporatized term for the for you are corporatized term for the for you are talent talent management. Uh but I have talent talent management. Uh but I have said that we have to really start said that we have to really start thinking about talent management very thinking about talent management very very carefully. Uh and we are going to very carefully. Uh and we are going to be doing some kind of what you call the be doing some kind of what you call the talent and motivation survey with all talent and motivation survey with all the 15 leaders or program leadership the 15 leaders or program leadership team. Uh doing that survey and then team. Uh doing that survey and then really looking at what is it that these really looking at what is it that these guys will require to be ready for guys will require to be ready for tomorrow to be ready for next year to be tomorrow to be ready for next year to be ready for next 5 years to be ready for ready for next 5 years to be ready for next 10 years. Which of those skill sets next 10 years. Which of those skill sets are going to be irrelevant in going 3 are going to be irrelevant in going 3 years? uh which skill set they will be years? uh which skill set they will be requiring to acquire. How do we get them requiring to acquire. How do we get them to start acquiring now so that they will to start acquiring now so that they will be proficient at the end of the three be proficient at the end of the three year when that skill set will become year when that skill set will become critical for them to lead the organiz so critical for them to lead the organiz so those kinds of thinking is quite and those kinds of thinking is quite and those are exactly the thinking I have those are exactly the thinking I have had technology has changed in doing that had technology has changed in doing that what I used to have uh than what is now what I used to have uh than what is now now it is much more you can do that in now it is much more you can do that in so many different ways by using AI and so many different ways by using AI and those kinds of things which I didn't those kinds of things which I didn't have the technology I had to do it have the technology I had to do it through really keeping I like had a through really keeping I like had a diaries for almost each of my leader All diaries for almost each of my leader All my meetings is you know sugandi baliga my meetings is you know sugandi baliga this is what we discuss the are the this is what we discuss the are the areas I think that need to be looked at areas I think that need to be looked at maybe next meeting with her I will maybe next meeting with her I will discuss that does she require any discuss that does she require any support from outside does she think she support from outside does she think she has she identified somebody with whom has she identified somebody with whom she can talk about this issues if not me she can talk about this issues if not me because I'm her boss so whether she will because I'm her boss so whether she will feel more comfortable that thing about feel more comfortable that thing about almost every leader six leaders I had almost every leader six leaders I had that thing of course I can't share that that thing of course I can't share that diaries with anybody those were I diaries with anybody those were I impressions of those interactions. But impressions of those interactions. But that practice I think is critical for that practice I think is critical for people to keep. When I do coaching, I people to keep. When I do coaching, I have a clear diary for each coach so have a clear diary for each coach so that I can track the what are our first that I can track the what are our first session which is called a chemistry session which is called a chemistry session. What are our second session uh session. What are our second session uh which is basically trying to build a which is basically trying to build a first hypothesis on your learning. Third first hypothesis on your learning. Third session which is on feedback on 360 what session which is on feedback on 360 what others have said what are the reactions others have said what are the reactions blah like. So that I think is uh I could blah like. So that I think is uh I could be better my hand I think could be much be better my hand I think could be much better but uh fact that I understand it better but uh fact that I understand it more than enough it doesn't have to be more than enough it doesn't have to be understood by others. So I think some of understood by others. So I think some of those practices aid were part of those practices aid were part of ingrained thing and I had like again ingrained thing and I had like again something unknown. I had a assistant something unknown. I had a assistant editor from Indian express editor from Indian express uh once he took a early retirement and I uh once he took a early retirement and I hired him at 70,000 rupees when my own hired him at 70,000 rupees when my own salary was 40,000 rupees. So I said see salary was 40,000 rupees. So I said see I'm hiring at a much higher salary than I'm hiring at a much higher salary than me because that skill set that he brings me because that skill set that he brings is not available in the market anything is not available in the market anything cheaper. cheaper. cheaper. Not that my skill set is available in Not that my skill set is available in the market cheaper than but I'm happy the market cheaper than but I'm happy with what I'm getting. But if I want to with what I'm getting. But if I want to get him and he this is his final price. get him and he this is his final price. So I just put some of like other way So I just put some of like other way general practices nobody should earn general practices nobody should earn more than the CEO of organization. And I more than the CEO of organization. And I said who said that? said who said that? I'm getting him for one year to set up I'm getting him for one year to set up this whole process of properly this whole process of properly documenting streamlining our documenting streamlining our documentation how things happen in the documentation how things happen in the newspaper where they have all these newspaper where they have all these document when they need to get the document when they need to get the historic references back. So he have the historic references back. So he have the he has the skill set which I don't have. he has the skill set which I don't have. So I would hire him. So he worked with So I would hire him. So he worked with us for about a one one and a half year. us for about a one one and a half year. You know same thing with Mr. Bowie the You know same thing with Mr. Bowie the additional municipal commissioner. His additional municipal commissioner. His consultancy fees were more than my my consultancy fees were more than my my salary. But additional municipal salary. But additional municipal commissioner Buroughi would call the commissioner Buroughi would call the managing director of Sido when we were managing director of Sido when we were running some difficulties on uh our running some difficulties on uh our building plans of your center and that building plans of your center and that one phone call will clear everything one phone call will clear everything without me have to pay any bribe without me have to pay any bribe you. So you know you have to be really you. So you know you have to be really appreciating and not get all these appreciating and not get all these stupid egos that how can I pay somebody stupid egos that how can I pay somebody more than what I'm that's stupid. That's more than what I'm that's stupid. That's stupid way of thinking. you need that stupid way of thinking. you need that set from the market that is available at set from the market that is available at this there's no negotiation this there's no negotiation so you hire it what's the big deal about so you hire it what's the big deal about it so I think that helped me in in some it so I think that helped me in in some of these areas uh some things I of these areas uh some things I outsourced and uh I was fortunate to outsourced and uh I was fortunate to have the networks of people so some have the networks of people so some people will do it free for me pro bono people will do it free for me pro bono some people will say give me my costs some people will say give me my costs but do I will do it for you but on cost but do I will do it for you but on cost basis you don't need to pay me my basis you don't need to pay me my professional piece because you'll not be professional piece because you'll not be able to afford my professional so any of able to afford my professional so any of this would work The bottom line Amit was this would work The bottom line Amit was to get the work done because it was that to get the work done because it was that work was important to be done and I was work was important to be done and I was not able to do it. I didn't have the not able to do it. I didn't have the capacities to do it. I don't have the capacities to do it. I don't have the capabilities to do it and my team didn't capabilities to do it and my team didn't have the capabilities to do it. So if have the capabilities to do it. So if you take that approach then it's a then you take that approach then it's a then you you have multiple doors open for you you have multiple doors open for you. But if you don't take that approach you. But if you don't take that approach you you know you are stuck. No you you you you know you are stuck. No you you are only able to do what you can able are only able to do what you can able what you are able to do which is the what you are able to do which is the worst thing of running anything. worst thing of running anything. I'm sure you have experienced that in I'm sure you have experienced that in your own things. You you need special your own things. You you need special skills. You'll need those special skills. You'll need those special skills. skills. skills. Yeah. I mean, you got to get out and I Yeah. I mean, you got to get out and I mean the practicality in that is great. mean the practicality in that is great. I want to ask you another question about I want to ask you another question about practicality which is about the practicality which is about the practical business of raising funds for practical business of raising funds for the organization that you are running. the organization that you are running. Like one uh thing that I've noticed with Like one uh thing that I've noticed with some uh nonprofit organizations and some uh nonprofit organizations and obviously UI isn't one of them. So uh obviously UI isn't one of them. So uh I'm not talking about that. I know you I'm not talking about that. I know you dealt with it very very well. But one uh dealt with it very very well. But one uh trap that people fall into is really trap that people fall into is really responding to the incentives of the game responding to the incentives of the game in two different ways which I find in two different ways which I find penicious and really sad. One of them is penicious and really sad. One of them is that uh people will start a nonprofit that uh people will start a nonprofit organization for let's say purpose ABC organization for let's say purpose ABC but then when they go for funding they but then when they go for funding they will find that purpose ABC precisely no will find that purpose ABC precisely no one is interested but XYZ they might one is interested but XYZ they might give and gradually there is a mission give and gradually there is a mission creep and it changes because the funding creep and it changes because the funding becomes an existential question and then becomes an existential question and then the original mission gets forgotten and the original mission gets forgotten and the principles get compromised and I the principles get compromised and I have seen this happen time and again have seen this happen time and again with people much to my dismay people I I with people much to my dismay people I I I had great hopes from Um the other I had great hopes from Um the other thing that often happens is that when thing that often happens is that when once you are let's say you start a once you are let's say you start a nonprofit organization with a particular nonprofit organization with a particular cause you take up cause ABC then to get cause you take up cause ABC then to get funding your interest is in showing that funding your interest is in showing that cause ABC is still valid and your cause ABC is still valid and your incentives are towards making the incentives are towards making the problem you're trying to solve seem as problem you're trying to solve seem as bad as possible. So even if the problem bad as possible. So even if the problem isn't that bad, you're going to make it isn't that bad, you're going to make it sound worse than it is because that'll sound worse than it is because that'll get funding coming. or even if you get funding coming. or even if you haven't managed to make a difference, haven't managed to make a difference, you will claim you made a difference you will claim you made a difference even though the things that you point to even though the things that you point to may have had little or nothing to do may have had little or nothing to do with you. I mean I think of some climate with you. I mean I think of some climate change alarmism in this category. change alarmism in this category. Climate change is very real. It's Climate change is very real. It's man-made. We need to do something about man-made. We need to do something about it. But at the extreme ends, I discount it. But at the extreme ends, I discount everything because the sort of alarmism everything because the sort of alarmism you see from the uh you know some of the you see from the uh you know some of the extremist organizations out there is extremist organizations out there is wacko. It is completely nuts and it is wacko. It is completely nuts and it is purely because the worse you uh make it purely because the worse you uh make it sound that oh Europe will be drowned by sound that oh Europe will be drowned by 2030. I'm taking a caricature example. 2030. I'm taking a caricature example. The more likely you are to get funding. The more likely you are to get funding. And these are two traps people come into And these are two traps people come into that number one when the funding becomes that number one when the funding becomes an existential question. There can be a an existential question. There can be a mission creep and you can go from ABC to mission creep and you can go from ABC to XYZ. And number two, you can make the XYZ. And number two, you can make the problem sound worse than it is and problem sound worse than it is and therefore to get the funding and therefore to get the funding and therefore lose the fidelity to the truth therefore lose the fidelity to the truth which is after all the number one thing which is after all the number one thing that should guide you. So what of this that should guide you. So what of this have you seen in the industry in all have you seen in the industry in all your experience? I I know this is not an your experience? I I know this is not an issue with the particular firms you issue with the particular firms you worked with. So I'm not asking about worked with. So I'm not asking about that. But in general, what do you feel that. But in general, what do you feel about about about I think on both the counts you're I think on both the counts you're correct that both have happened. correct that both have happened. You would have also faced that kind of a You would have also faced that kind of a danger if our value and the perspective danger if our value and the perspective foundations were not strong enough. You foundations were not strong enough. You will find in the case study there was a will find in the case study there was a time when UA was not adequately time when UA was not adequately resourced. resourced. resourced. uh but there was a very clear commitment uh but there was a very clear commitment to overcome that but not get into that to overcome that but not get into that first point where we are willing to do first point where we are willing to do what is sellable and in the most recent what is sellable and in the most recent thing again this is not what I have said thing again this is not what I have said it's Roshni with the exe existing it's Roshni with the exe existing executive director they have become so executive director they have become so conscious about the CFR funding so they conscious about the CFR funding so they negotiate very hard this is what we want negotiate very hard this is what we want to do are you interested in supporting to do are you interested in supporting us to do this us to do this if not we are not interested in taking if not we are not interested in taking your funding. You understand what I'm your funding. You understand what I'm saying? So that kind of a strength comes saying? So that kind of a strength comes very very because there's a particular very very because there's a particular philosophy during my time. philosophy during my time. It's it's very funny and dichotomus that It's it's very funny and dichotomus that ultimately I became the chair of uh ultimately I became the chair of uh integrated oxfam in India but Oxfam integrated oxfam in India but Oxfam Great Britain uh when you had separate Great Britain uh when you had separate Oxfam seven Oxfams were operating in Oxfam seven Oxfams were operating in India. Oxam great bitten their Nagpur India. Oxam great bitten their Nagpur office came to UA uh and we still had office came to UA uh and we still had that Mugbat office that small it was that Mugbat office that small it was even smaller room than this room tiny even smaller room than this room tiny room and their program officer came and room and their program officer came and she started asking about uh you know we she started asking about uh you know we would like you to do this and this would like you to do this and this should be the budget and is there any should be the budget and is there any other I said thank you very much you can other I said thank you very much you can please leave because I basically had please leave because I basically had said the strategy is the board and the said the strategy is the board and the leadership's decision is you as a under leadership's decision is you as a under tell me what you can tell me is whether tell me what you can tell me is whether you are willing to fund that strategy you are willing to fund that strategy yes or no that I will even if you say no yes or no that I will even if you say no it's fine I may not like it I may get it's fine I may not like it I may get angry with you but irrespective but you angry with you but irrespective but you have zero business in telling me what have zero business in telling me what should be my strategy and I said I don't should be my strategy and I said I don't want you to tell me what I should be want you to tell me what I should be doing otherwise you should do it doing otherwise you should do it yourself no why you telling me to do it yourself no why you telling me to do it so I think some of those foundations and so I think some of those foundations and people so in the market in a way it people so in the market in a way it known that you know Minar can be very uh known that you know Minar can be very uh very blunt on this issues and he threw very blunt on this issues and he threw Oxam GB out of their office which is Oxam GB out of their office which is fine you know you could see it as fine you know you could see it as arrogance you could see it whatever but arrogance you could see it whatever but for me it is a principle question you for me it is a principle question you know strategy is decided by the know strategy is decided by the leadership and approved by the board leadership and approved by the board I am not going to care a damn about what I am not going to care a damn about what you your fancies are your whims and you your fancies are your whims and things are no that's very clear so I things are no that's very clear so I think those foundations have helped us think those foundations have helped us not to get into that mission not to get into that mission But now what has happened now because it But now what has happened now because it has become a business I don't to name has become a business I don't to name organization but there are some new age organization but there are some new age organizations which have come up in this organizations which have come up in this space who work on the commission basis I space who work on the commission basis I will get you the money 25% is mine 75% will get you the money 25% is mine 75% is yours is yours is yours oh good oh good oh good but you then you know you have to but you then you know you have to deliver work on all 100%. And there are deliver work on all 100%. And there are angels who fall prey for that because angels who fall prey for that because for them even that 75% is a big money for them even that 75% is a big money which is a bad practice completely bad which is a bad practice completely bad practice. So you are generally and I'm practice. So you are generally and I'm very happy even if I'm not involved at very happy even if I'm not involved at in last 20 years they have kept in last 20 years they have kept themselves completely away from this themselves completely away from this kinds of tendencies. kinds of tendencies. uh because uh because I think the value uh because uh because I think the value frame has been so strong and what we frame has been so strong and what we want to do is so strong that we will not want to do is so strong that we will not do anything which will be disempowering do anything which will be disempowering people. people. people. Now you know it sounds very simple but Now you know it sounds very simple but when you actually start breaking it down when you actually start breaking it down there's so many things that are in in in there's so many things that are in in in your context which are bloody only your context which are bloody only businesses to disempower people because businesses to disempower people because that is what is their interest. So it that is what is their interest. So it sounds very simple as a as a as a sounds very simple as a as a as a sentence but it's a it's a huge sentence but it's a it's a huge responsibility ethical responsibility responsibility ethical responsibility you take when you decide that and then you take when you decide that and then you are applying that criteria for every you are applying that criteria for every funding funding funding what has happened also is one is the FC what has happened also is one is the FC tightening where organizations such as tightening where organizations such as UA get really screwed because you want UA get really screwed because you want to do something big interesting and then to do something big interesting and then you don't you can't get the monies from you don't you can't get the monies from outside where people are willing to pay outside where people are willing to pay pay on your terms not on their terms you pay on your terms not on their terms you don't get that second the CSR cycle is a don't get that second the CSR cycle is a big problem because big problem because you know what happens in CSR money your you know what happens in CSR money your money is approved in December for the money is approved in December for the financial year 256 in December 25 money financial year 256 in December 25 money will be approved by 31st March you have will be approved by 31st March you have to spend that money of 26 so you're to spend that money of 26 so you're getting effectively 3 months to spend getting effectively 3 months to spend the money and then what happens if you the money and then what happens if you accept that money then either you're accept that money then either you're cooking up your books or you're showing cooking up your books or you're showing something which doesn't exist but something which doesn't exist but they're happy if you're giving them they're happy if you're giving them numbers. numbers. numbers. So then there is a whole what do you So then there is a whole what do you call um call um call um this kind of a uh collaboration that this kind of a uh collaboration that have happened with the CFR offices of have happened with the CFR offices of the companies and the NOS's where% data data data nothing nothing happens on because it's nothing nothing happens on because it's a one-year funding next year because you a one-year funding next year because you don't know what will be company's profit don't know what will be company's profit at the end of the next year you cannot at the end of the next year you cannot already announce the grants for the next already announce the grants for the next year by the time company the audits are year by the time company the audits are complete it's already in July then your complete it's already in July then your CSR committee sits that this is the CSR committee sits that this is the profit this is a 5% of that profit so profit this is a 5% of that profit so this is the money available then you this is the money available then you start scouting for projects so by the start scouting for projects so by the time the projects are approved it's time the projects are approved it's December so this is what what will a December so this is what what will a call as a complete bad policy this is call as a complete bad policy this is one of those bad policy which is one of those bad policy which is creating creating creating unintended or maybe intended unintended or maybe intended consequences which are actually consequences which are actually defeating the very purpose of the CSR. defeating the very purpose of the CSR. I think CSR itself is complete nonsense. I think CSR itself is complete nonsense. It just makes me so angry. Like you know It just makes me so angry. Like you know the government does not own the the government does not own the companies and it does not own their companies and it does not own their money. You want to tax them, tax them money. You want to tax them, tax them but uh you know you can't walk away from but uh you know you can't walk away from your responsibility and say okay you your responsibility and say okay you have to spend X percentage of your have to spend X percentage of your whatever. I think every company that is whatever. I think every company that is out there making a profit in a free out there making a profit in a free market is already doing a social service market is already doing a social service because you only make a profit by because you only make a profit by fulfilling the needs of people and by fulfilling the needs of people and by making them better off. So this is just making them better off. So this is just conceptually so flawed and like you said conceptually so flawed and like you said the system inevitably I didn't know this the system inevitably I didn't know this particular angle that you just pointed particular angle that you just pointed out but it is nuts you called it out but it is nuts you called it collaboration I think the earlier word collaboration I think the earlier word you evoked of uh cooperilation would you evoked of uh cooperilation would also fit if we all getting also fit if we all getting by this but uh but please continue by this but uh but please continue no so the this is the challenge that we no so the this is the challenge that we have and also the government's interest have and also the government's interest is very clear the lesser the money you is very clear the lesser the money you spend larger the money is going to the spend larger the money is going to the PM care fund Yeah. PM care fund Yeah. Wow. Wow. Wow. Because by 31st March if you're not able Because by 31st March if you're not able to spend automatically that money has to to spend automatically that money has to get into the PMK fund. get into the PMK fund. So basically what you're trying to do is So basically what you're trying to do is very knowingly squeeze that resource very knowingly squeeze that resource also not to go to the people who are also not to go to the people who are actually doing some meaningful and actually doing some meaningful and interesting work but back to the interesting work but back to the government in another form and fashion. government in another form and fashion. Again how accountable is the that entity Again how accountable is the that entity is another issue which is being talked is another issue which is being talked about quite a bit about quite a bit isn't it all. isn't it all. Exactly. But anyway, so what I'm trying Exactly. But anyway, so what I'm trying to tell you is this kind of a both these to tell you is this kind of a both these things the because you not left and then things the because you not left and then what you've left with and now this is what you've left with and now this is again very interesting. There was a time again very interesting. There was a time when I was here Tatas used to be much when I was here Tatas used to be much progressive funer. progressive funer. progressive funer. Unfortunately now lot of the Tatas money Unfortunately now lot of the Tatas money I understand is being uh given to I understand is being uh given to government departments for the government departments for the government programming in certain government programming in certain states. states. states. Ouch. Ouch. Ouch. So that money availability. So now then So that money availability. So now then you are left with few foundations you are left with few foundations which are still willing to be supporting which are still willing to be supporting some of the innovative creative work some of the innovative creative work that you want to do. Whether it is you that you want to do. Whether it is you know rohin know rohin know rohin and foundation or philanthropy or the and foundation or philanthropy or the adin prag philanthropy. So you have very adin prag philanthropy. So you have very few Indian sources. You have squeezed few Indian sources. You have squeezed the foreign sources. You have created a the foreign sources. You have created a very inherent structural problem problem very inherent structural problem problem in the CSR space. Basically, some of the in the CSR space. Basically, some of the older ones that were supportive also older ones that were supportive also have been uh diverted to what you want have been uh diverted to what you want to do. living very few players who can to do. living very few players who can give you uh the resources that you give you uh the resources that you require to do the type of work which is require to do the type of work which is still autonomous which is still based on still autonomous which is still based on your analysis of the situation and the your analysis of the situation and the problem that you want to solve and that problem that you want to solve and that you have a clarity how you're going to you have a clarity how you're going to solve the problem and the last point I solve the problem and the last point I would say is there is in any qualitative would say is there is in any qualitative impacts impacts impacts attribution is always a problematic attribution is always a problematic uh you can only say we have facilitated uh you can only say we have facilitated this processes that have generated this this processes that have generated this outcome. You cannot say this outcome is outcome. You cannot say this outcome is because of us because that denies the because of us because that denies the agency of the people and you are agency of the people and you are basically taking credit which is not due basically taking credit which is not due to you. But that is what now many to you. But that is what now many funders want you to do because if you funders want you to do because if you get the attribution they get the get the attribution they get the attribution. So that's another game attribution. So that's another game which has come into the play which at which has come into the play which at least during my time when I was here for least during my time when I was here for 20 years nobody was people would 20 years nobody was people would appreciate when I would say you know appreciate when I would say you know this has happened this you know liquor this has happened this you know liquor dense in this ward we closed because of dense in this ward we closed because of the initiative of the women we were the initiative of the women we were supporting them we were standing with supporting them we were standing with them if they were arrested we were them if they were arrested we were providing lawyers for their release and providing lawyers for their release and we are provide that was the role that we we are provide that was the role that we played but who took the leadership who played but who took the leadership who took the ownership took the ownership And is there a problem with the funding And is there a problem with the funding environment especially in India that environment especially in India that funders care too much about funders care too much about measurability and as you said measurability and as you said attributability that one they want to do attributability that one they want to do something which can be measured and two something which can be measured and two they want it to be attributed to them they want it to be attributed to them and the problem of this is that there and the problem of this is that there might be very far-reaching measures might be very far-reaching measures which can neither be properly measured which can neither be properly measured nor are attributable but play out over a nor are attributable but play out over a long term and have a massive impact but long term and have a massive impact but they won't get funded because because of they won't get funded because because of this. So this is this is the reality the this. So this is this is the reality the number game reality is there in the in number game reality is there in the in the foundations which are willing to go the foundations which are willing to go long-term with you 3 years 5 years also long-term with you 3 years 5 years also but in a lesser degree the CSR is only but in a lesser degree the CSR is only driven by numbers so it's like this if driven by numbers so it's like this if I'm running a project which is I'm running a project which is facilitating social entitlement facilitating social entitlement government has number of entitlements government has number of entitlements I have set up with young people who help I have set up with young people who help those people to attain those those people to attain those entitlements. Th those are their rights. entitlements. Th those are their rights. So what CSR people will be very happy is So what CSR people will be very happy is how many beneficiaries how many beneficiaries were you able to negotiate entitlements were you able to negotiate entitlements for? Okay, for? Okay, for? Okay, good enough. The next question nobody good enough. The next question nobody will ask did those entitlements actually will ask did those entitlements actually help that family help that family to change the situation that that to change the situation that that entitlement is supposed to change. So if entitlement is supposed to change. So if it is a say widow pension it is a say widow pension did that increase the dignity of that did that increase the dignity of that widow in that household in that family widow in that household in that family yes or no because that is what it is yes or no because that is what it is supposed to do or if that money she has supposed to do or if that money she has come and signed that money is taken over come and signed that money is taken over by her uh her son and who has gone and by her uh her son and who has gone and put it to you know drunk drunk it away put it to you know drunk drunk it away that night that night that night entitlement done thick done so I'm just entitlement done thick done so I'm just giving you a very minor example but giving you a very minor example but like there's an old saying that give a like there's an old saying that give a man a you feed him for a day. Teach him man a you feed him for a day. Teach him how to fish, you feed him for a how to fish, you feed him for a lifetime. And giving fish would be lifetime. And giving fish would be measurable and attributable, but measurable and attributable, but wouldn't make a long-term difference. wouldn't make a long-term difference. Whereas teaching a person how to fish Whereas teaching a person how to fish would be neither measurable nor would be neither measurable nor attributable and therefore it's not attributable and therefore it's not going to get funded. So that's a going to get funded. So that's a challenge that we have now which all and challenge that we have now which all and so far UA has been I would say lucky and so far UA has been I would say lucky and been able to navigate because I think been able to navigate because I think the quality and nature of its work uh the quality and nature of its work uh which is I think it's still quite solid which is I think it's still quite solid and quite good in terms of quality. So and quite good in terms of quality. So when somebody like Azim Premj meets when somebody like Azim Premj meets Roshni in person, it's a different thing Roshni in person, it's a different thing that you know that he sees that there's that you know that he sees that there's something interesting happening here or something interesting happening here or she's one of the few who are invited to she's one of the few who are invited to meet him. Uh that itself by itself is meet him. Uh that itself by itself is not a big thing but I'm just saying that not a big thing but I'm just saying that that is one kind of a demonstratable that is one kind of a demonstratable thing that this this happens. Uh and I thing that this this happens. Uh and I have done that during my time. I used to have done that during my time. I used to like meet many many people in because I like meet many many people in because I was much strongly onto the national was much strongly onto the national scene you know member of the uh three scene you know member of the uh three working groups of the planning working groups of the planning commission which was led by LCGN commission which was led by LCGN uh I was the convenor of the habitat uh I was the convenor of the habitat group so under the ministry of group so under the ministry of urban affairs I was leading that so I urban affairs I was leading that so I had that very strong kind of a uh thing had that very strong kind of a uh thing there so it was it was it is fine it has there so it was it was it is fine it has been part of US history it is not the been part of US history it is not the hawkers bill it the UA and Tata hawkers bill it the UA and Tata Institute of Social Science Hawkers Institute of Social Science Hawkers survey that was done for the Mommy survey that was done for the Mommy Municipal Corporation uh under the Municipal Corporation uh under the leadership of V Rammani uh who are the leadership of V Rammani uh who are the additional municipal commissioner in the additional municipal commissioner in the city of Mumbai that led to the national city of Mumbai that led to the national hawkers policy. Fantastic. Virani one of hawkers policy. Fantastic. Virani one of those when I I said you know they're not those when I I said you know they're not monoliths he was one of those very monoliths he was one of those very sensitive and he's now part of the sensitive and he's now part of the constitution group of the IS officers constitution group of the IS officers who write who write who write you know what's happening in the country you know what's happening in the country and but dear friend now Pravin Pradeshi and but dear friend now Pravin Pradeshi who has been appointed as a chief who has been appointed as a chief economic advisor to the chief minister economic advisor to the chief minister at a minister of state level was at a minister of state level was somebody with whom I had worked very somebody with whom I had worked very closely during Latur earthquake so you closely during Latur earthquake so you know where you almost establish a know where you almost establish a relationship where you are on a relationship where you are on a firstname basis that's that's critical firstname basis that's that's critical that's important that's important that's important or somebody who has now taken over the or somebody who has now taken over the additional chief secretary additional chief secretary for skill development in the government for skill development in the government of Maharashtra once you know we looking of Maharashtra once you know we looking at somebody who could actually become at somebody who could actually become the CEO of you officer again so you know the CEO of you officer again so you know you I I have had that kind of a you I I have had that kind of a relationship which I'm very happy that relationship which I'm very happy that now Roshni and others are trying to now Roshni and others are trying to build in in that space my advantage was build in in that space my advantage was I was from Maharashtra uh that becomes I was from Maharashtra uh that becomes Now that whether you like it or not does Now that whether you like it or not does play a role in terms of how much play a role in terms of how much political access you get in different uh political access you get in different uh uh spaces. So because I could switch uh spaces. So because I could switch pretty quickly from English to Marathi pretty quickly from English to Marathi this any other it makes a lot of this any other it makes a lot of difference when you're dealing with MLAs difference when you're dealing with MLAs when you're dealing with ministers this when you're dealing with ministers this any other in Maharashtra outside of any other in Maharashtra outside of Maharashtra of course if you speak in Maharashtra of course if you speak in Gujarati and if I'm in Gujarat then in Gujarati and if I'm in Gujarat then in Madhya Pradesh but if you're local does Madhya Pradesh but if you're local does make a difference but I think has been make a difference but I think has been able to maneuver that pretty well they able to maneuver that pretty well they just just just last two days they presented a big last two days they presented a big report on the domestic workers in the report on the domestic workers in the city in Maharashtra And we are hoping city in Maharashtra And we are hoping that that would lead to policy that that would lead to policy formulation on the domestic workers in formulation on the domestic workers in terms of what protections that need to terms of what protections that need to be in present and those kinds of things. be in present and those kinds of things. So before we go into a break a final So before we go into a break a final question about Yuba which touches on the question about Yuba which touches on the point that you just mentioned. How was point that you just mentioned. How was your experience and how has your your experience and how has your experience been since of working with experience been since of working with the Indian state because at one level the Indian state because at one level you are constantly uh agitating against you are constantly uh agitating against the state fighting its oppressions etc the state fighting its oppressions etc etc. At another level, you are also etc. At another level, you are also working in partnership with the state at working in partnership with the state at various levels because uh one their various levels because uh one their stated aims in many areas may be the stated aims in many areas may be the same kind of social aims as yours are same kind of social aims as yours are and two um pe you know individual and two um pe you know individual officers within the state uh will always officers within the state uh will always have a mix of people and that will have a mix of people and that will include people who are enlightened who include people who are enlightened who are intelligent, intellectual uh have are intelligent, intellectual uh have the same aims as you and you can work the same aims as you and you can work with them. You gave some examples of with them. You gave some examples of this including someone who worked with this including someone who worked with you after his retirement as well. So you after his retirement as well. So what has he experienced been with the what has he experienced been with the state like and if someone is in this state like and if someone is in this field like it is natural to come into field like it is natural to come into this field with a reflexively this field with a reflexively adversarial attitude towards the state adversarial attitude towards the state uh as someone like me would have that oh uh as someone like me would have that oh it's parasitic it's oppressive etc etc it's parasitic it's oppressive etc etc but at the same time at the practical but at the same time at the practical level if you're going to get done level if you're going to get done then you've got to roll up your hands then you've got to roll up your hands and build those relationships and figure and build those relationships and figure that out. I think the first thing that out. I think the first thing is you need to be absolutely humble is you need to be absolutely humble about what you can do and what you about what you can do and what you cannot do. Let's be very clear that you cannot do. Let's be very clear that you cannot replace the state through your cannot replace the state through your social welfare measures through your social welfare measures through your social welfare work is too massive social welfare work is too massive uh a problem that you're dealing with. uh a problem that you're dealing with. The district budget in any large The district budget in any large district in India is like thousand district in India is like thousand thousand times bigger than any or thousand times bigger than any or collective budgets of NGOs's put collective budgets of NGOs's put together. So you're really talking about together. So you're really talking about a very different scale in terms of a very different scale in terms of resources and the state machinery and resources and the state machinery and its reach. its reach. its reach. So comparing with the state and that is So comparing with the state and that is just out of question. So you have to just out of question. So you have to have that humility to say where have that humility to say where possible. So that's why if you look at possible. So that's why if you look at the 11 levels of intervention that are the 11 levels of intervention that are part of the case study, one thing we part of the case study, one thing we have basically stated there very clearly have basically stated there very clearly is that we can demonstrate certain is that we can demonstrate certain things and then those demonstrations can things and then those demonstrations can become a state policy like this hawker become a state policy like this hawker survey that I talked about. I had left survey that I talked about. I had left after the hawkers survey means I had after the hawkers survey means I had left India so I was out of UA uh but left India so I was out of UA uh but broadly what is what the implications of broadly what is what the implications of it what we able to achieve one is of it what we able to achieve one is of course the national hawkers policy which course the national hawkers policy which is a great achievement by itself one two is a great achievement by itself one two so there is now thinking one the hawker so there is now thinking one the hawker is registered it's not going to be very is registered it's not going to be very easy to just evict them uh or get the easy to just evict them uh or get the bribes out of that's very good second bribes out of that's very good second which I think is a much significant which I think is a much significant development that happened that hawkers development that happened that hawkers as entity of legitimate business is part as entity of legitimate business is part of urban planning process. Now, now of urban planning process. Now, now that's a huge leap from illegality to that's a huge leap from illegality to being a sector to be considered as part being a sector to be considered as part of the urban planning process. So you of the urban planning process. So you can see this so and that's the role of can see this so and that's the role of organizations such as you are to think organizations such as you are to think who thought about this. It was thought who thought about this. It was thought that if you want to solve this problem that if you want to solve this problem on a permanent basis, they should be on a permanent basis, they should be considered while your city plan is being considered while your city plan is being made and not a afterthought then you made and not a afterthought then you create some hawker zone and these that create some hawker zone and these that and which becomes like a uh you know and which becomes like a uh you know eyesore and all the city residents eyesore and all the city residents around there start making noise all that around there start making noise all that we have gone through we have gone through it should be part of the urban planning it should be part of the urban planning process. So I think some of those leaps process. So I think some of those leaps are important conceptual leaps that are important conceptual leaps that NGOs's can afford to do than in the NGOs's can afford to do than in the government system. Now the last point uh government system. Now the last point uh in terms of your question in terms of in terms of your question in terms of the the the you shouldn't define the state as you shouldn't define the state as adversarial or not. State will do what adversarial or not. State will do what it does and in different under different it does and in different under different regimes under different political regimes under different political leadership it will be more leadership it will be more more autonomous. more autonomous. more autonomous. in certain regimes it will work. Now I in certain regimes it will work. Now I don't remember a day when when India don't remember a day when when India will be where a prime minister has to will be where a prime minister has to resign based on the uh report submitted resign based on the uh report submitted by a constable of a London police you by a constable of a London police you know that kind of a thing is because know that kind of a thing is because those institutions are strong I don't those institutions are strong I don't remember I don't know when this kind of remember I don't know when this kind of situation will happen here it is a situation will happen here it is a constable in the in the police who did constable in the in the police who did that report and the prime minister had that report and the prime minister had to resign in UK to resign in UK so I would say what you should do and so I would say what you should do and continue doing is don't consider state continue doing is don't consider state as a monolith. One, there will be spaces as a monolith. One, there will be spaces that you need to locate that you need to locate to put your ideas at the right time in to put your ideas at the right time in the right space so that those ideas the right space so that those ideas flourish. You don't care whether you get flourish. You don't care whether you get credit for it or not get credit for it. credit for it or not get credit for it. If your interest is servicing that If your interest is servicing that constituency that you are working for, constituency that you are working for, somebody else can take the credit. We somebody else can take the credit. We don't care. But that is important. So if don't care. But that is important. So if you don't consider state of the you don't consider state of the monology, you see that there are open monology, you see that there are open spaces that it can be used even if spaces that it can be used even if limited. Now I I'm told that the spaces limited. Now I I'm told that the spaces are extremely limited. The major are extremely limited. The major competition even the I officers is to be competition even the I officers is to be more malleable rather than uh you know more malleable rather than uh you know performing their constitutional duty of performing their constitutional duty of the independent the independent the independent machinery of the state. uh and making machinery of the state. uh and making that very clear distinction between the that very clear distinction between the um you know the um uh elected um you know the um uh elected representative and the government formed representative and the government formed by them and the state of which by them and the state of which bureaucracy is part of that distinction bureaucracy is part of that distinction has got blurred fully it was blur has got blurred fully it was blur earlier now it has got more blurred is earlier now it has got more blurred is what I'm told so it creates a challenge what I'm told so it creates a challenge in terms of access uh who gets access in terms of access uh who gets access and who doesn't get the access uh does and who doesn't get the access uh does that mean you should feel disheartened that mean you should feel disheartened and give up I'm not the one who will and give up I'm not the one who will give up. I would basically say you still give up. I would basically say you still try this way, try that way, try so try this way, try that way, try so because of what you can change only you because of what you can change only you can change your approach. You cannot can change your approach. You cannot change how Amit is going to respond to change how Amit is going to respond to you. I can only change my approach so you. I can only change my approach so that he becomes more responsive. You that he becomes more responsive. You understand what I'm saying? Because what understand what I'm saying? Because what is in my control is this and I should be is in my control is this and I should be happy in doing everything is in my happy in doing everything is in my control to open up those spaces to enter control to open up those spaces to enter into those spaces. And that's been my into those spaces. And that's been my advice to organizations not only you are advice to organizations not only you are all the organizations that I work with. all the organizations that I work with. I said don't have this uh kind of a I said don't have this uh kind of a blindside view saying that you know we blindside view saying that you know we cannot work with these guys. You might cannot work with these guys. You might find few people whom you want to work find few people whom you want to work with. with. with. The state can fight you. The state can The state can fight you. The state can help you. But I ask you this minar. Can help you. But I ask you this minar. Can the state give you a break and make you the state give you a break and make you a cup of coffee? I don't think so. We'll a cup of coffee? I don't think so. We'll be back after a quick break. be back after a quick break. Thanks. Hey, the music started and this sounds Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it everything is everything. Every week everything is everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about from the profound to the we care about from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma ami va r. The show is called everything ami va r. The show is called everything is everything. Please do check it out. Welcome back to the scene and the Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still here. Minar is still unseen. I'm still here. Minar is still here and we are now going to talk about here and we are now going to talk about the next part of Minar journey. So you the next part of Minar journey. So you know 20 years in yoga you're the CEO but know 20 years in yoga you're the CEO but one moves on things happen and you moved one moves on things happen and you moved on. So take me through that part of your on. So take me through that part of your journey when you sort of outgrew yoga journey when you sort of outgrew yoga and new vistas opened up for you. You know, one of the beliefs as part of You know, one of the beliefs as part of that building the centurion organization that building the centurion organization is that the founders is that the founders should leave in time for that should leave in time for that organization to grow and grow beyond organization to grow and grow beyond founders. That was another belief that I founders. That was another belief that I had very strongly had very strongly because I had seen other especially not because I had seen other especially not for-p profofit organizations for-p profofit organizations where the founders became almost like a where the founders became almost like a permanent fixture permanent fixture permanent fixture or they involved their sons or or they involved their sons or daughter-in-law or you know their daughter-in-law or you know their son-in-laws. son-in-laws. son-in-laws. So it almost became like a private So it almost became like a private property and I was very opposed to that property and I was very opposed to that because if you're building a because if you're building a professional organization and I was professional organization and I was already exposed to organizations such as already exposed to organizations such as Oxfam Oxfam Oxfam uh because during my UR itself one of uh because during my UR itself one of the roles that I played was to do the the roles that I played was to do the merger of Oxfam seven entities in India merger of Oxfam seven entities in India to be Oxfam India and I'm the first to be Oxfam India and I'm the first founding chair of Oxfam India and I did founding chair of Oxfam India and I did that closely work with the Accenture that closely work with the Accenture development partners ADP. development partners ADP. So it was like acquisition merger in the So it was like acquisition merger in the corporate sense but I did that I managed corporate sense but I did that I managed that process. Once I completed that that process. Once I completed that process I handed it over to Kiran Karnik process I handed it over to Kiran Karnik who became the next chair. Kiran Karnik who became the next chair. Kiran Karnik was again in charge of NASCOM and you was again in charge of NASCOM and you know advised to prime minister on number know advised to prime minister on number of occasions on number of issues of occasions on number of issues and uh I had already recruited a very and uh I had already recruited a very very bright uh CEO called Nisha Agarwal. very bright uh CEO called Nisha Agarwal. she came uh uh she was a country manager she came uh uh she was a country manager of World Bank in Cambodia and I of World Bank in Cambodia and I recruited her. recruited her. recruited her. So the point I'm trying to make is that So the point I'm trying to make is that the best is that you build organizations the best is that you build organizations put them in a sound footing put them put them in a sound footing put them with a sound leadership put them in a with a sound leadership put them in a good hands in terms of governance and good hands in terms of governance and then you should depart. then you should depart. So in case of UA, I had that feeling So in case of UA, I had that feeling when UA was already 10 years old when UA was already 10 years old that you know whatever I needed to do that you know whatever I needed to do because the strategic plans were in because the strategic plans were in place place place uh things were moving fund wise we uh things were moving fund wise we pretty secure for next four five years. pretty secure for next four five years. So when I raised this issue with the So when I raised this issue with the board even refused to listen to me and board even refused to listen to me and said no way. said no way. And then at when you are became 15 years And then at when you are became 15 years old, I really put my foot down and I old, I really put my foot down and I said nothing doing because you know my said nothing doing because you know my philosophy that either I have grown too philosophy that either I have grown too big for the organization or the big for the organization or the organization have grown too big for me. organization have grown too big for me. So in either situations is not a healthy So in either situations is not a healthy situation for the institution and as an situation for the institution and as an institution builder I think it is institution builder I think it is important that I should depart. important that I should depart. Interestingly, Gage Seti uh with whom Interestingly, Gage Seti uh with whom I'm planning to do a podcast now on the I'm planning to do a podcast now on the civil society was the chair of the board civil society was the chair of the board that time. that time. that time. So you told me minar okay now we will So you told me minar okay now we will agree with your proposal agree with your proposal but you yourself are fully aware that we but you yourself are fully aware that we are not going to get a CEO who is are not going to get a CEO who is engaged at the multitudes of things that engaged at the multitudes of things that you have evolved into you have evolved into somebody who has done issues of organic somebody who has done issues of organic agriculture. Somebody who has been agriculture. Somebody who has been proactive in humanitarian intervention proactive in humanitarian intervention whether it is Latur earthquake, Kut whether it is Latur earthquake, Kut earthquake, uh tsunami, earthquake, uh tsunami, somebody who has been involved in the somebody who has been involved in the urban sector work with all its facets of urban sector work with all its facets of poverty, governance, environment, poverty, governance, environment, somebody who has been present with the somebody who has been present with the government of India, government of government of India, government of Maharashtra Maharashtra Maharashtra and also internationally has been in the and also internationally has been in the boards of habitat national coalition is boards of habitat national coalition is leading the process of Oxfam. You're not leading the process of Oxfam. You're not going to get one CEO with all these going to get one CEO with all these competencies competencies competencies and with all your good intentions you and with all your good intentions you are will start crumbling. So I want to are will start crumbling. So I want to give you the final assignment. That's give you the final assignment. That's what he said to really what he said to really create a infrastructure in UI in such a create a infrastructure in UI in such a way that it will be still manageable way that it will be still manageable going forward even after you have left. going forward even after you have left. And that is how UA became from one And that is how UA became from one entity it became entity it became it was planned to be five different it was planned to be five different entities and I'll speak on each quickly. entities and I'll speak on each quickly. So you are urban focused on urban sector So you are urban focused on urban sector work on urban poverty, urban governance, work on urban poverty, urban governance, urban environment. You are rural focused urban environment. You are rural focused on uh you know natural resource on uh you know natural resource management, organic farming, building management, organic farming, building the economic capabilities of the rural the economic capabilities of the rural poor because again the belief there was poor because again the belief there was that uh you know if that happens that uh you know if that happens effectively the kind of migration for effectively the kind of migration for the cheap urban labor that is happening the cheap urban labor that is happening from rural to urban can be little bit from rural to urban can be little bit curtailed. our small contribution to curtailed. our small contribution to that process. that process. that process. UA consulting was from the beginning UA consulting was from the beginning seen as a profit center and again the seen as a profit center and again the philosophy of UA that time is not philosophy of UA that time is not replicating UA but replicating UA's replicating UA but replicating UA's approach and consulting was one form by approach and consulting was one form by which you could replicate the approach which you could replicate the approach without replicating the institution. So without replicating the institution. So that was another thing. U center was the that was another thing. U center was the fourth entity. And the fifth entity fourth entity. And the fifth entity which I was interested in building up which I was interested in building up was uh some of the listeners would know was uh some of the listeners would know something called SA bank which 11 but something called SA bank which 11 but establish as a credit mechanism for the establish as a credit mechanism for the you know for the artisal community for you know for the artisal community for the you know urban informal sector the you know urban informal sector workers. So I wanted to build something workers. So I wanted to build something on that line called U bank. I had got on that line called U bank. I had got IDBI consultants to do the project IDBI consultants to do the project proposal all that kind of thing. proposal all that kind of thing. But by the time I was finishing setting But by the time I was finishing setting up because each of these entities had to up because each of these entities had to have their independent boards, their have their independent boards, their independent CEOs or the executive independent CEOs or the executive directors directors directors getting them ready to take over getting them ready to take over completely of that particular around completely of that particular around that that that core competency. If it have launched on core competency. If it have launched on the UA bank, it would have meant another the UA bank, it would have meant another five years minimum of my engagement in five years minimum of my engagement in the process and that I was not willing the process and that I was not willing to do. I said that's enough. So other to do. I said that's enough. So other than that all the four entities whether than that all the four entities whether you are still operates from Nagpur led you are still operates from Nagpur led by um independent board led by by um independent board led by independent CEO doing some interesting independent CEO doing some interesting work out of Nagpur. work out of Nagpur. UAB UA center has been functioning from UAB UA center has been functioning from the Karagar and from Kura offices. UA the Karagar and from Kura offices. UA consulting and it's very important to consulting and it's very important to also little bit under underline that also little bit under underline that consulting business is also led by consulting business is also led by individuals. It's depends on what individuals. It's depends on what individuals uh are being approached. individuals uh are being approached. till the time you make it a kind of a till the time you make it a kind of a institution and then the individuals is institution and then the individuals is more secondary and in it takes a long more secondary and in it takes a long time we didn't have that kind of time so time we didn't have that kind of time so a lot of the consulting work what you a lot of the consulting work what you was getting was also because I was the was getting was also because I was the one who was leading the those one who was leading the those consultancy projects consultancy projects consultancy projects so the consulting institution remains so the consulting institution remains but it has not been very active at this but it has not been very active at this point of time but what has helped from point of time but what has helped from the consulting income is to build a UI the consulting income is to build a UI build that building and you know uh build that building and you know uh which is which is happen. So this took which is which is happen. So this took another 5 years and that is why I came another 5 years and that is why I came up to 2004 up to 2004 uh ultimately leaving UA in July of 2004 uh ultimately leaving UA in July of 2004 and uh what happened was as part of UA and uh what happened was as part of UA uh I was also part of number of boards. uh I was also part of number of boards. So one of the board I was member of was So one of the board I was member of was the people's movement for human rights the people's movement for human rights education because again the belief education because again the belief simple belief there was if you want the simple belief there was if you want the adherence to human rights people need to adherence to human rights people need to know what human rights are and that know what human rights are and that cannot be done without a good cannot be done without a good well-established human rights education well-established human rights education program and this was organization which program and this was organization which were instrumental for the United Nations were instrumental for the United Nations to declare a decade of human rights to declare a decade of human rights education. education. education. So I was a member of that board. So that So I was a member of that board. So that board then requested me that the founder board then requested me that the founder was getting too old and I should come as was getting too old and I should come as a CEO uh in Manhattan and take the a CEO uh in Manhattan and take the leadership of that organization. So that leadership of that organization. So that offer was already existing and I took offer was already existing and I took that chance of moving from India to New that chance of moving from India to New York to lead people's movement for human York to lead people's movement for human rights education. rights education. rights education. I started professionalizing this. Uh the I started professionalizing this. Uh the office was in her house, a second room office was in her house, a second room next to her house. That was the office. next to her house. That was the office. I got it into a proper uh office near I got it into a proper uh office near the UN in New York. I started doing all the UN in New York. I started doing all that. I started doing the fundraising of that. I started doing the fundraising of it. And one thing I realized that again it. And one thing I realized that again the challenge the board was friends and the challenge the board was friends and family. family. family. So everybody was basically uh you know So everybody was basically uh you know if Shulai is saying this then that if Shulai is saying this then that should happen kind of a thing. I was should happen kind of a thing. I was trying to professionalize it. I was trying to professionalize it. I was trying to say you know if we are this is trying to say you know if we are this is one strategy this is second strategy all one strategy this is second strategy all this will feed into making the human this will feed into making the human rights education a quite an important rights education a quite an important agenda globally agenda globally agenda globally and one thing I had negotiated with UNP and one thing I had negotiated with UNP is what is called a human rights cities is what is called a human rights cities program. Uh so basically how do we get program. Uh so basically how do we get mayors of different cities uh to declare mayors of different cities uh to declare their city as a human right city and to their city as a human right city and to actually look at every part of the city. actually look at every part of the city. Oh, you know because not not in India Oh, you know because not not in India but many of the um other municipal but many of the um other municipal corporations the cities are almost quite corporations the cities are almost quite independently run and the mayor is independently run and the mayor is almost like a chief executive. So the almost like a chief executive. So the police force is under them uh you know police force is under them uh you know the administration is under them. So how the administration is under them. So how do we really look at each of those do we really look at each of those elements to really fulfill the human elements to really fulfill the human right aspiration of that citizenry in right aspiration of that citizenry in that city. So we started that process that city. So we started that process UNP was funding it. So we started from UNP was funding it. So we started from Rosario in Argentina to Dinpur in Rosario in Argentina to Dinpur in Bangladesh to Nagpur in India uh to Mali Bangladesh to Nagpur in India uh to Mali uh in Mali we had another UBA city in uh in Mali we had another UBA city in Sagal we had another city. So like that Sagal we had another city. So like that Kisumu in Kenya. So that was a kind of a Kisumu in Kenya. So that was a kind of a widespread uh selection of about 10 to widespread uh selection of about 10 to 12 cities and I was heading that 12 cities and I was heading that program. program. program. But this part of the governance piece But this part of the governance piece and the founder not wanting to really and the founder not wanting to really move out and giving me the freedom that move out and giving me the freedom that I needed and required was a big I needed and required was a big challenge and I wasn't interested after challenge and I wasn't interested after running UA in a professional fashion and running UA in a professional fashion and leaving it fully in the hands of the new leaving it fully in the hands of the new leadership not being on the board and leadership not being on the board and you know having that kind of a clear you know having that kind of a clear departure doing the same thing with departure doing the same thing with Oxfam. Oxfam. Oxfam. So it was it started creating frictions So it was it started creating frictions between me and the founder. between me and the founder. The last thing I had done as part of the The last thing I had done as part of the PDHRE was one consulting assignment as PDHRE was one consulting assignment as part of again earning some money for the part of again earning some money for the PDHRE PDHRE PDHRE to develop a campaign plan for the to develop a campaign plan for the Millennium Development Goals for the Millennium Development Goals for the Asia-Pacific. Asia-Pacific. Asia-Pacific. There was assignment for about 6 months There was assignment for about 6 months that I did for the UN. So, UN Millennium that I did for the UN. So, UN Millennium Campaign, United Nations Millennium Campaign, United Nations Millennium Campaign was hosted by United Nations Campaign was hosted by United Nations Development Program, UNDP, which is one Development Program, UNDP, which is one of the largest UN agencies. So, I had of the largest UN agencies. So, I had taken that uh consulting work uh because taken that uh consulting work uh because the director of the UN Millennium the director of the UN Millennium Campaign was somebody who knew me from Campaign was somebody who knew me from my India days. my India days. So, he said Minar because I'm a So, he said Minar because I'm a campaigner, I'm an advocate. So, he said campaigner, I'm an advocate. So, he said and I already had a exposure because of and I already had a exposure because of the Asian coalition for housing right. the Asian coalition for housing right. So, I had visited uh you know So, I had visited uh you know Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand. So I Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand. So I had a good exposure and networks in all had a good exposure and networks in all these cities. these cities. these cities. So he asked me whether I'll be So he asked me whether I'll be interested in doing it. So I took that interested in doing it. So I took that as part of PDH work as part of PDH work completed that assignment in 6 month and completed that assignment in 6 month and submitted the report. submitted the report. It's very funny what happened. So It's very funny what happened. So morning I had taken a appointment with morning I had taken a appointment with the director of the United Nations the director of the United Nations Millennium Campaign. I'm saying you know Millennium Campaign. I'm saying you know I can come and submit the report to you. I can come and submit the report to you. So he said yeah come I'm here. I came So he said yeah come I'm here. I came gave the report to him he just glanced gave the report to him he just glanced to of course he had seen the earlier dar to of course he had seen the earlier dar so he was very clear what what's coming so he was very clear what what's coming his way so there was no shock or no his way so there was no shock or no at that time he says you know minar we at that time he says you know minar we are actually looking for a deputy are actually looking for a deputy director to work with me to implement director to work with me to implement this Asia-Pacific plan will you be this Asia-Pacific plan will you be interested interested interested so you had this background of a stress so you had this background of a stress and the tension that I was going through and the tension that I was going through with the founder in PDHRE with the founder in PDHRE I had this person asking me whether I'll I had this person asking me whether I'll be interested I said Yes. be interested I said Yes. And that was he said okay. So he said And that was he said okay. So he said wait and he made me wait outside. He got wait and he made me wait outside. He got his director for Europe who was still his director for Europe who was still based in New York before she shifted to based in New York before she shifted to Rome uh in the room. He got her director Rome uh in the room. He got her director communications and public engagement in communications and public engagement in the room. Three of us formed a panel in the room. Three of us formed a panel in the afternoon in the office and called the afternoon in the office and called me for the interviewing. Now interview answers were based on of Now interview answers were based on of course of the report that I had prepared course of the report that I had prepared for the campaigning of millennium for the campaigning of millennium development goals in Asia Pacific. That development goals in Asia Pacific. That was the main subject. Other than that was the main subject. Other than that they asked me a number of things in they asked me a number of things in management this that and the other management this that and the other because I would be leading this team. I because I would be leading this team. I was setting up 11 offices in 11 was setting up 11 offices in 11 different countries in the Asia Pacific. different countries in the Asia Pacific. But basically you wrote the textbook for But basically you wrote the textbook for the test. the test. the test. Yeah, you can say it like that. Yeah, you can say it like that. And after about 45 minutes all those And after about 45 minutes all those questions answered were finished. I was questions answered were finished. I was again asked to go and sit outside the again asked to go and sit outside the room and after 15 minutes he came out room and after 15 minutes he came out and said you got the job. That is how I and said you got the job. That is how I got my UNDP job. got my UNDP job. Next day I was traveling to facilitate a Next day I was traveling to facilitate a training workshop for managers of action training workshop for managers of action aid globally in nonpen in Cambodia. aid globally in nonpen in Cambodia. So I said see I have this assignment So I said see I have this assignment already on my head which I've agreed and already on my head which I've agreed and I'm leaving for Cambodia tomorrow. I'm leaving for Cambodia tomorrow. So and that time I was on the visa in US So and that time I was on the visa in US okay which is I said people with okay which is I said people with extraordinary abilities because of my extraordinary abilities because of my human rights education work. Uh and as a human rights education work. Uh and as a UN employee you get a G visa which is a UN employee you get a G visa which is a diplomatic visa. So I said uh and I'm diplomatic visa. So I said uh and I'm going to be there for 3 weeks in going to be there for 3 weeks in Cambodia because I'm doing this large Cambodia because I'm doing this large training process for action training process for action international. They said don't worry international. They said don't worry we'll get your visa to the US embassy in we'll get your visa to the US embassy in Cambodia uh once you finish your work. I Cambodia uh once you finish your work. I was outside non pen when you come in and was outside non pen when you come in and then uh they will stamp the G visa on then uh they will stamp the G visa on your passport and you enter the country your passport and you enter the country back with a diplomatic visa. back with a diplomatic visa. And that's exactly what happened. Just And that's exactly what happened. Just the day before I was to fly back from the day before I was to fly back from nonpen back to New York, I got my G visa nonpen back to New York, I got my G visa stamped again. You see how things play stamped again. You see how things play out. One of the officer, senior officer out. One of the officer, senior officer in the US embassy in Cambodia was of in the US embassy in Cambodia was of Indian origin, US citizen but Indian Indian origin, US citizen but Indian origin. origin. origin. And he said boss you have got the UN And he said boss you have got the UN job. you're getting a G visa because G job. you're getting a G visa because G visa is seen as a very because you know visa is seen as a very because you know in G visa basically uh as soon as you in G visa basically uh as soon as you enter US on the top it is written enter US on the top it is written diplomat so your luggage doesn't get diplomat so your luggage doesn't get checked nothing nothing you just move checked nothing nothing you just move literally literally literally and there's a separate line for the and there's a separate line for the diplomats to enter so he was very happy diplomats to enter so he was very happy and he asked me about all kinds of and he asked me about all kinds of questions what what did you do to get in questions what what did you do to get in the UN job now what do I tell him this the UN job now what do I tell him this was my interview or what happened anyway was my interview or what happened anyway that is how my I entered UN basically that is how my I entered UN basically this happened in 2006 2004 middle of this happened in 2006 2004 middle of 2004 to 2006 I was with the PDHRE 2006 2004 to 2006 I was with the PDHRE 2006 and finally I was able to convince Alpa and finally I was able to convince Alpa and Nit I said why don't you guys come and Nit I said why don't you guys come and stay in New York they came to stay and stay in New York they came to stay with me for a year Nitan got the with me for a year Nitan got the admission in the UN school so that's admission in the UN school so that's what his uh international bachelorate what his uh international bachelorate journey began and it was a very good journey began and it was a very good exposure for him and then Alpa also came exposure for him and then Alpa also came she tried to that she was already she tried to that she was already working for UNICEF here. She tried to working for UNICEF here. She tried to get entry into UNICEF in New York that get entry into UNICEF in New York that she couldn't. And during that one year, she couldn't. And during that one year, they saw that I was more traveling than they saw that I was more traveling than being in New York. being in New York. So, and then as part of the So, and then as part of the decentralization of the United Nations decentralization of the United Nations Millennium Campaign, the Europe director Millennium Campaign, the Europe director was supposed to be based out of Rome. was supposed to be based out of Rome. The Asia director was supposed to be The Asia director was supposed to be based in Bangkok and Africa director on based in Bangkok and Africa director on which whose panel I was to select the which whose panel I was to select the Africa director was to be based in Africa director was to be based in Nairobi. Nairobi. Nairobi. And it was decided that all now three of And it was decided that all now three of us will go to our what is in UN called us will go to our what is in UN called duty stations. So then I shifted to duty stations. So then I shifted to Bangkok uh after about 6 or 8 months. By Bangkok uh after about 6 or 8 months. By the time Nitan had finished his one year the time Nitan had finished his one year at UN school at UN school and uh then I came to came to Asia and uh then I came to came to Asia Pacific. Till that time I was doing Pacific. Till that time I was doing travel from New York to all these Asian travel from New York to all these Asian countries and then I had a countries and then I had a responsibility of setting up offices in responsibility of setting up offices in 11 countries in the UN resident 11 countries in the UN resident coordinators office because our campaign coordinators office because our campaign was what you call the inter agency was what you call the inter agency campaign. It is not it's not a UNICEF campaign. It is not it's not a UNICEF campaign. It is not a UNP campaign. It campaign. It is not a UNP campaign. It is not a M campaign. and it is not a who is not a M campaign. and it is not a who campaign because your millennium campaign because your millennium development goals cut across all these development goals cut across all these agencies. agencies. agencies. Uh so then I started setting up those Uh so then I started setting up those offices. So I set up office in India offices. So I set up office in India very brilliant people I got and some of very brilliant people I got and some of them are very very dear friends now. One them are very very dear friends now. One of them has become an author. Lagos uh of them has become an author. Lagos uh Mandra Modi who was earlier working with Mandra Modi who was earlier working with the US embassy in Chennai joined me like the US embassy in Chennai joined me like that and then Bangladesh I had office that and then Bangladesh I had office Pakistan I had office. So that's the Pakistan I had office. So that's the time when I actually also visited time when I actually also visited Pakistan number of times. Uh Pakistan number of times. Uh Philippines, uh Fiji, Indonesia, Philippines, uh Fiji, Indonesia, uh all these countries uh Papaniguni I uh all these countries uh Papaniguni I set up offices and then the again in the set up offices and then the again in the UN you have the donor countries and the UN you have the donor countries and the countries who are supported. So I had to countries who are supported. So I had to visit Japan, Australia, New Zealand visit Japan, Australia, New Zealand because they were donor country. They because they were donor country. They were contributing to the campaign as UN were contributing to the campaign as UN development for the UN million development for the UN million development goals. development goals. development goals. So it was a very interesting thing So it was a very interesting thing because because because uh the the campaign moto was to holding uh the the campaign moto was to holding governments accountable governments accountable governments accountable on delivery of millennium development on delivery of millennium development goals. So as soon as that accountability goals. So as soon as that accountability comes in that's like that's me that's me comes in that's like that's me that's me means it's not something where I'm means it's not something where I'm supplicant to the governments. I'm supplicant to the governments. I'm basically uh asking governments and the basically uh asking governments and the finance ministers and the presidents and finance ministers and the presidents and the prime ministers the prime ministers about delivery of the millennium about delivery of the millennium development goals. So during that period development goals. So during that period I met all this really at the top level I met all this really at the top level the presidents the finance ministers in the presidents the finance ministers in in case of India the planning minister in case of India the planning minister would be my host whenever I'll visit would be my host whenever I'll visit Delhi and then little bit aside of the Delhi and then little bit aside of the joke you see this pony joke you see this pony uh tell that I have kept uh tell that I have kept I don't have much hair on the top uh so I don't have much hair on the top uh so lot of my friends basically said now lot of my friends basically said now you're gone means you're like sold out you're gone means you're like sold out joining you in in the activist circles joining you in in the activist circles would be seen as sellout. would be seen as sellout. Uh you are not no more going to be Uh you are not no more going to be deviant. You're just going to be a deviant. You're just going to be a international civil servant and a international civil servant and a diplomat blah blah blah. I said you know diplomat blah blah blah. I said you know I'll grow a ponytail and with the I'll grow a ponytail and with the ponytail I will be meeting all the ponytail I will be meeting all the presidents, prime ministers, finance presidents, prime ministers, finance ministers, planning minister everywhere ministers, planning minister everywhere in the country and this is my sign to in the country and this is my sign to remind myself that I'm not giving up my remind myself that I'm not giving up my deviant character. So that's just the deviant character. So that's just the side of a joke but we did very side of a joke but we did very interesting work extremely interesting interesting work extremely interesting work uh during that whole period and I work uh during that whole period and I used to be on the road almost 3 weeks in used to be on the road almost 3 weeks in a month continuously a month continuously we did large scale mobilization um you we did large scale mobilization um you know we used to have uh 16th October is know we used to have uh 16th October is the international um poverty eradication the international um poverty eradication day so during that day for 48 hours we day so during that day for 48 hours we used to do this camp uh campaign called used to do this camp uh campaign called um uh stand up for MDG's stand against um uh stand up for MDG's stand against poverty So we used to do that campaign poverty So we used to do that campaign globally and in number of cases. So in globally and in number of cases. So in India I worked very closely with Madhya India I worked very closely with Madhya Pradesh government that time Shiras Pradesh government that time Shiras Singh Chawan was the chief minister. I Singh Chawan was the chief minister. I worked very closely with Nitesh Kumar worked very closely with Nitesh Kumar who was the chief minister then I worked who was the chief minister then I worked with the the past Navin Patnayak in with the the past Navin Patnayak in Orisa and we did lot of mobilization in Orisa and we did lot of mobilization in India also Bangladesh it was done at a India also Bangladesh it was done at a super high level with the prime minister super high level with the prime minister Shikh Hassina that time Philippines all Shikh Hassina that time Philippines all the armed forces were involved in the armed forces were involved in standing up so you had like from Asia standing up so you had like from Asia alone out of the 100 million plus people alone out of the 100 million plus people who uh did do the stand up in that 48 who uh did do the stand up in that 48 hours 95 to 96 million people were come hours 95 to 96 million people were come from Asia and so in 3 years we broke our from Asia and so in 3 years we broke our own record in the Guinness world of own record in the Guinness world of record in terms of how many people got record in terms of how many people got mobilized for that campaign. I'm just mobilized for that campaign. I'm just giving you one highlight with so many giving you one highlight with so many things. Uh Arman wrote a song uh for us things. Uh Arman wrote a song uh for us uh for the Millennium Development Goals uh for the Millennium Development Goals and we had a big release of that song uh and we had a big release of that song uh in Mumbai in uh this um you know the in Mumbai in uh this um you know the Andhi um there is a kind of a big uh Andhi um there is a kind of a big uh sports complex sports complex sports complex sports complex. So in that ground huge sports complex. So in that ground huge with the AR uh leading that leading that with the AR uh leading that leading that thing we had similar similar kind of a thing we had similar similar kind of a concert in um in Delhi. So we did lot of concert in um in Delhi. So we did lot of that work in that like a very high line that work in that like a very high line job and I just enjoyed it thoroughly. job and I just enjoyed it thoroughly. 2010 my director changed and he shifted 2010 my director changed and he shifted to Amnesty International to Amnesty International and a new director came in the position. and a new director came in the position. She was more of towing the line of the She was more of towing the line of the UNP bosses in UNP. It was a very UNP bosses in UNP. It was a very interesting thing. People used to be interesting thing. People used to be jealous about us that these guys are jealous about us that these guys are having doing great work and having lot having doing great work and having lot of fun and we the economists the of fun and we the economists the policies we are just bloody struggling policies we are just bloody struggling in putting the papers to the government in putting the papers to the government saying that this policy blah blah blah saying that this policy blah blah blah and we're not getting lot of traction. and we're not getting lot of traction. It's very important to know that the It's very important to know that the head of the UN in India, the counterpart head of the UN in India, the counterpart for the head of the UN in India, the for the head of the UN in India, the joint secretary in the ministry of joint secretary in the ministry of external affairs. external affairs. external affairs. So you can imagine the level at which So you can imagine the level at which and whenever I would come I'm meeting and whenever I would come I'm meeting the planning minister, I'm meeting the the planning minister, I'm meeting the planning secretary. So I I was meeting planning secretary. So I I was meeting lot of these people. lot of these people. One of them were the chief statistician One of them were the chief statistician of India who was the secretary. I think of India who was the secretary. I think his name came up in AJ also mentioned his name came up in AJ also mentioned his name very interesting guy and I his name very interesting guy and I build a very good relationship with he build a very good relationship with he was a chief statistician headed the was a chief statistician headed the whole statistical thing very creative whole statistical thing very creative out of the box thinker uh who was part out of the box thinker uh who was part of the and he was the secretary of the and he was the secretary statistics in the planning planning statistics in the planning planning department something like that so you department something like that so you met lot of interesting people and lot of met lot of interesting people and lot of things that you could push in getting things that you could push in getting getting done we used to bring out this getting done we used to bring out this comparative things. So on MMR and I comparative things. So on MMR and I think some one of your shows you have think some one of your shows you have mentioned that uh the Nepal and mentioned that uh the Nepal and Bangladesh on MMR and they are doing Bangladesh on MMR and they are doing better than even country like India for better than even country like India for why uh and the both of them are LDC's why uh and the both of them are LDC's least developed countries and we are least developed countries and we are supposed to be a middle- inome country supposed to be a middle- inome country or moving towards middle- inome country or moving towards middle- inome country we are developing country so a lot of we are developing country so a lot of those kinds of things we would bring out those kinds of things we would bring out and you know so I used to be on the and you know so I used to be on the television giving interviews and the television giving interviews and the newspaper newspaper newspaper interview blah blah blah blah that all interview blah blah blah blah that all used to happen. So after 2010, used to happen. So after 2010, I was already part of trying to I was already part of trying to articulate the next generation of the articulate the next generation of the Millennium Development Goals which then Millennium Development Goals which then came in as sustainable development goals came in as sustainable development goals from the year 2016 from the year 2016 and the present and the present deputy secretary general Amina Ahmed was deputy secretary general Amina Ahmed was that time special ambassador of the UN that time special ambassador of the UN Secretary General on Millennium Secretary General on Millennium Development Go. So I worked very closely Development Go. So I worked very closely with Amina at that time and so we were with Amina at that time and so we were part of that task force which was doing part of that task force which was doing that and then the new person was that and then the new person was appointed. So I held up the campaign as appointed. So I held up the campaign as a OIC officer in charge for 2 months a OIC officer in charge for 2 months based out of New York shifted Bangkok based out of New York shifted Bangkok from Bangkok to New York and managed the from Bangkok to New York and managed the campaign globally for 2 months before campaign globally for 2 months before the new person joined in. New person the new person joined in. New person joined in from UNICEF. she was communisf joined in from UNICEF. she was communisf and she joined in and she joined in and then somehow because she was more a and then somehow because she was more a kind of a UN bureaucrat uh would only kind of a UN bureaucrat uh would only take guidance from the top and only take guidance from the top and only didn't give us much freedom to do a didn't give us much freedom to do a little bit out of the box kind of thing little bit out of the box kind of thing and then I started getting bored because and then I started getting bored because I said you know I said you know this is not me if I'm not able to do all this is not me if I'm not able to do all that campaigning activism getting civil that campaigning activism getting civil society organizations. society organizations. society organizations. So like in India we had this campaign So like in India we had this campaign called Wadana and do not break your called Wadana and do not break your promise campaign. So like that campaigns promise campaign. So like that campaigns we had everywhere the globally it was we had everywhere the globally it was called a global campaign against poverty called a global campaign against poverty GCAP. GCAP. GCAP. So all those campaigns we were in a way So all those campaigns we were in a way supporting funding strategizing all supporting funding strategizing all those that's what we're doing. She those that's what we're doing. She wasn't very keen on that civil society wasn't very keen on that civil society campaign part. That was a key part if campaign part. That was a key part if you want to hold government accountable you want to hold government accountable other than the legislators because we other than the legislators because we also had a parliamentary conferences also had a parliamentary conferences where parliamentarians were in a way where parliamentarians were in a way oriented to the millennium development oriented to the millennium development goals and what they should be asking the goals and what they should be asking the what kinds of questions they should be what kinds of questions they should be asking on the flare of parliament. She asking on the flare of parliament. She wasn't interested in doing any of those wasn't interested in doing any of those which will be seen in the contestation which will be seen in the contestation with the government and the campaign's with the government and the campaign's origin was holding governments origin was holding governments accountable to the MDGs. So in a way you accountable to the MDGs. So in a way you were moving from the toal mission. were moving from the toal mission. So I tried to help her in some parts and So I tried to help her in some parts and 2013 then I was already quite bored that 2013 then I was already quite bored that I was not getting the kind of autonomy I was not getting the kind of autonomy and initiative that I would have liked. and initiative that I would have liked. So then I had two options. One is to So then I had two options. One is to continue in the UN but in another continue in the UN but in another position position position or to leave UN. or to leave UN. So to continue in the UN the options I So to continue in the UN the options I was looking at was basically postconlict was looking at was basically postconlict country where you get your hands dirty country where you get your hands dirty again you know and get to the country again you know and get to the country see the reconstruction redevelopment see the reconstruction redevelopment what can be done what can be done was one option I had other option was one option I had other option I was already shortlisted for the I was already shortlisted for the resident coordinator um um the whole resident coordinator um um the whole process of selection for the resident process of selection for the resident coordinators and once Once you are coordinators and once Once you are selected then there is a institution of selected then there is a institution of uh UN in Italy where you spend 3 months uh UN in Italy where you spend 3 months uh to really understand uh the role of uh to really understand uh the role of the resident coordinator and blah blah the resident coordinator and blah blah blah and then you are supposed to give blah and then you are supposed to give three countries in which you would like three countries in which you would like to be a resident coordinator and then to be a resident coordinator and then they approach the three countries and if they approach the three countries and if any country uh who accepts you you be any country uh who accepts you you be you are appointed as a resident you are appointed as a resident coordinator. Generally this is not a coordinator. Generally this is not a country of your origin. So that is that country of your origin. So that is that is the kind of a rule that you uh I is the kind of a rule that you uh I cannot be in India as a Indian and the cannot be in India as a Indian and the resident coordinator option resident coordinator option as a career move in terms of if I would as a career move in terms of if I would have decided that my fire in the bay is have decided that my fire in the bay is now gone and I want to be you know cozy now gone and I want to be you know cozy UN bureaucrat a UN flag car and I know UN bureaucrat a UN flag car and I know hosting cocktails and joining cocktails hosting cocktails and joining cocktails it would have been a great thing I said it would have been a great thing I said no that's not for me so I decided to opt no that's not for me so I decided to opt out of that selection process out of that selection process I didn't get uh any jobs in terms of the I didn't get uh any jobs in terms of the post um conflict construction um thing post um conflict construction um thing at my level. uh there were jobs which at my level. uh there were jobs which were at a program officer level this were at a program officer level this that India other which I was not that India other which I was not interested in giving up my D1 position interested in giving up my D1 position and coming down to P3 or P4 or P5 and coming down to P3 or P4 or P5 and then the amnesty international and then the amnesty international position opened up for which was called position opened up for which was called senior director global operations senior director global operations which was part of so this person the which was part of so this person the director who I worked with Sal Shetty director who I worked with Sal Shetty who had joined I'm the state as a who had joined I'm the state as a secretary general uh as part of uh his secretary general uh as part of uh his uh joining he had launched a program uh joining he had launched a program called moving closer to the ground which called moving closer to the ground which inspired me quite a bit because it the inspired me quite a bit because it the idea was why do we have this uh human idea was why do we have this uh human rights organization based in London rights organization based in London based in uh New York holding governments based in uh New York holding governments accountable in the south by flying in accountable in the south by flying in their researchers to these countries and their researchers to these countries and you know bringing out reports. you know bringing out reports. How about moving our whole How about moving our whole research uh capacity uh closer to these research uh capacity uh closer to these countries? So moving closer to the countries? So moving closer to the ground. So there's a blue blueprint ground. So there's a blue blueprint ready of setting up offices in all ready of setting up offices in all regions of the world. Larger regions regions of the world. Larger regions like Africa had three offices. uh like Africa had three offices. uh Bangkok for Southeast Asia, Hong Kong Bangkok for Southeast Asia, Hong Kong for East Asia and for East Asia and we were looking for India to be for the we were looking for India to be for the South Asia and that's when I had South Asia and that's when I had negotiated talked to people all those negotiated talked to people all those things I had started doing but that was things I had started doing but that was the failure and then we shifted the the failure and then we shifted the South Asia office to Colbo uh similarly South Asia office to Colbo uh similarly so there were 15 offices and then I took so there were 15 offices and then I took charge of that program to which charge of that program to which basically meant out of the 600 people basically meant out of the 600 people who were in the amnesty International who were in the amnesty International London office, 300 jobs were being London office, 300 jobs were being shifted outside of London because they shifted outside of London because they were getting distributed into this 15 were getting distributed into this 15 offices spread from Lima to Hong Kong offices spread from Lima to Hong Kong and that was the program I led in the in and that was the program I led in the in the Amnesty International from 2013 the Amnesty International from 2013 September I joined there until August of September I joined there until August of 2019. By the time the program was 2019. By the time the program was complete uh it was all sorted. We of complete uh it was all sorted. We of course had some um uh what do you call course had some um uh what do you call the challenges towards the end uh in the challenges towards the end uh in terms of because of course in any of terms of because of course in any of such things there's will be strong such things there's will be strong resistance resistance resistance we had the unions very active unions we had the unions very active unions which were of course part of the labor which were of course part of the labor party in UK in the but we we were party in UK in the but we we were broadly successful I would say that uh broadly successful I would say that uh so that was my journey from UN to so that was my journey from UN to amnesty till about August 2019. 19. amnesty till about August 2019. 19. So from July of uh 2006 So from July of uh 2006 till September of 2013 with the UN I till September of 2013 with the UN I left Bangkok office on 15th of September left Bangkok office on 15th of September and 16th of September 2013 I joined and 16th of September 2013 I joined amnesty in bank in London and then till amnesty in bank in London and then till August of 2019 and amnesty job also August of 2019 and amnesty job also involved lot of traveling because involved lot of traveling because setting up all these offices meant that setting up all these offices meant that uh I had to meet again number of people uh I had to meet again number of people uh to set up the offices negotiate the uh to set up the offices negotiate the terms uh whether it's in Mexico terms uh whether it's in Mexico whether it's in uh Lebanon because we whether it's in uh Lebanon because we had office in Beirut Tunisia had office in Beirut Tunisia all these places go meet at the highest all these places go meet at the highest level again that this time it was not level again that this time it was not more minister of economics and minister more minister of economics and minister of finance or minister of planning this of finance or minister of planning this was more minister of security because was more minister of security because amnesty was seen as part of the security amnesty was seen as part of the security issues right uh for that and minister of issues right uh for that and minister of external affairs the two kinds of people external affairs the two kinds of people that I had to meet in all these that I had to meet in all these countries to set up those processes So that's in brief those that journey So that's in brief those that journey from 2004 from 2004 from 2004 PDHRE United Nations Amnesty. PDHRE United Nations Amnesty. The thought strikes me that in a sense The thought strikes me that in a sense it's the journey that you've made is it's the journey that you've made is almost a full circle. Not quite but almost a full circle. Not quite but almost in the sense that it's a almost in the sense that it's a grassroots to global and grassroots kind grassroots to global and grassroots kind of journey again that you begin in the of journey again that you begin in the world of social work at the grassroots world of social work at the grassroots where you're learning from the bottom up where you're learning from the bottom up and then this journey takes you all the and then this journey takes you all the way to the United Nations and by now way to the United Nations and by now you've you you've come from being an you've you you've come from being an activist outsider to an organizational activist outsider to an organizational insider and I'm wondering what insider and I'm wondering what observations you then have about this observations you then have about this larger infrastructure of social work larger infrastructure of social work because typically Generally what happens because typically Generally what happens is when an organization goes beyond a is when an organization goes beyond a certain size and becomes as big as a UN certain size and becomes as big as a UN was it gets oified it gets set in its was it gets oified it gets set in its way a bureaucracy comes in there is a way a bureaucracy comes in there is a risk aversion there is a status quo bias risk aversion there is a status quo bias you don't want to do anything new that's you don't want to do anything new that's one part of the puzzle the the the other one part of the puzzle the the the other part of what happens uh even before you part of what happens uh even before you get that big but purely from virtue of get that big but purely from virtue of being uh an outsider is that you you may being uh an outsider is that you you may not truly understand grassroots issues not truly understand grassroots issues in a bottom-up up kind of way but you in a bottom-up up kind of way but you have your preconceived notions from have your preconceived notions from global best practices which you try to global best practices which you try to take with you and quite often they don't take with you and quite often they don't work I mean the the term policy makers work I mean the the term policy makers would use is isomorphic mimicry that would use is isomorphic mimicry that something worked in the USA so you're something worked in the USA so you're saying kpura or something worked in saying kpura or something worked in Uganda and you're saying huh inali this Uganda and you're saying huh inali this will also work and it never really works will also work and it never really works that way and there is always a distance that way and there is always a distance and then it becomes a separate kind of and then it becomes a separate kind of game that is being played but that loses game that is being played but that loses touch with the ground reality touch with the ground reality So what is your observation on that that So what is your observation on that that you know to what extent does an you know to what extent does an organization like the UN run the danger organization like the UN run the danger of being manned by outofouch elites who of being manned by outofouch elites who don't really know what is happening on don't really know what is happening on the ground but are playing some other the ground but are playing some other game entirely if what if their actions game entirely if what if their actions coincide with the needs of the local coincide with the needs of the local populace it can often just happen to populace it can often just happen to coincide by accident and uh you know the coincide by accident and uh you know the frameworks may not quite be there and frameworks may not quite be there and yet here you are someone who's come from yet here you are someone who's come from the ground up a grassroot outsider you the ground up a grassroot outsider you built an organization within the country built an organization within the country and you made the journey. So in a sense and you made the journey. So in a sense you are the perfect person to be a you are the perfect person to be a corrective within the UN system. So what corrective within the UN system. So what are your observations on on that in the are your observations on on that in the larger sense of organizations like the larger sense of organizations like the UN to begin with and whether they are UN to begin with and whether they are adequately in touch and uh you you know adequately in touch and uh you you know what did you see what frustrated you uh what did you see what frustrated you uh and at the same time you have tremendous and at the same time you have tremendous resources to make change at your uh resources to make change at your uh disposal. So that would be the plus side disposal. So that would be the plus side of the equation that you've got the of the equation that you've got the resources and the firepower and the resources and the firepower and the reputation and the diplomatic passport reputation and the diplomatic passport to be able to make a difference. So how to be able to make a difference. So how does one think of all the all the does one think of all the all the trade-offs? So a lot of the observation trade-offs? So a lot of the observation that you're making in terms of the that you're making in terms of the oification processes oification processes oification processes in terms of people getting too in terms of people getting too comfortable in the UN secured kind of comfortable in the UN secured kind of jobs. jobs. jobs. Uh there's a misconception that the UN Uh there's a misconception that the UN jobs are really high paying uh in jobs are really high paying uh in comparison to what is the question comparison to what is the question because UN scales are designed on the because UN scales are designed on the public sector scales of the US. uh so if public sector scales of the US. uh so if that you consider as a highpaying jobs that you consider as a highpaying jobs which are if you compare with the which are if you compare with the private sector jobs in US and the uh US private sector jobs in US and the uh US public sector pay scales are much much public sector pay scales are much much lower. So there there's of course the lower. So there there's of course the from my perspective the key thing was of from my perspective the key thing was of course coming from a NGO course coming from a NGO nationally or even internationally nationally or even internationally working in the UN gives you a huge working in the UN gives you a huge change in terms of your salary scale and change in terms of your salary scale and the biggest advantage also is the it's a the biggest advantage also is the it's a taxfree salary which makes it a lot of taxfree salary which makes it a lot of difference in terms of actually pay take difference in terms of actually pay take home. home. home. Uh so a lot of people when they get into Uh so a lot of people when they get into the UN don't want to leave UN which the UN don't want to leave UN which means they're ready to do any compromise means they're ready to do any compromise of any nature to just stay in of any nature to just stay in including including including they would even work at a lower level they would even work at a lower level but don't want to give up because the but don't want to give up because the thing is at the end of your UN career thing is at the end of your UN career the kind of pension you get and that the kind of pension you get and that pension is also taxfree that's a big pension is also taxfree that's a big advantage for many many people so there advantage for many many people so there is that inherent ent kind of oification is that inherent ent kind of oification that that does exist that that does exist but again as I said earlier there is but again as I said earlier there is nothing no nowhere you have monoliths so nothing no nowhere you have monoliths so again in the UN you have a bright sparks again in the UN you have a bright sparks like there are agencies which ensure a like there are agencies which ensure a lot of accountability of all their staff lot of accountability of all their staff and very focused on delivery very and very focused on delivery very focused on quality of the delivery and focused on quality of the delivery and people will be held to account if there people will be held to account if there is a delivery lapse and there are places is a delivery lapse and there are places where it doesn't matter because the your where it doesn't matter because the your bosses themselves are in the perpetual bosses themselves are in the perpetual situation of a delivery lapse then you situation of a delivery lapse then you can't hold anybody accountable. can't hold anybody accountable. I was fortunate because the United I was fortunate because the United Nations Millennium Campaign the two Nations Millennium Campaign the two three advantages for it one was that it three advantages for it one was that it was something which was directly was something which was directly mandated by Kofanan as a secretary mandated by Kofanan as a secretary general. one it was Mark Malik Brown who general. one it was Mark Malik Brown who was the UNP administrator the big boss was the UNP administrator the big boss of UNP who started the process and then of UNP who started the process and then he himself become the deputy secretary he himself become the deputy secretary general under the Kofanan regime. general under the Kofanan regime. So we had a lot of high level blessing So we had a lot of high level blessing and mandate and mandate and mandate which made our life in spite of we being which made our life in spite of we being autonomous uh more freer than the lot of autonomous uh more freer than the lot of the UN agency's day-to-day work. If you the UN agency's day-to-day work. If you look at the typical profile of the UN UN look at the typical profile of the UN UN job people they come from three sources. job people they come from three sources. There's a whole process of what is There's a whole process of what is called the JPOS, the junior program called the JPOS, the junior program officers recruitment officers recruitment officers recruitment that happens in different countries that happens in different countries depending on the quotas that you get in depending on the quotas that you get in India. Nobody even knows that the JPA India. Nobody even knows that the JPA process has happened because those JPOs process has happened because those JPOs get already appointed by the relevant get already appointed by the relevant officers at the top or the ministers. officers at the top or the ministers. I have participated in one such process I have participated in one such process in Austria where they had like 60 in Austria where they had like 60 candidates for two JPOs and the foreign candidates for two JPOs and the foreign secretary who was in the member of the secretary who was in the member of the board of the PDHRE asked me why don't board of the PDHRE asked me why don't you sit and see me in how we select our you sit and see me in how we select our JPOS a very different process completely JPOS a very different process completely so it was open process they had so it was open process they had advertised and 60 people had applied for advertised and 60 people had applied for two position of the junior program two position of the junior program officers in the UN but that's not a officers in the UN but that's not a situation that happens in any developing situation that happens in any developing country it's not I don't isolate India country it's not I don't isolate India everywhere else it the ministers who everywhere else it the ministers who appoint if the foreign secretary who appoint if the foreign secretary who will appoint blah blah blah that's what will appoint blah blah blah that's what happens so that is one source where you happens so that is one source where you come from bottom up and then you move it come from bottom up and then you move it up the up the ladder up the up the ladder second each agency's heads are already second each agency's heads are already divided in terms of from where you're divided in terms of from where you're getting the maximum funding right so getting the maximum funding right so UNICEF head will always come from United UNICEF head will always come from United States in that in that sense uh UNP head States in that in that sense uh UNP head will be somebody from Europe so mark UK will be somebody from Europe so mark UK Now the present administrator of the UNP Now the present administrator of the UNP I think is German. So like that. So I think is German. So like that. So Europe. So it's that kind of a division Europe. So it's that kind of a division is there very clearly in terms of the is there very clearly in terms of the heads and that then influences uh the heads and that then influences uh the immediate circle around the heads who immediate circle around the heads who will whom they will select. will whom they will select. Then the third process is the process Then the third process is the process where it's a lateral recruitment where I where it's a lateral recruitment where I I belong to that process where I was I belong to that process where I was laterally recruited rather than coming laterally recruited rather than coming from the UN bureaucracy or coming from from the UN bureaucracy or coming from the top through the government kas or the top through the government kas or through the funding quotas I was in a through the funding quotas I was in a laterally recruit that's kind of process laterally recruit that's kind of process probably they are predominantly probably they are predominantly depending on the area of work that that depending on the area of work that that agency is doing they will be either agency is doing they will be either economists they'll international economists they'll international relations people. In case of UNICEF, relations people. In case of UNICEF, there will be a range of professionals there will be a range of professionals like child nutritionists, child like child nutritionists, child psychologists, but more f child rights psychologists, but more f child rights kind of a lawyers that kind of thing. In kind of a lawyers that kind of thing. In UN high commission for human rights will UN high commission for human rights will be predominantly international human be predominantly international human rights lawyers. So you have that but rights lawyers. So you have that but basically coming from the elitist basically coming from the elitist institutions generally because they're institutions generally because they're coming from you know and you can really coming from you know and you can really see if you look at anybody you'll see see if you look at anybody you'll see what their CVs are they in one of those what their CVs are they in one of those top kind of IV leagues either in Europe top kind of IV leagues either in Europe or in or in US. or in or in US. So in that thing to have any break by So in that thing to have any break by anybody who is not there becomes quite anybody who is not there becomes quite challenging in terms of the main stay of challenging in terms of the main stay of the UN UN system the UN UN system and there as I said depends very much in and there as I said depends very much in terms of who the people are. So I know terms of who the people are. So I know in my interaction with say 11 resident in my interaction with say 11 resident coordinators in 11 different countries. coordinators in 11 different countries. Some resident coordinators were Some resident coordinators were extremely proactive and uh would work extremely proactive and uh would work with me quite quite closely in and with me quite quite closely in and saying that you know this is what our saying that you know this is what our negotiations are going on with the negotiations are going on with the government. If your campaign raises this government. If your campaign raises this issues on the MDGs will be helpful for issues on the MDGs will be helpful for us to push our policy agenda with the us to push our policy agenda with the government. So much more synergy. Some government. So much more synergy. Some resident coordinators resident coordinators resident coordinators would not bother would not bother you know they would just they would meet you know they would just they would meet me because I was at a level that they me because I was at a level that they could not refuse to meet me because many could not refuse to meet me because many of the resident coordinators would be D1 of the resident coordinators would be D1 other than the big country like uh India other than the big country like uh India which will be D2 which will be senior in which will be D2 which will be senior in terms of the UN hierarchy. terms of the UN hierarchy. You were D1 yourself You were D1 yourself D1. D1. D1. So they will not you know they will meet So they will not you know they will meet me out of courtesy but not interested me out of courtesy but not interested and also because of the context like in and also because of the context like in India even if the crescended India even if the crescended you can't do much because the government you can't do much because the government access and this is irrespect of the access and this is irrespect of the regime government access at such a lower regime government access at such a lower level that you are restricted because I level that you are restricted because I was Indian because I had some networks was Indian because I had some networks because I had some past I could approach because I had some past I could approach uh you know the ministers and meet with uh you know the ministers and meet with the ministers and even coordinator's the ministers and even coordinator's office used to always get surprised how office used to always get surprised how are you meeting all these ministers is are you meeting all these ministers is can you negotiate a meeting for the can you negotiate a meeting for the resident content I said no no no resident content I said no no no somebody from your office can come this somebody from your office can come this is our agenda I don't wonder because is our agenda I don't wonder because once the resident contact get involved once the resident contact get involved it's a whole different protocol then you it's a whole different protocol then you have to involve have to involve so I think that is true what you're so I think that is true what you're saying is absolutely absolutely true saying is absolutely absolutely true uh at one level it's also corrupting uh at one level it's also corrupting system because at the international system because at the international civil 7 the kinds of facilities that you civil 7 the kinds of facilities that you get I'll just give you one example get I'll just give you one example And this all set up because And this all set up because predominantly all these international predominantly all these international civil servants came from either Europe civil servants came from either Europe or US in the early stage, right? or US in the early stage, right? So every depending on your level in the So every depending on your level in the UN, you would have a kota like say I had UN, you would have a kota like say I had a quot of 200 wine bottles per year. a quot of 200 wine bottles per year. My god. My god. My god. And I had a kota of something like 10 or And I had a kota of something like 10 or 20 single malts a year. You know that 20 single malts a year. You know that kind of thing. And uh I saw that some of kind of thing. And uh I saw that some of the UN staffers who by the UN staffers who by nature, religion, whatever wouldn't nature, religion, whatever wouldn't drink but we'll pick up the whole kota drink but we'll pick up the whole kota and sell it off. and sell it off. And then I was saying why are you I said And then I was saying why are you I said no I'm not interested I will take what I no I'm not interested I will take what I require and that's it. The maximum I'll require and that's it. The maximum I'll do is my national staff because these do is my national staff because these quotas are only available for the quotas are only available for the international staff while my executive international staff while my executive assistant my program coordinator will be assistant my program coordinator will be all thighs. So they don't have this all thighs. So they don't have this kota. So then I'll collect their list, kota. So then I'll collect their list, get that and give it to them. That's get that and give it to them. That's what I will do. The second thing in what I will do. The second thing in Bangkok was much more prevalent. Bangkok was much more prevalent. Like you would get the top- end car BMW Like you would get the top- end car BMW or Merc or Merc or Merc without the local taxation at all. without the local taxation at all. So when you sell that car after 3 years, So when you sell that car after 3 years, the 3 years you are supposed to keep the the 3 years you are supposed to keep the car after 3 years you will still earn car after 3 years you will still earn higher money on the car than your buying higher money on the car than your buying value. And this was like a racket that value. And this was like a racket that was and I was min you're a fool. Why was and I was min you're a fool. Why aren't you buying a car? I said I don't aren't you buying a car? I said I don't need the car. It's public transport is need the car. It's public transport is so great because I never had any car so great because I never had any car anywhere in the um because all the city anywhere in the um because all the city that I stayed in you had a great public that I stayed in you had a great public transport but you know this is a transport but you know this is a corrupting influences that that happen. corrupting influences that that happen. Everybody knows it but nobody wants to Everybody knows it but nobody wants to do anything about it. That's a whole do anything about it. That's a whole challenge. So that it's a it can be seen challenge. So that it's a it can be seen as too small issue but for me it's more as too small issue but for me it's more ethical issue and those kinds of things. ethical issue and those kinds of things. It's not a small issue. It's not a small issue. In terms of work there, there were In terms of work there, there were people I would say I would go for my people I would say I would go for my coffee in the canteen in the morning coffee in the canteen in the morning cafe and they are sitting in the cafe. cafe and they are sitting in the cafe. I'll pick up my coffee, go back to my I'll pick up my coffee, go back to my place to work, then come for lunch. place to work, then come for lunch. These guys are sitting there. Then go These guys are sitting there. Then go back after lunch, come back for the back after lunch, come back for the afternoon cafe. These so there are afternoon cafe. These so there are people who spending the whole day people who spending the whole day sitting in the cafe and nobody's holding sitting in the cafe and nobody's holding them accountable. And I was shocked and them accountable. And I was shocked and I used to ask their bosses I said you I used to ask their bosses I said you know what is this I can't do anything know what is this I can't do anything he's a permanent employee I can't do he's a permanent employee I can't do much about it you know I can't throw him much about it you know I can't throw him out out out so that's that's another kind of a so that's that's another kind of a challenge innovative work I'm telling challenge innovative work I'm telling you each each of the indicators you each each of the indicators the innovative work can happen at a the innovative work can happen at a country level and that depends not on country level and that depends not on the resident coordinator but a country the resident coordinator but a country director of UNP and who are the heads of director of UNP and who are the heads of the different UN agencies is the different UN agencies is so we had a UNICEF head of UNICEF here so we had a UNICEF head of UNICEF here very bright and we did some major very bright and we did some major campaigning by using that and Priyanka campaigning by using that and Priyanka Chopra was the ambassador of the UNICEF Chopra was the ambassador of the UNICEF so she was involved we did a major so she was involved we did a major function in one of these management function in one of these management colleges again in Ander was one of those colleges again in Ander was one of those where Priyanka Chopra came and the big where Priyanka Chopra came and the big halabu and that kind of thing happened. halabu and that kind of thing happened. So you had people who were interested So you had people who were interested and keen in doing something and there and keen in doing something and there are people who will not be interested. are people who will not be interested. Then if we suggest something you know in Then if we suggest something you know in terms of the nutritional status what are terms of the nutritional status what are the kinds of suggestions are you giving the kinds of suggestions are you giving to Bahal government what are the kinds to Bahal government what are the kinds of suggestions you going to Orisa of suggestions you going to Orisa government because these are like government because these are like hotspots in terms of the nutrition hotspots in terms of the nutrition challenges challenges challenges and some would be really on the dot and and some would be really on the dot and some some some just least bothered. just least bothered. So you had all those. So what I'm trying So you had all those. So what I'm trying to tell you is I wouldn't think of to tell you is I wouldn't think of everything everybody in the same kind of everything everybody in the same kind of a basket. You had these bright spots a basket. You had these bright spots that needed to be leveraged. I had a that needed to be leveraged. I had a fantastic resident coordinator in fantastic resident coordinator in Indonesia always extremely supportive, Indonesia always extremely supportive, extremely facilitative. When are you extremely facilitative. When are you meeting the finance minister? You know meeting the finance minister? You know you these are your four points. Can I you these are your four points. Can I add two points that I've been wanting to add two points that I've been wanting to discuss but I have not been still been discuss but I have not been still been able to do it. Can you add this points able to do it. Can you add this points and then give me a feedback? Great. You and then give me a feedback? Great. You know, so that kind of a thing was in know, so that kind of a thing was in some resident coordinator you you would some resident coordinator you you would see this. Other resident coordinators, see this. Other resident coordinators, first of all, they will come at the first of all, they will come at the office at 11:00 and the office is office at 11:00 and the office is starting at 9:00. They're already out of starting at 9:00. They're already out of the office by 2 2:30 after lunch. Where the office by 2 2:30 after lunch. Where they have gone, nobody knows. And then they have gone, nobody knows. And then I'm there. I'm on a mission. I'm there I'm there. I'm on a mission. I'm there for 3 days. I'm sitting. They will meet for 3 days. I'm sitting. They will meet me of course for a brief coffee or me of course for a brief coffee or something like that but no substantive something like that but no substantive conversation no discussion I will brief conversation no discussion I will brief them I'm meeting so and so I'm meeting them I'm meeting so and so I'm meeting this one on civil so and so I'm meeting this one on civil society I'm meeting so and so in the society I'm meeting so and so in the planning ministry I'm meeting so and so planning ministry I'm meeting so and so in the in this research institution of in the in this research institution of the government the government the government this good good good thank you done so this good good good thank you done so I'm giving you giving you a spread of my I'm giving you giving you a spread of my experience in the UN experience in the UN it's wonderful and so my next question it's wonderful and so my next question is is the UN and IR relevant artifact or is is the UN and IR relevant artifact or to put it differently does it do the to put it differently does it do the kind of good it would need to do to kind of good it would need to do to justify its existence in the first justify its existence in the first place. Obviously it's not a monolith and place. Obviously it's not a monolith and it does some good but given the scale of it does some good but given the scale of wastage that there must be you know does wastage that there must be you know does it do the kind of good it would need to it do the kind of good it would need to do to justify its existence do to justify its existence philosophically is there a reason for uh philosophically is there a reason for uh it or most of it to exist? Now this is different when you see it Now this is different when you see it from a different vantage point. from a different vantage point. M M M this is the only institution where one this is the only institution where one country one vote exists. So you may be a country one vote exists. So you may be a 3,000 population country in Pacific one 3,000 population country in Pacific one of the Pacific island and you still have of the Pacific island and you still have one vote. You would be 1.4 billion one vote. You would be 1.4 billion billion people population country like billion people population country like India you still have one vote. Now India you still have one vote. Now whether that's a good idea, bad idea is whether that's a good idea, bad idea is one thing but at least at that level you one thing but at least at that level you have one country one vote which many have one country one vote which many people see at as significant and people see at as significant and important in terms of because every important in terms of because every other institution if you look at the other institution if you look at the Bretonwood institutions whether it's Bretonwood institutions whether it's World Bank, IMF all those institutions World Bank, IMF all those institutions the voting is based on your shareholding the voting is based on your shareholding in those institutions which naturally in those institutions which naturally becomes skewed against developing becomes skewed against developing countries right and developing countries countries right and developing countries are the ones who need IDA resources, are the ones who need IDA resources, international development assistant international development assistant resources much more than these developed resources much more than these developed countries who are big shareholders but countries who are big shareholders but they are the ones who are sitting on the they are the ones who are sitting on the decision-m decision-m decision-m so I think that one distinction is so I think that one distinction is important to be kept in mind. important to be kept in mind. Second, there has been lot of attempts Second, there has been lot of attempts for uh for UN reforms for uh for UN reforms uh in terms of really tightening its uh in terms of really tightening its scope. um it's really tightening its scope. um it's really tightening its mission where it becomes really critical mission where it becomes really critical is when you're talking about the is when you're talking about the international peacekeeping forces where international peacekeeping forces where you cannot involve uh just another you cannot involve uh just another country country forces only Africa is a country country forces only Africa is a region where they have developed a region where they have developed a regional peacekeeping force and then regional peacekeeping force and then they have a mandate but in their case they have a mandate but in their case also some of the African countries don't also some of the African countries don't want the deployment of the African peace want the deployment of the African peace peacekeeping forces but they want a peacekeeping forces but they want a international peacekeeping forces international peacekeeping forces deployment for whatever the existing deployment for whatever the existing political dynamic and those reasons. So political dynamic and those reasons. So that's one area which is quite critical that's one area which is quite critical and crucial that that UN needs to keep and crucial that that UN needs to keep playing playing that role in the area of playing playing that role in the area of uh security bringing in the stability uh security bringing in the stability that kind of thing. that kind of thing. In terms of the development agendas, I In terms of the development agendas, I think different institutions will be think different institutions will be marked differently. Whether it is UNFPA marked differently. Whether it is UNFPA which is on the population side with the which is on the population side with the UNICEF which is one of the in UNICEF which is one of the in a way brighter um agencies which a way brighter um agencies which delivers delivers delivers UNDP if you ask me which was a host of UNDP if you ask me which was a host of the UN millennium campaign is quite the UN millennium campaign is quite bloated needs to be really sharply bloated needs to be really sharply focused and done that. Uh so you can go focused and done that. Uh so you can go by agency by agency to actually look at by agency by agency to actually look at it carefully which agencies need not it carefully which agencies need not even exist going forward. Uh so there is even exist going forward. Uh so there is a lot of that scope a lot of that scope but that also means that due to the kota but that also means that due to the kota system of the international civil system of the international civil servants some of the developing servants some of the developing countries will lose their opportunity to countries will lose their opportunity to appoint their people in some of these appoint their people in some of these positions. You understand? And mostly positions. You understand? And mostly those positions are captured by you know those positions are captured by you know former foreign ministers, former finance former foreign ministers, former finance ministers or you know blah blah blah ministers or you know blah blah blah blah or their cronies kind of thing. So blah or their cronies kind of thing. So there you you see all this comes into there you you see all this comes into the play when it comes to talk about the the play when it comes to talk about the UN UN reform UN UN reform and now the situation is very different and now the situation is very different because with the U administration because with the U administration changing the what kind of a role UN changing the what kind of a role UN would play what kind of role UN will not would play what kind of role UN will not play already in terms of who are really play already in terms of who are really compliant some of the UN mandates compliant some of the UN mandates security because UN doesn't have a security because UN doesn't have a mechanism to implement any of this mechanism to implement any of this ultimately it has to be implemented. So ultimately it has to be implemented. So you can have a uh arrest warrants you can have a uh arrest warrants against nthanayo nthanayou but if you if against nthanayo nthanayou but if you if country decides to not enforce it what country decides to not enforce it what can you do is the question if US doesn't can you do is the question if US doesn't of course they're not even sign it's the of course they're not even sign it's the international criminal code those are international criminal code those are the kinds of so ultimately it comes down the kinds of so ultimately it comes down to power dynamics whether you like it or to power dynamics whether you like it or not so you have to really look at it not so you have to really look at it from all these multiple angles some from all these multiple angles some which are western interestdriven some which are western interestdriven some where UN does have a significant and where UN does have a significant and important role important role important role even so for example office of the high even so for example office of the high commission of a human rights commission of a human rights even if it it doesn't have a teeth the even if it it doesn't have a teeth the declaration remain for posterity in declaration remain for posterity in terms of what have happened in the terms of what have happened in the particular human rights situation in particular human rights situation in this country over the period of time and this country over the period of time and the special reporters are independent the special reporters are independent people they are not the employees of the people they are not the employees of the UN they are honorary people they don't UN they are honorary people they don't get paid for their work what they do but get paid for their work what they do but their reports in many many instances are their reports in many many instances are very scathing uh if you see the special very scathing uh if you see the special reporter report what is happening with reporter report what is happening with the genocide in Gaza so you have that uh the genocide in Gaza so you have that uh now we'll say but what is what is now we'll say but what is what is important if there is no action important if there is no action happening happening happening uh in human rights there's one area uh in human rights there's one area where documenting the violations is as where documenting the violations is as important as you may not feel the action important as you may not feel the action is being taken soon enough or not but is being taken soon enough or not but that at some stage when when there is that at some stage when when there is world opinion to take action about about world opinion to take action about about it. There's already uh authenticated it. There's already uh authenticated validated data through the process of validated data through the process of documentation that exists. documentation that exists. So for some this may be waste of money, So for some this may be waste of money, waste of time. For people like me, it's waste of time. For people like me, it's it's important. Historical it's important. Historical accountability for any state who has accountability for any state who has violated its own commitments uh is is a violated its own commitments uh is is a important documentation and we have seen important documentation and we have seen it in some some instances where people it in some some instances where people have been held accountable even after 20 have been held accountable even after 20 years for the genocide that they have years for the genocide that they have caused. So that has happened. It's not caused. So that has happened. It's not that it has not happened. that it has not happened. Uh so I just gave a long answer in terms Uh so I just gave a long answer in terms of your question because it's not a real of your question because it's not a real uh it's not a that UN is irrelevant uh it's not a that UN is irrelevant should be shut down. It's not that kind should be shut down. It's not that kind of a simplistic answer you can you can of a simplistic answer you can you can have about UN. It has multiple roles. Uh have about UN. It has multiple roles. Uh it has multiple mandates. It is it has multiple mandates. It is ultimately family of nations. So ultimately family of nations. So ultimately it is the nations who decide ultimately it is the nations who decide how effective or ineffective it would how effective or ineffective it would be. uh and among the nations the most be. uh and among the nations the most powerful uh what if their commitment powerful uh what if their commitment defines how active it will be and how defines how active it will be and how active it will not be kind of kind of active it will not be kind of kind of thing basically. Let's move on now to thing basically. Let's move on now to talking about your time at amnesty where talking about your time at amnesty where you are interfacing with political you are interfacing with political realities of the day much more starkly realities of the day much more starkly because amnesty is on that edge where because amnesty is on that edge where you are talking about people wrongfully you are talking about people wrongfully imprisoned and etc etc all that whole uh imprisoned and etc etc all that whole uh shebang and you take over just at a time shebang and you take over just at a time where India is going through an where India is going through an interesting political phase. Uh you hire interesting political phase. Uh you hire Akar of course to head amnesty in India Akar of course to head amnesty in India and uh uh the state immediately goes and uh uh the state immediately goes after him. the state also goes a little after him. the state also goes a little bit after you. Um uh and these are kind bit after you. Um uh and these are kind of difficult times. So take take me of difficult times. So take take me through what was happening here because through what was happening here because I would imagine that the um uh the the I would imagine that the um uh the the the sort of the difficulty of the times the sort of the difficulty of the times is something that would only give you is something that would only give you more energy and more drive and not be a more energy and more drive and not be a disincentive at all to someone like you. disincentive at all to someone like you. But these are difficult times and now But these are difficult times and now you are now you're uh uh not just you are now you're uh uh not just dealing with an unresponsive state, dealing with an unresponsive state, you're dealing with a hostile state in you're dealing with a hostile state in some ways. So g give me a sense of what some ways. So g give me a sense of what this journey that this particular this journey that this particular amnesty journey was for you. amnesty journey was for you. So as I said my role in amnesty was I So as I said my role in amnesty was I think that was very important from think that was very important from political political side. political political side. Our basic assumptions and hypothesis was Our basic assumptions and hypothesis was if a report on a human rights violation if a report on a human rights violation in South Asia is done by somebody from in South Asia is done by somebody from South Asia rather than somebody from UK. South Asia rather than somebody from UK. uh it matters because you are talking uh it matters because you are talking about somebody who understands the about somebody who understands the millio understand the cultural and EDM millio understand the cultural and EDM and the norms and the norms without compromising on the human right without compromising on the human right standards have to standards human right standards have to be maintained so that is non-negotiable be maintained so that is non-negotiable but at the same time how you present it but at the same time how you present it who is presenting is as important who is presenting is as important important as what you're saying in the important as what you're saying in the report report report so the idea was why should we have so the idea was why should we have somebody who is a Frenchspeaking somebody who is a Frenchspeaking speaking French national giving a speech speaking French national giving a speech to Seneagalles on the human rights to Seneagalles on the human rights situation in Seneagal. Why couldn't we situation in Seneagal. Why couldn't we have a Seneagalles human rights expert have a Seneagalles human rights expert giving a speech on human rights uh giving a speech on human rights uh violations in Seneagal uh to the violations in Seneagal uh to the Seneagalles government? You know that Seneagalles government? You know that was a kind of a search for that. They was a kind of a search for that. They were of course we had to go over lot of were of course we had to go over lot of hurdles. Amnesty also had a lot of uh uh hurdles. Amnesty also had a lot of uh uh for good reasons at one point of time. for good reasons at one point of time. that you couldn't be a researcher on that you couldn't be a researcher on your own country uh to avoid bias. So if your own country uh to avoid bias. So if I'm an Indian, I can't be a researcher I'm an Indian, I can't be a researcher on India. I could be a researcher on Sri on India. I could be a researcher on Sri Lanka. I could be a researcher on Lanka. I could be a researcher on Bangladesh but not on India. A Bangladesh but not on India. A Bangladeshi cannot be a researcher on Bangladeshi cannot be a researcher on Bangladesh. We had to break some of Bangladesh. We had to break some of those things saying that you know that those things saying that you know that that era where you that the the that era where you that the the professional uh research that the human professional uh research that the human right researcher does on whichever right researcher does on whichever country is not necessarily driven by the country is not necessarily driven by the uh country um blindness or the uh country um blindness or the nationalistic perspective that he or she nationalistic perspective that he or she may have. If that is the case then in may have. If that is the case then in the first instance that person should the first instance that person should not be recruited as a researcher human not be recruited as a researcher human right researcher because the only right researcher because the only standards you have to look at is the standards you have to look at is the human rights standards which are human rights standards which are globally accepted and whether in your globally accepted and whether in your report you are following those global report you are following those global standards or not irrespective of what is standards or not irrespective of what is your nationality. So that was one kind your nationality. So that was one kind of a breakthrough that we had to we had of a breakthrough that we had to we had to do in terms of um amnesties to we had to do in terms of um amnesties just moving closer to the ground um just moving closer to the ground um ground idea. ground idea. ground idea. So everywhere the regional directors So everywhere the regional directors that I appointed were people from within that I appointed were people from within that region. Uh so earlier the situation that region. Uh so earlier the situation was most of the region regional heads was most of the region regional heads sitting in amnesty were either from US sitting in amnesty were either from US or one of the European country or UK. So or one of the European country or UK. So that was a big change that you have the that was a big change that you have the regional directors for those regions regional directors for those regions coming from those regions. coming from those regions. So for South Asia as I was explaining to So for South Asia as I was explaining to you I worked with the um high commission you I worked with the um high commission in London approached them talked to them in London approached them talked to them number of times saying that you know number of times saying that you know this is the job I'm doing I would like this is the job I'm doing I would like to establish the South Asia office in to establish the South Asia office in India India India uh and uh we feel that Delhi is the best uh and uh we feel that Delhi is the best place because it has the uh you know lot place because it has the uh you know lot of the South Asian uh South Asian media of the South Asian uh South Asian media houses uh the media houses which cover houses uh the media houses which cover South Asia are based in Delhi. South Asia are based in Delhi. uh so we would like to open the office uh so we would like to open the office in the so that that negotiations were in the so that that negotiations were going on for a number of months going on for a number of months and then at some stage I got a signal and then at some stage I got a signal saying that you know maybe you should saying that you know maybe you should put in a registration so I then put in a registration so I then establish a amnesty international south establish a amnesty international south Asia foundation that was the South Asia Asia foundation that was the South Asia piece amnesty India was already existing piece amnesty India was already existing before I joined so that was already before I joined so that was already existing Anand Padmanaban was heading it existing Anand Padmanaban was heading it uh and um as a senior director of the uh and um as a senior director of the amnesty international looking after the amnesty international looking after the regional offices the country offices in regional offices the country offices in that region. So we had amnesty Nepal that region. So we had amnesty Nepal amnesty India were the two active amnesty India were the two active amnesty offices in the South Asia amnesty offices in the South Asia region. So I was of course contacting region. So I was of course contacting and connecting with connecting with and connecting with connecting with those offices. those offices. those offices. Once my application went in, I must say Once my application went in, I must say that I tried to meet at every level at that I tried to meet at every level at the home ministry including going up to the home ministry including going up to even the um even the um uh assistant secretary home responsible uh assistant secretary home responsible for um for all this international for um for all this international relations. relations. relations. Um so the positive signal that I was Um so the positive signal that I was getting that those signals stopped getting that those signals stopped somewhere that that change somewhere that that change and uh then uh the Amnesty International and uh then uh the Amnesty International also came on their target to basically also came on their target to basically question and this one the new question and this one the new establishment started taking charge establishment started taking charge where some of these institutions so where some of these institutions so amnesty green peace oxam were also amnesty green peace oxam were also mentioned as part of the the report that mentioned as part of the the report that I talked about and this people's I talked about and this people's campaigning is impacting the GDP and campaigning is impacting the GDP and that was the kind of a narrative which that was the kind of a narrative which which started building up which started building up and then that led to uh basically and then that led to uh basically looking at how amnesty is functioning looking at how amnesty is functioning and where they can locate what and where they can locate what functioning has been you know right or functioning has been you know right or wrong and that kind of thing and that is wrong and that kind of thing and that is where all the various agencies were put where all the various agencies were put on us to really uh look into amnesties on us to really uh look into amnesties affairs we've cooperated throughout affairs we've cooperated throughout in the amnesty scene and uh so we have in the amnesty scene and uh so we have not said we'll not be cooperating so we not said we'll not be cooperating so we have cooperated with central bure of have cooperated with central bure of investigation to enforcement directorate investigation to enforcement directorate to um companies officers in Chennai uh to um companies officers in Chennai uh so any any any agency which wanted so a so any any any agency which wanted so a lot of our things are on their accord lot of our things are on their accord fundamentally fundamentally fundamentally and some of those cases are at this and some of those cases are at this point of time ongoing so that is where point of time ongoing so that is where we are at fundamentally we are at fundamentally our position was and we had also tried our position was and we had also tried to basically convince the Indian state to basically convince the Indian state and not only ne necessarily this uh and not only ne necessarily this uh present government but even the earlier present government but even the earlier governments uh where we have said that governments uh where we have said that know if India wants to play a more know if India wants to play a more global international role uh having the global international role uh having the amnesty office in India and hosting a amnesty office in India and hosting a regional office for South Asia in India regional office for South Asia in India would be you know the good sign that you would be you know the good sign that you are basically uh allowing this you are basically uh allowing this you things to function as part of your things to function as part of your global commitment and the glo part of global commitment and the glo part of being a global citizen uh with the with being a global citizen uh with the with all the international all the international you know things that you plan to do. you know things that you plan to do. That was our pitch in at one level and That was our pitch in at one level and that I think we we we were saying it in that I think we we we were saying it in a very genuine fashion. We're not saying a very genuine fashion. We're not saying it out of any thing. that did not mean it out of any thing. that did not mean that we will uh loosen our focus on that we will uh loosen our focus on wherever we need to challenge because wherever we need to challenge because Amnesty's basic philosophy is speaking Amnesty's basic philosophy is speaking truth to the power uh and whichever truth to the power uh and whichever power that may be you know so the kind power that may be you know so the kind of criticisms we have received of criticisms we have received fundamentally and that is a normal if fundamentally and that is a normal if not again I don't want to isolate India not again I don't want to isolate India most of the developing countries the most of the developing countries the questions would be if you're speaking in questions would be if you're speaking in franophhone Africa the question would be franophhone Africa the question would be how many critical reports have you how many critical reports have you brought out on French government how brought out on French government how many critical reports have you got on many critical reports have you got on the government, how many critical the government, how many critical reports have we had in UK government and reports have we had in UK government and then I will list the report that we have then I will list the report that we have brought on each of those countries and brought on each of those countries and say this is the reports we have got on say this is the reports we have got on each of those countries. So we have not each of those countries. So we have not trying to distinguish between country X trying to distinguish between country X and country Y. Uh so that was one thing. and country Y. Uh so that was one thing. Second thing because uh so we we have Second thing because uh so we we have this with governments where we have good this with governments where we have good relationships. uh if those governments relationships. uh if those governments say foreign minister of UK is visiting say foreign minister of UK is visiting say US so amnesty in UK will do a human say US so amnesty in UK will do a human rights briefing and send it to the rights briefing and send it to the foreign office and then the secretary foreign office and then the secretary may use it or may not use it that's may use it or may not use it that's their choice but it's our our business their choice but it's our our business in terms of what points that they can in terms of what points that they can raise if they want to raise it and it is raise if they want to raise it and it is it is across all boards so if if the it is across all boards so if if the Indian foreign ministry is visiting say Indian foreign ministry is visiting say Germany we can talk about this issues Germany we can talk about this issues that we have raised in with the German that we have raised in with the German government on the human rights issues in government on the human rights issues in Germany. Some people have used it, some Germany. Some people have used it, some people haven't used it, but we provide people haven't used it, but we provide that information because we want to hold that information because we want to hold those governments accountable uh in any those governments accountable uh in any case on the issues that we have been case on the issues that we have been highlighting. So, it's not that we are highlighting. So, it's not that we are saying something which is out of the saying something which is out of the blue or anything like that or to please blue or anything like that or to please a government. No, it is that's a a government. No, it is that's a standard protocol that we follow. standard protocol that we follow. The last point I'll make is one of the The last point I'll make is one of the thing and I I started making it much thing and I I started making it much much more stricter much more stricter is uh whenever we publish any report is uh whenever we publish any report prior to publishing the report prior to publishing the report we send the copy of that report to the we send the copy of that report to the relevant agencies or relevant ministries relevant agencies or relevant ministries giving them a chance to give us a giving them a chance to give us a feedback feedback feedback including if they want to also join a including if they want to also join a rejoinder we will agree to publish that rejoinder we will agree to publish that as the annexure to the report. Our as the annexure to the report. Our report will publish that as the annexure report will publish that as the annexure from the ministry coming because we from the ministry coming because we don't want any voices any opinions to be don't want any voices any opinions to be suppressed and then people can make suppressed and then people can make their choices to see what is true or not their choices to see what is true or not and some governments have been very and some governments have been very cooperative. So when the military cooperative. So when the military government came in Thailand, we brought government came in Thailand, we brought out a very very strict stringent report out a very very strict stringent report on the on the military government in on the on the military government in Thailand Thailand Thailand and uh we sent it to them and then they and uh we sent it to them and then they gave a rejoinder. We attached that and gave a rejoinder. We attached that and published that report and I quote I gave published that report and I quote I gave that example to many countries including that example to many countries including India think that you know this is our India think that you know this is our standard operating this is our standard operating procedure. We don't want to u negate any procedure. We don't want to u negate any voices but the general approach in some voices but the general approach in some governments including government of governments including government of India is not to respond India is not to respond which is then if you don't respond the which is then if you don't respond the only thing what will come in our forward only thing what will come in our forward is we approach government of India this is we approach government of India this this this department's ministry of this this department's ministry of defense ministry of home and they will defense ministry of home and they will send a report send a report so far we haven't received any response so far we haven't received any response from them on the that will be also from them on the that will be also stated as a fact nothing more than stated as a fact nothing more than So some of that processes and when I So some of that processes and when I when I look back when I look back have we done anything which uh which was have we done anything which uh which was incorrect or wrong or anything like that incorrect or wrong or anything like that you know I don't have a issue if you know I don't have a issue if somebody counters those facts and say somebody counters those facts and say this fact is wrong this this fact is this fact is wrong this fact is wrong this fact is wrong this fact is wrong this fact is wrong we we can look at that not a not wrong we we can look at that not a not issue we can have that discussion I can issue we can have that discussion I can give you example of my visit to Israel I give you example of my visit to Israel I was on a mission to Israel was on a mission to Israel And almost after 20 years for the first And almost after 20 years for the first time they received the higher delegation time they received the higher delegation from amnesty in Iran. Three of us were from amnesty in Iran. Three of us were there and there 20 people from the there and there 20 people from the ministry of foreign affairs uh the human ministry of foreign affairs uh the human rights commission literally surrounding rights commission literally surrounding us with all our reports copies in their us with all our reports copies in their hands hands hands and they were questioning us how did you and they were questioning us how did you come to this report? How did you come? come to this report? How did you come? And then our researchers would say this And then our researchers would say this is the process we followed. This is what is the process we followed. This is what we've we had sent you this report. You we've we had sent you this report. You never responded back to us. So this is never responded back to us. So this is published published published 2 hours almost grilling as part of it 2 hours almost grilling as part of it and but we're fine with it because if and but we're fine with it because if you're clear that what we have put there you're clear that what we have put there is not out of any malice is out to help is not out of any malice is out to help you to do better on your human rights you to do better on your human rights standards. What's what's ultimately standards. What's what's ultimately amnest is trying to do to ensure that amnest is trying to do to ensure that the human rights standards are followed the human rights standards are followed by all governments. uh irrespective of by all governments. uh irrespective of who they are right who they are right uh we have also bring brought out uh we have also bring brought out reports on the terrorist organizations reports on the terrorist organizations and the roles that they play even if and the roles that they play even if they are non-state actors amnesty they are non-state actors amnesty fundamentally works on the state actors fundamentally works on the state actors but we have still brought out some of but we have still brought out some of the reports on the non-state the some of the reports on the non-state so it's not the so what I'm trying to so it's not the so what I'm trying to say amit is we've tried to do this and say amit is we've tried to do this and I'm trying to explain this process in I'm trying to explain this process in such a way so that uh you such a way so that uh you people understand and appreciate that people understand and appreciate that you know black lives matter. So we have you know black lives matter. So we have brought out issues and reports on the uh brought out issues and reports on the uh challenges uh race challenges uh in the challenges uh race challenges uh in the United States. There are amnesty reports United States. There are amnesty reports on those those processes. It's not like on those those processes. It's not like we have been not bringing out the we have been not bringing out the reports for particular countries and we reports for particular countries and we only target uh you know developing only target uh you know developing countries or you know and in that sense countries or you know and in that sense we act against the interests of the we act against the interests of the developing countries and the agents of developing countries and the agents of the developed countries like UK or US the developed countries like UK or US if there are factual basis for something if there are factual basis for something like that that should be that should be like that that should be shown rather than conjunctures that we shown rather than conjunctures that we hear we hear conjunctures we don't hear hear we hear conjunctures we don't hear facts and saying that you facts and saying that you this shows you brought out disord but this shows you brought out disord but you haven't said anything on this. you haven't said anything on this. What was your personal experience of you What was your personal experience of you and the other people in uh dealing with and the other people in uh dealing with uh all of this because you know there uh all of this because you know there must be a fair amount of anxiety. There must be a fair amount of anxiety. There must be a fair amount of stress. Uh you must be a fair amount of stress. Uh you know Akar had his passport taken away. know Akar had his passport taken away. You have all all of these cases You have all all of these cases happening. You have raids happening in happening. You have raids happening in your own case also even though you're a your own case also even though you're a British citizen and uh but but you're British citizen and uh but but you're still living here. You you know there is still living here. You you know there is a sword above your head. Uh so how how a sword above your head. Uh so how how at an individual level how do you at an individual level how do you motivate people uh what are the kind of motivate people uh what are the kind of conversations you have it can't be easy conversations you have it can't be easy right it's not easy let's be very honest right it's not easy let's be very honest about it I would say different people about it I would say different people react to it differently right so there react to it differently right so there are people who are much more calmer and are people who are much more calmer and will respond will respond will respond okay this is what so you have a car kind okay this is what so you have a car kind of a category who will take it take Whatever questions I'm asked, I will Whatever questions I'm asked, I will respond to that. That the kind of respond to that. That the kind of approach I have also taken. My concern approach I have also taken. My concern was much more in terms of how if was much more in terms of how if something drastic happens, how my something drastic happens, how my parents will view it. That was my major parents will view it. That was my major concern to be honest because both of concern to be honest because both of them are too old and they don't even them are too old and they don't even understand what kind of work that I I understand what kind of work that I I have been doing. So it was more that have been doing. So it was more that concern that if something um concern that if something um happens uh or some action is taken happens uh or some action is taken against me how that will be interpreted against me how that will be interpreted by by them and what it will impact on by by them and what it will impact on their own health. You know my parents their own health. You know my parents are very old. are very old. Other than that you always have people Other than that you always have people who are the first to leave the ship who who are the first to leave the ship who will jump out of the ship as soon as will jump out of the ship as soon as they see that there is some something they see that there is some something problematic. you have those and that's I problematic. you have those and that's I I'm not putting it as a criticism that's I'm not putting it as a criticism that's a natural thing that happens depending a natural thing that happens depending on the risk averseness or risk on the risk averseness or risk takingaking abilities you have there are takingaking abilities you have there are people who will wait and watch and see people who will wait and watch and see so far in case of amnesty the critical so far in case of amnesty the critical people are the chief financial officer people are the chief financial officer who has been tremendously integrated who has been tremendously integrated the board members of the amnesty India the board members of the amnesty India boards that includes people like me, boards that includes people like me, Amitab Behar, Manoju, Mita, all those Amitab Behar, Manoju, Mita, all those people and of course the person who people and of course the person who becomes front and faces it is Akar which becomes front and faces it is Akar which is much more regular. So he and the is much more regular. So he and the finance officer are the people who come finance officer are the people who come into much who are called upon uh to do into much who are called upon uh to do much much more things. I had to face ED much much more things. I had to face ED inquiries uh twice, CBI inquiries twice inquiries uh twice, CBI inquiries twice in terms of going and presenting myself in terms of going and presenting myself in front of them. and they asking in front of them. and they asking questions questions questions u and I think I did pretty pretty well u and I think I did pretty pretty well in terms of because if you have nothing in terms of because if you have nothing to hide you're just giving a truthful to hide you're just giving a truthful answers answers answers you're not trying to manipulate the you're not trying to manipulate the facts or you're not trying to this is facts or you're not trying to this is what it is now you tell me if there this what it is now you tell me if there this is not fitting in your perspective and is not fitting in your perspective and your interpretation of the law that your interpretation of the law that interpretation ultimately has to be done interpretation ultimately has to be done by the courts so then you will say that by the courts so then you will say that this is what they have done wrong under this is what they have done wrong under this particular act and then finally the this particular act and then finally the arbit arbitrator is the court code court arbit arbitrator is the court code court will look at it and say oh you're either will look at it and say oh you're either the agency's position is right or the the agency's position is right or the amnesty position is right correct that's amnesty position is right correct that's what will happen fundamentally what will happen fundamentally uh so I wouldn't say it was not a uh so I wouldn't say it was not a stressful situation but then when it stressful situation but then when it came to my parents' illness I decided in came to my parents' illness I decided in September whatever happens because u you September whatever happens because u you know setting up the systems for them was know setting up the systems for them was more important and then what happens uh more important and then what happens uh to me. So I decided that I'll come back to me. So I decided that I'll come back and spend at least set up their systems and spend at least set up their systems uh you know spend as much time in the uh you know spend as much time in the last leg of their life uh that that I last leg of their life uh that that I can do and that is exactly what I've can do and that is exactly what I've been doing. been doing. been doing. Tell me about the years post amnesty Tell me about the years post amnesty like right now for example uh you're 64 like right now for example uh you're 64 um what what is your life design? What um what what is your life design? What are the You still have tons of energy. are the You still have tons of energy. Uh you still go on random podcasts which Uh you still go on random podcasts which is basically this one. But um what is is basically this one. But um what is your life design? What do you what are your life design? What do you what are the issues which still animate you the issues which still animate you deeply? What do you want to do with your deeply? What do you want to do with your time besides writing the many books? Uh time besides writing the many books? Uh I will get you to write. I will get you to write. Thank you for that encouragement of Thank you for that encouragement of writing books. You know now what I'm writing books. You know now what I'm looking at specifically looking at specifically is again I'm a person who has come from is again I'm a person who has come from two or three streams which have in a way two or three streams which have in a way combined into me right combined into me right a deep sense of commitment for building a deep sense of commitment for building a human humanistic society at a at a a human humanistic society at a at a much more larger level where people's much more larger level where people's people's dignity is respected people's people's dignity is respected people's individualism is respected people in individualism is respected people in their own groups whatever identity they their own groups whatever identity they may have are respected and not hounded may have are respected and not hounded for that. So if that's a kind of a for that. So if that's a kind of a larger thing if like dignity has always larger thing if like dignity has always been my key focus that whatever I do I been my key focus that whatever I do I should feel my dignity enhance and with should feel my dignity enhance and with whoever I do they should feel their whoever I do they should feel their dignity enhance that is what is the dignity enhance that is what is the ultimate thing ultimate thing ultimate thing so that's a kind of a larger frame and I so that's a kind of a larger frame and I in that sense have been involved with in that sense have been involved with lot of the restructuring of the lot of the restructuring of the organizations globally large organizations globally large organizations like I mentioned Amnasty organizations like I mentioned Amnasty another philanthropy I worked for large another philanthropy I worked for large uh restructuring uh restructuring uh restructuring because the idea is that uh you know we because the idea is that uh you know we have lesser and lesser resources. have lesser and lesser resources. So we need to be deploying those So we need to be deploying those resources in the most strategic fashion resources in the most strategic fashion to be more and more impactful to keep to be more and more impactful to keep this world on track whether it is a this world on track whether it is a track of being you know a world which track of being you know a world which respects human rights a world which is a respects human rights a world which is a democratic world where citizens feel democratic world where citizens feel they're participating in deciding their they're participating in deciding their future uh a world where climate change future uh a world where climate change is taken seriously and people really do is taken seriously and people really do something about it and are uh you know something about it and are uh you know enable to force their governments and enable to force their governments and powers that be to do something about it. powers that be to do something about it. So you know those kinds of range of So you know those kinds of range of issues where you know every individual issues where you know every individual experiences the fullest potential that experiences the fullest potential that she he or they can have if that is what she he or they can have if that is what one wants to do. So one part I'm doing one wants to do. So one part I'm doing is the restructuring of the organization is the restructuring of the organization helping organizations to be really helping organizations to be really focused and how can they be more focused and how can they be more impactful. So that that process I call impactful. So that that process I call the organizational diagnostics design the organizational diagnostics design and development process. So I'm doing and development process. So I'm doing that work with some of the NOS's in the that work with some of the NOS's in the country and I want to do that also country and I want to do that also globally. Other thing which I'm doing globally. Other thing which I'm doing it's it's a little bit of a new thing it's it's a little bit of a new thing for the not for-p profofit sector but uh for the not for-p profofit sector but uh as we were discussing earlier the lack as we were discussing earlier the lack of uh a leadership which is responsive of uh a leadership which is responsive which is you know capable of not only which is you know capable of not only dealing with today's challenges but the dealing with today's challenges but the tomorrow's challenges have the ability tomorrow's challenges have the ability to think beyond and you know and really to think beyond and you know and really prepare themselves for today uh and prepare themselves for today uh and tomorrow. So how do I help some of these tomorrow. So how do I help some of these leaders uh you know base themselves in a leaders uh you know base themselves in a very strong kind of a value frame base very strong kind of a value frame base themselves in a strong understanding of themselves in a strong understanding of the changing nature of the reality the changing nature of the reality around them uh and what are the kinds of around them uh and what are the kinds of new challenges which are going to be new challenges which are going to be emerging and coming and what do we do emerging and coming and what do we do like for example everybody's talking like for example everybody's talking about you know AI about you know AI should we be bothered about ethics in should we be bothered about ethics in the AI AI and its use in terms of that's the AI AI and its use in terms of that's one area that needs to be looked at. Of one area that needs to be looked at. Of course, there are specialists looking at course, there are specialists looking at it. Uh but something and how does that it. Uh but something and how does that then impact work that you do in any NGO then impact work that you do in any NGO over the period of time because even NGO over the period of time because even NGO some jobs will become redundant for some jobs will become redundant for going forward. So how does one how does going forward. So how does one how does people prepare for that? people prepare for that? uh so you know getting those leaders to uh so you know getting those leaders to be like coached to mentored to do those be like coached to mentored to do those do those processes that's the second do those processes that's the second kind of thing that I'm trying to do kind of thing that I'm trying to do third thing is third thing is how because the money resources are how because the money resources are getting constrained whether it is getting constrained whether it is philanthropies resources being philanthropies resources being constrained because of the kind of constrained because of the kind of restrictive u compliance measures that restrictive u compliance measures that governments bring in governments bring in how do we create more uh source of how do we create more uh source of resource resources in that sense in so resource resources in that sense in so how do we look at you know do we look at how do we look at you know do we look at then say for example family offices of then say for example family offices of people who want to put some money as people who want to put some money as part of the charity that they're in but part of the charity that they're in but they're also interested in some of these they're also interested in some of these issues that we are talking about whether issues that we are talking about whether it is climate change you know democracy it is climate change you know democracy human rights will they be interested in human rights will they be interested in you know putting some monies in some you know putting some monies in some impactful work around those areas so impactful work around those areas so that would be another area that that I'm that would be another area that that I'm I'm looking at as part of part of going I'm looking at as part of part of going forward. So in a way it's basically forward. So in a way it's basically looking at how do we strengthen the looking at how do we strengthen the ecosystem of the civil society from the ecosystem of the civil society from the intellectual action orientation intellectual action orientation resource base to leadership development resource base to leadership development and getting your organization more agile and getting your organization more agile and flexible to face the future. That's and flexible to face the future. That's in in kind of a broad sense. in in kind of a broad sense. uh and fortunately I have had experience uh and fortunately I have had experience in in many of these things and as you in in many of these things and as you rightly pointed out earlier I keep rightly pointed out earlier I keep learning continuously. So the program learning continuously. So the program that you mentioned that I did in that you mentioned that I did in Singapore was leading transformation for Singapore was leading transformation for agility and flexibility that was the agility and flexibility that was the five days program which was with the for five days program which was with the for mostly I was the only person from the mostly I was the only person from the not for-p profofit sector all others not for-p profofit sector all others were from profit sector because were from profit sector because companies are facing these issues on a companies are facing these issues on a day-to-day basis if they don't change day-to-day basis if they don't change their service offering if they don't their service offering if they don't change their product range uh if they change their product range uh if they don't restructure internally uh to be don't restructure internally uh to be more competitive in the Okay, more competitive in the Okay, they're not going to be relevant. they're not going to be relevant. They're they're not going to be They're they're not going to be profitable. And the same thing should profitable. And the same thing should apply to NGOs's. They cannot be apply to NGOs's. They cannot be impactful. They cannot be relevant. And impactful. They cannot be relevant. And if they're not impactful and relevant, if they're not impactful and relevant, they should not be existing they should not be existing is the kind of approach that I take. is the kind of approach that I take. You've been animated all your life by You've been animated all your life by this fierce desire for change, right? this fierce desire for change, right? And if I imagine a 15year-old version of And if I imagine a 15year-old version of you coming to me today showing this same you coming to me today showing this same fierce desire for change and saying, fierce desire for change and saying, "How should I approach my life?" My "How should I approach my life?" My advice, which I think you might disagree advice, which I think you might disagree with or agree with, I don't know, but my with or agree with, I don't know, but my advice would be that don't just think of advice would be that don't just think of doing things in the nonprofit sector doing things in the nonprofit sector necessarily. You know, you there are necessarily. You know, you there are problems you want to solve. You think problems you want to solve. You think about what is the best way to solve about what is the best way to solve them. 99% of the time you can probably them. 99% of the time you can probably do it in a for-profit way where the do it in a for-profit way where the incentives for you are much better and incentives for you are much better and the accountability is much higher the accountability is much higher because you have skin in the game and because you have skin in the game and get in there and solve it. You know for get in there and solve it. You know for example even if you want to solve example even if you want to solve something that seems to be outside the something that seems to be outside the bound of this like climate change for bound of this like climate change for example I'd say Elon Musk has done more example I'd say Elon Musk has done more than any man alive to solve that than any man alive to solve that particular problem in terms of what particular problem in terms of what Tesla is doing or anybody who takes uh Tesla is doing or anybody who takes uh like like for me one massive solution like like for me one massive solution people are simply ignoring and AJ and I people are simply ignoring and AJ and I have a couple of episodes on this is have a couple of episodes on this is just nuclear power the safest form of just nuclear power the safest form of power known to man despite all the power known to man despite all the rhetoric against it and immediately rhetoric against it and immediately reduces reliance on fossil fuels and reduces reliance on fossil fuels and France is doing an incredible job in France is doing an incredible job in their uh adoption of it and and and and their uh adoption of it and and and and the data just speaks for how clean the the data just speaks for how clean the energy is and the impact that it is energy is and the impact that it is happening but that's a random example. happening but that's a random example. So my my sense would be that you want to So my my sense would be that you want to solve problems uh a lot of them are just solve problems uh a lot of them are just going to happen uh in the private going to happen uh in the private sector. You don't need to think of there sector. You don't need to think of there being a dichotomy between for-profit and being a dichotomy between for-profit and nonprofit. If something fits naturally nonprofit. If something fits naturally into the nonprofit thing like if you into the nonprofit thing like if you have a problem with uh say starving kids have a problem with uh say starving kids in a slum the the proximate solution is in a slum the the proximate solution is to go out and give them food and that to go out and give them food and that will happen in the nonprofit sector but will happen in the nonprofit sector but the ultimate solution is economic growth the ultimate solution is economic growth and markets and whatever and that need and markets and whatever and that need not happen in the nonprofit sector um in not happen in the nonprofit sector um in fact it will not so um what advice would fact it will not so um what advice would you give to a 15year-old you who comes you give to a 15year-old you who comes to you and says that okay I am to you and says that okay I am 15year-old minar I am exactly the same 15year-old minar I am exactly the same person but I am now in a new world where person but I am now in a new world where technology is different, opportunities technology is different, opportunities are different um uh it's at one level is are different um uh it's at one level is more globalized at another level there more globalized at another level there are all these dangerous political are all these dangerous political insular influences that are happening insular influences that are happening how should I think about my life um you how should I think about my life um you know what is the overall advice you know what is the overall advice you would give beyond just the profit would give beyond just the profit nonprofit I just said that uh you know nonprofit I just said that uh you know as one example but beyond that what is as one example but beyond that what is the overall advice you would give to a the overall advice you would give to a 15year-old minar today who hasn't gone 15year-old minar today who hasn't gone lived your journey doesn't know any of lived your journey doesn't know any of that but has the same uh set of that but has the same uh set of principles uh the same sensibilities and principles uh the same sensibilities and the same fierce desire for change. There are times when I think where There are times when I think where I would have invested this life in I would have invested this life in kind of a industrial work like I know kind of a industrial work like I know very very surely that if I would have very very surely that if I would have joined and I share that with my partner joined and I share that with my partner sometimes sometimes sometimes if what my grandfather wished that I if what my grandfather wished that I should have joined the business when I should have joined the business when I was doing my education was doing my education not only that I would have done that not only that I would have done that business better and all the following business better and all the following challenges and problems s that we had in challenges and problems s that we had in the family could have been avoided the family could have been avoided but I would have taken that business to but I would have taken that business to a totally new level totally new level a totally new level and the basic instinct of doing good and the basic instinct of doing good uh would have been then supported also uh would have been then supported also with the resources I would have had uh with the resources I would have had uh in a bigger fashion and I wouldn't be in a bigger fashion and I wouldn't be dependent on resources to anybody. dependent on resources to anybody. So I I I've I've gone through that and So I I I've I've gone through that and actually my partner sometime encourages actually my partner sometime encourages me. It's not too too late now also. You me. It's not too too late now also. You can still think of starting something can still think of starting something which is you know for profit and do which is you know for profit and do something in that area because you you something in that area because you you have the wherewithidal that you need uh have the wherewithidal that you need uh uh you know you you know how to crack uh you know you you know how to crack issues, you know how to go about issues, you know how to go about building businesses in that sense. building businesses in that sense. businesses because ultimately not for businesses because ultimately not for profofits are the businesses whether you profofits are the businesses whether you like it or not. like it or not. UA has been a successful organization UA has been a successful organization for 41 years. for 41 years. Yeah, there is a whole financial model Yeah, there is a whole financial model about it. So she keeps encouraging me. about it. So she keeps encouraging me. I I keep in this dilemma between you I I keep in this dilemma between you know know know do I need to do that? if that the best do I need to do that? if that the best contribution I can make or whatever I've contribution I can make or whatever I've learned me making that offering uh to learned me making that offering uh to the scaled kind of a way is a better the scaled kind of a way is a better option. So the I'm not saying that option. So the I'm not saying that completely refusing that idea that idea completely refusing that idea that idea did uh does exist and I I just to tell did uh does exist and I I just to tell you that you know because I'm a foodie you that you know because I'm a foodie and I like food uh my son uh had and I like food uh my son uh had actually uh come up with a plan for actually uh come up with a plan for starting a cafe very well-designed starting a cafe very well-designed business plan because he has many business plan because he has many industry industry industry and uh he wanted me to whether I want to and uh he wanted me to whether I want to fund it and then whether we can really fund it and then whether we can really look kind of a chain in terms of really look kind of a chain in terms of really looking at that kind of a business. So looking at that kind of a business. So the I'm just giving you giving you a the I'm just giving you giving you a sense of that that thought is not out of sense of that that thought is not out of bounds for me. Uh whether I have taken bounds for me. Uh whether I have taken that step of acting on it. No. But the that step of acting on it. No. But the thought is not out of bounds. So I I thought is not out of bounds. So I I completely see because there are times completely see because there are times when I've really felt very deeply when I've really felt very deeply knowing that how the family got knowing that how the family got destroyed because of the property destroyed because of the property conflicts. One and two that we were just conflicts. One and two that we were just four big factories in the area of four big factories in the area of creating large scale silver utensils. creating large scale silver utensils. Now what have happened is you have small Now what have happened is you have small small small things in Sangly somewhere small small things in Sangly somewhere you know doing minuscule of work. the ch you know doing minuscule of work. the ch opportunity we had and what we were opportunity we had and what we were doing was completely different. I told doing was completely different. I told you could have been the Amani of Thales you could have been the Amani of Thales in in terms of silver silver plates. in in terms of silver silver plates. Yeah. Because 1 kg and it's huge that Yeah. Because 1 kg and it's huge that opportunity was huge and I know the kind opportunity was huge and I know the kind of money that was being made in that of money that was being made in that process and a different thing we were process and a different thing we were not doing designer wear or designer not doing designer wear or designer cutlery. So that was one of the thing cutlery. So that was one of the thing which I was keeping my asking my father. which I was keeping my asking my father. I said why do we do just the plain I said why do we do just the plain silver utensils large of course there silver utensils large of course there the market for it but uh in terms of the market for it but uh in terms of value addition as soon as you bring in value addition as soon as you bring in the design elements to it the values the design elements to it the values go much beyond just the value of the go much beyond just the value of the metal. So you know and there's a large metal. So you know and there's a large what do you say market for that in lot what do you say market for that in lot of the big hotels and those kinds of of the big hotels and those kinds of things which wear silverware for lot of things which wear silverware for lot of their large fancy banquetss their large fancy banquetss anyway. So anyway. So anyway. So it's it's interesting that you asked it's it's interesting that you asked that question at the end that uh but that question at the end that uh but that thought process has been there but that thought process has been there but I have not acted on it. It's not a I have not acted on it. It's not a dominant thought process I must say. dominant thought process I must say. But I'm asking about the 15year-old But I'm asking about the 15year-old minar. What would you tell him? He's 15 minar. What would you tell him? He's 15 today. today. today. in 2025 he in 2025 he take the jump I will I will tell him take the jump I will I will tell him take the jump and get get because I was take the jump and get get because I was already doing my at the age of 15 I was already doing my at the age of 15 I was already doing my excise and the work for already doing my excise and the work for the factory in any case so it was not the factory in any case so it was not that I was completely off thing by the that I was completely off thing by the age of 14 I was starting to do some of age of 14 I was starting to do some of those thing income tax of the factory so those thing income tax of the factory so I would have if I'm 15 years I would I would have if I'm 15 years I would basically say to him take that jump basically say to him take that jump build a business make the money build build a business make the money build the resources then change the world. the resources then change the world. Yeah. Or while doing it have a you know Yeah. Or while doing it have a you know a portion of particular resources for a portion of particular resources for changing the world. uh there are things changing the world. uh there are things which I think um not in the 15year-old which I think um not in the 15year-old things that uh like for example some of things that uh like for example some of the parts of the legacy that I look at the parts of the legacy that I look at is is is would I have enough resources where I would I have enough resources where I could have maybe two three fellowships could have maybe two three fellowships of uh you know out ofthe-box thinkers of uh you know out ofthe-box thinkers and activists who are thinkers and and activists who are thinkers and activists we talking about uh you know activists we talking about uh you know in focus on the global south we never in focus on the global south we never mentioned that but one of the policy mentioned that but one of the policy think tank that I was part of We will think tank that I was part of We will not agree with that in terms of the not agree with that in terms of the political orientation of it. Uh but uh political orientation of it. Uh but uh one of the thing we used to say that you one of the thing we used to say that you know we need to create um activist know we need to create um activist researchers. We just don't want researchers. We just don't want researchers. We want activist researchers. We want activist researchers who are able to act on the researchers who are able to act on the research that they do. So that kind of a research that they do. So that kind of a thinking thinking activists not just the thinking thinking activists not just the doers but the thinkers and the doers. uh doers but the thinkers and the doers. uh can we create or design a fellowship for can we create or design a fellowship for something like that and would I have something like that and would I have enough resources to put in something to enough resources to put in something to set that system up so that you know set that system up so that you know every year at least one or two good every year at least one or two good quality high standard out of the quality high standard out of the thinking thinking thinking out of the box thinking and acting out of the box thinking and acting people can be generated can be supported people can be generated can be supported anyway that's that's one of the thing anyway that's that's one of the thing which is still in the real of doability which is still in the real of doability with my present course with my present course fully it is no no I And if anyone fully it is no no I And if anyone listening to this is you know thinking listening to this is you know thinking about thinking that they care about about thinking that they care about issues like say world hunger I think issues like say world hunger I think whatever is left of hunger in the world whatever is left of hunger in the world will only be solved by private firms. will only be solved by private firms. NGOs's ain't going to make the slightest NGOs's ain't going to make the slightest impact to it you know and the private impact to it you know and the private firms doing it won't even know they are firms doing it won't even know they are doing it. It will just happen doing it. It will just happen organically as they keep solving organically as they keep solving problems. So the advice I give everyone problems. So the advice I give everyone is what are the problems that animate is what are the problems that animate you? Figure out how to solve those you? Figure out how to solve those problems the best and go out and solve problems the best and go out and solve the problems. I mean that's uh etc etc. the problems. I mean that's uh etc etc. But um so I've taken up a lot of your But um so I've taken up a lot of your time today. Uh I'll uh finally uh sort time today. Uh I'll uh finally uh sort of bring this to a close and obviously of bring this to a close and obviously when your books are out you do do when your books are out you do do promise to come back here and we'll talk promise to come back here and we'll talk about your books uh uh one a year for about your books uh uh one a year for the next 35 years as I've told you. But the next 35 years as I've told you. But for now uh for me and my listeners for now uh for me and my listeners please give us recommendations of books, please give us recommendations of books, films, music, any kind of art at all films, music, any kind of art at all that you absolutely love and love so that you absolutely love and love so much you want to share with the world. You know in terms of films I think the I You know in terms of films I think the I always say look at some of the Shambagal always say look at some of the Shambagal films and and the older generation films and and the older generation Gurudat films. Uh Gurudat films. Uh which ones which ones are your which ones which ones are your favorites? favorites? favorites? Pasa was one of the top of my head in Pasa was one of the top of my head in terms of really the cinematography, the terms of really the cinematography, the kind of songs and those kinds of things kind of songs and those kinds of things which were which are quite powerful. which were which are quite powerful. uh in um you know earlier Marati cinemas uh in um you know earlier Marati cinemas you had something like sa uh you know you had something like sa uh you know kind of a political satires and those kind of a political satires and those kinds of things which attracted me quite kinds of things which attracted me quite a bit in in terms of films theater I a bit in in terms of films theater I mentioned some of the things I some of mentioned some of the things I some of the new theater which is coming up I the new theater which is coming up I need to see there is I need to go and need to see there is I need to go and see fillet movie which has just come out see fillet movie which has just come out I have not seen it yet uh but it is now I have not seen it yet uh but it is now playing in the in the theaters I want to playing in the in the theaters I want to also see it as part of solidarity. Uh Ma also see it as part of solidarity. Uh Ma F Mahatma Fule movie on Mahatma Fool and F Mahatma Fule movie on Mahatma Fool and to see that uh in terms of books to see that uh in terms of books there were two or three types of there were two or three types of readings that I used to do. I was I used readings that I used to do. I was I used to get very inspired by biographies of to get very inspired by biographies of people. So I read like Nelson Mandela's people. So I read like Nelson Mandela's you know long march I think something of you know long march I think something of that kind I read long time ago when it that kind I read long time ago when it was published. So that kind of a was published. So that kind of a biographies or Bat Singh's writings. So biographies or Bat Singh's writings. So why am I atheist very very significant why am I atheist very very significant very important book from my perspective very important book from my perspective uh which shaped shaped who who who I am uh which shaped shaped who who who I am in in in that sense in in in that sense writings I kept mentioning to you about writings I kept mentioning to you about this later which is also like a a letter this later which is also like a a letter to Lord Mule uh which is part of one of to Lord Mule uh which is part of one of the books that he has written. uh so the books that he has written. uh so that that those kinds of things that that those kinds of things unfortunately some of the IPA theater unfortunately some of the IPA theater things now actually it's the theater things now actually it's the theater week is going on in Proui so you have week is going on in Proui so you have all the old plays coming up so anybody all the old plays coming up so anybody who gets the opportunity to look at the who gets the opportunity to look at the Indian people's theater association Indian people's theater association plays plays plays we recording on 29th April though the we recording on 29th April though the episode will come out almost 4 weeks episode will come out almost 4 weeks from now but yeah from now but yeah in so yeah but you know but I'm just in so yeah but you know but I'm just saying it'll come back when they they saying it'll come back when they they have annual event that that happens. So have annual event that that happens. So all thea plays are very important play all thea plays are very important play um all the nasan sha plays whether it is um all the nasan sha plays whether it is hamlet I forgot all the names but I have hamlet I forgot all the names but I have seen all of it basically the there is seen all of it basically the there is four theater four plays in the theaters four theater four plays in the theaters people can look up all the nasa the people can look up all the nasa the acting this level of seriousness the the acting this level of seriousness the the depth that you bring to the character depth that you bring to the character I'm just telling what what what what I'm just telling what what what what inspires me in um in doing that inspires me in um in doing that um if I want to relax I listen to if I want to relax I listen to Kisharakumar old songs and Mhammedi old Kisharakumar old songs and Mhammedi old songs so that's some things that I do in songs so that's some things that I do in terms of relaxation basically terms of relaxation basically what else books in the early early what else books in the early early stages I read lots of books as as I was stages I read lots of books as as I was telling you I'm now trying to get back telling you I'm now trying to get back get back into the reading grew much more get back into the reading grew much more strongly. Uh but because of the kind of strongly. Uh but because of the kind of schedules I'm keeping, I'm not getting schedules I'm keeping, I'm not getting enough time to read. But I have to as enough time to read. But I have to as you were rightly pointing out diarize you were rightly pointing out diarize reading and diarize uh writing. If I can reading and diarize uh writing. If I can do that, that may be very helpful that do that, that may be very helpful that every day it's part of the discipline every day it's part of the discipline that uh that that that I do that I I that uh that that that I do that I I plan to do. Now plan to do. Now what else? Yeah. what else? Yeah. Wonderful. Uh you mentioned Gurudat, Wonderful. Uh you mentioned Gurudat, you've spoken about the UN. Did you know you've spoken about the UN. Did you know I'm sure you did know this. Did you know I'm sure you did know this. Did you know that Gurudat once wrote a song about the that Gurudat once wrote a song about the UN UN UN about the UN? about the UN? Yeah. Yeah. Let me tell you the lyrics. Yeah. Yeah. Let me tell you the lyrics. No, no, no, no, no. I didn't know. No, no, no, no, no. I didn't know. That's that's good information. That's that's good information. Fantastic. Fantastic. Fantastic. These are the lyrics. So So So when I say creation of the guru when I say creation of the guru no and also you mentioned acting I'm no and also you mentioned acting I'm like boss I want you acting in a player. like boss I want you acting in a player. How many years back did you last act in How many years back did you last act in a play? a play? a play? Long long time ago. Long long time ago. Now how many years? Let's do some Now how many years? Let's do some see the the play that I enjoyed doing see the the play that I enjoyed doing which I mentioned to you Number Prasad which I mentioned to you Number Prasad uh must have been about 40 years back. uh must have been about 40 years back. Sir, you are living next to Priti Sir, you are living next to Priti theater. Kindly project creative juices. theater. Kindly project creative juices. Creative juices. These are the best Creative juices. These are the best years of your life coming up. I'm so years of your life coming up. I'm so excited that you're going to write the excited that you're going to write the book and you promised to do it. So, but book and you promised to do it. So, but seriously, thanks so much for being so seriously, thanks so much for being so generous with your time and me uh generous with your time and me uh memories over the last uh uh 2 days. memories over the last uh uh 2 days. I've asked you a lot of uh difficult I've asked you a lot of uh difficult questions. Uh but uh you've been questions. Uh but uh you've been extremely sporting. So, thank you so extremely sporting. So, thank you so much. much. much. Thanks Amit. Thanks for having me. If you enjoyed listening to the show, If you enjoyed listening to the show, check out the show notes. Enter rabbit check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. Mina doesn't seem to be holes at will. Mina doesn't seem to be on social media. Again, a sign of great on social media. Again, a sign of great achievers showing great focus. But I am achievers showing great focus. But I am on Twitter. You can find me at amitwarma on Twitter. You can find me at amitwarma amitivitba. amitivitba. amitivitba. You can browse past episodes of the You can browse past episodes of the scene and the unseen at seen unseen. And scene and the unseen at seen unseen. And every podcast app of your choice. Thank every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of the scene Did you enjoy this episode of the scene and the unseen? If so, would you like to and the unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You support the production of the show? You can go over to seen ununseene.in/support can go over to seen ununseene.in/support and contribute any amount you like to and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you.