================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: Xopbin7ai6Y
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xopbin7ai6Y
TITLE: Ep 427: The Boy Who Loved Cricket -- The Vijay Lokapally Story
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-22
DURATION: 3h 41m 12s
VIEWS: 723
LIKES: 14
COMMENTS: 3

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Cricket isn't just what happens across 22 yards, and great cricket writers always go beyond the boundary. Vijay Lokapally joins Amit Varma in episode 427 of The Seen and the Unseen to discuss the joys and heartbreaks of a lifetime of writing about cricket -- and much else.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Vijay Lokapally on Amazon, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, Wikipedia, The Hindu and Sportstar.  2. Pen, Paper and Podcast -- Vijay Lokapally's podcast. 3. The Virender Sehwag Story -- Vijay Lokapally. 4. The Hitman: The Rohit Sharma Story -- Vijay Lokapally. 5. Driven: The Virat Kohli Story -- Vijay Lokapally. 6. Speed Merchants: The Story of Indian Pace Bowling 1886 to 2019 -- Gulu Ezekiel and Vijay Lokapally. 7. Net Flicks: India’s Smashing Affair with the Shuttle -- Akshay Lokapally and Vijay Lokapally. 8. Housefull:The Golden Years Of Hindi Cinema -- Edited by Ziya Us Salam, with writing by Vijay Lokapally. 9. Vijay Lokapally's episodes on 81 A
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 34,745

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Sport often appears to be life amplified. The joys, the heartbreak, the struggle, the glamour, they all appear larger than life. Fascinating and incomprehensible and even often unbearable from the outside. But the daily humrum nitty-gritty of a sports person's life, while it has plenty of drama, has more unending slowburn than explosive highs and lows. And the best chroniclers of sport are those who can tell these human stories. Stories of those who win and lose their way. Those who lose and fall away. Those who win and lose and wonder what it all means. We see the destination on TV. But it is a journey that speaks much more to me. And the writers I like reading are those who write about that journey because it's our journey as well. >> Welcome to the scene and the unseen our weekly podcast on economics. Politics and behavioral science. Please welcome your host Amit Ba. Welcome to the scene in the unseen. My guest today is a legendary sports writer Vijay Lokapali who loved cricket and cinema all his life. Wrote about sport for more than 40 years. Spent over three decades at the Hindu an institution within an institution. And though he's technically retired now, well not really. Vijay runs a podcast, continues to write, continues to immerse himself in the world. Now, many people think of sports journalism as constantly covering glamorous events, world cups and so on, looking for big drama. But Vijay told me that he felt most at home covering domestic cricket, traveling on trains and buses to remote parts of India, being outside the bubble and inside the struggle. What Vijay loves about sport is what I love about sport, the people who play it. This immersion in the world of cricket and its people is one of the two things that struck me about Vijay when I met him. The other is how much he throws himself into life. He's interested in people, curious about the world, and has a reputation for always helping young people, being generous with contacts and wisdom. I'm thinking aloud here that if there is one quality that is common to being a great reporter and a good human being, it is empathy. Vijay doesn't go through the motions. He really cares about the world. This also makes him awesome to talk to. And if you want more of him, I recommend his episodes on the podcast 81 all out hosted by my old friend and colleague Sedhhat Vadinatan. But hey, listen to this first. We speak about cricket, journalism, how he would sometimes spend more time at a post office than a stadium during a test because writing and sending a report was such an audio in the days before computers and the internet. And also the day when Vijay got so heartbroken and so disenchanted with cricket that he took his entire collection of cricket bats autographed through the decades by cricketers and chuck them in the dust bin outside his house. He's lived a rich life. I love this conversation, but before we get to it, let's take a quick commercial break. Do you want to read more? I've put in a lot of work in recent years in building a reading habit. This means that I read more books, but I also read more long form articles and essays. There's a world of knowledge available through the internet. But the problem we all face is how do we navigate this knowledge? How do we know what to read? How do we put the right incentives in place? Well, I discovered one way. A couple of friends of mine run this awesome company called CTQ Compounds at CTQounds.com, which aims to help people uplevel themselves by reading more. A few months ago, I signed up for one of their programs called the Daily Reader. Every day for 6 months, they sent me a long- form article to read. The subjects covered went from machine learning to mythology to mental models and marmalade. This helped me build a habit of reading. At the end of every day, I understood the world a little better than I did before. So, if you want to build your reading habit, head on over to CTQ compounds and check out their daily reader. New batches start every month. They also have a great program called Future Stack which helps you stay upto-date with ideas, skills, and mental models that will help you stay relevant in the future. Future Stack batches start every Saturday. What's more, you get a discount of a whopping 2500 rupees, 2,500 if you use the discount code unseen. So head on over to CTQ compounds at ctqmpounds.com and use the code unseen. Uplevel yourself. Vijay welcome to the scene and the unseen. >> Thank you. Thank you for having me here. >> So I you know remember you from my days as a cricket lover and then as a cricket journalist in the 80s as uh one of the absolute legends of the time. You know your reports always went to places other people's report lingo. So uh really glad to have you here today. I want to take you back to your uh childhood and uh you know tell me about your early days how you fell in love with cricket. I know there's a legendary story of your mother buying a 16 rupees season ticket to a 1969 match uh which we won. So uh just tell me about your mom, tell me about your dad, tell me you know when you were born what was family like give me a sense of >> first you tell me where did you read this? So you know your mom buying you ticket. Then I looked up the scorecard and uh you know BI took 4 for 71 in the first innings 5 for 37 in the second innings and then that beautiful synchronicity that about uh you know 12 years later when he retires you write a piece about him and I thought oh my god this is so fitting. all the pieces. So tell me >> well I come from a middle class family where you had to survive on my father's salary. So towards the end of the to when say about the last week uh my mother would say be careful uh for 4 days you'll have to walk to the school and you know you won't get busy. So those were not difficult times but they taught me a lot. most important um I would say that I had to earn everything everything from like the ticket story my first match story and my mother was a very uh typical homemaker in the sense that because of her cooking we never had to eat outside I don't remember my parents or I going out to any restaurant Bengali market was very famous even it is today but I don't remember going out with M the only time we went yes to Madras hotel in Konpace which sadly has shut down now but it it was a nice little families brother sister and I and my parents we used to have lot of guests uh because we would stay in Andra Bhavan the staff quarters and people who came from Mumbai Pune Hyderabad my mother is was a Marashian so they would always come and stay with us for many reasons I mean one the uh the location. Hyderabad house was about I think 2 kmters from corner place half a kilometer from India gate and um so my house was always full of guests and I loved them and I'll talk later about a very special guest who built this habit of reading in me and uh and you have done a podcast with his son also. >> Wow. Who is this? >> Uh Hersa. >> Oh >> hasha's dad. >> Oh my god. Wow. Yeah. So, so those were beautiful times um Amed and uh uh childhood was spent in just playing. I didn't realize it was so it was breezy. We were not stopped from playing but you had to do your studies and uh and then of course my love for cricket was like any other Indian. There's no big deal. I mean we all play some sport but cricket was uh uh very popular then hockey of course and football um even badminton I remember so we would know we knew about Milka Singh also so there was a lot of focus on sports and uh cricket came I think naturally to me because I used to play well I played some club cricket in Delhi that's how I came to know many of these cricketers personally uh from my playing days and uh like Kiri would ki would come to my place and take me uh in the morning to for a cricket game but uh you wanted to know more about my family so that's what it was a very middle-ass family and um yes u it was uh 1969 when Australia came and um I wanted to watch the match because I had heard that big players are there um But my father said, "No, I can't afford." And he was he was I mean he was being truthful. He was not trying to put me off. He was honest. And uh solar rupa ticket which he could not afford. So I told my I we used to call her I I said and Baba saying he can't he can't afford. >> How old were you then? >> Nine. And um this is 1969 and it felt uh for me it was uh heartbreaking that Australia or I can't watch and I'd read about these about Bel Lori Ian Chapel um I mean they were they had the very fact that we would get to watch Vardikar Vishuanat Bishan Bi and Araali Prasana was so exciting and I told my mom she said okay when she from her savings. She pulled out the money and said told my dad that he has to watch the match. And it so happened that tickets were being sold in a bank where my father knew them knew one of the bankers there. So we went but my father managed a ticket season ticket it used to be. So if you buy season ticket so that's how my journey began and uh it was I mean I was so excited and I was just my friends were jealous they couldn't go and watch the game but uh my mother was more happy than me honestly and uh and should I tell you my first day >> let's talk about your mother first I'll come back to your first Ray but I I was >> very curious to know more about her because of two reasons. One is in many of the episodes that I do with people who grew up in the 50s and 60s, one of the things I realize is that their mothers were in many ways remarkable people but they could be remarkable within a narrow construct and I always wonder about what is the interior life then when you are so constricted like women of that age were not like women of today like you know she was a talented painter, she was a talented singer U you know so all those ambitions she must have had but she had to be a homemaker but she put her heart and soul into her homemaking perhaps with the same attention to detail that you put into reporting you know scrambled eggs and all of that which was very moving. Even this incident to me is uh sort of very uh moving um for you know and I often wondered that you know later on in life you must have gotten to know her not just as someone who's playing the role of a mother but as a human being as a person with their own desires her own dreams give me a sense of what her interior life was what her world was that you know she can do so many things and a person like that can then be good at anything she in today's age she could have been a great banker a great lawyer anything at all whatever whatever you want. But so give give me that whatever deeper sense you have of your mom and your dad also because he would also have been sort of a construct of the circumstances as it were. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean he was he he um I know one thing uh this ticket uh episode apart I never had to complain for anything in life. He had uh I think my mother was the best home minister and finance minister because uh whatever salary my father got she managed and uh and we we I and my sister uh we were pampered. Um but um she cooked for us and she took care of us and uh uh she came from a village in Karnataka to Hyderabad Viveini school. She studied and she won um state champion state award for her painting. I still have them. I had posted them on Twitter also. I got good response. So she was a brilliant painter and and her singing of course and from her bhajan in the morning um there was um every Thursday we used to go to uh to Mr. in Nirkar's house. He was a uh he was all Indian radio director and they used to have in the evening every Thursday a satsang and she would sing captivating. I mean they they wanted her to sing every Thursday and the the satsang would uh close with the vajan from me and my sister. We used to sing well and uh so that was how it was. We were brought up and like I said I'm very surprised you have done so much of research on my mother her cooking u a strict strict my father he was a strict vegetarian brahill so called brahill and uh he said but he said he allowed us to bring uh nonve at home if my friend was coming both of us my best friend was Mohammad he's a very well-known commentator uh he's done some five Olympics and whatever. So he would come home with u um food cooked in his house and we would eat. So my father never stopped us and uh he once he caught me smoking he said no I will not stop you when you grow up but do it when you earn if you feel you wish to not not from my pocket from not from the pocket money I give you and he would take care of us. There was this movie called Hatari. It was released at Odon and um so I said Baba I want to watch this movie. He took me there and we reached it was houseful. So he says I said what is this? He said no that means we can't watch ticket. So when we were talking one chap just came over he says so I said he was a black marketeer told my dad my father said no I will not and I just I I I I took no time I just rolled I was crying rolling on the floor I said I want to My father said no you will not because this is he's selling it in black that black marketer he came back after a while he said sir so that was one incident which showed that my father was a very strict man when it came to principles so he would not buy a ticket in black so there are many stories uh I mean my mother like I said she could not uh the first winter she told me that it It was very tough for her when she came from Hyderabad uh in Andrahawan and um like you have mentioned uh she learned to cook um but only eggs she didn't like the smell of uh non uh mutton or chicken. So she and she used to make the world's best breakfast omelette and of course uh scrambled egg she would ask me uh omelette kachama so she would call it kachama and uh and she was very good not not because she was her mother among our relatives she was very very well known for her cooking for her warmth for her um compassion towards um youngsters and she would go out of the way to help people in the fraternity in our neighborhood if they were they wanted money short of money she would loan them from her collection. So she was a very pious lady and uh for me the biggest influence on me is my mother because I learned two things from her. One was hard work. I've seen her work very hard. So I would help her by doing the dishes. she would expect me to do that and then she would then say okay tomorrow I'll make for you now so she was a very doting mother and a great housewife who never complained that so many and it went off well and like I said she was a mubi sister of Mr. Ach Blay who was a professor he taught French in Usmania University and uh he was he just loved our home he would get accommodation in whenever he was coming here in posh uh um the saying so but he loved staying with us and every time he came he would gift me a book so that's how my habit of reading books started uh and he gave me some very good books and then Of course Harsha we knew whenever we go to Hyderabad we would go and uh we would have interactions and play with him then he was becoming a commentator he came home he would come with tapes uh for the all India radio so he also loved staying at my place he loved my mother's cooking and uh and our cricket discussion of course was there always uh so that's how it was and um I can never forget those beautiful days and uh you know Amit if you see Hyderabad house. Today you can't enter the place. Those days I and a house we would gather some 12 10 kids and go and play inside on the lawns of Hyderabad house. There was no security issue, nothing. And and and the guards were known to us. So they would allow us to play and um like I said 83 team was hosted there. So we managed to sneak in uh so many times otherwise guests would come all these um visiting um dignitaries they would be hosted there and uh we had an uncle who would pass on the pastries and the cakes and ka and roti and all that you know for the for kids u say 10 12 of us we would have our own feast but those were beautiful days. give me a sense of what would kids like you daydream about in the 1950s and60s and uh '7s because that I think that there is so much you can dream about because the internet is there the world is open to you everything is there I remember growing up in the 80s I mean I grew up in the ' 70s also but I don't remember that but I remember growing up in the 80s so your dreams were limited by the little impressions that you got in my time at least it was television in your time everything that you knew about sport for example all these heroes you would have to reconstruct in your head from the written word just to imagine that you would have had to do it in your head that you know before you see Ian Chapel and Red Path and you know Wkar and all of these guys in the flesh you just have to imagine what they are like and and then you're there and you're watching them so before we get to you know that first day of cricket give me a sense of what would like what was the picture of your days. What would you fantasize about? What was your self image? Cricket area. I I know you're deeply into films also, music. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Films. Yes, of course. And uh I'll tell you about films also but uh cricket like I said um you are so right about the fact that you had to visualize only when I went for the test match um at Kla I discovered that you bat from both ends. I didn't know that. So but so It was uh cricket was there and for me the hero who will always be my hero was uh tiger uh he was very if you can remember 60s and house so we would get to know we'll go and just get a glimpse of him and uh it was Um it was not easy uh in the sense or about maybe an hour or two of cricket, football, cupboard. We we would have coco and a game called pit two. So these were our time pass in the evening and then of course do your homework plus uh then settle down. reading was uh the main source of information and of course um you once I started going to Ferro Kotla to watch matches the whole perspective it it was a different perspective of the game that I gathered uh uh I loved the game no doubt um you won't believe there was a Sri Lanka school boys team India Sri Lanka and um it was very see that cricket was exciting. Uh like you said, yes, there was no television. So I think it it was good because whatever I learned was from my watching cricket or football or hockey at the ground. So my vision was not limited to the screen TV. But here it was lovely. You could go the whole ground in front of you. you are seeing every movement uh and there were times which television doesn't tell you that how um a field is being set it doesn't they don't I mean they just uh it's it's they have their own compulsions but I was extremely extremely fortunate am I that I grew up in an era where uh you had to watch from the ground and learn there was no television it was good because Um it meant that we would walk to uh Indra Gandhi Shivaji stadium or walk to national stadium, walk to Ambedkar or Shervish Kotla to watch a game and uh you learned a lot. You you discovered your heroes and my hero was Tiger Pati. I would read a lot about him in magazines and uh my for my father a hero was Panka. So we would have our own arguments and then later in later years we settled down and we thought Gowaskkar and Tendulkur were probably the best. So he would also agree reluctantly just to keep me happy. Um but I I learned also a lot with my discussions with my dad about the game. U he was I I I remember the uh Hyderabad police team coming to my house. They they were staying in Andraborn some not the whole team some five six key players father called them home for chai and I remember persaw coming home to have chai and he spoke better marati than me with my mother and uh he came again he came twice so and also it sulochan that actor my father was also very keen on cinema so so those were days when these things could happen. It won't happen today. Uh um uh it was I think I was designed to become uh cricket writer because I always wanted to play and I have played with um so many players Raman Lamba, Kiri Azad, uh KP Bhaskar regularly and um then of course I mean I realized it was tough. I wouldn't go far. And this just happened. I think my mother saw my talent and I used to once I wrote a letter uh a very emotional letter to my cousin and she she would cry for days. It was such an emotional letter about she being in in um uh it's a small place called Bead in Maharashtra and she was a very dear cousin of mine and um I was in Delhi. So then she told my mother then she when she visited she showed that letter to my mother. So my mother said tuna you write so well and my father my mother couldn't uh write in English she could she had a lovely handwriting but whenever she wrote letters address I had to write h because she would not. So she was probably the first who saw the talent in me and then of course this um u the test match there you know I mean there was a the taxi stand is still there near uh uh cousin road apartments. It used to be cousin road kasura. So there was this gleaming fiat and I would tell my father I want to sit in car once baba once. market. He said, "I can't afford." And it so happened that the first day of the test match, we were leaving at 5:30 in the morning, he only told me that Jaw because underground and when I stepped out of the house, there was this taxi and I said, "Baba," he said, "Yes, it's my gift to you ticket." So he we went to the uh court he dropped me and the thing was I would walk back and later I learned that uh uh the the the the taxi driver I think whatever he didn't charge a penny he said gift and uh so I was lucky I was very fortunate I came up I was brought up in a time where there was um um there was respect for elders. I'm not saying it's not there today, but when I get pushed in the metro and nobody apologize, they don't apologize. I feel yes, I was lucky. And um uh those are beautiful days uh where we would celebrate almost every festival from holy Diwali Eid to to to Christmas and all the four five festivals that were associated with the guruas. So those were great days and u uh uh I'm not exaggerating when I'm saying I didn't know what a Muslim is because we were all we were not brought up in that atmosphere and I would love to share one incident here where um I came back from school and told my father Baba said pack them off to Pakistan. He says who told you this? He says no school. So you know what he did? Very close to our house that masjid is still there in Andraan. He took me to the molana and told him you teach them the essence of Islam and Quran. So it was a 15-day kind of a arrangement. I and my sister would go and uh Molana Saab would teach us tell us and then two three days he came home he said because my mother was a great go he said so that's how my father was a very secular man so otherwise I also would have been a you know a Muslim mater or whatever but uh he taught me to be secure he taught me all these good values of life taught me the importance of saving money and um um uh I mean if he had to teach a lesson he would do it very nicely because once we were going to Pati to play a game and I was told that Ptoria will be the chief guest and five rupees was a contribution so I stole from home from father's I stole five rupees I gave it to the manager I said ba And he said, "Ch, we went and as luck would have it, I and a guy called Paris, we swung the game. We won. The Andra cricket club won." And uh I got a manual match award from Mr. Pati. Imagine. And the award was bag was geometry box, notebooks, pen, colorful pens. So I came back and told my dad. So he says but next time you want money ask me because five rupees was big amount and after that I never and he never scolded me. He said manga that's it and we celebrated the my good performance in pati but uh like I said I was lucky that my parents also encouraged most of all my mother uh she would give me fresh whenever you go whenever we went out the food was made fresh raka roti ratka sabzini um and 365 days I could eat aloo aloo three chapati and a square box achar and panic bottle. So I have very fond memories of uh those times uh traveling every summer with them to Hyderabad and then village in Karnataka. uh um these things radio that was a source of entertainment and of course books and probably I think I I I got this habit from my mother who was a voracious reader and um there was this Maharashian Maharashtra information center in Delhi on Karak Singh Mar. So my job was to go and bring books for her and she would send me every third day. And then I learned also good literature. She would tell me. So these were all habits inculcated by my parents and of course um Harsha's father who also loved us. Uh he would whenever he would come he would take us out for one dinner of um me and my sister and it was like I said I would wait for him and uh and the book. So book he would bring from Hyderabad and give it to me when he was leaving. So like I said great days. >> Do you remember any of the books you loved? >> No those days they were not cricket books. >> No but not just cricket but what books made an impression on you which you love? >> Generally history. I remember he gave me a series of um great uh where I was fascinated by Shiva Gi of course Mahatma Gandhi, Nu Gi and these were um I remember the great characters from those days. Ambedkar I read a book on he had again he had presented me a book on Ambedkar. He said you must read this. So those were I think those were I always thank God that we had I used to call him Achut Mama and uh people like him in my life early who had an influence and of course my parents and my love for sport which took me around the world you know CLR James famously said what do they of cricket know who only cricket know and I want sort of your views on how much this broader kind of education I'll call it an education that you got helped you in your cricket writing later because you were not just obsessed on one thing which is cricket and otherwise nothing but you were watching movies you were reading all these books uh you know um uh you were getting to understand the country and society and all of that how much of a role did this play in your cricket writing uh later on and do you feel that this someone who doesn't have this broad range of interests that it is a deep shortcoming. It is it is see whenever uh one I would love to travel by even in India my office would give me airfare but I preferred going by train even long distance say from here to um long distance how do I describe you once I went from Indor to for a match and uh so that would give me a feel of the place feel of the people and uh you always had trained friends who would cease to become friends once you reach the destination but during the journey uh you you would think oh he's probably the best friend I never had uh and the I like the like every I had this habit of getting down at every platform and listening to the local language how they spoke it's very interesting Amit you should try it go on and and and and of course um picking up stuff to eat and you could feel the weather suddenly it would become cold um and uh we always traveled second class I mean it was no question of AC travel but I learned a lot from my traveling it was uh I can tell you in see overseas they you're able to strike good conversations with people they realize you are a foreigner and they will welcome you share information and it was my habit. I would not sit in the hotel. I would file my copy and go out just walk around the place uh buy local stuff uh uh literature and read newspapers. I never missed sometime they were expensive lining in England they were um they would cost but I would buy some four five papers and read because that's how you learned about the place. Um uh so it was a very um it is not I don't find this in today's generation where they want to know things outside the cricket field. Uh but most of my cricket which I learned was sitting in the stands even till I was active uh I was reporting actively one session I would step out of the press box and go go and sit with the spectators. It gives you a very very deep insight. You think you know everything sitting in the press box. No, they are better informed people in the stands who have come prepared who know their cricket and they're knowledgeable and also you know they can I have I have come across spectators who would think who would tell you what's going to happen in the next 15 minutes. they would sit I I know this guy uh Nithan his Delhi based he will tell you what field change is going to take place now or which bowler is going to be brought from the other end or this end or whatever what bowling change is coming up. So these are all people who who keep you grounded. You know you have to be you have to understand and accept that that there are much much well-informed intelligent people than you as far as reading of the game is concerned. And one thing before I forget I mean I must tell you that I was extremely fortunate because there were my contemporaries my friends who were better than me but they didn't get an opportunity or some got they couldn't grab it. uh I was lucky um otherwise when I joined the Hindu I was told you won't get any cricket there because Armon was uh the main cricket writer I said it's fine I mean at least it's a great platform to write and then later it so happened unfortunate that I had to replace Moan for whatever happened but uh I learned so much from him amazing so uh you're talking about how it was and um in a sense what how do you how we learned we learned mainly uh mainly from watching and that's what I tell today if you watch you will learn and not from the not on television you have to go to the ground even if it's a local match get the feel of it you have to get the feel of going to the ground early watching the umpires teams will come out and practice ground staff will come and do the pitch marking then the umpires will come out toss will happen. Then umpires they all go back. Ground is empty. Then you see umpires coming and taking their positions. The fielding side coming out and then the two openers walking in and uh there are some who will walk on the right, some who will stay on the left among the two batsmen. So all these things are you observe and it it it will help me grow as a journalist. And I also I must tell you that this habit of uh writing on cinema music uh book reviews came from a gentleman called Raju Bharatan. He was amazing and uh so when I got in touch with him he used to like my reports. he would find out he would point out uh faults also but he he I mean how he managed to write on all these subjects fascinated me and he said Vijay you can do it and that's how I learned I could write on cinema also because of Zo Salam my colleague he made me he was in charge of the sports page uh features page so he would make me write send me to cover concerts um I mean meeting getting to meet Jagjit Singh and writing about him four or five times was something I can never forget and I'm very thankful to see Zia for that and doing book reviews helped me and uh most important uh which I've learned in my life is if you stay humble you're happy you'll be very happy you don't have to prove to people and um it it has it has helped me make friends uh they say humility I said humility it comes it comes from within and I'm not doing it to impress you. It is so when you're kind to somebody he'll also be kind to you. So it was my uh my process of learning journalism and lessons in life um is is is something I I'm proud of. I want to double click on the importance of watching as you put it like elsewhere you've spoken about how uh you know one big milestone in your career was when KP moan at the Hindu taught you the importance of watching and writing which is why you always watch the first ball and you know I remember when I became uh I was a cricket journalist between 2001 and 2008 cricket for and wisdom and I remember that one of the things that really surprised me when I started going to press boxes for the first time is press box may I realize 90% of the people are not watching the game they are sitting and looking into their laptop or their phone and if there is a noise then they will look at the TV in the press box for the action replay and that made me really angry I was like this is such a privilege to be at the ground and most people are not watching perhaps a single ball of the game they look at the TV and the action replay in which case why come to the ground at all and and like you I would also like you know go outside the AC press box sur mahal Bahal etc. And what you are saying is really so true like in any sport even football for example you know people will watch football they will see where the ball is whereas for me what is fascinating is what's happening all around how the spaces are being created by the movements and so on and so forth and cricket may be exactly at all the action is actually not happening in the 22 yards but all around and you've spoken about how you developed this quality of watching much much before KP moan must have told you about watching and writing and Today I feel that that quality isn't there that a lot of people are impatient that that whole thing that I saw in the press box is that's exactly what is happening that you're looking for the big moments you're watching the action replays live crowd action replay that these spectators will know the game better than the people in the press box because they are there to watch there's nothing else to do that's why they have come so tell me about this and is this something that can be cultivated then because as a journalist your incentive ideally should be that you will watch even more closely though I have most of the time the opposite actually happens. So give me a sense of you know how do you think about this >> one it shows your honesty to the work one I mean if you have your office has sent you on an assignment how can you not be there before the first ball I've seen people you know just amling before lunch test match so I mean it's good luck to them but uh I never ever missed the first ball in my career. Even if it was a domestic match or local match, always it so once so happened that my son was ill and I told my wife she said I said and she got very angry and she took him to the doctor. when I came back I watched the first ball came back uh she was not there she had gone to the doctor I realized I went back to the ground so what I meant is it was an obsession maybe or it became uh I didn't want to break the sort of a personal record that I missed of the first ball of a match which I'm covering uh maybe third day I would have gone in the first over but first ball uh So I remember Peter Robak I was sitting with him and um I was talking about a journalist. I said uh he's a good upcoming journalist. Does he watch the first ball? I said yeah he he watches he watches the first ball. So I was I mean this first ball the thing is um uh you don't miss much but it had become a habit if an umpire is there before the first ball I should be there simple and uh uh it made me uh love the game respect the game and in turn the game also respected me loved me it took me all around the world I could once upon a time I never thought I could go beyond fosla And then I was lucky again very very lucky. So you have to be there is no substitute to watching it. It teaches you one you you are there so nobody can fool you for a domestic match. There is no option. I mean you have to watch that you can probably push it into your copy but then you're not being doing an honest job. So it was an essential part of the not just me, my generation of reporters. Uh like I said, we had there were no distractions cinema but um no like I said no television to fall back on but um I have known people who have improved from watching television and listening to the comments of the players. Nothing wrong you learn. But there's nothing like having your own what should I say judgment or your own impression of what has happened. Uh uh and for me uh it would be I can tell you one incident of this uh even the players were aware of my first ball business. So this match was at Carnel Singh Stadium Railways Kamashta. So I had a friend who had to catch a train. So I couldn't take him to the praise box. So diagonally across we were sitting on the stairs and we watched the game for an hour and then he had to go catch the train. I walked towards my press box. So lunch Sanjay Bhar comes and tells me I said Sanjay you didn't watch me I was there right from 9:15 I think it was so he said sorry so what I'm saying is they they you you think that you know so much players also know a lot about you they read you when they speak with you they understand they will realize that and how how sincere you are. So my for me going to the ground has been a big um I should say a boost or maybe um uh my whole process of growing up as a journalist uh came from the fact that I could travel a lot and I never missed assignments outside Delhi because each assignment was a challenge. For me it was like a test match because um in 87 World Cup I remember I was asked to do a dullip trophy game report world cup 87 and I may asked to do the trophy match at Kpur of all the places but I went I saw good cricket and again but Amit I must tell you one thing uh what I feel sorry for in today's generation is that they don't have access to players. I had amazing access. I have traveled with them in the bus, team bus a few times. Not that I like doing it but and of course I mean if you see domestic cricket breakfast I've had I used to have breakfast with the umpires lunch with the sub or or journalist with the players and evening we would sit back and talk and discuss the game which is not possible today those days it happened. So it helped me understand cricket better and also the psyche of a player you know sometimes we think but then when you listen to him he he he'll explain that he thought of dry so like I'll I'll tell you one incident of Vindra Seag when he 195 went for a sex at Melbourne and got out. So when we were coming back from the press conference to the press box dressing room he said I said he was very honest. You know he made it very clear when you talk to them you you you learn the intricacies of the game. You learn the you get a very different insight. And I was very fortunate I had access. Today's youngsters they don't have but there are still some good writers around. Uh but yes meeting people uh writing on different subjects and uh then there came a time when my office thought I was a very good orbitary writer. They would make me write orbits. That was because probably I knew the player. I could bring in a different perspective and but I didn't like writing an orbit on tiger. I felt um very sad. And then of course vishan bi wrote about him and he liked it so much that he gave me a handwritten note >> which is such a beautiful note. Such a beautiful. >> Yes. Yes. So that was a big big I would say motivation for me that somebody like Bishan Singh By my god and then of course we became very very close couple DV Gavasar and from later generation. Yeah, but these uh these gentlemen I I would pick their brains to know the game and they were also willing to share faith uh you know the trust factor was there which is missing uh today but um I think I learned a lot from these three gentlemen vi Mr. and kapa >> I'll I'll ask you about each of them in detail later but first you know you were you were talking about domestic match having lunch with the players sort of there were times where the substitute players would let you have your lunch first because they would say you have to go and watch the match absolutely which uh I like so much and u and the difference between your generation and the current generation ation and of course the access is there but even more than that like I would imagine in your case you were a player yourself like you said you grew up around players you would uh you know Kiti Aza then Raman Lamba and all the Delhi gang basically would hang out with you and you would know all of them and later on you had access and they all became your friends and therefore I'm guessing that you would not just have access to the players for quotes and all that but you would have access to that understanding of what is really going on like the best cricket journalism is not about what happens in the field but what happens in the head was a human story that's the best journalism that's the kind of work you've always uh done and even today some people do it but I would say it's getting harder and harder to do it because how do you get the human insights without actual access to the human being like you know the what of you know kahu the what is I think very easy to get today information is a commodity but the how and the I is very hard. So give me a sense of how uh you know growing up as a player through the ' 70s and then gradually coming into writing and even when you came into writing I think it's actually a blessing that you did a lot of these domestic games because that would have given you that closer insight into the journey a cricketer makes on the way up. So give me a sense of how that uh you know what faculties that brought into you. What was the added appreciation that you gained about these players and their lives and their mentality and their psyche? >> My conversations with players were always not cricket. We would talk a lot of things and believe me I could argue with them on cricketing matters. So uh I was confident of myself of how I read the game, how I followed the game and how I how I analyzed a particular player especially the uh the upcoming players you know the youngsters. So there were times when I I I'm proud to say that coaches would ask me so which means that he valued my input. if I could tell him Amit is a good opin so like that but and there were times when uh I have gone to the middle with the captain of the team he would take us and say I and my friend from the Hindustan times you are a better reader I can't read the pitch because that's some completely different heart but they had the confidence that journalist so he would give us that kind of respect I remember once we were going three-day game there was a toss happening and took me inside he said and we went I saw the toss from a distance he we won the toss whatever decision he took and then we walked back so uh these things will not happen now it came from uh the fact that we would indulge in lot of conversations with the players and they would share uh uh their loss of form. How they were you know struggling to counter a particular bowler and uh how you know sometimes something would have happened back home he would be disturbed. So that also they would share in good faith and uh so that made me I had that um I should say like again repeating the access it helped me grow and for um it also helped me that I did lot of domestic cricket don't uh I take pride in my domestic cricket coverage like I'll give you an example uh Pravin Amry is a very dear friend and uh he he is I mean I've written a lot about him but he became friend not because I wrote about him he hardly got to read the Hindu central zone but my conversations with him he was convinced and then later of course I mean did a lot of features so uh only when you spend time with them now Amit you will realize that cricket is a very different game from what it looks sitting outside. It's very easy from outside and say I mean he could have played an on drive or he could have played an off drive but how do you know I mean he didn't connect like said and uh so it helped also I also benefited from reading my seniors like Rajabaratan KP moan R moan Armon I don't think I've seen him make a mistake and let me tell you um I have seen captains consulting Armon before the game or on the playing 11. So that kind of dalagiri he had you know so he had it's on record that he suggested to couple that we should bat first that couple they 175 >> and weather changed and he didn't realize our moon and couple also never blamed him thought I also would have batted first so you have to be an not an expert but a good student to be a good journalist in any field whether political or sports or cinema and in my case uh cinema became dear later cinema writing and um like I said uh writing on music it all came from the fact that I wanted to do what Mr. Bharatan would do. He was a champion in all these subjects. And when he started reading and he would give me six out of 10 or seven out of 10 for me that was enough on a cinema write up or on a music write up or a book review and you will realize Amit I mean you've been journalist yourself. It's it's it's great fun conversing with these players. But cricket yes they wouldn't pro very few of them would talk about current affairs but my in my time they were aware they could talk schools college but I mean just imagine I can give you I I still have that picture with me this game this is a county game India was playing 96 tour and I was passing by so Dravid said Badi if he is going out to bat next >> imagine and I'm sitting with him and Vive Krishna was sitting somewhere he took a picture so to me that picture illustrates the difference between cricket of those days and today I could watch a match a competitive first class match sitting with Draid who's going to bat next and we talking it could be anything cinema cricket books he is a he was a terrific book uh book reader. So it will not happen today. And that day I remember he was he he was talking about how difficult it is uh how difficult the conditions are to bat and he was feeling the pressure. So but imagine he was discussing with me and not with Septilu who was the coach. So those were uh like I said great days where you you were lucky to learn from the players. most important they are the actors who will teach you uh uh about the whole drama that happens on the field and I was lucky. Tell me about your journey into journalism and then from journalism to cricket writing itself like you were working for the patriot. What kind of like what was your self-image? Did you think of yourself from the start that one day I will write about cricket or is that something you know the happen stance of that baby be piece that you wrote in 81. So give give me a sense of how that journey happened for you. cricket I loved because I would do a lot of features interviews for uh uh Patriot newspaper and then the children's world. Uh it was great fun. 1981 I got a press pass to uh cover a test match for Children's World. So that was I mean uh probably a big uh a good start for me sitting among a galaxy of cricket writers and then and then to be told that press box and I didn't know what a press box is so it was a good start and then of course the Bishan Singh BI story happened and then I was very lucky Mr. the PVR Benon was the sports editor uh in 1984 when England came so he gave me the series to cover >> just to briefly tell the listeners the BI incident um which we've referred to um you know Bishan Singh BI had just retired and Vijay wasn't happy with the reports on that he he felt more emotion and he felt that there was more insight to be had so he sent off like something like a letter to the editor to two newspaper two bunch of newspapers two of them carried read it as a piece. Mr. Ba read it. Mr. Bi reached out to him and gave him this beautiful note which I will link to from the show notes on Twitter thanking him and uh later of course you became extremely close friends with him and I'll ask about that also later but yeah so that's just filling in the context but please continue. Yeah. So it was that actually galvanized. I mean it it really I thought I could write and then of course I got opportunities and uh 84 series I remember for the first time my mother was worried. She said to because sub 84 Mrs. Gandhi thing had happened and there was a lot of rioting going on and Bombay match local what do you you can't call it ambassador uh what is the term for British consulate he was shot dead in Bombay so we were not sure whether the test match will happen but it happened and uh samakrishna took six and six if you remember in that match so that was my second test match yeah but going came to the station to see me off. He says like a good friend, you know, a childhood friend. So it was uh I went with lot of dreams and there was a press conference where Gowaskkar was addressing uh I had seen him earlier also met him also but uh 84 was the turning point for me I would say getting to cover a series. So it was again um Azaruin's first series and I had known him before that. So I felt happy for him 300s in a row. Uh so we have been friends from then. Um because once he came with the university team you know you know in winter and they didn't have wools blankets and all to sleep in university. So my father had organized blankets for the whole team because we used to have them in Andraan. So that's how Azar became a friend and uh it it it it I actually grew from grew up from covering domestic cricket four test matches in the series. Yes. And then next year I remember 85 AJ Sharma's 100 in the final in Bombay. That was again my my coverage was appreciated because there was a lot of they thought there was a lot of cricket in it and Mr. Gangadar used to have a column in um in um sports world. So he he he thought I brought a lot of freshness obviously because there were others were had been writing for years. So no great writing he I I happened to get that right break at the right time and uh so from that series of course next year I joined the Hindu in ' 86 uh like I said everyone thought I won't get an opportunity but fine but but Amit I must put it on record that the gentleman who really uh helped me uh achieve my dream of writing covering cricket was my senior KPON in the Delhi office. Uh there was this Sharaja trip in ' 91 which he was given and he he told the sports editor that I think we should give it to Vijay because he loves Lahour. So you do it he was to go Delhi versus some bank I can't remember now in Lahour. So I went for that game. Then of course uh Shara the only thing was the sports was worried that will he be able to meet the red line. Sha time difference or so KB said yes he will I have confidence. So he is the man who actually sacrificed his cricket writing for my sake and he he covered the 87 world cup in Pakistan the Pakistan side. So and he was the only one to get an Imran Khan interview uh Kim Mo. So uh I I'm I'm grateful to him for whatever I am today as a cricket journalist and then of course u traveling with the players traveling with journalists uh meeting deadlines writing trying to write very differently I would take a challenge that I have to find a different angle from the rest of the writers. So it could be a bowling change, it could be a wicket and um uh uh so that was my strong point because uh having watched and and and like that's why I I repeatedly say you watch you learn and I learned from domestic from local cricket to domestic domestic to international and of course bisur was there he would always if there was the early morning call it was it was from him either Dali puri or tora good words you know and uh which is what I liked. He guided me all my life. Uh and of course Kapilv Kapil was uh has always been very very kind to me and even Mr. Gavaskkar he was whenever our our conversations were there he would uh he would talk a lot of cricket he would ask me questions to check my so sometimes I would fail but I would learn and uh so being in the company of these great people I benefited and also the fact that cricket was different it was not what it is today in the sense yes but it explained very differently like today if Amit from Pakistan it's 100 I have no I will I will applaud I will I will say well played but all these things have vanished from the field today you the other day root got a beautiful 100 and no Indian clapped I mean which was sad you could see it on TV so u it's become too commercial and all that's a different aspect but cricket was very it is still still a beautiful game but it was more be made more beautiful by the players the set of players who were there those days uh imagine somebody like Gundapa Vishnat who would not talk about his uh cricket at all or someone like Bishani who would not talk about his cricket you it's very difficult to get Kapilv to talk about his bowling or Mr. Gawaskkar to talk about his batting. So those were times when there were a lot of the respect was mutual and players also knew that so they would respect us. That respect I think has vanished. >> There are many questions I want to ask about your days as a cricket reporter in the 80s and '90s. But before that, tell me about Goss Muhammad because you mentioned elsewhere that he played a very critical part in your life to encourage you to become a cricket writer and all of that. You just mentioned he came to see you for the radio station with advice. Tell me about the role he played in your life. >> He played a huge role, huge role. I mean he was um probably God's gift to me. He was a we were childhood friends. Fine enough. But we played together. We used to organize matches, roll pitches at India gate and we have organized a couple of tournaments. We could play cricket at India gate those days and he was a footballer, he was a goalkeeper. Uh so he would come and keep wickets and uh he was even when I was reluctant I I remember he and I would take scores of our matches to different offices, newspaper offices. they would publish next day and he was the one who said to lick so he told Mr. Melon and I think he writes well so Mr. gave me a chance. He said, "Okay, you do profiles of all sportsmen in Delhi." So I became popular with the sportsmen and uh writing profiles about them and Gaus would connect me with footballers, hockey players, uh cricketers of course we knew. So he was he would say I would say so I would write something and you know it would get published next day. So he would be happier than me. And then in later years he graduated to become he played for the state. He was in the India camp as a goalkeeper and uh he became a commentator. and he has this distinction of doing I think about 30 uh subroto uh cup finals in a row >> for radio and also duran DCM he would do and then he went to three Olympics as a commentator for durian and then so he and also his reading was amazing I don't know how he would say vij maja and we would lose from a good position or you know and then he would come with me to watch cricket matches. We would go those days he would to buy a ticket so he would organize an entry from the scoreboard side where the the owner of that place was uh was known to go. So we would slip in from that uh uh from from the scoreboard side into the ground. And uh we have had some we have watched some great matches. Uh both he and I from the Kotla pavilion ran up to the ITO uh traffic light to get an autograph of Mr. Bi and we told him later say sir says no no it can't be. How can he be so insensitive? So I mean he Gaus was again they say they say he would and he like I said he was happier than me when I was going to cover uh this match in Bombay. Um um and there was no need for him to come to the station. He came brought some stuff for me to carry on the train and u a true friend. He was he loved my parents and uh he uh I mean we continue to be friends. We speak almost every day. This morning also I had a chat with him but um a true friend. I I owe it to him. You mentioned earlier about how KP moan you know stopped covering cricket himself so that you could get your chance and you also are well known in the in cricketing circles for helping young people always being a mentor or encouraging them and helping them going out of your way to do that while you could easily with your stature you could just sit back and you've done it all you could be the elder statesman but no you go out of your way to what is this spirit in people like why did Mr. Moan go out of his way to help you, you know, and did you like was that a big moment for you in terms of um you know then embibing that same value key I have to pass it forward I have to help people is it common? Is it common or was it uncommon? Was he an exception? Are you an exception? Uh >> I don't know I think it was uh not common. See in case of KP moan it was his large-heartedness I would say and also the fact that he was not insecure he knew his job but he wanted me uh he he gave me that break because he saw that I was very very passionate about cricket how I would go and watch and come back and write uh even small matches even little known matches in local tournaments he would so for me I would see myself in the youngster who had come for help because I was lucky if I would be if I wanted help Mr. Sman would help me great journalist Mr. Vadwani would help me great journalist uh like I said Mr. Baratan my senior KP moan uh even on tours are moan was very generous and very kind to me so I grew up with people who were uh I mean they were what should I say they were very spontaneous in praising you your good work uh Kane Maji was a great writer great sports editor with the statesman so when I came back from my South Africa tour I was told that sham so I went and he had a lovely note for me for my coverage. >> Wow. >> Who will do it? So, so that's what if somebody would come to me, I would see Vijay locally of the 80s, you know, wanting to break in and make a mark, looking for help. So, I loved it. And say some a youngster would come sir office interview. So I would get yraat to speak to him or harbajan or nhira or these people say. So his boss is happy and I have help I have done my bit by guiding him u uh because somebody had I was lucky somebody did guide me when I was his age and uh I think we owe it to them. um if we don't help they would be I mean they would lose so many many of them would have lost interest and gone away I know some good writers who gave up journalism and uh went to other professions but so that's why it came to me naturally and I like doing it and their success made me happy because honestly I mean I was never insecure I knew my job I knew my uh 600word word copy will be very different and because I I'll give you an example Mr. Ragunaz Rao a brilliant writer from statesman so he would uh give me his pages to fax so I would leave my work take his pages and fax them pages so I told him sir I I read your report um the like how do you feel? I mean you're just giving me these pages. He Yeah, but you won't be able to write like me. >> Simple. So every day after the test match, I would take his copy, fax it. But um he also helped me understand uh how to you know simple things like constructing paragraphs, how to it's like a story. I don't know you must have read my uh style was that I always thought I was writing a letter to my mother because she was when she sent me for that match she would wait for me in the evening and she would ask me ka so I would tell her so I would narrate he said how do you remember this I said yeah she said again Sunday second day So third day I think she told me that why don't you write? Why don't you write? So it struck me and then of course much later but she had probably sewed the seeds of um writing uh in in in in my in my heart and uh so you talked about helping kids. See when I help a kid he in turn would help his junior after 10 years and it has happened. It has happened and uh so and it gives you a joy that you have helped a child kid understand the game better, write better and um and players also would like this idea that they never said no to me. Never. Um I have done more than 50 Tulkar interviews. Never said no. And uh so when I would take these kids the only thing they would insist and ensure key I hope uh they won't misquote so I had to take that part also into my listening but it was great fun uh uh helping them and you also learn from them from these they they think differently uh their challenges challenges are much more if you ask me than what they were in my time. Humongous challenges for them to TV press conference. So they write differently but uh for me it was great joy uh sharing my experience uh with these um young reporters and I still keep in touch with them. I I tell my writing students that all their writing has to pass the Nani test that the Nani Gi should be able to read it and understand it. And when I read about uh you know what you just said about writing a letter to mother I just felt that is exactly the same thing and I was also wondering that in a sense is everything you have ever written a letter to your mother in a different kind of sense >> to my mother. >> Yeah. In a metaphorical sense in a like as a reference point to someone you want to impress and someone >> Yeah. But my letter would my I would write to her in English. Father would write and explain to her. It was during vacations >> at least two letters I would write to my mother and probably I would have maybe I would have if I go and check my this thing. Um uh she and she would wait uh she would really look forward to my letter. But uh she was uh I must say um she was a like I said best finance minister and uh and to me she was a great historian. uh uh she was she would have so many tales to share uh of life life lessons and my father of course would tell me stories about some cricket matches he would have watched but writing a letter to mother ensures that you write simple and you try write in a style which will make her understand she has not watched the game she doesn't understand the game But reading your letter or your report, she might be able to you know gain come to understand what has happened on the field. >> Give me a sense of what it was like to report in those days. Like I think somewhere you've referred to the shift from TT journalism to LT journalism, telegram and telephone to laptop. You know that back in the day you don't just had not have the internet. You don't even have uh uh a laptops. You may not even have typewriters. you're basically writing by hand and then you have to fax it and during one tour you mentioned that you were spending most of your daily allowance on just sending telegrams of your work back home. So how does that uh sort of play out like through the day like give me the picture of a typical day at any match of your choice maybe a domestic match or maybe an international match where you know how do you you're watching every ball obviously when do you start figuring out the narrative for the day what you have to write how do you then write it are you writing it by hand or are you getting it typed somewhere do you then fax it what is the process like what is the pressure of the time factor how many words do you typically so give me a sense of the texture of what that involves that that reporting life. >> It was very exciting. Uh you know I mean today newspaper offices won't give you notebooks and pens. >> Wow. >> We used to get them because we had to take notes and uh so you go to the ground take notes whatever then you sit back and write on your typewriter. >> So not always uh grounds would have facility to send facts or um or a TX. So I when I began I I have sent reports on telegram. I have sent reports through TX and then um of course fax came as a boon then came mail internet and whatever but it was so frustrating finishing your report you had to write quickly because you you were bound to spend waste at least 3 hours in the post office whether it is tlex the guy would crib I'm not used to do this So you would request plead. So tell and uh fax fax also was dodgy in the sense it depended on the phone connection line connection how good the line was and much later when we had STD. So there was this gentleman called Vijay Ragon in our office he was amazing. He would call and take the report on phone. So that was a big boon. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean it was office uh guy and he was a sports lover so I didn't have to explain the names and all to him but there were also times I remember like I and my friend Santanam from express we had gone to Rotak and there was no way we could send the report telephone lines were down so we took a bus and believe me somehow I think I reached office around 10 past 10:00 and there were anxious then once I reached office I could send the report. So the it was the challenge was not to write challenge was to send the copy everywhere and like the the what you mentioned from Nairobi when I and Vi Krishna we reached the airport to come back I think we had some 30 $35 left that's all our expense allowances were gone in um trying to fax and uh lines were very bad Kenya is a horrible place to work. You should only go to watch lions and safaris and all that. But um it was a challenge uh of course and then giving it on phone. I remember my colleague calling me in99 World Cup the time when Sachin came back from his father's funeral and we watched watched the game watch the practice and and had to send the report. So my colleague called me. I remember the line was so bad. He said, "Vij, I was in a train. I had to get down at a station. Then he called I could I gave the report in one go and then waited 2 hours for the next train." >> Wow. >> Now I reached hotel past midnight. So it was I I've gone through different challenges uh as far as communication is concerned. It used to be a nightmare and probably I have spent so many hours more hours in the post offices trying to send the report than on the ground. Believe me, it used to be so bad. But then of course Gmail was a email came as a big big bone and uh computer of course laptops um in laptop the advantage was I don't know if you have read anywhere I had mentioned how I could meet the deadline of two games one was because the match was fluctuating the 2003 world cup match India Pakistan >> I had written about India Hara and then I had to write about India So two windows in the laptop same that 99 semi-final Thai South Africa and um Australia same thing I had two reports one Amit Kumar is winning when Vijayokal is winning so uh laptop is a was a big big bone and uh but there were challenges very exciting times and uh you learned a lot you learn to write quickly you learned to understand that okay playin but there were times when you were you had to panic because other team would come very close. So uh it was it it worked it had uh I developed blood pressure because of that because um deadline issues from all over the world but um it was great fun. Cricket journalism I tell you is is a great way to um spend your life >> which you have and it's a great life. uh two questions both on the both dealing with the subject of form but coming at it from different angles and one is just exactly this the technology being used like in in one place you've uh spoken that you know when Sunil Gawaskkar would write his pieces uh you know there would be two full scrap sheets and half an inch at the top half an inch at the bottom and everything is perfect you know nothing is crossed out nothing is done no scratching it's like complete clarity everything is perfect, everything fits. And and I find it fascinating how he is therefore not just writing in that way because he's a clear thinker, but he's forced to think clearly because he has to make it fit. And similarly in your case, because you know that you are going to spend 3 hours at the post office. You can't spend 3 hours writing the report. You have to just get it done on the dot. You have to be crisp. You have to be concise. You have your word limit. You go out there, you get the job done. And then as the world changes, as laptops come in, as a time is no, the issue is no longer such a constraint, you know, uh in your laptop you have the backspace button, you can prepare two drafts at once depending on which team is going to win and uh that changes everything. And sometimes I think that you know just the difference of like fountain pencil you know and the kind of care that goes into the writing is a completely different level whereas if you're writing on a laptop you can be much more careful and you can just care less and you can let it flow because you know the backspace is there you can just you know take an entire par and just cut it out and replace it. Yeah. >> How do you feel that changed your writing and do you feel that that form makes a difference in the kind of work that comes out? Because kids today probably don't even have handwriting because screen and I'm not either bemoning that or celebrating that but I'm saying that there is a difference in the kind of thinking that then results. So is that something you've thought about? What are your feelings on that? >> Yes, it is. It is because uh even towards the end of my career I remember taking notes because what happens Amit is when you're watching suddenly a thought comes to you and you have to make a note of it because maybe towards the end of the day when you sit to write you might forget mentioning it or thinking of that angle. So I was used to taking notes which is the best thing to do and I learned it from my senior KPM again because if you could see his copy it was a match. You read the notes you have seen the match. >> Ah believe me. So I picked up that habit from him and it helped me. But uh to tell you the truth some of my best writings came under pressure. I knew that others are also writing but I have to definitely write better them because the situation is demanding and uh so what happens is some papers would not allow you to write long reports if the match was finishing late. They had issues with making the pages and you know removing the earlier copy. In my case, uh I was uh I could write say 400 words and 200 words of trash. So 600 words. Uh so when the match would get over, I would have to give them a cons concise 600 words which they would remove and put the uh this report replace it with this report. So they had this confidence that I will not trouble them. For that I had to work very hard and before the game I would have you know edited my copy gone through it at least sometimes twice so that I don't make their job difficult. They're sitting and they just want to raise the page and pressure will if you're good you will deliver under pressure. That's what I always thought. I backed myself to do well under pressure and I would love uh like if you see all great sportsmen they perform well when they are confronted with uh these kind of situation where they're hardly likely to succeed but they would so that gives you the greatest uh satisfaction. So same in my case as a as a reporter as a writer um I would challenge myself and often uh I would see to it that I would finish my report at least 10 minutes before the last ball anticipating you know that it came from experience and also the fact that I know what the reader would want to read next day he's he's also watching the game I should give him something very different so that was the challenge but if you're good you will succeed when under challenge. So it changed laptops uh gave us the freedom to experiment which we couldn't do with with the typewriter because there you had to be very precise like Mr. Gavaskkar two fullcape pages and he also you know it had to be composed edited and they didn't want overwriting uh which was confused them. So here um I think laptop made easier uh job easier but they also made you lazy. You would wait till say start your report an hour after te because you knew but when we didn't have laptops you you had to first keep the notes ready and then sit down and write type uh referring to the notes because you will you it's not possible to the chronology will be difficult one and also the fact that certain minor observations which you can make from the press box will not come from the television or you know or when you are writing in a hurry but if you are good pressure will bring out the best out of you the other question about form that I want to ask you is in fact what you alluded to um the difference that the age of television made in the sense that what has happened in the match that information just becomes a commodity like I imagine that when you're you know writing in the 80s the first task of a match report is tell me what happened you know when you're writing in the 2000s that is already done by television so therefore you have other imperatives now uh you know when I was um at cricket info you would have to produce like a package would have a number of different pieces the first is a bulletin that has a commodity stuff then you have like a verdict which is an opinion piece with some perspective and all that then you have a color piece where maybe you go around the ground and you get some interesting things to write about then you might have an interview or take some stuff from the press release. So, and the imperative then becomes that you're adding to the basic commodity which is information. How did that change for you over the years? Because you have lived through every era. The era where you are writing for your mother and what you are giving her is the information. And the second era when again you're writing for your mother but she knows and you're giving her the perspective and the color and all of that. And today's era might be harder because people might also be wanting gossip or sensationalism and all of that. So I guess the imperatives have changed. I haven't really followed reporting over the last 10 years but you can tell me better. So how has that changed and how does how how did you deal with all those challenges? >> I think what you talk about this uh changed perspective has been driven by the bosses. They put these kids under pressure uh to bring juicy stuff. Now Amed if you want a juicy stuff you may loiter around the dressing room but you can do it only once. Second time they'll drive you out. You can misquote somebody only once to gain you know to create sensation. After that you will not get a single decent quote from a player because of what you have you know you have betrayed. So here I think it was when they say key sir story. So then I think he poor guy has come to the ground not to write about the game or about the player. He wants a story and uh like I mean to to today I was reading this chahal I just saw the headlines uh yuzwendra chahal talks of mental issues because of the unfortunate divorce he's gone through. So I think every divorce will have mental issues. So that is I mean there for me that's no story. I mean why are you trying to kneel him or you know make his life more miserable by asking him to talk about his divorce? How does it concern a cricket lover or a sports lover? It's a different subject completely maybe for a film magazine. But u but it is easy for me to say today because I'm not a youngster. I'm not reporting. Maybe these kids are driven by their offices story. I mean today if you see this there is they want a story and a report of 250 words. Now what do you write in 250 words? I have written a football final 1200 words national football final in Ameda Stadium because but how do you explain how do you bring out what has happened on the field in 250 words and then they want a mandatory press conference which is I don't know if you read them these days there is a mandatory press conference at the end of the day which doesn't really convey these press conferences don't convey away anything very boring but I feel um uh the perspective has changed because of the bosses who want um who I don't know who they're trying to please by getting all these off the- field stories uh there are no off the- field stories of a sportsman if you are good like my colleague Nirmal Shaker who became the sports later used to tell me Vijay scoop is something that you have noticed and others have not of what has happened on the field. That is a scoop. Otherwise, somebody wanting to hurt somebody will come and give you a story because he wants to harm visil police. So, he'll give a story, leak a story. But scoop, real scoop is what you have you have all watched with the others and they have missed and you have picked up some uh point. So I think that part is I feel sorry for today's generation who are under uh pressure to um create these stories, hang out around the hang out outside the pavilion or the hotel lobby and talk about who went out with who. So these are all these are not cricket stories. These are not stories on the game. For that I think you have very few writers left now who talk who analyze the game who try to bring you stories from the field not dressing room if you can pick a story from the field it's good dressing room of course I mean butler will come and tell you something like that so I mean it's I remember a ferroagot w Richards was given out remember like before so he came and smashed the crockery in the pavilion and all that crockery had come from Taj Palace >> very expensive and uh so I got to know but uh my sports said no no no this is I mean we don't have to publish this he's come in anger and I sir he's smiled all the crockery very expensive and people had to run away from the the dressing room outside he said no but that's the difference today that story would have come on page one how Viv Richards smashed expensive Taj Palace crockeri in the dressing room because he was given out wrongly. So that's a big difference. I mean I feel that's a big difference. >> That's a lovely quote where you cited Nirvan Shakhar is saying that a scoop is a difference that you bring to a particular report. And I'm wondering about the kind of pressure that puts on a cricket writer to find something different that sets him apart from the other cricket writers and you know the delicate balance one then has to maintain like you know I thought of this where other plays you've spoken about this time where in an early report in the early 80s uh you wrote that the empire gave a dodgy decision and your editor called you and he said key tell me something how do you know it was a dodgy decision where were you sitting and you said you were sitting in the test box behind the whatever. So he said were you in a better place in the empire and you speak of this as a big learning moment for you. And this also brings then the interesting question that at one level we want to go that extra mile for that what Nirmal Shaker would call a scoop some little insight or some bit of judgment that others would not necessarily come to but at the same time we have a loyalty and a fidelity to the truth. You know now the bare facts of every game are the same for every everything you know. bowling LBW decision and then but you feel the pressure to add extra things decisions and as you pointed out so etc etc so how does one maintain that balance because I remember when I was a young writer but then later you look back and you realize that's very immature that's a trap you can go too far sometimes and you have to you know take a step back and just uh be as objective as you can. If such a thing is possible, just try to stick to the facts. But then the danger is that it becomes too banal to you balance. You know, how would it play out for you as you were growing as a writer? How do you think about this? It was um uh you're so right about this fact that uh you were you you always wanted to write differently and uh I can give you one little example that uh in domest in Raj trophy there was this system of second innings where if you took a third wicket you would get a point but you had to take three wickets within 20 overs or whatever it was. So this match was at Delhi Kotla and uh I was in the Hindu. Malinda Singh was brought out of the blue to bowl and uh it was the 20th over. Uh I remember uh the Hana was two down. So third wicket was needed and last over he came he bowled an arm ball. I got a weekend and they were celebrating and I knew why they were celebrating because journalist some senior I'm sorry they they just thought celebrating but I went back and wrote and I wrote it in I began my story with that wicket and what it meant to Delhi and how they celebrated only a third wicket against Ariana because it gave them a bonus point for that bonus point you had to take three wickets within 20 hours or whatever 15 hours so Maninda Singh had helped and I spoke to Malinda wrote about it and uh next day when I came Mrs. Sman just stood and applaud it. That was a big big uh moment for me because he said Vijay we missed it all. I had not read the other papers honestly. I said sir what was it? Then he said that that point about uh third wicket and Malindra going gaga. So these were that would be a scoop for Niral Shaker you know that we all watched but only you got it. So you had to also look at things like Amit like uh a field change. We are all watching that somebody has been brought to brought in say he has shifted from square leg to long leg because a particular baton has a shot of playing it in the air uh in that area or maybe you know a short midon so that because this guy tends to drive in the air or you know or keeping the ball on the off because he's weak outside the off. So all these observations if you bring it in in your copy and um and kind of elaborate uh to tell the reader that this was something which you may not have read or you may not have seen sitting in the house but uh I'm bringing it to you how it happened and why it happened. Um and also uh I mean if you watch you humor you have watched cricket. See cricket in each session is different. You have to pick moments from the first session when the ball would be doing so much or second session and then again towards the end of the day when again the ball is doing so much especially say in Eden Gardens uh even Wanker day uh because of seab breeze Chennai. So all these observations will come from your understanding of the game. Uh again like conversations with the players. Um they would tell you like I let us not mention that boy player a veteran he was and he was continuing to play for Delhi medium pacer and so Punjab was playing. So when the batsman when they came in tea time so one of the players asked he opin so fast bowler he described him as an o so that was a message telling you that he was bowling absolute rubbish so don't worry when you go to face them he face him he's just bowling off trying to you know so these are all uh now I wouldn't have known sitting outside that he's bowling so poor that he's being treated like an opina. But these insights will come when you talk to the players or end of the day all these um conversations uh they helped you in seeing cricket differently. So that is what uh the challenge used to be when you say that how can you be different. Uh so you have to pick these moments and um maybe concentrate more on something which would have changed the course of the game or you know helped somebody. There are times when people don't understand the batsman would have played his best during the second session. So if you highlight that you are different from others and you will have to explain that why he did well in that particular session because he was struggling against a moving ball in the first the ball stopped moving in the second. So he came into his own and by the time the third session came and again ball started wobbling in towards the end he was well set. So all these observations make you uh I would not say perfect but a very good student of the game. You have to be a student of the game to understand. So I'll just think aloud here and extend a thought I had a few days ago. A few days ago somebody asked me kid do you watch cricket now? And I said no I've stopped watching it completely like I was very deeply into it but now I have completely stopped. And uh the way I explained it to him was that for me it's all or nothing that I can't be a casual fan and that's it. That either it has to be completely immersive that I'm getting everything that is going on or I would rather not watch. So now I watch cycling like that and I watch football like that and chess and that's it. Cricket I can't because the investment of time is too much. which I have lost interest for different reasons and I don't want to be a casual viewer and that the level of knowledge is too shallow and I don't want to even have conversation with a casual fan similarly is there a category of person called a casual reporter like there is one reporter who will see all these nuances that you're talking about second session yeah you know square leg because he he likes to hit the short ball in the air etc etc uh but to the casual reporter which I think would be 90% of the people press box replay that for them that level of observation is not the same so it's like a two-part question that do you think that that has also happened in cricket that some reporters like you are looking out for those nuances what NML would call the real scoops and a lot of people aren't and equally do you think it is a case that this is inevitable because most people are casual fans who are happy with the casual reporters who will tell them marriage and that's what they interested in or oh you know before the toss Davidid and Gangali were shouting at each other because that's what they're interested in and not in the deeper nuances strategically tactically >> I think amid do you would I be right if I say that you and I different generations we were fans of the game >> yeah of course >> right >> whether local domestic international today uh I'm sorry to say most of them are fans of cricketers not cricket so that is a big difference I mean if you want to watch and just how the player behaves and I mean things like see to be to observe well you will have to really love the game you don't come to the press box because you think it is fashionable able to write about cricket to cover cricket. Unfortunately, if you see in our most of the newspapers uh in the media only cricket reporters are considered you know u the the pampered ones. How many footballers how many football writers are sent to cover football tournaments or hockey or even athletics Olympics of course once in four years you will go Asian games but cricket no tour goes without a reporter from a paper it's it's or or from I mean today uh these TV channels have come down they don't cover cricket in a big way but for them it is like what should I say it's a matter of prestige that I'm being sent to cover cricket and uh I will uh and again like I said they don't have access they will ask us questions at the press conference which everybody is getting what I what is so great about you being there and uh uh it is also the fact that you will have to learn to analyze whatever information you have you may have little time to Right. But whatever you get now Amit you must have done it in your career. Uh you it depends on how you present like they say the test match is food cooked by mother one day match or whatever this T20 is dhaba food you know. So it is uh in the sense mother will take time to uh will spend time in the kitchen to cook cook for you but dhaba guy will just go go about it in a hurry and serve you whatever he can. So it is um you are right about being a casual reporter it helps them because uh when they go back 200 words so why should he spend his you know time or energy same in television 1 minute of time on the on the screen so the we are having more uh casual reporters who don't follow I mean to me I don't know if how to explain If I am a cricket reporter for the Hindu in Delhi, I know I should know the 15 or maybe 18 who will likely play ranch trophy the first match of the season. I should be able to if I'm a good cricket reporter, but I should also be able to give you the 15 who will play the under 16. So which tells you whether I am following the game or not. I'm not a casual reporter who will go a day before the game. Take the see what is the big deal of uh uh getting u what the captain tells you this is likely to be the 12. You write your 12 and then check next day uh whether you've got it right or wrong. But that cannot be done by a casual reporter who is going there only because uh he finds it fashionable covering a press conference or maybe you know talking to a couple of old cricketers and stitching a story that doesn't make you a good reporter. I'm sorry. And even speaking of press conferences like I remember when I was in cricket info one practice that immediately started is that because we would be the first people to put the press conference up in detail people would not even bother to go there. They would just take it from us. They would just copy paste the whole thing from us because obviously which is a very convenient thing to do but once I mischievously thought key if I make up something and put it there everybody will carry it you know. So I I never did anything like that because uh ethics got in the way. But speaking of ethics now uh like at one level there are there are of course the personal ethics which you have spoken about how both from your um father that sense black and etc etc you got that and the hard work ethic that you would have seen from your mother all of those things are personal but in a journalistic sense how did you pick up what is the right sense of ethics like you know you spoke about how today somebody may go hang around outside a dressing room but to report a scoop but they will never get that Once again in your case you said there was some fight between Manoj Prabhakar and someone else you once witnessed but you didn't report that because you had no business being there as I think you told Mr. BI who asked you are you going to report it and you had that sense you've also mentioned that very often you know a cricketer maybe a drunk cricketer angry cricketer will tell you something and you will immediately make sure that you don't report it and that you warn him you know you had that sense so give me a sense of how you arrived at that was was it an extension of your personal value system or was it there in that journalism maybe was it there in journalism overall or was it there in the Hindu that you picked it up. What is the sense of norms that guided all of you? >> Definitely in the in the Hindu because they would not uh they did not appreciate uh dressing room stuff. One they may trust you that what you conveying is good like the incident of Manoshakar and Malindas. I had gone to fetch a fetch uh to get a bottle of water when this thing happened. uh Manoj was coming back and he he had got up to a turning ball and he came in saying flat pitch so he was cursing Maninda Singh and what a flare up it was and I thought almost they're going to hit each other and the the noise reached Bisar who was sitting in a corner of the field under a tree so as I came out I was told to he said Bulare he said what happened I said this happened um I said I want to read it tomorrow. I didn't write because like I mean in the first place I shouldn't have been there. It just so happened that I was there and uh and next day sir called me covered. He said no. Huh? He said you are a cover. >> I said sir I shouldn't have been there. It was not my place to be. No but you heard it. It happened in front of you. So that was yes ethics and that incident which you narrated about I being judge I judging a leg before sitting in the press box after that I never and there was once I used a word pathetic for a player and Mr. KPI told me what was sympathetic about it. It's a strong word. Do you realize that he was not in good form or he may have been troubled by something? After that you can check my reports my career. I never used the word I never wrote pathetic ever in I never typed that word in my report. So it was uh it was also self-discipline and sometimes maybe I was friendly with the players like couple of times it did happen did happen Harbajan Singh in anger said something I said this will put you in trouble and same with you Raj I said I'm cutting out this and also amid the fact that I wrote columns I wrote the Azarudian column in sports star I wrote wrote the Siddhu column. >> Tell me about these columns. >> It was a weekly column in the sports star where I had to talk to the subject I mean here in this case Azaruin and write the column weekly in sports star and same with siddhu. So sometimes sir Khan sometimes couple >> oh like ghostwritten columns yeah I've done a few >> but that gave you so much of information they would talk you know and uh they would blurt out certain things or of course it couldn't have been gone in under their by line but I could have used that information but that would have been unethical and also I was always I had a soft corner for uh the player uh because you must realize that uh they all try their best but the sometimes that best is not better than the best from the opponent. So you have to accept it and put it I mean you have to be balanced and if you are balanced you will be respected by uh the players and the organization also. It's not that BCCI those days they didn't keep a tab on what is being written. they knew and uh it was uh I would say it was a challenge to sometimes withhold certain information which would make you a star but star only once like I said again you would not be able to if id written about the dressing room incident I would never have pardoned myself for for that uh because I shouldn't have been there and uh uh uh ethics will It is also the fact that I worked for the Hindu there. If I had to criticize Amit, I I could I was allowed to but not without a quote from Amit. So uh it was but in much in my entire career I have written only once dressing room stuff where uh Gautam Gambir I think this was 2019 in a match in Orisa and Bhneshwar he lashed out at KPar in the dressing room dha galia a foul language and gave him hell in front of Rishapant in front of Shikhar Dhawan I think Amit Bandari and whatever. So when I told my uh office that this has to be written about and I was there I had heard. So here the uh uh uh I wrote they carried it in a big way for Hindu to carry uh this dressing room stuff and uh DDC has set up an inquiry where this man was given suspended sentence of ban of four matches saying that if he repeated if if he would report such an incident he'll be banned for four matches but that was he should have been banned straight away but um whatever I mean he managed to save his skin. So that was the only time I wrote uh on a dressing room incident. I've seen many in my life fistify fights but um I thought they were not meant for a cricket lover maybe. I mean it doesn't bring out the best out of a player uh to be doing all these things but yeah uh I mean we all knew about match fixing it was happening but how do you write because uh you needed evidence which uh only the policeman could have done it on how they did so they would I would be asked I said how do I write when who would defend me an office has to publish first they wanted evidence because they would be worried about legal implications of you know saying something somebody was a match fixer. So there are so many lessons um in life I've learned but u yeah it was self- discipline which I thought uh stopped me from um making these uh some of these outlandish observations >> just to give perspective to the listeners uh that incident just now when you told me it's really shocking because KPhaskar was a legend of the Delhi domestic scene in the 1980s and 1990s came very close to being part of the Indian team uh featured in the first episode of Vij podcast which I'll link from the show notes. So for someone like Gambir to shout at someone like him in front of much younger impressionable players who might then carry that behavior forward is just pathetic no matter what the provocation. So >> as was a coach >> the coach of the team. >> Yeah. Yeah. So it it's just um it's just insane what has uh happened and here is a coach. So uh how far time comes we'll take a quick commercial break. I have like 8,000 other questions to ask you after the break. So I hope you have a lot of time. Long before I was a podcaster, I was a writer. In fact, chances are that many of you first heard of me because of my blog India Uncut which was active between 2003 and 2009 and became somewhat popular at the time. I love the freedom the form gave me and I feel I was shaped by it in many ways. I exercised my writing muscle every day and was forced to think about many different things because I wrote about many different things. Well, that phase in my life ended for various reasons and now it is time to revive it. Only now I'm doing it through a newsletter. I have started the India uncut newsletter at indiaunut.substack.com where I will write regularly about whatever catches my fancy. I'll write about some of the themes I cover in this podcast and about much else. So please do head on over to indiaun uncut.substack.com and subscribe. It is free. Once you sign up, each new installment that I write will land up in your email inbox. You don't need to go anywhere. So subscribe now for free. The India uncut newsletter at indiaun uncut.substack.com. Thank you. Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still with the legendary Vijay Lokapali. We are still talking about his life in reporting, in journalism, in writing, in cricket. You know, we mentioned KP Baskar earlier. He was of course, you know, like I remember when I used to follow cricket in the 1980s, I got a little confused once because suddenly scorecards may instead of Krishna Baskhar Ple, it started saying KP Bhaskar. I think there was a reason he kind of made that change. And I would be particularly fascinated by all these players who were on the fringe of national selection but never made it like two other cricketers who've come on your podcast like that are Surendra Bhavy Ajit Kapi and I remember from Maharashtra Shantan Sugweek and there were just so many of these names and the way I would follow cricket is that domestic matches weren't televised so newspaper reports rely and possibly some of your reports helped me construct my mental image of these Guys, give me a sense of what was the life of a cricket reporter in those days 80s and '90s. You're following the domestic circuit that unlike today, you can mix with the players, you are eating with them, you're hanging out with the umpires, you're hanging out with the scorers ecosystem, how are those people or like I like for all of these uh players and names that I took, I would imagine that if I was in the in their place, I would feel so frustrated after a point in time level that next opportunity is simply not coming uh you know you mentioned elsewhere about you know Vikram Ratur for example you know he was going at one point he was thought of as the next big star of Indian cricket but his contemporaries like David and Ganguli made it but he didn't at exactly the same time so uh you know what are their lives like and what was that whole ecosystem like because you got to know all of them pretty intimately >> see I think two names if you remember Shivalkkar >> and Goab Right? Great bowlers both but playing in the wrong era. And similarly Vive Kumar from Tamil Nadu great bowler but Chandra was around. So how do you play? And it was I think as KP Baskar always said karma >> destiny I mean you're not if you're not destined to play you will never play. >> Kiss more than karma I guess. Kismat Kismat sorry not Karma Kismat and uh and I mean you look at Bascar's case five times he was in the reserves he was in good form in the Reliance Cup camp which was in national stadium 87 he was among the 25 in India who were called for the camp so he was a damn good cricketer excellent fielder who could field at any position position, great close infielder but chance and when he got like if you remember he went to Dhaka uh with the India team and he would have played he would have done well Babari Majida had to come back then Jamu you know he was to make his debut sub clouds it rained and Azar he was to play in place of Azar that match one day match against New Zealand I think. So it was they were all competing against better players during that time and there were no not many it was for Bhaskar of course I mean uh his case I should tell you he got a doubleund in Bombay and uh he was looking forward to getting to play for India and the chairman of the selection committee comes and tells him well played Basar but to get into the Indian dressing room you'll have to score a triple My god, what a thing to say. >> Triple I mean he scored a doubleanded but he was very very unfortunate. Ahjit KP was very unfortunate. Bhavy of course you know you mentioned him fantastic cricketer. So there are many there's so many of them who could not uh play for India and sadly I mean you look at somebody like VBS Lakshman he played test matches but never played a world cup >> he should have played the world cup he was in terrific form but they preferred Danish Monga >> to Lakman so he he ended his career without a world cup for all his achievements And um there were other players Amay Kurasia went in I think 99 never got to play. >> Yeah. >> Sanjay Bangar never got to play in 2003 but they later on they played test match international cricket. But somebody like Bhaskar I can tell you very very unfortunate and I've I have seen him grow uh in domestic cricket and he was a much feared batsman u and a very if you I don't know if you know he played almost for 10 years in clubs in England and Ireland so he was a sought-after cricketer uh technically accomplished stylish ish very stylish pattern footage to to prove my what I'm saying but he was very stylish next to I would say Gundapav Vishnadal because Gundapavish admired him and once I remember Mr. Gavaskkar wrote what more should Bhaskar do to play for India? >> So that coming from Gavaskkar was huge and um yeah he finished his career without um getting an opportunity then in later years and he's a very good coach. He's a very very uh respected coach in the BCCI assignment. So it happens. I think it's Do you remember Rajan Singh? >> Of course >> he didn't play for India. >> Uh he should have played Harriwani should have played but such things happen >> and how do they deal with it? dealing with it is a very very difficult part because in every interview they would be asked so it's painful to tell them uh same mus uh the last time I did a podcast and uh it finished and then he asked me why you didn't play for India he was he had got so used to talking about this that uh he said ma'am I should have taped I would just I should just play the tape that why I didn't play for India it hurts uh and it hurts more uh I can tell you Shhat who is a national selector now was a wonderfully gifted cricketer but he was competing with Surro Gangali never got to play so they they do feel bad uh it but then at the end of the day They they they all came to accept that the extra bit which would have taken them to the Indian dressing room was missing probably and uh no godfather. It's a fact. So many so many of them played for India because uh they had a godfather. I feel especially sorry for Basar and Amul. These two definitely deserved Another question about mentality this time of the players who do make it. Like I once asked Harsha about the difference in what happens uh to young players in India and young players in Pakistan and this was a few years ago and it was really in the context of what I saw in the 2000s that India we had this almost golden generation of Tendulkar Gangali etc etc. Uh and in Pakistan every once in a while a 19year-old would come and do something absolutely brilliant and he would say oh my god what a genius but by the time they're 20 they are washed up and they're gone and they've disappeared. And if I remember correctly I hope I'm not misiting him because with age I do forget who said what but his explanation was on the lines of uh that in India a lot of these players were from the middle class. So they had those solid middle class values and they could keep their stability even after uh they reached um you know the heights of success and all that and Pakistan of course doesn't didn't have a middle class then so a lot of these players were from more humble backgrounds where suddenly they were superstars and money was being thrown at them and they like it's not their fault they they didn't they didn't have the tools to deal with it. How do you see that mentality and psychology aspect changing in Indian players over time? Because today I feel that background will protect you less that when you reach that height of success. It's almost impossible to not get carried away like when you speak about today's journalists not having access to the players at one level of course it's because but also it is because players are now correctly wary of journalists because every journalist just wants sensationalism and they're going to get misqued all the time. So they've had to build a bubble around themselves and when you're living in a bubble all the time it's impossible to look at the world in a normal way. So what have you seen of this among the players of today? How has this changed over time? >> It has changed. Uh I think you you can correct me if I'm wrong. Education plays a big part. Education uh plays a big big role in how you deal with success, how you deal with uh money, finances. And few years ago I remember Mr. Lavaskar had written that the BCCI should uh uh should put a system where they monitor uh the the finances for the players. Somebody from the BC they can appoint five people to handle it and guide them and educate them in in small things like how you how do you behave in a public place? How do you say sorry how do you behave uh uh uh your mannerisms at a breakfast table in a hotel where there are other guests also. So it came to a point uh believe me that the BCC had to segregate uh area for the players because they wanted them to protect from the public one and they also didn't want people to see how how ill behaved they are. >> Yeah they are. I mean you look at how they behave at airports uh they they have total disregard for fans. Not all, many of them, majority of them. And um you look at how how you you see abroad Australians or South Africans or England, they respect their fans, especially the uh the the the young variety. Uh but we don't. Maybe it is it has got to do with the fact that our population uh they won't let a player sit in peace at an airport or um in in a in a hotel lobby on many tours. I never saw Suchin come to the breakfast table because they won't let him eat in peace. So he would order room in the room and have his breakfast and join the team to go to the ground. So I won't always blame them but easy money also spoils them. We have a case of Pritishaw such a gifted player and how he went astray or um some other players went astray for different reasons but easy money big money also I mean it also kind of disconnects them with the public. See when you buy when you get money you buy a big apartment in a society but when you go to live there you're not living there with neighbors whom you have known for many years so you are isolated and at the end of the day you don't have friends even even uh our cricketers if you look at it evenings they don't know what to do and again they have to be very careful with wherever they go what they speak how they can be how they would misunderstood um uh uh earlier they would accept uh dinner invitations from strangers on tours say in West Indies Indian meal from a nandra doctor couple would be great so they would go without any inhibitions without any fear and enjoy and they have also cultivated that friendship over the years they have become friends but this generation You like you said you play now you look at vibuanchi a match in one season he has become out of bounds for everybody PCCA wants to protect him from journalists and others from all these market forces so I don't blame them uh it is probably uh demand I mean it's it's timed driven how how they come to accept uh the the fame uh and also the fact that uh suddenly overnight if you be become owner of three cars a huge flat in you look at yes in one season his life has changed and he changed to an extent where he wanted to go and play for Goa and not Bombay now of course he's coming back to play for Bombay only this season but uh it is I think we also should blame the uh the Indian system where you treat them like demigods you want all their attention and uh for the players it becomes difficult uh to they can't be signing 100 autographs every day it's not possible so it's it is I think got to do with the fact that uh there's too much money to be earned and uh And why not? Why not? Um I mean because is there a guarantee that you won't get injured? Is there a guarantee that your place in the 11 will always be is secure or at least 5 years you'll play for the country? It doesn't happen. So many of them have come and gone. So I think um I was talking to a friend a cricketer friend where we a few days back that the BCCIE should now have a workshop should have a workshop for these youngsters on uh how to deal with their finances. They have their parents also no doubt and the fame and how to treat the media but most important how to treat their fans. that that point about moving into a fancy apartment in a fancy building and not knowing the neighbors is uh very resonant because I was chatting with a friend a while back about what happens when there is a slum redevelopment and they'll take people from a slum and they'll put the give them apartments in an apartment building and actually the life changes completely and in some ways for the worse because in that slum in that ch if you you know if you see how people interact in Dharavi you know the old people always have social companionship around them. They might sit outside all day and there are kids playing around them and everybody is together and people feel free to walk into each other's kitchen that you know give me some sugar and etc etc and that is the sort of society that has built up and in apartments yes they have much more privacy and all of those things are great I'm not knocking it but at the same time the the ways in which they used to live together has completely changed and I'm wondering if at some level like earlier we were bemoning that Okay. It it it's a great tragedy that you have people like KP Bhaskar and Rajendra Singh and all of these people you mentioned who don't make it but by the same token success can also be a great tragedy you know so what's your sense of that like you of course have seen many players and been friends with many players who've been perfectly fine who've kept their uh you know heads on their shoulders but also you must have seen many cases where it's not the case where they can't deal with it where success also becomes in a sense a trap and a curse. It is I mean all these IPL um cricketers uh many of them would never have dreamed of this kind of um I don't know if you call it fame not fame but the returns from the game amazing and uh I know cricketers of the 1983 World Cup team if they made some money it was only because of Capilave who would organize events for them and you know raise funds for them and they would distribute. Um I remember I I I was working with him on that Opus book and um then I learned that he had he had even before the book was uh printed. Each player had got his whatever his um uh fee was to speak to the uh opus people and it was a good book no doubt but very heavy and very very expensive but not everybody uh uh from the team was well off and even today they feel kind of they feel uh not outdated they feel >> when they look at these players every player player has a manager which is good. I mean it is good for the uh game uh good for the player if he can have a manager who can take care of his um media appearances and um um uh whatever modeling they do. So uh uh I think I have seen many many players from the 80s and '90s who who worked in government departments only and only because they'll have a steady income and when they would retire there would be a pension. Of course today BCC is also giving them pension but it was it was very difficult. Um but these players they don't have to if they you play five seasons of IPL you don't have to worry about anything but believe me I mean at the end of the day they have no friends because uh they are in the they are sort of in their own world and they have set set certain standards for themselves which their state mates can't probably match. And uh then also you must remember that once you achieve success your inner circle changes. It just changes. You will I can I can tell you many uh of these players who would have found new friends only because they made money. They are uh into modeling. They are into opening restaurants, investing in uh property, all that is good but you have not found new friends. I have seen them sitting in their rooms nothing to do and uh same happens in public life for them. Uh once you go back once this there is no season at the most you will go and have a practice session prepare for a match or uh that's it or just sit in the house do nothing and uh wherever they go of course there is a demand for them to to grace uh functions uh but there again like I said they are meeting only strangers I have known cricketers who say wherever I go I see only strange faces I have to see shake hands with them pose for pictures I don't even know whether the guy I'm posing with is a shady character I'm just there so they have to be they have the very difficult life >> when did it start changing >> with the IPL before IPL if you see they would make whatever money they made was from where they were having a job like even today some of these players are working in these public um organizations like OGC and they haven't left their jobs Indian oil they're still employed by them railways air India doesn't recruit now banks have stopped but uh uh it changed with IPL it definitely gave them uh false sense of you know superiority where uh I have known people um saying that I don't care now. I don't care. So that is not the right attitude. You are still playing but you're not bothered because you have money in the bank. So would that mean that you are less professional? Your your commitment uh can be now suspect towards your state team. But um yeah it it it it has brought them money. If you they they argue that look I'll play for 5 years. I need security for my lifetime which is fine but uh their behavior towards their fellow players former players they don't respect it is a fact. If you privately talk to seniors senior players from say ' 70s and 80s they will tell you that uh this generation of players they don't respect them. Even the they they won't respect their coach. So there are instances where the coach is is kind of frustrated what I mean because these players are they have superstar value and the association also won't touch them because it harms uh their reputation. So I think it changed with the IPL slowly. 2008 it began. By 2010 I think after three four editions of IPL we have had a a different set of um uh superstars. Each one is a superstar. They're not a player ordinary player superstar. Once you once you join the bandwagon, you should see how they behave uh uh during the matches or uh at practice sessions. Uh their demands keep increasing and they are kind of pampered also by the franchisee who wants them to do well but in the process uh the cricket culture has been harmed. I feel cricket culture has been harmed. >> Uh break this down for me. What do you mean by cricket culture? Cricket culture means uh dressing room behavior. In fact, the approach to the game they can come to the ground uh without practice. There are players who are known to miss practice during IPL also. And also the fact that see when uh cricket as you and I have watched if a batsman gets out playing a bad shot or a shot in our time he would be you know he would be taken to class for playing a bad shot right but today it is considered as okay he he's made an effort to get that extra run. So that culture this culture I'm talking where uh players today they just want to become T20 players when a when parent and when a father or a mother brings the child to a coaching center and requests the coach he's IPL player so that is uh when I say this is the culture which has it's a new culture for the game uh I remember in good Several times you would a father would bring the son to the coaching center and leave it to the coach whether he makes him a bowler or a batsman or a wicket keeper. But today the 99 parents out of 100 will tell the coach IPL. So I mean today this Delhi Premier League is beginning and I know two parents have called me before the auction to circle Bana s of team. So this is the kind of culture which has come into the game which was not there earlier. You had to you would play on merit. Today not everybody is playing on merit and uh uh you have tomorrow I think what tomorrow they're talking about 10 team 12 team IPL so that would again harm the cricket culture because the game itself is changing they are saying there are so many results in test matches now but what about a draw there is a the match which we drew in the series was very exciting So that is what test cricket is. But they have harmed the interest of the game by bringing in this too much of T20 um what should I say the T20 approach in the 5-day game definitely there and also I think respect if you don't respect your seniors um today lot of seniors they they are not very comfortable approaching a youngster because one he may not even recognize him or he may not give him even 2 minutes and I have known players who say flaw so when I tell them he says no I'm not too sure whether he will you know kind of accept it or he will I would be welcome to come and guide him so which was earlier they could do that they could just go to a player and tell him today they can't today they can't. This brings me to another facet that I think cricketers always have to balance um which is the balance between self-belief and humility and you've spoken about humility a lot u in the sense that whenever like I remember there used to be this uh impression of Virat Kohli as someone who is arrogant and all of those things and I would say that no without knowing him I can say that is not the case because you don't get to that level of excellence without having the tremendous humility to examine your game and break it down in thousands and thousands of net sessions and focusing only on what you are doing wrong so you can improve it. So it is almost exumeatic that anyone who has achieved excellence has done it through humility in that particular domain and equally it is true that in sport you are losing most of the time you know Roger Federer gave this famous speech where he said that look out of all my points I've won some 51% of my points or whatever you are losing a lot of the time nobody wins 100% of the time and that also teaches humility so that's one aspect that humility is an essential part of being great but then self-belief also has to be an essential part that you have to believe that you can be the best and that's the only way to kind of make it and there's a delicate balance here like when you just said that there are senior players who will tell you that hey I can't go to that young guy and tell him he's doing something wrong and the right approach for the young guy would obviously be to say that please tell me what I'm doing wrong that's the only way I can go to the next level but I can also imagine that the young guy is now carried away that I have made my fu money and you know who the are you and I don't even know you you know I'm Sure Gotham Gamir would not even be aware of KP Baskar's great career in that kind of detail to be able to speak to him like that. So u how do you see this balance kind of playing out because for most of your career you have pretty much known all the players in the national team very well and all of that how does it kind of play out? Do people sometimes fall on the wrong in the wrong direction? Because you can also have too much humility where you lose self-belief and you might feel that you don't belong. But equally you can go in the other direction where you think I know everything was >> um see talking of humility um Goro was uh mentioning that episode with Suresh Raa >> at the airport and uh I did I done a story with him uh after the when he got into the Indian team he says I mean he he narrated that they sitting he had come back from he had he had got out he was sitting in the dressing room and suddenly he saw Tendulkar walk up to him and ask he says no no no I mean he could imagine that someone like Sachin Tendulkar is coming walking up to him and asking him what can I get for you whether whatever soft drink cold drink pani he says any he says no tubet and tendulkar went and brought him whatever it was. So he says that taught him humility. He said if Suchin could do it, who am I? I he so he learned a lesson that day in humility through this little act of suchin walking up and saying what can I get for you? And I think big players self uh belief is one they have to back themselves otherwise you can't reach that level. uh they would have fought with they would have competed with say 40 others to become that one batsman to get into the 11 and if the competition is good you are good you will definitely make your way someday but self-belief without self-belief it's not possible and uh you you look at that uh in that partnership between Lakshman and Drad at Kolkata that only came from self belief we could do it hour by hour, session by session, you know, initially over by over. So that was uh built on uh on the fact that they they thought they could do it. Of course, they never thought they could win it, but ultimately they went on to win. So I think for a for a champion player, it is very important to be humble. You look at I I told you you look at all these great players they will not talk talk talk about themselves. They will not they will you you gave the example of Fedra he I mean amazingly humble guy and you look at Nadal and how they praise the opponent that is an amazing quality. you have lost and you are you are acknowledging that he was better and you are talking about his best points the particular phase in that match uh it can happen in cricket also it is there they are humble many great players I've noticed they are so generous when praising others and that's what brings out that is what that's one quality which sets you apart from the rest your humility and uh um I have found uh people like uh say Tendulkar it's very difficult to remain focused all the time to remain humble also and uh to accommodate so many requests I mean he would have come back he would be tired after a day's play but one of his colleagues says yeah cousin he won't say no he he'll try and accommodate so these are certain qualities that make you great and more acceptable than the rest. Um I mean why do you think if Suchin makes a request to anybody today in the world he will be obliged because that's what he would have done at some point in the past. Um I I know I know one instance where he and I were supposed to have a dinner in Dutch palace and uh as the dinner arrived there was a knock on the door. So I went uh because I was closer to the door. I opened I saw the local manager of the Indian team bring there was some about 20 kids and I said I told Sachin there are some kids and this former player he is a former Delhi player was a manager. So such he went he accommodated them. I'll sign everyone if everyone I will I'll sign every notebook. He did that with patience and they left and then he called the manager that please don't do this again because one I was not prepared. I would have definitely given you a time for this. two, I couldn't have said no because the what impression I would have left on those kids. So this is when I say accommodating a request I've seen it with personally how it happened and then of course the dinner happened and then uh it was I can tell you the name Buntu Singh was the manager cricketer he had brought and uh Suchin had broken Buntu's nose in a Rajan trophy match. Ah and uh >> broken how? >> He bowled a ball and this guy he just tried to I don't know he went to pull the he smashed into his face and he was taken to hospital. Suchin could not meet him and uh late night there was a call from Sachin to Buntu on landline in his house that uh so obviously he couldn't he couldn't have done but he asked his father uh whose father also was a cricketer and he he was inquiring about Bundus Singh's health I mean has he recovered how is he feeling so same Bundus Singh had brought these so he couldn't have said no to them But what I'm saying is it is very difficult for all these um stars to be to be grounded because you get swayed by the kind of adulation you come across that they are mobbed literally mobbed you they can't walk in peace. So Sachin would always if you see even Virat most of these cricketers they go on vacations in non cricket playing countries honestly so they can move around in peace but um I I I sometimes I feel sorry for them they they don't have um personal time for themselves or their families and it's not easy for a wife to go out with a cricket star cricketer and just see him signing photographs, posing for photographs, what I mean not able to give the time she would demand so or expect but um they have a difficult life >> and even if you go to a country which is not cricketing Indian tourists are everywhere so there's no getting away from that there's also a great human tragedy in what happened around match fixing in the 1990s and I think of the 1990s as being on the sort of cusp that before that there was no money in the After that the game was so flooded that no one you know post IPL that no one would really have the temptation to do match fixing but in the '90s itself was almost on the cusp of that period a transitory period and u you know and it's a human tragedy at many levels and you know many of the people involved in this. So how did you deal with it as a journalist? Because a there would have been a time where like you mentioned before the break you would have known it's going on but without solid proof obviously you can't write anything and b later on even when it was clear that things have happened you would have known all the protagonists involved and how do you sort of deal with that because people contain multitudes right here may be a person who has done something uh you know pretty wild but at the same time you know all the other aspects of theirs they might even be friends of yours. How does one navigate that? How does one deal with that? Not just as a journalist as you were but also as a friend as you were in some cases. >> Uh I can tell you doing this uh Ranji trophy match at Kotla and there was this gentleman who would every half an hour he would come and ask sir and Mr. Ramu Sharma was with the statesman. He and I were sitting and Rau Sharma told him whatever it is. After a while after the lunch session one DDC chap came and asked so we told him he said because he was a punter. They were all sitting in in the stands and they were running uh a book taking bets. So this guy made good money. Uh it didn't strike us. We didn't know that he was a bookie. Not a bookie. I wouldn't say bookie. He was running a book taking bets. So he made his money. And when you talk of uh that particular phase, I mean we knew there some hankypankos going on India winning losing from winning positions. Uh once I remember in the West Indies there was a story which said uh by Pra magazine if you remember he did and um saying that a guy came from London a banker who wanted access to players that is all fine. So it happened in the last match and Prahi went off to us. Uh I stayed back for the one day Madalal was the coach. So I told or he says don't even think don't even write. I said but it's happening and he said airport wow. So it was shocking and journalists would talk, players would talk. I remember Mr. Vadwani doing a cover story in sports world about matches being uh influenced in Sharah. I was also doing that tournament >> 91 >> 91. So he wrote a big cover story he did in sports world sitting in India and see he was justified. We were saying but he was justified and they took the risk of writing also but it happened and it got you know how it got out because that police police that ishwar saying heard the conversation. Now for us it was not possible to write and on a personal uh front I would tell you that every tour Amit I used to collect an autographed bat of the team. M >> every tour I mean went and I had a good collection. So the day this is episode I knew all the time but I I would still tell my heart and then this happened 2000 the police commissioner there was a press conference I went we wrote whatever it was I when I came back I collected all the bats and threw them into the bin. So that's what I mean I just could not accept that some of them I have known I had known and they were I kept telling myself in any RSN but they were doing it they did it in the sense it was proved it was uh that big CBI report you know so I was so disheartened and disappointed that I chucked away almost 40 bats autographed there was a big bin near our house and uh I felt bad and then of course when I shared with my office mates colleagues they said I said yeah but I couldn't I felt let down by these players some of whose names were on the bat that they could indulge in this but it was a fact and it was happening and but we were constrained in the sense office would not publish it without evidence and how do you get evidence? how it was practically physically not possible for us without uh support from uh the lawmakers or the police who who could have done it and ultimately they only did it they only found out and then then came anti-corruption then anti when anti-corruption came a journalists were they lost touch with the players because they could not they lost that access so whenever after that uh whenever I traveled I had to go and meet them. Uh they would have to come down and take me to the room. >> M >> earlier it was not like that. You can just walk in set up a time appointment with the player and go and meet them go out with lunch dinner. I have spent so much time with them outside but uh not possible now. I mean uh uh if I'm an active reporter can I take out can I ask Kahu to come with me for dinner in the evening? I may be knowing him but he may not be able to come because of this anti-corruption uh process. >> Did you speak to any of the players who were involved afterwards? Try to get uh you know the full story or try what they had to say for themselves and >> they kept denying. They kept denying and they will have to they they do but we knew we always knew and see their their approach also I mean they changed they also realized that this man we are trying to fool by saying we were not involved it's not true and uh but in my heart I lost respect for them but since many of them came back played And um I was I mean it was part of my profession to go and cover write about them but I would have loved avoiding avoiding them because and I know of many people who stopped watching cricket uh because of the uh ep match fixing episode and it it had been there for so many years and it happened in IPL also we saw I mean it's >> with fringe players >> fringe players and um siran doing Right. >> Yeah. >> I mean it was sad uh such a talented player but but still it is yet to be proved. Now whe did it they all kept on saying that they put a tol at the back and gave some indication but I still believe probably he didn't. You know, I followed cycling very closely since 1990s and that went through this very troubled period where basically everybody was on drugs. Lance Armstrong got stripped of his seven titles and etc etc. And there was a period of time in the late 2000s when I also lost all faith. I mean what's the point of watching it if they're >> all kind of drugged and the thing is we are in a completely different era now. We are in a great great era of cycling uh where you have some of the best riders of all time and definitely no drugs in the game. partly because the incentives have shifted drastically and I think it's the same in cricket that match fixing will never be a scandal again because the players make so much money that they will never risk it uh to do something it is just in that cusp of time that it happened that you know both cricket and cycling kind of sullied themselves in uh that sort of way and there are great tragedies but the lesson there is that even in that period of time there were so many Indian players like Sachin and Ravid and all of that who who kept stayed above the fray And you have to give credit for that also because they would have known it was around them right >> they obviously they knew in private conversation they will tell you >> but they can't admit it publicly and they watched it uh they watched India lose some matches from winning positions it was terrible and uh that's why I give lot of credit to that team which uh team of Surro Gangali for reviving Indian cricket. He he became captain at a very difficult time and he said also he wanted support from us um support the team uh in 2000 when he took over and some great results happened because they all wanted to give everything to the game which had given so much to them. Saurav, Sachin, Lakshiman, Dravid, all these players, Kumbli, I mean could you ever imagine anybody approaching Kumbllay? He would have you know thrown him from the 20th floor of the hotel. But um uh it was for them it was a very very difficult period and how they managed to pull the pull Indian cricket out of that rut is a great story. great success and their commitment was amazing. Uh playing I mean they had some great victories during that time. We had we had begun to won win matches overseas and John Wright played a big role in that. He had a as a coach and I think it was all credit to Sachin Dravid and Saurup for reviving Indian cricket. So great writers like yourself will often have a lot of emotion in their writing because they're bringing out the drama of the game you know and that is a natural part of it. You love the game deeply. You see what is happening and all of that manifests itself and at the same time your job in a sense is to keep emotion out of it and be completely objective. Now similarly here you speak about sorrow making that appeal to the cricket journalist that hey difficult fail just support us but at the same time the you know there's something problematic with the phrase also just support us so there's a delicate balance to be maintained there also like elsewhere you have spoken about how once I think in a press box you did a silent gesture of celebration when India did something and you were immediately berated by a senior journalist no you are not supporting India in the press box you just have to be you're a cricket journalist, you follow the game and you do your dharma as it were. So, how did you kind of uh navigate all of that? Because the players out there on the field are not just after a while representing your country, but they're actually personal friends of yours. You go out, watch movies with them, have meals with them. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That senior journalist, >> he just scolded me and for what I did. I said, "Sir, but I didn't clap. It was just a gesture." He says no if you have to do that step out of the piss box. No. And he blasted me and in the evening he took took me out for dinner. So that was Mr. Rutnagar. And here um it was difficult. Uh like I said in Nairobi I wrote a very a very critical copy on Winkladesh Prasad in which I said uh his his surprise ball was the faster one. So he got sort of got the copy. I mean obviously they had their friends and and then he came to me and said I mean just support us. So so there again you can say I maybe made a compromise by trying to be less critical and there are certain players whom at least one player whom I never criticized Lakshman. I had a personal liking for him. So you can kind of you can always say that I was not fair if Laxman got up to a poor shot. I never wrote poor shot. But everyone has his favorites. And here Saur became a good friend. He was a clin and I spent a lot of time with him. He would also ask for inputs how people feel and all that. And he raised a he was a good leader. He played his part really well. And uh you're right about uh you know uh having to strike a balance. It becomes very difficult. Sometimes I failed. I was not able to uh just because I was friends with somebody probably I I criticized him much less or maybe not uh compared to others whom with whom I was not very friendly. But uh these things happen and over a period of time I learned of course that pressure was always there. How do I how do I defend or how do I protect a good friend who has not performed. So sometimes I would avoid writing about him in the copy completely but only I knew it. Uh I mean I can I'm telling you to and confessing today that I did have my uh this weakness of being very good to certain players. Uh I loved Yuvraat Singh. I could I couldn't get myself to criticize him but uh what a wonderful player. He he really he was uh I mean he really had he had to struggle to get into the team and once he came he he established himself won us the world cup but uh yeah I mean on certain occasions I was guilty. Let's go back to your life as a journalist like in a sense we've almost been speaking through this episode as if cricket is a protagonist and you are a supporting figure but I want to put you in in the spotlight for a moment and talk about your journey like you love cricket you love writing you become a journalist you become a cricket writer you're working for the Hindu where you worked for 34 years everything is great but you're also getting older the years are also passing cricketers come cricketers retire the new cricketers who replace them retire you are still there you are still going on what how did you think about your own life like what did you want from life were you just thinking that this is great I'm doing what I love let me keep doing this this is a good life or were there other things that you had like did you sometimes wonder that should I be writing about more than cricket and of course you did you wrote about films and food and all of that which we'll talk about but cricket remained your main the thing that you were famous for and of course You went on to write books. Uh but what was your mental journey like? Like what was how was your innings proceeding? What was self-actualization for you through your uh through these years? >> Uh what more I mean could you find a better job than writing on cricket in India and getting paid for it? I mean you are watching from very vantage positions traveling to countries you couldn't have. Uh I I used to think you know about the West Indies. I'd read so much and heard from uh former cricketers that when I went I couldn't believe that oh I've landed in Barbados so or Kings or whatever Jamaica and um so it it was it took me around and made me wiser as a person and of course as a writer because challenges were different. West Indies um you could write only up to the T. Then uh you would write report up to T and then next day you would again include the first session and write it was a challenge and similarly traveling to places like New Zealand or England, Australia, great cricket nations, I loved it. I would you know before the tour I would set certain goals prepare for the tour by reading about the countries reading about the cricket making my own notes uh reading about the subjects whom I was supposed to interview you just can't go and go to somebody and just ask asking questions so that was a good part um I developed and uh yeah you you asked me about how I managed to keep my focus was simply because I had to I was in competition with myself. I didn't want to compete with others because every tour I would find different people from different papers but I was constant making all those trips and it helped uh that I had to write it helped me to grow as a writer because I would write a daily report for the daily and then a review for the magazine and write for Saturday sports special some story because every Saturday we had this sports supplement. So that made me uh a voracious writer, a reader because I would read a lot and then of course a prolific writer because the challenges were different. So it made me I think it it helped me grow as a overall journalist and in later years daily I mean match to match reporting had come down. I would give when I was in Delhi head of the department I would give away matches to my colleagues but earlier the they would come from instructions would come from assignments would come from Chennai. So I had to do them. But uh uh I thought uh it helped me uh to the extent that the features section they they would ask me to go and cover uh Zas Salam would ask me to cover Jagjit Singh concert or do an interview with Gulza Sab uh and he and I did a book on films houseful. We wrote about 50 classics from the world of um cinema. I think it was a phase where I was able to enjoy uh writing because there was so much of diversity in the sense like you have mentioned music, cinema, um book reviews means I would read books and then write about them. um plus special interviews which I had to do for sports star which again uh involved a lot of preparation and um I don't know if you're aware I did a food column also table for two where I would write about food and take all the celebrities out for lunch or dinner so it gave me a platform to experiment with my writing it's been bringing in cricket and your eating uh your food habits uh was a challenge but I could manage that and uh so I think like I said at the beginning uh I mean I have been very fortunate very very fortunate that I worked with the Hindu a great organization sports star which um see sports star allowed us to do features which was not known during that time today newspapers are carrying features on uh say weekends or on Sundays but uh those days it was only magazines like sports star. So the features uh again like I said gave us opportunity to write about certain aspects about certain players or certain countries. Uh and then after having done daily reporting of a match to sit down and review the game for magazine involved lot of hard work, lot of reading, reaching out to players, get their quotes. So that be and it helped. Uh today of course you can see uh sports are online but those days it was very very popular with the players to the extent that I have I have had instances where players have asked me >> so which will not happen today. They're not bothered. I don't know if they would know that there are certain papers or certain magazines to be read. >> Yeah. I I wonder how many people in the current Indian team read uh sports star but yeah >> true >> tell me how much difference like we we've spoken about form earlier and I'll come back to the question of form and you just alluded to how you were not just doing reports you're also doing longer features now uh and you eventually went on to write a bunch of books as well and I would imagine that each of these is taking you out of your earlier comfort zone and making you think in a complete completely new way give you a new rhythm of thinking and etc etc. Tell me about all of these challenges like um you know for books you wrote that Seag book almost 20 more than 20 years ago and um you know the the the book on Virat Kohli and then houseful of course you co-wrote so give me a sense of um how all of these changed you and how all of you made you think and write in different ways. uh books you have also written >> just one bad book just one book >> so it is it is a different writing and it's not easy I mean people sometimes I feel bad when I read when I when I come across uh writers who struggle to get their books reviewed I mean it books should be reviewed even if it is not a very good book there's no bad book in my dictionary it can it may not be a very good book but it has to be written people have to be told that u this is a piece of literature for which the author has worked very hard and for me uh the Virat Kohli challenge was 6 months I think I had to write I did that book then of course it has been updated u similarly I and Gulf's Ezekiel Gulu Ezekiel we did the book on uh India's fast bowlers so he did the pre capill era I did the post capil era so it brings out I would say your understanding of the game you can put out only in a book and uh writing about just one person say Virat Kohli and uh for which I must have spoken to at least 100 of his teammates uh so again so which means the writing changed um it had to be featured and um and like writing about that incident where he he came to the ground when his father was u no more. So that we had written in the newspaper but it was it got highlighted when I uh when I did a chapter on it for the book. So many it was um uh what should I say it was the toughest toughest part was uh that particular chapter uh in the Virat book. So when you do a book there are so many aspects background uh the language you have to be very different you may not be very flowery but different from a match report from a daily report and also it gives you a very different perspective to put down 50,000 words which you would which should be readable 50,000 words uh is a challenge huge challenge but I'm very happy amid that in the last 10 years we have had so many uh books coming out on sports. Earlier they were very limited very limited I mean but today I think there are at least in a year there are 10 sports books being published at minimum 10 >> over the last 10 15 years what are the really impressive ones that you've read >> uh the cricket books >> one is I would say the one by Rahul Bachara splendid and uh his writing style and I've always liked him I remember The first conversation which he when we had he asked me sir do you really did such really weep did he shed tears that night 97 I said yeah so because he had read what I had written so he just wanted to I don't know why he wanted to make sure so that is one very good book I would recommend and uh and uh I would say off And wait >> even sports >> book on women's cricket >> ah uh Siddhant Patnak a dear friend no more sadly and karuna they have done wonderful work I should say a beautiful book that brings out everything about women's cricket I mean I would love to write a book like that and um what which else are there >> even sports books doesn't just have to be cricket >> vhav Fiver Watz he did a book on the 2011 World Cup it's like a traalog beautifully written and it captures the essence of the venues he visited and uh I mean he's a good writer there's no doubt about that but to put that in a book form I was so happy to give him a very very good review for what he had written again I would love to write a book like that so there I mean even Ara Koshik's book on Gundapavish is excellent. I mean he is probably the most traveled cricket writer we have known and a very dear friend and his focus is amazing and his book on Vishnat is a must readad uh for every cricket lover. Tell me also about how your life has changed since retirement. Like what having a job tends to do is that it gives you a certain structure to your day that you know what you have to do. You get the job done. Even if you do things on the side like writing books, you structure it within that structure and things happen. But then you to retire is to suddenly lose that structure. Uh so there is a a disadvantage that okay that is gone. So how does discipline happen? How do you do things? there's a danger that life may drift and you may wither away. And at the same time, the plus side is that you're no longer constrained by the structure. You can think more broadly. You can plan things on a longer time horizon for example. And uh you know even before you came and this is I think the first time we have met you know in the few years that I was a cricket journalist we must have been in a press box together many times but we never met then but this is the first time that I actually remember meeting you. before you came I was telling Gorov that I am sure that this is someone who will put me to shame with his energy because just seeing the things that you're doing these days um you know your podcast you've got so many episodes out just now you told me about the next series that is planned of your podcast I can't wait for that and uh you know you helped your son co-write that book uh on basketball so there's so much energy so give me a sense of you know your philosophy towards life and um uh you know how these years have been like given both of these things the pros and the cons of losing the structure but also being able to think outside of it. I'm out of this daily reporting which was a lot of pressure towards the end and uh you know going to the ground uh at the age of whatever a year before retirement and spending the whole day it was becoming tiring uh because of my diabetes but I loved going to the ground so I went and after retirement I have I'm grateful to my friend Oon S Gupta he who is the editor of sports star. He says we are not letting you go. So he said you're going to be consultant with us and we going to pick your brains. So again I loved it because again I was in the company of young writers and we have some wonderful writers at sportsar and uh it mean it meant that I was involved in a different way in a relaxed way. So he made me do a lot of long form interviews and also cover stories also um features where I would talk about cricket from the past what they call it nostalgia pieces and then I I got involved in podcasts regular. We have a we have we still have I mean like I told you about this series which is coming up. So it made me uh sometimes um I actually I feel I've not retired. I'm still doing it. And it is good uh because when I still get press releases in my mailbox, it feels oh I'm very active and they do respect me and regard me and I'm been again like I said I've been very fortunate. I had some very good relationships with relations with um with um officials some of these PR kids whom I've always encouraged always they would come to me sir it was not difficult because why putting a paragraph which would help a PR kid do her job keep his job was good only so it helped me it has helped me remain active uh I may not be writing every day but I do write uh at least one feature in a uh per issue. Uh if not there, I would write for the uh website. They would ask me to write for website and also help my uh young colleagues with with the former players getting them interviews, connecting them with former players and you know organizing quotes for them. It is good because now I mean they would also need time to establish themselves. Uh they are in an era where they are not welcome by uh players but my job is to make them welcome. So I love it. Uh like I said I don't think I've retired. Uh I mean it it is good that I got this uh job with sports star. I do travel a lot for them. I still travel not abroad because of medication business and uh uh two we also have an annual sports conclave our awards fun event and then we have at least four sports conclaves in a year so I am deeply involved with them getting uh organizing players organizing officials uh so it's it's a different uh responsibility but I'm loving it and um I I'm just preparing myself for a couple of enclaves now in the in the coming months. >> Wow. Incredibly inspiring. Your life has been very rich with experiences. But one of the lessons I've learned or started learning is that one shouldn't think of life just as a collection of experiences but also as a collection of people. You know, through this episode and in other places you've referred to different friends in different ways at different points in time. So I'd like you to talk about u you know the friends who mean a lot to you over this period of time not just cricketing friends like you mentioned bi gawaskkar couple but also maybe fellow journalists maybe people who have nothing to do with cricket but who are close to your heart and have had a big hand in you know making you the person you are like earlier you spoke about Muhammad for example >> so you know who are all of these people uh who are a critical part of the tapestry of your life including cricketers, including journalists, including just outside of that uh you know >> see among the uh like I talked about um u journalists I would say Goss was a friend but Majayana he also was very helpful he would be critical of my copy if I didn't do well and cricketers there are so many of them I mean I am I am I can take pride in the fact that uh Amit if there are times we had arrangement I still have an arrangement with the player I give them a missed call not to save money but so that he will call me when call me back when he's at his convenience so I do get back those calls it is better than you know he could be in a in an event or he could be practicing or whatever so this is still my arrangement I give a miss call they call which I'm again very very fortunate but I have to mention about uh my immediate colleagues in the Hindu sports department in Delhi uh my senior KP moan he taught me the essence of sport journalism u uh how to go about it the importance of uh writing a landing a copy on time the importance of sticking to the word limit how important is it is and sending a copy ahead of time. I mean the desk may take a copy your copy at till 9 but he would say send it by 7 so that you're free he'll edit if there's something he'll come back to you so and reading him observing him from close how he would deal with an event and his forte was uh athletics before that of course like I said cricket he was second to nobody it was so so so generous of him that he gave it to me and then my immediate colleagues of all these years were Kamshiniasan he's a big name in tennis writing today in India where parents come and consult him Rakkesh Rao who is again an amazing professional you send him to cover kennoing he'll do it he'll give you a good copy plus Rashikar Rao was my colleague he's now with the international cricket council uh in the media heading the media department. So these we all how can I explain we all helped each other grow and uh suppose I can give you an example Kh would have gone for an assignment. None of us would go home till his copy would have landed because he there there could be times when one of us would have to ring him up because of poor communication. So similarly if I would go they would wait for me till my copy was confirmed in Chennai they would not leave or sometimes Chennai was bit difficult to land I would send the copy to Delhi during the depart time when we used to fax and then of course Gmail came that it relaxed but still we would ensure that we were there to uh take care of the copy edit it before it goes to help the Chennai desk and these were These were the people who hugely influenced me. Uh and of course Armon in Chennai, he was he was a actually a role model when it came to cricket writing. But my I am grateful to my colleagues because uh again like I said no insecurity and we we took uh I mean we we we took credit for the other my colleague doing well and he would take credit for I doing well because he we would have helped each other at every point of uh uh of uh our career. uh and it helps uh I mean to have a colleague who is behind you in difficult times uh there could be a time when you know suppose I' had written a copy and Rakkesh would edit and tell me it's not a good copy so I would sit quickly sit and change it so that was to help me it was not that he was trying to kneel me or trying to trouble me by saying that it's not a good copy so I was lucky it was a very very healthy department uh a very joyful place to work uh I mean believe me it never occurred to any of us at any point of our career that yeah office I don't want to go to office today it would never happen if we were in Delhi all four of us would be there and we would leave together sometimes when when somebody may have some work and leave or from the ground he would go to the go home straight but we would be we we loved uh each other's company and all those discussions in the department were enlightening. I mean and we would listen to KP moan he would he he actually taught us to be good journalists taught us to be fair journalists and and also less critical because this was always a fact that he would try and remind us that not everybody is playing to fail. There are times when he's trying his best but not succeeding. So you have to understand that and bring out in your copy. So that is what your job is and that is what makes you a good journalist. So I think I was lucky and I have many friends among cricketers uh with whom I have had arguments uh with whom I would say it was difficult. There are times when somebody would would have would not would have stopped speaking with me, interacting with me because what I had written but they would come come down to the fact that I was only doing my job. Like in KP Basar's case, there was a match at Rotak where he was given annoyed with the decision. He flung his bat at the stumps. Uh uh and then I was I was the only journalist there. So he was he came and told me I said we were good friends fast friends. He says please don't do that but I wrote I wrote and he didn't speak to me for almost three matches after that and then on his own he came he said yeah I'm sorry I said I'm also sorry I told >> you did you regret writing that? No, I did not. I said I could have I should have been less critical but I was angry because he was my friend and u uh then he came and said I understand you did your job. I said that is what I was doing my job. If I had not written it I would have I I would have fallen in your esteem and I I would be that would be uh that would not be an honest job. I mean dishon dishonesty to my uh paper. So there have been such incidents. Wenitesh Prasad also had a showdown but he came back. He he said I'm sorry but uh I was also wrong in what I wrote that I told you. So that was not good but he's a good friend. >> It was sort of true though. So was it really wrong to write that >> on that door? Yeah. He was not really bowling well but um I mean such things are avoidable because he was having a nickel still playing. I didn't I didn't I didn't realize that I should have put in my copy but uh fantastic bowler no doubt about that and we are very good friends a friend where I can give him his call he'll call back. So it is it is uh it's been a wonderful time having uh a cricketers can be friends also. I mean when you talk to them you realize the meaning of pressure they I mean say a cricketer having a sleepless night before a game such as so many has said so many times he couldn't sleep but um yeah to have friends in the profession I think today I realize some were acquaintances only for till I was active but today I have some journalist friends with whom I interact almost every day. >> Wow. >> Almost every day. So on a WhatsApp chat or call and speak to each other. And we are a tribe of retired journalists. So you probably became more friend become more friendly when you realize that there's nobody to talk to uh during the day. But I'm fortunate because of my involvement with Sports Star. I have been also in touch with most officials whom I've known for almost more than 30 years. They like I said I don't believe I've retired. Beautiful. My penultimate question to you is that we've already spoken about how journalism has changed and cricket has changed in modern times. I wonder what an 18year-old Vijay Lokapali would be dreaming of today. Like if you if you were 18 today, what would satisfy that itch in you? Like you had certain itches whether it was to write or to involve yourself in cricket or to tell stories and that made you have the career you did. But I feel and correct me if I'm wrong that that same career is not possible today because cricket has changed and journalism has changed. So, a two-part question that what do you think and I shouldn't say what would a young Vijay want to do today because I'm sure in your heart you still feel you're young and you're doing all of those things like podcasts and all that. So, more power to you. Um but but you know if you were 18 today what do you think you would have been interested in or wanted to do because there so so much more exposure to so many other things apart from cricket. And the second part of the question is that if there is an 18-year-old listening to this episode who loves cricket and who loves writing and who is wondering that should I try to be the next Vijay Lokopali what is your advice to him to navigate this difficult world. Uh I mean honestly if I was 18 I would have struggled. I would have struggled like the the the key factor is I could become what I am. I could achieve a bit of what I wanted to because of the fact that I had access to the players. It it gave me a completely different perspective and it taught me so many aspects of the game which today's players journalists would struggle because uh um what should I say it has become a monotonous way of reporting. You do a press conference before the game, write a preview, watch the game, do a press conference again. Uh I mean you are not able to bring out certain aspects which you could have had you if you get to speak with the players, spend more time with them. Today uh like we were talking television it's a big big uh challenge for them. uh when I was reporting I didn't I won't say that I was making errors but if whenever I made them they they they were not I I I didn't get exposed because there was no television my domestic cricket what I wrote was gospel >> because there was no television there was nobody to watch the match so many times uh just one journalist so it was uh I was lucky but today I would have struggled very honestly um uh to write and compete with television at the end of the day I will have to give something so I'll have to think very very differently think very hard uh look at angles all the time it's not possible every day you can sometimes get the angle you want uh so whenever I uh uh what I tell them today is if you're an 18 year old uh don't just be a cricket journalist not possible you will uh it is better you pick say at least four games and uh football will give you access. Hockey will give you access. Badminton table tennis much more friendly and they are very friendly people. Even wrestling people think that wrestlers are you know very kind of very aggressive but they are not. They're very kind people inside. So I would say pick four sports disciplines which you like you can pursue and don't try to become an expert in one because it is not possible. Cricket definitely not cricket I mean when I look at when I read reports next day I find they struggling to be different but I definitely I should say I love my dear friend Sepi he's able to bring in something which will which wants you to wait to to read his copy next day and he's a brilliant writer no doubt you must have read him I would say like somebody Like if Mano Vatai was there today, he would have given you a very readable copy, very different from an 18year-old of today or 22 year old of today. But I would say if I was 18, I would have honestly struggled and um uh at 18 I was not very good. I was not very good even at 30. But uh I managed to read others uh much superior writers and learn from them. And my strong point if if there was one was my ability to analyze the day's play I could do it whether domestic whether international and um and local also I mean local cricket I would love to go and cover local cricket even today if there is a there is platform for it for me to write but uh yes uh it is it's been a lovely career only and only because of my exes repeatedly I'm saying that and it makes lot of difference and today you can't leave the press box you can't even go close to the place where they are practicing you watch from a distance and then one player will come and speak with you it is to me I think it's not it is because of the fact that uh like you mentioned earlier earlier there were five journalists on a tour today there are 50 so what do what does the BCC also do they also are under pressure but they're also guilty of not preparing uh the players uh in dealing with the media um uh and dealing like I said earlier dealing with cricket fans they are your greatest stakeholders if the fans don't come who do you play for I mean who's going there to appreciate your game so I think it is better for a sports journalist today to become at least he should pick up five sports Five disciplines where uh he can he can he will get to compare a tennis match where he has direct access to the player with uh end of the day's play interaction with a cricketer which is all very monotonous and they're not able to give you a good copy also they say same mundane things and it doesn't really excite. wise words. My uh final question for the day for me and my uh listeners, give us recommendations of books, films, music that you absolutely love and that mean a lot to you. And you've already done the recent cricket books, so you don't have to go to cricket, but just generally like cinema, what's uh what are your favorite um movies from that era that you love so much? What's the music you listen to when you're relaxing at home and you're you know, you want to get into a particular mood, etc., etc. like what what is the art that gives you joy? >> Well, you talk about um cinema. I'll give you one um quick episode where uh four of us uh the school was shut that day because some student had died and one of us was he used to he was from a rich background. So he said ch we'll go to go and watch a movie. So there was a movie called Aprad and I so one of us said I said yeah let us go and see Apras is in a bikini. So we went there and the theater we were told you can't enter the uh this same because you're in school uniform. So then this was at Plaza in Delhi at Odin I said there's an Odian theater. We went to Odian theater there was a movie called Kagas Fool. So the guy who was sponsoring the tickets, he said, "I'm not going to buy tickets for this movie. I'm not going to forget it." So there was an old man. He overheard what he said. He said, "Look son, if you we don't know, you don't know me, but please take my advice. Watch this movie. It will change the way you watch cinema." And Amed, we watched Kagasi Fool and we came out. We were we came out very different for individuals uh with uh trying to know what cinema was and that movie has had a huge influence on me and uh so I remember uh because I had I have depression issues and um 2020 or 2019 was it? So my a colleague of mine said would you write about your depression uh in the Hindu for world mental health day or something. I said yeah she knew about my state. She said I said yeah and I wrote where I talked about Kagaskool and I don't know how when I became fascinated by movie was it Gagasool or was it Anand uh I mean these are two movies uh I would recommend and I can watch anytime Kalabazar by Devalan for many reasons the subject the acting and music songs and All so uh I would say these were landmark movies for me. McKenna's gold I can sit and watch any number of time. The magnificent seven any number of time. I mean from those days we had some old classics which were ten commandments Benhur. So I grew up on uh watching these cinemas. Today it's changed. It's become very it's different. and very good. No doubt about that. The young cinema makers of today are very very different. I mean you can any day I can sit and watch uh any uh movie which has Manojwbay he is amazing amazing actor or maybe you know u earlier days a movie say a movie like anand or suffer um kasam they're all movies with uh very tragic ends but um that's what cinema is I mean u or maybe Cheltika Namadi you can watch any day anytime. So cinema has had a big influence on me and I've loved cinema music songs um um like I said I've written about them for the for the very reason that I have grown up u listening to good music at home my like I've said my mother would sing so well um I used to sing in kans but over the years then I lost interest I couldn't uh but life has been uh the profession has been very very kind to me. Uh like I said much better contemporaries than me did not get the opportunity to travel or write. I was lucky. >> The profession has been kind to you because you have been kind to the profession. So I should also take this opportunity on behalf of all cricket fans to thank you for all the work you've done over the years. uh no doubt many of the pictures in our heads have you know you've had some contribution in them. One final final question actually uh because what you were saying just um this popped into my head and I said I must ask you that let us bring your passions together cricket and cinema. If there had to be a film made on a particular cricketer you have known because of the human drama involved which cricketer would it be and which actor would play that part? Uh I would love to see a movie made on two people. Kapilv has been there while cup you know um Mohindra Ramarat he's been a very I don't know if I I can call him friend because he's elder to me but he is um an amazing cricketer from an amazing cricket family and I would love to watch a movie on Moinda Raal because he faced the best of fast bowlers. He made runs against the best of fast bowlers. And people don't realize he played he was a member of the 83 team. He was also a member of the 85 team which won the WCC. >> In fact, 83 team man of the match in both the semi-final and the final. >> Yes. Yes. >> And I think Clive Lloyd called him the best player of fast bowling in the world. >> Correct. And humble. He's so humble. uh he is I mean at least once a fortnight we had a we have a long chat on so many things uh connected with cricket and the actor who would play Moindra who would be I mean it's it's a it's a tough one um but he's not flamboyant so actors like Shashi Kapoor Shami Kapoor whom I watch so much they are ruled out but uh if you if I may A my favorite from this generation is Manoj Bajpay. Mores Bachi can be a good good uh uh actor to play because he will he he can bring out all the emotions of a of uh of a mohind Ramanat who has who was not dealt well by the uh BCCI by the selectors and I think I don't know if it's a good choice but I think Manoj would be >> I think it's a great choice because he may not look like him but Manoj Baja can play any role >> any role he carries the film on his shoulders and uh to me no better than him I can I don't think from modern actors earlier actors I don't know who would who would qualify to play um Moindra Ramanad but Manoj Bach yes >> I think Van could have been an interesting choice >> yes definitely >> the smingering intensity >> yes how Can you forget it? Yeah. But Maroj will be my favorite. >> Uh Vijay, thank you so much. Uh this has been such a pleasure and a privilege to have you on the show. I've really enjoyed talking to you. So, thank you so much for giving >> Thank you for having me on your show because when I was going through it, you have had some wonderful people and um to me um I didn't really prepare myself. I thought let us just let me just go and um share my experience and you have been very very kind to invite me and thank you very much but it's I feel sad that we met in uh a live too late I mean if you were there in the press box you writing for cricket info I know that but we never met I don't know why >> we never met but it's better late than never and this is just a start we will meet again so the the kva has begun It will continue. >> Sure. >> Thank you, boss. Thank you. >> If you enjoyed listening to this episode, send it to anyone who loves cricket and who might be interested. Check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. Buy all of Vijay's books. Listen to his other conversations. You can follow Vijay on Twitter at Vijay Locapali. That's one word. You can follow me on Twitter at Amitwarma amitba. You can browse past episodes of the seen in the unseen and seen unseen. and every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of The Seen and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You can go over to seenunseene.in/support and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you.