================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: iZUxa6nvDO8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iZUxa6nvDO8
TITLE: Ep 422: The Past and Present of Cricket
CHANNEL: The Seen and the Unseen
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-14
DURATION: 3h 0m 20s
VIEWS: 1,139
LIKES: 21
COMMENTS: 4

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Cricket is the most unusual of games with the most unusual of histories -- which can reveal so much about our society and our times. Tim Wigmore joins Amit Varma in episode 422 of The Seen and the Unseen to discuss the history of Test cricket -- and how the game is changing today.  (FOR FULL LINKED SHOW NOTES, GO TO SEENUNSEEN.IN.)  Also check out: 1. Tim Wigmore on Twitter, LinkedIn, Amazon, Cricinfo and the Daily Telegraph. 2. Test Cricket: A History -- Tim Wigmore and Freddie Wilde. 3. Cricket 2.0: Inside the T20 Revolution -- Tim Wigmore. 4. Crickonomics: The Anatomy of Modern Cricket -- Stefan Szymansk and Tim Wigmore. 5. White Hot: The Inside Story of England Cricket’s Double World Champions -- Tim Wigmore and Matt Roller. 6. The Best: How Elite Athletes Are Made -- Mark Williams and Tim Wigmore. 7. The Wisden Book of Test Cricket (1877-1977) — Compiled &amp; edited by Bill Frindall. 8. Beyond A Boundary -- CLR James. 9. Pundits from Pakistan -- Rahul Bhattacharya. 10. England: T
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 73,462

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
When we look at a snapshot of the When we look at a snapshot of the present moment, it seems that everything present moment, it seems that everything is the way it is because it was meant to is the way it is because it was meant to be this way. This is normal. There can be this way. This is normal. There can be nothing else. The past was be nothing else. The past was inevitable. But if you study history or inevitable. But if you study history or indeed just look around you with open indeed just look around you with open eyes, you realize how much we are shaped eyes, you realize how much we are shaped by accident and circumstance. Take the by accident and circumstance. Take the game of cricket for example. This is a game of cricket for example. This is a game traditionally played over five game traditionally played over five freaking days. When the one day version freaking days. When the one day version of it was invented, purists sneered. of it was invented, purists sneered. Those same purists would be a gasast if Those same purists would be a gasast if any other sport they followed like any other sport they followed like football or tennis was played over an football or tennis was played over an entire day. But we take these forms for entire day. But we take these forms for granted. We also take the way cricket is granted. We also take the way cricket is played as the only way it could be played as the only way it could be played. And yet through the evolution of played. And yet through the evolution of cricket, it often looked like a cricket, it often looked like a completely different game. Underarm completely different game. Underarm bowling was the norm once with overarm bowling was the norm once with overarm bowling legalized only in 1864. Cricket bowling legalized only in 1864. Cricket was once super popular in the USA, was once super popular in the USA, played in 125 cities, over 22 states, played in 125 cities, over 22 states, and even Abraham Lincoln would watch and even Abraham Lincoln would watch cricket matches. There was a time when cricket matches. There was a time when batsmen batted either on the front foot batsmen batted either on the front foot or the back foot, never both, until WG or the back foot, never both, until WG Grace blew everybody's minds by being Grace blew everybody's minds by being able to do both. It must have felt as able to do both. It must have felt as weird at the time as batting both weird at the time as batting both left-handed and right-handed would be left-handed and right-handed would be today. There was also a time where all today. There was also a time where all the fielders would be placed on the the fielders would be placed on the offside and it would be considered rude offside and it would be considered rude to hit a ball on the leg side. So much to hit a ball on the leg side. So much so that a batsman would apologize if he so that a batsman would apologize if he accidentally did so. Ranjit Singi was a accidentally did so. Ranjit Singi was a pioneer who bucked convention and change pioneer who bucked convention and change this. My point is that when you take a this. My point is that when you take a close look at the history of the game, close look at the history of the game, you realize that you should hold your you realize that you should hold your horses on what is right or wrong or horses on what is right or wrong or normal or abnormal and how something normal or abnormal and how something should be done. We can draw the same should be done. We can draw the same lesson outside of cricket as well. The lesson outside of cricket as well. The world is complex. Everything depends. world is complex. Everything depends. History is a wild ride. What fun. Welcome to The Scene and the Unseen, our Welcome to The Scene and the Unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics, weekly podcast on economics, politics, and behavioral science. Please welcome and behavioral science. Please welcome your host, Amit Varma. your host, Amit Varma. Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My guest today is Tim Wigmore, a British guest today is Tim Wigmore, a British cricket journalist who's written a cricket journalist who's written a number of excellent books about cricket number of excellent books about cricket and sport. Most recently, an ambitious and sport. Most recently, an ambitious book named Test Cricket, a history. The book named Test Cricket, a history. The best books about sport are always about best books about sport are always about more than sport. To invoke CLR James, more than sport. To invoke CLR James, they go beyond the boundary. Tim's book they go beyond the boundary. Tim's book achieves exactly that. And you will find achieves exactly that. And you will find in it not just cricket, but history, in it not just cricket, but history, sociology, politics, economics, the sociology, politics, economics, the human condition itself. The book isn't human condition itself. The book isn't just filled with narratives that will just filled with narratives that will delight any cricket geek. as it is, but delight any cricket geek. as it is, but it is also a chronicle of a changing it is also a chronicle of a changing society. We will hear about how class society. We will hear about how class and race played a huge part in cricket and race played a huge part in cricket politics. How the game grew in some politics. How the game grew in some places and died in others and how a places and died in others and how a changing world led to a changing game. changing world led to a changing game. It's a wonderful book, but we didn't It's a wonderful book, but we didn't just talk about this book, but team's just talk about this book, but team's life as a cricket writer and his other life as a cricket writer and his other books, including cricket 2.0, which is books, including cricket 2.0, which is about the T20 revolution. Those of you about the T20 revolution. Those of you who follow my work will know that many who follow my work will know that many years ago I was commissioned to write a years ago I was commissioned to write a book on cricket strategy and what we book on cricket strategy and what we learned from T20 cricket. Now though I learned from T20 cricket. Now though I had written many many columns on it some had written many many columns on it some of which are linked from these show of which are linked from these show notes I never quite wrote the book. notes I never quite wrote the book. While I had aimed to write a strategic While I had aimed to write a strategic guide book for the T20 revolution Tim's guide book for the T20 revolution Tim's written a chronicle of it and a great written a chronicle of it and a great chronicle. It was so much fun chatting chronicle. It was so much fun chatting with him about that as well. We had a with him about that as well. We had a good pleasant freewheing conversation good pleasant freewheing conversation and if you like cricket you will love and if you like cricket you will love it. If you don't like cricket, you will it. If you don't like cricket, you will love it. You are that kind of listener love it. You are that kind of listener and I love your attitude. But before we and I love your attitude. But before we begin, let's take a quick commercial begin, let's take a quick commercial break. break. break. Hey, the music started and this sounds Hey, the music started and this sounds like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a like a commercial, but it isn't. It's a plea from me to check out my latest plea from me to check out my latest labor of love, a YouTube show I am labor of love, a YouTube show I am co-hosting with my good friend, the co-hosting with my good friend, the brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it brilliant AJ Sha. We've called it Everything is Everything. Every week Everything is Everything. Every week we'll speak for about an hour on things we'll speak for about an hour on things we care about from the profound to the we care about from the profound to the profane, from the exalted to the profane, from the exalted to the everyday. We range widely across everyday. We range widely across subjects and we bring multiple frames subjects and we bring multiple frames with which we try to understand the with which we try to understand the world. Please join us on our journey and world. Please join us on our journey and please support us by subscribing to our please support us by subscribing to our YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma YouTube channel at youtube.com/amitwarma amit v a r. The show is called amit v a r. The show is called everything is everything. Please do everything is everything. Please do check it out. Tim, welcome to the scene and the Tim, welcome to the scene and the unseen. unseen. unseen. Thank you so much for having me, Amit. Thank you so much for having me, Amit. Really looking forward to this chat. Really looking forward to this chat. I want to start off with a hypothetical I want to start off with a hypothetical question I ask sometimes in the in question I ask sometimes in the in different contexts, which is about what different contexts, which is about what would happen uh if you reboot would happen uh if you reboot civilization. And here's how it goes in civilization. And here's how it goes in the context of sport. Let's say you have the context of sport. Let's say you have humanity and you reboot civilization and humanity and you reboot civilization and every sport has to evolve from scratch. every sport has to evolve from scratch. And the question therefore is which And the question therefore is which sports evolve the just the way they are sports evolve the just the way they are and which sports don't? And the idea and which sports don't? And the idea behind the question obviously is to behind the question obviously is to figure out which are so fundamental and figure out which are so fundamental and primal that they're going to evolve primal that they're going to evolve anyway and which are just such weird anyway and which are just such weird accidents that they can't possibly accidents that they can't possibly happen again. And my theory is that happen again. And my theory is that something like football is just always something like football is just always going to happen. It's a round object going to happen. It's a round object being kicked around and there'll always being kicked around and there'll always be some form of it. And something like be some form of it. And something like cricket can't possibly happen because it cricket can't possibly happen because it is just so madly idiosyncratic in so is just so madly idiosyncratic in so many different ways. So what's your take many different ways. So what's your take on this? Do you do you think cricket on this? Do you do you think cricket would evolve? Um if so or if not you would evolve? Um if so or if not you know why? know why? know why? Well I definitely agree about football. Well I definitely agree about football. So in you know the middle ages in So in you know the middle ages in Britain you have people kicking around a Britain you have people kicking around a pig's bladder and stuff and it's it's pig's bladder and stuff and it's it's sort of half you know we can half sort of half you know we can half recognize that game with with what recognize that game with with what football is today. So there's a football is today. So there's a simplicity to it. Um with cricket though simplicity to it. Um with cricket though what I would say is that you do get in what I would say is that you do get in various different cultures you do get a various different cultures you do get a bat and a ball game of sorts. So I would bat and a ball game of sorts. So I would say, you know, if you're replaying the say, you know, if you're replaying the universe a thousand times, you get universe a thousand times, you get probably, you know, six, seven hundred probably, you know, six, seven hundred times, you get a really popular bat and times, you get a really popular bat and ball game. Obviously, we have baseball ball game. Obviously, we have baseball as well as cricket. You probably only as well as cricket. You probably only get cricket in its current form get cricket in its current form once or twice because it's such a a once or twice because it's such a a strange game the idiosyncrasies but strange game the idiosyncrasies but there was something actually a bat and there was something actually a bat and ball is quite universal actually and and ball is quite universal actually and and you know lots you know if you play you know lots you know if you play cricket in a different country or cricket in a different country or whatever people can't recognize it but whatever people can't recognize it but they do they do sort of understand the they do they do sort of understand the concept of hitting a bat a bat a bat concept of hitting a bat a bat a bat with a ball with a bat right so there's with a ball with a bat right so there's something there but all the I mean in something there but all the I mean in terms of getting an LBW rule that terms of getting an LBW rule that probably is well in a thousand probably is well in a thousand I'm also interested in sort of um you I'm also interested in sort of um you know understanding what impact the times know understanding what impact the times have on cricket like first of all have on cricket like first of all cricket is deeply unusual in the sense cricket is deeply unusual in the sense that we almost take it for granted uh that we almost take it for granted uh you know uh uh so many people call you know uh uh so many people call themselves test tragics and you know our themselves test tragics and you know our purist about it and I'm so delighted purist about it and I'm so delighted your wonderful book which I love by the your wonderful book which I love by the way uh has uh actually come out you know way uh has uh actually come out you know when I was a kid I used to I remember when I was a kid I used to I remember growing up in the 1980s with this growing up in the 1980s with this edition of Bill Findle's uh wizard book edition of Bill Findle's uh wizard book of test cricket it which had every of test cricket it which had every scorecard up till 1977 and I would just scorecard up till 1977 and I would just look at all those scorecards and look at all those scorecards and fantasize the stories behind each of the fantasize the stories behind each of the matches and uh it was just such a matches and uh it was just such a different universe but what we often different universe but what we often don't accept is that cricket is so don't accept is that cricket is so bloody unusual in just in terms of the bloody unusual in just in terms of the length there is no other sport like it length there is no other sport like it like when people mock T20 cricket for like when people mock T20 cricket for example for being abbreviated and uh uh example for being abbreviated and uh uh you know not being the real thing I you know not being the real thing I point out that hey T20 cricket takes you point out that hey T20 cricket takes you know so many hours to play it is way know so many hours to play it is way longer than a game of football If a game longer than a game of football If a game of football was played over 5 days, of football was played over 5 days, people would just go mad. It would make people would just go mad. It would make absolutely no sense. There's nothing absolutely no sense. There's nothing that's played out over so many days. And that's played out over so many days. And we've normalized test cricket. So, we we've normalized test cricket. So, we compare everything to that. But is you compare everything to that. But is you know there's no intrinsic reason that know there's no intrinsic reason that anything has to be that long. And what anything has to be that long. And what allowed it to be so long in an earlier allowed it to be so long in an earlier time is that uh uh you know the time is that uh uh you know the opportunity cost was low. People didn't opportunity cost was low. People didn't have to do. There was no internet. have to do. There was no internet. There was no television. How are you There was no television. How are you going to entertain yourself? How are you going to entertain yourself? How are you going to play? At one point in your book going to play? At one point in your book you have this lovely sentence uh rhythms you have this lovely sentence uh rhythms of test cricket were ideally suited to of test cricket were ideally suited to radio doubling as a background noise to radio doubling as a background noise to a working day and I read that and it a working day and I read that and it strikes me that therefore it is an strikes me that therefore it is an anacronism. Therefore I can't imagine anacronism. Therefore I can't imagine anybody watching test cricket or even anybody watching test cricket or even the shorter forms of the game in the the shorter forms of the game in the modern time like following the IPL is modern time like following the IPL is basically giving away your entire basically giving away your entire evenings in India for a couple of evenings in India for a couple of months. You know it just makes so um months. You know it just makes so um little sense. So in that regard, what is little sense. So in that regard, what is your sense of cricket? Isn't it deeply your sense of cricket? Isn't it deeply unusual that something that is played unusual that something that is played over 5 days in this m manner evolves and over 5 days in this m manner evolves and you know is it therefore uh is it you know is it therefore uh is it therefore still relevant? Will it be therefore still relevant? Will it be around 100 years from now? around 100 years from now? Lots of layers to that question. So, uh Lots of layers to that question. So, uh I So, so one of the reasons this game I So, so one of the reasons this game lasts so long is if you think about when lasts so long is if you think about when it starts, you have Australia and it starts, you have Australia and England and you have the boat takes a England and you have the boat takes a month to get from it's crazy. So, you're month to get from it's crazy. So, you're not going to go there and play a couple not going to go there and play a couple of games that are short games. So, you of games that are short games. So, you you know at that time you have with the you know at that time you have with the evolution of football which is really in evolution of football which is really in north of England and clearly, you know, north of England and clearly, you know, you can make a trip in an afternoon. So, you can make a trip in an afternoon. So, as a 90-minute game, that's that's as a 90-minute game, that's that's perfect. But if you're going to get if perfect. But if you're going to get the boat somewhere you're going to get the boat somewhere you and it takes a month you might as you and it takes a month you might as well stay there for 6 months cuz these well stay there for 6 months cuz these tours are run these are profit sharing tours are run these are profit sharing enterprises you know from the very start enterprises you know from the very start and one of the the lovely stories in the and one of the the lovely stories in the book you know the very first test match book you know the very first test match is the culmination of a long tour from is the culmination of a long tour from England to Australia and New Zealand and England to Australia and New Zealand and England only take 12 people because this England only take 12 people because this is a profit sharing tour um so the more is a profit sharing tour um so the more people you you take actually that people you you take actually that dilutes the profit so you have as many dilutes the profit so you have as many people as possible and by the time of people as possible and by the time of the the first what we what is now the the the first what we what is now the first test you One of England's players first test you One of England's players is literally in prison in New Zealand is literally in prison in New Zealand cuz he he got in a brawl. So England cuz he he got in a brawl. So England left with 11 11 men left to to pick. So left with 11 11 men left to to pick. So there is no no tension with with who to there is no no tension with with who to pick cuz you were picking the 11 11 pick cuz you were picking the 11 11 standing. Um so so that is that is so so standing. Um so so that is that is so so those distances is a big part of of why those distances is a big part of of why the game evolved as it did. Remember the game evolved as it did. Remember we've had timeless tests. you know with we've had timeless tests. you know with there's a 1939 test England and South there's a 1939 test England and South Africa which is 9 days and England are Africa which is 9 days and England are on course to chase 600 and then they on course to chase 600 and then they have to leave to take the boat so it's have to leave to take the boat so it's it's called a draw. Um so so this um it's called a draw. Um so so this um yeah the time is a it's a very it's yeah the time is a it's a very it's peculiar part of cricket because you peculiar part of cricket because you know 100 years ago the ashes in England know 100 years ago the ashes in England you would have every test would be only you would have every test would be only three days and you'd get all these three days and you'd get all these pretty underwhelming draws and then the pretty underwhelming draws and then the last test would be a timeless test. So last test would be a timeless test. So you have these kind of these you have these kind of these inconsistencies. This is very intringic inconsistencies. This is very intringic in in cricket. You have these these in in cricket. You have these these inconsistencies that are built into the inconsistencies that are built into the game. Um and in terms of you take that game. Um and in terms of you take that take that up to today. Well, you know, I take that up to today. Well, you know, I think people who like test I I think think people who like test I I think test cricket for me it has test cricket for me it has it has a kind of economic big challenge it has a kind of economic big challenge which is almost like a how would you which is almost like a how would you it's almost a free rider problem that a it's almost a free rider problem that a lot of people we talk you you you quoted lot of people we talk you you you quoted the the kind of radio line about the the the kind of radio line about the soundtrack to people's lives and I know soundtrack to people's lives and I know so many people who you know they're at so many people who you know they're at work and they and they love having a work and they and they love having a sneaky ear with with the cricket on or sneaky ear with with the cricket on or even just a you know a sly tab at work even just a you know a sly tab at work and they are following it but you and they are following it but you economically they're not necessarily economically they're not necessarily contributing to to it to its livelihood. contributing to to it to its livelihood. Um, and I suppose I would always say Um, and I suppose I would always say actually most people who go to a ticket actually most people who go to a ticket to a T20 game T20 cricket if you say to a T20 game T20 cricket if you say you're paying, you know, $20 or you're paying, you know, $20 or whatever, you know, three or four bucks whatever, you know, three or four bucks is actually going to be used to is actually going to be used to subsidize this other format just as if subsidize this other format just as if you you go to, you know, a musical, a you you go to, you know, a musical, a couple of a bit of your of your ticket couple of a bit of your of your ticket is just sub a Shakespeare show, is just sub a Shakespeare show, whatever. I think most most people are whatever. I think most most people are actually quite happy with that with that actually quite happy with that with that arrangement. So that's the sort of so arrangement. So that's the sort of so there's a value that people ascribe to there's a value that people ascribe to it which they don't necessarily meet in it which they don't necessarily meet in their demand because you know who has their demand because you know who has time to take off a lot of you know you time to take off a lot of you know you go to day weekends but to to take off go to day weekends but to to take off you know multiple days of your holiday you know multiple days of your holiday um you know your very precious holiday um you know your very precious holiday leave to go to test matches is difficult leave to go to test matches is difficult to do but you might still really value to do but you might still really value it which is why you have you know all it which is why you have you know all these great test matches in the past and these great test matches in the past and I was digging into as you can imagine I was digging into as you can imagine some rabbit holes on YouTube Um, and some rabbit holes on YouTube Um, and often you're just like, where are all often you're just like, where are all these people in the crowd, but they said these people in the crowd, but they said this was a sellout and there's all these this was a sellout and there's all these empty seats and stuff. Um, so that's empty seats and stuff. Um, so that's that weirdness of the game. Uh, and in that weirdness of the game. Uh, and in terms of, you know, so I think there is terms of, you know, so I think there is still people do really value this thing. still people do really value this thing. Um, and the players I talked to, they Um, and the players I talked to, they they they value it massively highly. Um, they they value it massively highly. Um, and you need administrators to I think and you need administrators to I think have a little bit more well who have have a little bit more well who have vision. Uh I said one of the things vision. Uh I said one of the things learning in the book you learn cricket's learning in the book you learn cricket's always been run terribly abjectly and we always been run terribly abjectly and we have so so many you know sliding doors have so so many you know sliding doors moments that were missed um and for me moments that were missed um and for me one of the biggest is 1909 you have the one of the biggest is 1909 you have the first version of you know the ICC is first version of you know the ICC is formed um but the first world is formed um but the first world is imperial so you have to be part of the imperial so you have to be part of the British Empire to be a member and that British Empire to be a member and that excludes USA and Argentina who were both excludes USA and Argentina who were both two of the top five countries in the two of the top five countries in the world at that point and that was a real world at that point and that was a real sliding doors moment and we see these sliding doors moment and we see these missed chances really again and again in missed chances really again and again in cricket. I also want to get a sense of cricket. I also want to get a sense of how do people follow the sport, right? how do people follow the sport, right? Because how I followed the sport growing Because how I followed the sport growing up in the 1980s was really really up in the 1980s was really really different from how I follow it today. My different from how I follow it today. My older friends tell me about how they older friends tell me about how they would uh how they could only follow it would uh how they could only follow it in the ' 60s and '7s on the radio. So in the ' 60s and '7s on the radio. So you would have to imagine what kind of you would have to imagine what kind of cover drive Sunil Gavaskkar is playing cover drive Sunil Gavaskkar is playing or the way a fast bowler is uh bowling or the way a fast bowler is uh bowling and so everything is happening in your and so everything is happening in your imagination. And then I grew up with imagination. And then I grew up with first black and white television and first black and white television and then color television coming in but then color television coming in but later in the 80s and then you have later in the 80s and then you have satellite TV in the '90s and we follow satellite TV in the '90s and we follow it in a very different way. And a a it in a very different way. And a a question I often ask historians is that question I often ask historians is that when you write about a particular period when you write about a particular period of time as you have written about the of time as you have written about the 19th century, the 20th century and very 19th century, the 20th century and very briefly about even earlier than that. Um briefly about even earlier than that. Um you know how do you get a sense of what you know how do you get a sense of what it was in that moment? What did sport it was in that moment? What did sport mean to people? How did they follow the mean to people? How did they follow the sport? How did they know the players? sport? How did they know the players? Um, you know, how did they imagine them? Um, you know, how did they imagine them? Uh, give me a sense of that. So, the players are often So, the players are often seen as character as as characters as seen as character as as characters as caricatures because because you can't caricatures because because you can't see them. They're not they're not flesh see them. They're not they're not flesh really to you that they're exaggerated. really to you that they're exaggerated. And often you know the quality of um you And often you know the quality of um you know of photographs is is developing in know of photographs is is developing in the early phases of test cricket. So you the early phases of test cricket. So you have photographs but you also have you have photographs but you also have you have cartoons of these people which kind have cartoons of these people which kind of brings which almost character which of brings which almost character which which brings them to life and and which brings them to life and and there's a sort of license that people there's a sort of license that people have when covering cricket which you have when covering cricket which you know Neville Car is one of the great know Neville Car is one of the great cricket writers. Um but he did we we cricket writers. Um but he did we we know at times he he basically made know at times he he basically made things up you know he someone you know things up you know he someone you know he would describe matches and moments he would describe matches and moments that he wasn't there and things and of that he wasn't there and things and of course people would be playing these course people would be playing these these beautiful shots because in his these beautiful shots because in his mind's eye that was always perfect. Um mind's eye that was always perfect. Um and actually for the the very first and actually for the the very first major cricket one of the first major major cricket one of the first major cricket broadcast so um Australia in cricket broadcast so um Australia in 1930 send broadcasters to England for 1930 send broadcasters to England for the Ashes and this is this is Bradman's the Ashes and this is this is Bradman's breakthrough this this you know when he breakthrough this this you know when he becomes this absolute mega star um and becomes this absolute mega star um and they they so these broadcasters um but they they so these broadcasters um but they have this weird system so basically they have this weird system so basically there's cables that are sent back from there's cables that are sent back from England to Australia and the Australian England to Australia and the Australian broadcasters they decipher these cables broadcasters they decipher these cables and they're they're sent in in code. So, and they're they're sent in in code. So, a code will tell you that there's been, a code will tell you that there's been, you know, two runs here, whatever. Um, you know, two runs here, whatever. Um, and that is all that's all the and that is all that's all the information they have, right? And then information they have, right? And then they're saying, "Oh, he's got two runs they're saying, "Oh, he's got two runs from a a cover drive here. He's got two from a a cover drive here. He's got two runs from a leg glance here." So, they runs from a leg glance here." So, they are kind of making things up on on the are kind of making things up on on the fly. Um, but it's all part of the charm fly. Um, but it's all part of the charm because it's telling a it's telling a because it's telling a story. It's not actually a true story. story. It's not actually a true story. It's just faithful to who's playing and It's just faithful to who's playing and how they do numerically, but it's not how they do numerically, but it's not actually telling you more information. actually telling you more information. So, you're you're um yeah, they're So, you're you're um yeah, they're crafting a story out of that. Um and of crafting a story out of that. Um and of course, there's the weird thing in that course, there's the weird thing in that however big a test fan you are, you however big a test fan you are, you know, if you have you almost you're not know, if you have you almost you're not really going to watch every ball of of a really going to watch every ball of of a test match. Um even listening will be a test match. Um even listening will be a bit of a challenge. So there's this kind bit of a challenge. So there's this kind of charming aspect where this thing is of charming aspect where this thing is going on and your life is this thing is going on and your life is weaving weaving around it. Um and weaving weaving around it. Um and actually that's why a lot of people they actually that's why a lot of people they can place test matches and test series can place test matches and test series because a test series that is historic because a test series that is historic that's lasting two or three months that's lasting two or three months because they used to have a long gaps because they used to have a long gaps between matches. So you know that could between matches. So you know that could be you know when you had a a coming of be you know when you had a a coming of age some whatever and you associate it age some whatever and you associate it with with this cricket. that there is with with this cricket. that there is that kind of magical as that magical that kind of magical as that magical aspect to it where it is very much the aspect to it where it is very much the the sort of background noise of people's the sort of background noise of people's lives and also I think people um if you lives and also I think people um if you like test cricket you do understand that like test cricket you do understand that there is in a way that the the kind of there is in a way that the the kind of boring bits if you like are necessary boring bits if you like are necessary for the good bits to to be as good as for the good bits to to be as good as they are. um it's a bit of a they are. um it's a bit of a trade-off and you have the kind of trade-off and you have the kind of intensity all all the time then it intensity all all the time then it doesn't actually um then when you get doesn't actually um then when you get those great moments are actually diluted those great moments are actually diluted and I think people people like that it and I think people people like that it has a there's a crescendo to it and it has a there's a crescendo to it and it has these these rhythms and also people has these these rhythms and also people you know sometimes you can have a you know sometimes you can have a session where you know maybe 50 50 runs session where you know maybe 50 50 runs are scored and only one one wicket but are scored and only one one wicket but the batting bowling's been terrific and the batting bowling's been terrific and the batsman have dug in really well and the batsman have dug in really well and people can still appreciate that and people can still appreciate that and they can appreciate a wham bam session they can appreciate a wham bam session as So it it has a a really I think a as So it it has a a really I think a full spectrum and and I guess you can full spectrum and and I guess you can yeah you can appreciate different bits yeah you can appreciate different bits for different passages of play for for different passages of play for different aspects of of the play that different aspects of of the play that they they reveal. Um and I think the you they they reveal. Um and I think the you know one of the other great thing things know one of the other great thing things is when you have these great contrasts is when you have these great contrasts um which bring out and and one of the um which bring out and and one of the you know to use an Indian example you know to use an Indian example recently one of my my favorite recently one of my my favorite partnerships Rudy is when you have uh partnerships Rudy is when you have uh chitchates Pajara batting with Risha chitchates Pajara batting with Risha Pant. So you have two guys there who are Pant. So you have two guys there who are both criticized from the opposite both criticized from the opposite spectrum for their rate of scoring, for spectrum for their rate of scoring, for their respective attitudes to to risk uh their respective attitudes to to risk uh which is you know Pajara being too which is you know Pajara being too afraid of of of risk plant embracing it afraid of of of risk plant embracing it it too much. Um and so they're both uh it too much. Um and so they're both uh yeah they're both kind of have been yeah they're both kind of have been criticized in in different ways. Um but criticized in in different ways. Um but they both have had this incredible um they both have had this incredible um kind of well a self-confident and a kind of well a self-confident and a bloodymindedness to say actually you bloodymindedness to say actually you know this is what works for me and this know this is what works for me and this is because test cricket is a game for is because test cricket is a game for all sorts and then you have these great all sorts and then you have these great partnerships and I think the line you partnerships and I think the line you know at the um Gabra 2020 when you have know at the um Gabra 2020 when you have that famous victory against Australia is that famous victory against Australia is that you have Para who's batting for a that you have Para who's batting for a draw at one end and you have Pan at the draw at one end and you have Pan at the other end who's batting for the for the other end who's batting for the for the victory. So you get this this whole yeah victory. So you get this this whole yeah this whole stylistic range and even you this whole stylistic range and even you have a left and right hander there. So have a left and right hander there. So you have it's it's a perfect it's a you have it's it's a perfect it's a lovely lovely contrast there and that's lovely lovely contrast there and that's that's a great thing. So you can have that's a great thing. So you can have you know a great partnership can be you know a great partnership can be complimentary players or contrasting complimentary players or contrasting players and they can still complement players and they can still complement each other in all these these different each other in all these these different ways. And I think that's quite a a ways. And I think that's quite a a special game to be able to to have that special game to be able to to have that because I think the ways basically the because I think the ways basically the ways to be good at test cricket there's ways to be good at test cricket there's so many different ways you know in T20 so many different ways you know in T20 which I also I do love T20 as well but which I also I do love T20 as well but as a batsman there are slightly fewer as a batsman there are slightly fewer ways to to be good at it because if ways to to be good at it because if you're a pajara type well you're you're a pajara type well you're actually just not going to play the actually just not going to play the game. Another way in which cricket is game. Another way in which cricket is different from all the other major different from all the other major sports is uh you know as you point out sports is uh you know as you point out in the first chapter of the book is that in the first chapter of the book is that it evolved into really being played at it evolved into really being played at the highest level between countries. the highest level between countries. There was never a sort of a There was never a sort of a long-standing club format as such. The long-standing club format as such. The mythology of the game is all you know mythology of the game is all you know England and Australia playing the first England and Australia playing the first test match and then one by one other test match and then one by one other test sites come uh as you've sort of test sites come uh as you've sort of outlined uh in in your book and that's outlined uh in in your book and that's the whole game. I mean today we won't the whole game. I mean today we won't look back on a legendary county match of look back on a legendary county match of 1788 for example or 1894 or whatever 1788 for example or 1894 or whatever right and that feels in a sense also an right and that feels in a sense also an accident of history because as you point accident of history because as you point out uh you know the place where you out uh you know the place where you could really make the money back in the could really make the money back in the day was playing in the Lancasher league day was playing in the Lancasher league or was playing county cricket or was or was playing county cricket or was playing that kind of local game which playing that kind of local game which means that's what people went to see means that's what people went to see that's where the money was uh and and that's where the money was uh and and part of the reason of course why money part of the reason of course why money went out of international cricket is the went out of international cricket is the oppressive role that the boards uh uh oppressive role that the boards uh uh you know played once uh they were formed you know played once uh they were formed in the early 20th century. But um so in the early 20th century. But um so what is kind of the reason for that? what is kind of the reason for that? Because you look at any other sport like Because you look at any other sport like um you know football or just any other um you know football or just any other sport it's it's all about clubs there's sport it's it's all about clubs there's a lot more competition whereas here it's a lot more competition whereas here it's just about um you know I mean the the just about um you know I mean the the the cricket world cup is much bigger in the cricket world cup is much bigger in cricket than any other world cup in any cricket than any other world cup in any other sport. So is there a sense of it other sport. So is there a sense of it being inevitable or uh again did being inevitable or uh again did accidents of history uh play a part in accidents of history uh play a part in this? No, it's a really really good question No, it's a really really good question because when you look at at the sort of because when you look at at the sort of structure of cricket it is very unusual. structure of cricket it is very unusual. So you have football is a well American So you have football is a well American football is a one extreme where you have football is a one extreme where you have no international football international no international football international game game to speak of but if you have game game to speak of but if you have football is a game where something like football is a game where something like 80% of revenue comes from club v club 80% of revenue comes from club v club club matches and cricket his well until club matches and cricket his well until the you know IPL which we might as well the you know IPL which we might as well later but you know um as of say 2005 later but you know um as of say 2005 would have been 80 or 90 probably 90 95% would have been 80 or 90 probably 90 95% of revenue came from um native venation of revenue came from um native venation contests so completely different way of contests so completely different way of wearing a sport. So, so why did that wearing a sport. So, so why did that that happen? Well, well, partly it is that happen? Well, well, partly it is what we talked about the the accent of what we talked about the the accent of where it's played, which is why you have where it's played, which is why you have the England Australia thing, as in to the England Australia thing, as in to make that work, you you need to play a make that work, you you need to play a lot of matches and you need to frame it lot of matches and you need to frame it around that nation. The the um the the around that nation. The the um the the the kind of the colonial aspect is the kind of the colonial aspect is integral to to this explanation as well. integral to to this explanation as well. uh because for because for so for uh because for because for so for England it's cricket is is seen as you England it's cricket is is seen as you know a Bailey actually who invents the know a Bailey actually who invents the ICC 1909 he sees cricket as a tool of um ICC 1909 he sees cricket as a tool of um maintaining the empire strengthening maintaining the empire strengthening strengthening ties and everything. Um strengthening ties and everything. Um and then the flip side of that is of and then the flip side of that is of course is for you know other you know course is for you know other you know for for countries in the empire against for for countries in the empire against their will then cricket becomes a force their will then cricket becomes a force of you know of showing their own of you know of showing their own standing in the world. So then you this standing in the world. So then you this the prestige of beating England which is the prestige of beating England which is a you know something that all test a you know something that all test nations really share that that desire to nations really share that that desire to beat England. So so there that helps to beat England. So so there that helps to put this game on this weird course and put this game on this weird course and then you also have in in some ways that then you also have in in some ways that you have the establishment. So the MCC you have the establishment. So the MCC might have been the club in you know who might have been the club in you know who who run laws well they are an incredibly who run laws well they are an incredibly establishment organization and they are establishment organization and they are very resistant to very resistant to um a game that's structured more like um a game that's structured more like football say in terms of the the Lasher football say in terms of the the Lasher League model and stuff um and so there League model and stuff um and so there there are a few sliding doors moments there are a few sliding doors moments where Laner League um which you know where Laner League um which you know we'd have all these great great players we'd have all these great great players great West Indies these players, great great West Indies these players, great India players who would play as India players who would play as professionals. Um, you know, that you professionals. Um, you know, that you know, one kind of potential side doors know, one kind of potential side doors moment is you could have had that kind moment is you could have had that kind of rolled out nationally and it replaces of rolled out nationally and it replaces county cricket and it becomes like the county cricket and it becomes like the football league and and that doesn't football league and and that doesn't happen. Um, but I I think the yeah, so I happen. Um, but I I think the yeah, so I think the colonial aspect is is is think the colonial aspect is is is central to why you have the nation v central to why you have the nation v nation aspect. Um, and at a certain nation aspect. Um, and at a certain point again develops its own myth, point again develops its own myth, right? And so with the with the a with right? And so with the with the a with the with the ashes that becomes so the with the ashes that becomes so central to the conception of cricket central to the conception of cricket that um that um that um that others want to well yeah that that others want to well yeah that people people want to watch it and it people people want to watch it and it becomes the pinnacle event but I should becomes the pinnacle event but I should you know but 100 you know the 1920s and you know but 100 you know the 1920s and stuff you have you still have people stuff you have you still have people complaining that there's too much complaining that there's too much international cricket in England even international cricket in England even though there's very little compared to though there's very little compared to now you have people who want you know now you have people who want you know regular summers with no international regular summers with no international cricket and people worried about is this cricket and people worried about is this is this hurting the county game and is this hurting the county game and stuff. So you have these perennial club stuff. So you have these perennial club v country contests in in cricket. Um and v country contests in in cricket. Um and obviously you you do again now with with obviously you you do again now with with with the you know the IPL and the whole with the you know the IPL and the whole world of franchise cricket. Um but uh world of franchise cricket. Um but uh yeah these country debates now and yeah these country debates now and there's a new dimension to them but the there's a new dimension to them but the essence of the debate is not is not new essence of the debate is not is not new at all. You know we 100 years ago West at all. You know we 100 years ago West Indies players would would miss matches Indies players would would miss matches for West Indies for West Indies Liry Constantine and so on because they Liry Constantine and so on because they could earn more playing in the Lancasher could earn more playing in the Lancasher League. So yeah, it's it's it's just a League. So yeah, it's it's it's just a new new dimension of an old problem. I new new dimension of an old problem. I guess there's another broader question I have there's another broader question I have uh about sport in general but it applies uh about sport in general but it applies to cricket as well which is how we take to cricket as well which is how we take for granted that there is a sport and for granted that there is a sport and there is an association at the national there is an association at the national level like the ECB in England or the level like the ECB in England or the BCCI here and there is an international BCCI here and there is an international organization the ICC which as you've organization the ICC which as you've pointed out was called the imperial pointed out was called the imperial cricket conference and you've quipped cricket conference and you've quipped how it was more imperial than uh cricket how it was more imperial than uh cricket in the early days and uh you know that in the early days and uh you know that was one of the defining factors is but was one of the defining factors is but you know from an economics point of view you know from an economics point of view this has always seemed such a bad way this has always seemed such a bad way for something to be get set up because for something to be get set up because then this association whether it is a then this association whether it is a national association like the BCCI or national association like the BCCI or the ICC or FIFA for football or whatever the ICC or FIFA for football or whatever is effectively both a monopoly and a is effectively both a monopoly and a monopoly. They are the only people who monopoly. They are the only people who are allowed to present football to the are allowed to present football to the world and at the same time they are the world and at the same time they are the only buyers of the services of the only buyers of the services of the players and the players often have no players and the players often have no choice and they have to go along with choice and they have to go along with them and uh the result is that there them and uh the result is that there simply isn't a competition for talent. simply isn't a competition for talent. there isn't a competition to establish there isn't a competition to establish best practices. any of those things you best practices. any of those things you would imagine um in a marketplace and would imagine um in a marketplace and therefore you have u the sort of racism therefore you have u the sort of racism that goes on with the South Africa board that goes on with the South Africa board or other kinds of discrimination like or other kinds of discrimination like the discrimination between amateurs and the discrimination between amateurs and professionals that goes on in various professionals that goes on in various countries u like um England and New countries u like um England and New Zealand like the the stuff that goes Zealand like the the stuff that goes down in uh West Indies for example and I down in uh West Indies for example and I just wonder about this structure because just wonder about this structure because everyone just takes it for granted and everyone just takes it for granted and you know as if this is the way it should you know as if this is the way it should be like of course there is sport and of be like of course there is sport and of course there is one organization and any course there is one organization and any rebellion is bad. uh you have a great rebellion is bad. uh you have a great chapter on Kerry Packer on the World chapter on Kerry Packer on the World Series and I think that that is an Series and I think that that is an awesome challenge to make against a awesome challenge to make against a system like this like why should only uh system like this like why should only uh say the Australian cricket board have say the Australian cricket board have the right to put out a team that plays the right to put out a team that plays for Australia you know how does that for Australia you know how does that happen fine that's an early custom that happen fine that's an early custom that gets established but what justifies it gets established but what justifies it why can't Kerry Packer do it why can't why can't Kerry Packer do it why can't you and I do it if we really feel like you and I do it if we really feel like it you know uh if you and I were to put it you know uh if you and I were to put up a team that goes under uh the name up a team that goes under uh the name Australia it wouldn't be very credible Australia it wouldn't be very credible but then why not u you know let um uh but then why not u you know let um uh different people compete and of course different people compete and of course the World Series Singh is actually doing the World Series Singh is actually doing really well but then Packer gets pretty really well but then Packer gets pretty much the deal that he wants as you point much the deal that he wants as you point out he made the lion share of the out he made the lion share of the profits so why should he continue might profits so why should he continue might as well take over the system then break as well take over the system then break it down um but u how does one think it down um but u how does one think about this because this is really a about this because this is really a problem with every sport and you could problem with every sport and you could say okay the different sports compete say okay the different sports compete with each other but if my only skill is with each other but if my only skill is as a cricketer uh you know I'm kind of as a cricketer uh you know I'm kind of screwed. The IPL is a nice little uh screwed. The IPL is a nice little uh artificial setup within this which to artificial setup within this which to some extent mimics a market and some extent mimics a market and therefore you have some competition therefore you have some competition where the Bangalore franchise and the where the Bangalore franchise and the Delhi franchise and the Chennai Delhi franchise and the Chennai franchise are all looking for the best franchise are all looking for the best cricketers and that is kind of good but cricketers and that is kind of good but it is still under the umbrella of the it is still under the umbrella of the BCCI and that overall sporting problem BCCI and that overall sporting problem which assales every sport remains. So uh which assales every sport remains. So uh you know how should one think about you know how should one think about this? Yeah. No, it's it's a very good question Yeah. No, it's it's a very good question because it goes to the heart of what was because it goes to the heart of what was early test cricket. Well, there was no early test cricket. Well, there was no such thing as early test cricket because such thing as early test cricket because you would have these private tours um you would have these private tours um you'd have multiple private tours in you'd have multiple private tours in some cases at the same time concurrently some cases at the same time concurrently in either England or Australia by teams in either England or Australia by teams from that other country by, you know, in from that other country by, you know, in England 11 and Australian 11. They would England 11 and Australian 11. They would they would say they're England. Um you they would say they're England. Um you know, they would say they're Australia. know, they would say they're Australia. Um you would also have um it was just a Um you would also have um it was just a marketing basically the idea of tests marketing basically the idea of tests it's a marketing slogan which becomes it's a marketing slogan which becomes popular as a marketing slogan um and so popular as a marketing slogan um and so you have this bizarre situation where you have this bizarre situation where what we think of tests is actually it what we think of tests is actually it only begins to be it's 1894 an only begins to be it's 1894 an Australian journalist he retrospectively Australian journalist he retrospectively um classifies bit idiosyncratically in um classifies bit idiosyncratically in some cases which matches constitute test some cases which matches constitute test matches um and and which don't and you matches um and and which don't and you have you know very famous Australian have you know very famous Australian victory uh against the MCC 1878 which is victory uh against the MCC 1878 which is seen as pivotal. Well, that's actually seen as pivotal. Well, that's actually just not considered a test even though just not considered a test even though you know some think of that as one of you know some think of that as one of the most important early games of a the most important early games of a cricket for example. Um and so you have cricket for example. Um and so you have this um this um this um yeah it it's bizarre. So with WG Grace yeah it it's bizarre. So with WG Grace obviously such a famous trickster when obviously such a famous trickster when he plays two of the 13 first 13 matches he plays two of the 13 first 13 matches that are test matches because um yeah he that are test matches because um yeah he wouldn't have known what's what at the wouldn't have known what's what at the time and in many cases you know he's not time and in many cases you know he's not going on these tours if he's not being going on these tours if he's not being paid enough and it just doesn't um it paid enough and it just doesn't um it doesn't appeal to him. So yeah, cricket doesn't appeal to him. So yeah, cricket has always had this um and there has has always had this um and there has been, you know, there was the Laner been, you know, there was the Laner Leagues has won. You have um Julian Khn Leagues has won. You have um Julian Khn um creates this sort of private um creates this sort of private traveling team. I guess a bit like the traveling team. I guess a bit like the Harlem Globe Trappers would be a Harlem Globe Trappers would be a comparison the 1930s when again he peels comparison the 1930s when again he peels off uh cricketers. Lots of New Zealand off uh cricketers. Lots of New Zealand cricketers go there because they can't cricketers go there because they can't really anything in New Zealand. Um and really anything in New Zealand. Um and then you have World Series cricket. You then you have World Series cricket. You obviously have the Indian cricket obviously have the Indian cricket league, you know, the forerunner to the league, you know, the forerunner to the IPL which was uh had a you know a brief, IPL which was uh had a you know a brief, you know, formed in ' 07, has a a brief you know, formed in ' 07, has a a brief existence. Um so you do get these existence. Um so you do get these attempts and you always get these rumors attempts and you always get these rumors actually that something will something actually that something will something will give will give nowadays. Um but the will give will give nowadays. Um but the the official boards they have been the official boards they have been pretty pretty pretty yeah fairly ruthless actually um in yeah fairly ruthless actually um in terms of working with each other, terms of working with each other, working with with broadcasters. Um and working with with broadcasters. Um and yeah, they've been fairly ruthless at yeah, they've been fairly ruthless at clamping down on on on rivals. Um, and clamping down on on on rivals. Um, and yeah, there have been I mean, if Packa yeah, there have been I mean, if Packa had, you know, as you said, Packer kind had, you know, as you said, Packer kind of got what he wanted, but he could have of got what he wanted, but he could have torn the whole thing up, he could have torn the whole thing up, but he he doesn't, he doesn't choose to but he he doesn't, he doesn't choose to because he ends up in 1979, he gets a he because he ends up in 1979, he gets a he gets the rights that he wants and he gets the rights that he wants and he becomes, you know, he he gets a profit becomes, you know, he he gets a profit share basically. So, he he gets in fact share basically. So, he he gets in fact he gets a better deal than he he'd he gets a better deal than he he'd wanted a few years before. So he wanted a few years before. So he realizes and he realizes actually the realizes and he realizes actually the other thing but Pla realizes that by other thing but Pla realizes that by working with the Australian board in a working with the Australian board in a way he can get what he wants but he but way he can get what he wants but he but because he's got the the stamp of being because he's got the the stamp of being official is actually often used as a official is actually often used as a device to play pay to play uh to pay device to play pay to play uh to pay players less than than they could have players less than than they could have got on a completely free marketplace got on a completely free marketplace because people want to play in the because people want to play in the official ashes and and it has that thing official ashes and and it has that thing um and you know there's that quote from um and you know there's that quote from an Australian administrator you know, an Australian administrator you know, who cares if we we lose 11 players? I who cares if we we lose 11 players? I got half a million Aussies who are got half a million Aussies who are desperate to play test matches. Um, and desperate to play test matches. Um, and he's kind of wrong in that people do he's kind of wrong in that people do follow World Series cricket, but um the follow World Series cricket, but um the mythology actually I suppose every year mythology actually I suppose every year you have um the official structure you have um the official structure survives it probably becomes a little survives it probably becomes a little bit harder to erode because that history bit harder to erode because that history is a little bit bit stronger and as you is a little bit bit stronger and as you said the IPL of course is is completely said the IPL of course is is completely working with with the system really. working with with the system really. It's not it's not a insurgent league It's not it's not a insurgent league who's who's peeling off who's you who's who's peeling off who's you signing you know off making offers to signing you know off making offers to Jasper Brimmer that happens for a league Jasper Brimmer that happens for a league that's during the yeah India England that's during the yeah India England series that that is not happening. Um series that that is not happening. Um so you have a yeah this situation where so you have a yeah this situation where the the structure is able to to kind of the the structure is able to to kind of well they adapt um and they do so in a well they adapt um and they do so in a way that more or less the establishment way that more or less the establishment get that's what they want over time. get that's what they want over time. That's a pretty pretty that's a a kind That's a pretty pretty that's a a kind of a common theme and the establishment of a common theme and the establishment once of course is often not in the best once of course is often not in the best interest of the sport. So we can talk interest of the sport. So we can talk about there how you know that the the about there how you know that the the USA Argentina that that early moment USA Argentina that that early moment also that the way cricket is used also that the way cricket is used continually and appallingly as a as a continually and appallingly as a as a way to enforce rigid you know rigid way to enforce rigid you know rigid oppression on race and class lines which oppression on race and class lines which happens again and again. So we have West happens again and again. So we have West Indies have uh no black captain with Indies have uh no black captain with tenure until 1960. Um and we have tenure until 1960. Um and we have England have this divide between England have this divide between amateurs and professionals in 1952 where amateurs and professionals in 1952 where they keep on picking amateurs as captain they keep on picking amateurs as captain who are a lot less good. Um and it's who are a lot less good. Um and it's amazing how this actually hurts hurts amazing how this actually hurts hurts the team which is is you know so they the team which is is you know so they actually the MCC is basically happy to actually the MCC is basically happy to say we are happy to lose more well their say we are happy to lose more well their trade-off with themselves is we are h we trade-off with themselves is we are h we would rather lose more matches and pick would rather lose more matches and pick players we want from the the right players we want from the the right social standing in inverted commas um social standing in inverted commas um and so the average in the first 10 tours and so the average in the first 10 tours of the MCC run to Australia uh so from of the MCC run to Australia uh so from 1903 to 1951 so the average from all um 1903 to 1951 so the average from all um England captains in those 50 test England captains in those 50 test matches is 22 with the bat, top score of matches is 22 with the bat, top score of 79. So they don't, you know, so on 79. So they don't, you know, so on average your your captain's not even average your your captain's not even worth his his place in the side. And worth his his place in the side. And that is the price that they're happy to that is the price that they're happy to pay in order to have often basically an pay in order to have often basically an aristocrat as their captain. aristocrat as their captain. Look, I got to tell you, you got to stop Look, I got to tell you, you got to stop complaining about your captains because complaining about your captains because in our early days, we had the Maharajas in our early days, we had the Maharajas of Purbander and Patiala. So like just of Purbander and Patiala. So like just chill. Compared to those guys, your chill. Compared to those guys, your captains were positively bradmanesque. captains were positively bradmanesque. So let's talk about you. Let's let's So let's talk about you. Let's let's talk about how you fell in love with talk about how you fell in love with cricket. Um uh you know you dedicate cricket. Um uh you know you dedicate your book to your dad and you say he your book to your dad and you say he inspired your love for test cricket. inspired your love for test cricket. Tell me a little bit about that. Tell me Tell me a little bit about that. Tell me about uh uh you know how you got into about uh uh you know how you got into cricket and the rabbit holes it took you cricket and the rabbit holes it took you down on early on. down on early on. Well yeah uh I guess fairly typically um Well yeah uh I guess fairly typically um of yeah a lot of people yeah it it comes of yeah a lot of people yeah it it comes in the family uh well from my dad's side in the family uh well from my dad's side I should say. My mom is Polish so she I should say. My mom is Polish so she still thinks this is this bloody alien still thinks this is this bloody alien language. all the algebra and and stuff. language. all the algebra and and stuff. Um, I think she's actually she has read Um, I think she's actually she has read uh this book. She hadn't read any of my uh this book. She hadn't read any of my previous ones, but she's found this one, previous ones, but she's found this one, I think, cuz it's got enough of uh the I think, cuz it's got enough of uh the kind of broader stuff. So, she's found kind of broader stuff. So, she's found it more more accessible, which is which it more more accessible, which is which is which is good. Um uh and yeah I I is which is good. Um uh and yeah I I think what from a journalistic point of think what from a journalistic point of view what's interested me in cricket and view what's interested me in cricket and the great thing about cricket is you the great thing about cricket is you have the the the game itself the bat and have the the the game itself the bat and the ball which are very interesting and the ball which are very interesting and you have actually there's there's you have actually there's there's layers and layers and layers that layers and layers and layers that explain what happens with the bat and explain what happens with the bat and the ball uh when you kind of step off the ball uh when you kind of step off the field and and you and it really can the field and and you and it really can be a prism to explore almost the the be a prism to explore almost the the whole the whole world in many cases. Um whole the whole world in many cases. Um and that is you know it's a fascinating and that is you know it's a fascinating thing that we um thing that we um yeah you could you could look at it in a yeah you could you could look at it in a very narrow way but actually to really very narrow way but actually to really understand what's happening it is is understand what's happening it is is touching on you know you need to touching on you know you need to understand economics race class understand economics race class everything um to begin to understand everything um to begin to understand actually how do these forces how do they actually how do these forces how do they play out um and I found that that is a play out um and I found that that is a yeah I suppose a lot of sports you can yeah I suppose a lot of sports you can do that but so it's the history of test do that but so it's the history of test cricket lends itself especially cricket lends itself especially especially to to that I think um so especially to to that I think um so there is so any yeah there it does it's there is so any yeah there it does it's it's both a it's both a mirror to the outside world it's both a mirror to the outside world and it can sometimes even shape what and it can sometimes even shape what happens in that world we see that with happens in that world we see that with um with with with basel vera and so when um with with with basel vera and so when Africa are banned uh for you know apart Africa are banned uh for you know apart policies from 1970 you know I think that policies from 1970 you know I think that is a contributory factor you don't know is a contributory factor you don't know how much weight to to assign it right how much weight to to assign it right but I think that is that's definitely but I think that is that's definitely bad for the regime in South Africa and bad for the regime in South Africa and And it's a minor contributory factor to And it's a minor contributory factor to I think the end of a part. So so you I think the end of a part. So so you have actually cricket is playing an have actually cricket is playing an outsized role relative to this this outsized role relative to this this silly game with a with a bat and a ball. silly game with a with a bat and a ball. You know as James said what do they know You know as James said what do they know of cricket who only cricket know and you of cricket who only cricket know and you know there are two ways one can arrive know there are two ways one can arrive at being a cricket journalist and one is at being a cricket journalist and one is that you become a journalist or you that you become a journalist or you become a writer and you are interested become a writer and you are interested in many things and cricket just happens in many things and cricket just happens to be the one that you take up and to be the one that you take up and everything is everything. So uh it fits everything is everything. So uh it fits in and the other is that you're a in and the other is that you're a cricket obsessive and it is a completely cricket obsessive and it is a completely natural thing to do to want to want to natural thing to do to want to want to you know just write about cricket and you know just write about cricket and then you expand from there. So what was then you expand from there. So what was your journey like? Like like did you your journey like? Like like did you want to be a writer or a journalist? Uh want to be a writer or a journalist? Uh or was it an accident? Uh how what did or was it an accident? Uh how what did you grow up wanting to be? Did did you you grow up wanting to be? Did did you play cricket at any kind of serious play cricket at any kind of serious level at any point? Uh give me a sense level at any point? Uh give me a sense of your journey to here. of your journey to here. So yeah, on that spectrum, I'd probably So yeah, on that spectrum, I'd probably be kind of halfway in the middle that I be kind of halfway in the middle that I always wanted to be a journalist. Um, always wanted to be a journalist. Um, yeah, I wanted to be a journalist more yeah, I wanted to be a journalist more than I wanted to be a cricket than I wanted to be a cricket journalist. Um, just from yeah, really journalist. Um, just from yeah, really from being a kid. I think I just loved from being a kid. I think I just loved uh well, yeah, I loved learning about uh well, yeah, I loved learning about the world. Had that kind of that the world. Had that kind of that curiosity, that tends to ask annoying curiosity, that tends to ask annoying annoying questions, which is intrinsic annoying questions, which is intrinsic to being a journalist and the kind of to being a journalist and the kind of wanting to get the the why. Uh and then wanting to get the the why. Uh and then I was a yeah very modest cricket player. I was a yeah very modest cricket player. Played sort of second team for my Played sort of second team for my school. Uh second or third team at times school. Uh second or third team at times uh and and yeah played for a club and uh and and yeah played for a club and things but no was not a very good player things but no was not a very good player but um yeah enjoyed playing although but um yeah enjoyed playing although it's a it's a tough game when you you it's a it's a tough game when you you don't get many runs and you bat first don't get many runs and you bat first and you're kind of um yeah you're kind and you're kind of um yeah you're kind of less sulking for the day. Uh, so does of less sulking for the day. Uh, so does give you a sense of well a tiny sense of give you a sense of well a tiny sense of how how cruel it is and obviously that how how cruel it is and obviously that that just magnifies that just multiplies that just magnifies that just multiplies and multiplies as you get to a much and multiplies as you get to a much higher levels than I ever got. Um and higher levels than I ever got. Um and then I um yeah I sort of started off in then I um yeah I sort of started off in political journalism but while juggling political journalism but while juggling uh some cricket freelancing and then uh some cricket freelancing and then opportunities opened up and I went went opportunities opened up and I went went down the the role of of cricket but I down the the role of of cricket but I think my actual early journalism uh in think my actual early journalism uh in politics actually was been very useful politics actually was been very useful and it's actually you know informed and and it's actually you know informed and improved my my writing in cricket um and improved my my writing in cricket um and yeah my writing in sports have a bit of yeah my writing in sports have a bit of non-port experience I think is is really non-port experience I think is is really useful because you get a little bit more useful because you get a little bit more sense of where this game fits into the sense of where this game fits into the world more more more broadly. Um and world more more more broadly. Um and that's a challenge I guess is a that's a challenge I guess is a uh when you specialize in a topic it's uh when you specialize in a topic it's obviously you get a lot of knowledge of obviously you get a lot of knowledge of a topic which is great but you need to a topic which is great but you need to actually have an outsiders view as well. actually have an outsiders view as well. Um because sometimes actually outsiders Um because sometimes actually outsiders view allows you to sometimes there's view allows you to sometimes there's these received things in in cricket or these received things in in cricket or whatever that you're covering that whatever that you're covering that because you're in it you think this is because you're in it you think this is how it is but then someone you need how it is but then someone you need someone to ask a stupid question someone to ask a stupid question sometimes right and actually yeah so be sometimes right and actually yeah so be try try and do that sometimes just think try try and do that sometimes just think actually take a step back like the you actually take a step back like the you know what like the club country thing we know what like the club country thing we we talked about before actually cricket we talked about before actually cricket is is very weird compared to every other is is very weird compared to every other sport and how it's run so you know sport and how it's run so you know rather think that this is because it it rather think that this is because it it is uh actually why is that the case that is uh actually why is that the case that I think that's something is very I think that's something is very interesting to to do and I think interesting to to do and I think actually probably in any any field it's actually probably in any any field it's like yeah being able to take a step back like yeah being able to take a step back is is really important. So it's it's is is really important. So it's it's yeah ideally you want to combine a you yeah ideally you want to combine a you know specialtity and expertise in in the know specialtity and expertise in in the field but with a a sense of where it field but with a a sense of where it fits in more more broadly um and one of fits in more more broadly um and one of the unusual things about it because they the unusual things about it because they will lend themselves to more interesting will lend themselves to more interesting kind of more interesting writing. You kind of more interesting writing. You know just before we started recording we know just before we started recording we were chatting about a mutual friend were chatting about a mutual friend Rahul Bhachara who was uh my colleague Rahul Bhachara who was uh my colleague at wisdom and then cricket info in the at wisdom and then cricket info in the early 2000s and I would constantly tell early 2000s and I would constantly tell him in those days and tell all the young him in those days and tell all the young people who kind of worked with me that people who kind of worked with me that you know look at all the writers in you know look at all the writers in England u you know while they are in England u you know while they are in their 20s they start writing books and their 20s they start writing books and then they write many books through their then they write many books through their career and in India somehow that career and in India somehow that ambition was never there among ambition was never there among journalists. So I would uh you know keep journalists. So I would uh you know keep telling these guys that write some books telling these guys that write some books and Rahul of course started with pundits and Rahul of course started with pundits from Pakistan and just a magnificent from Pakistan and just a magnificent book. How did you come about to the idea book. How did you come about to the idea of writing books? Was it a sense of this of writing books? Was it a sense of this is the kind of thing that now that I've is the kind of thing that now that I've started on this journey I see other started on this journey I see other writers around me have written books or writers around me have written books or are writing books so I should also do it are writing books so I should also do it or did you inherently want to write um or did you inherently want to write um uh books anyway and it was just a uh books anyway and it was just a natural part of that progression and who natural part of that progression and who were sort of your role models? What kind were sort of your role models? What kind of books did you see yourself writing? of books did you see yourself writing? Like were they more the journalistic Like were they more the journalistic sort or were they analytical or were sort or were they analytical or were they you know this latest one of course they you know this latest one of course is an is a sweeping book which is almost is an is a sweeping book which is almost a work of history in a sense. So give me a work of history in a sense. So give me a sense of how you began to think about a sense of how you began to think about it and also I noticed that most of your it and also I noticed that most of your books before this if not all of them are books before this if not all of them are co-written with someone else. co-written with someone else. They're all co-written. So uh what was They're all co-written. So uh what was that decision like? Was it like a that decision like? Was it like a commitment device that if I have a commitment device that if I have a co-writer the damn thing will get done co-writer the damn thing will get done or you know how did that play out? Take or you know how did that play out? Take me take me through your journey as a me take me through your journey as a book writer. book writer. book writer. So the journalism I always enjoy doing So the journalism I always enjoy doing the most is you know long in depth when the most is you know long in depth when you feel you've kind of got I won't say you feel you've kind of got I won't say mastery but you know sufficient mastery but you know sufficient expertise in the topic that you can go expertise in the topic that you can go really deep. You're you're exploring it really deep. You're you're exploring it from different angles. you're sometimes from different angles. you're sometimes actually letting your subconscious do actually letting your subconscious do some heavy lifting. So you start on the some heavy lifting. So you start on the project and then you would you know do project and then you would you know do some other things but your and then your some other things but your and then your subconscious would make a connection or subconscious would make a connection or you know would find a piece of the you know would find a piece of the jigsaw and I found that just jigsaw and I found that just intellectually very satisfying intellectually very satisfying experience. Um and it so it kind of lent experience. Um and it so it kind of lent itself in that that approach and that itself in that that approach and that fulfillment I guess lends it definitely fulfillment I guess lends it definitely lends itself to to writing books. I've lends itself to to writing books. I've yeah I do read I've always read read a yeah I do read I've always read read a lot um from a wide wide array like yeah lot um from a wide wide array like yeah plenty of cricket but you know the plenty of cricket but you know the significant majority would be non would significant majority would be non would not be cricket um so you know some other not be cricket um so you know some other sport but lots of lots of history and sport but lots of lots of history and kind of general non-fiction although now kind of general non-fiction although now I'm reading much more much more fiction I'm reading much more much more fiction some of which has actually informed this some of which has actually informed this a little bit um and then the co-writing a little bit um and then the co-writing is so with cricket 2.0 which is sort of is so with cricket 2.0 which is sort of my first first real book. Um that was my first first real book. Um that was with Freddy Wild, my co-author. So we with Freddy Wild, my co-author. So we were both kind of writing lots on T20 at were both kind of writing lots on T20 at the time and we had a sense of you know the time and we had a sense of you know there was this really big big thing that there was this really big big thing that had come that was you know the most had come that was you know the most popular format of cricket. Um, and it popular format of cricket. Um, and it was I think 15 years or so old and no was I think 15 years or so old and no one had really people like to kind of one had really people like to kind of complain about it, but no one really complain about it, but no one really took it that seriously as a um took it that seriously as a um as a as a sort of serious sport. And so as a as a sort of serious sport. And so we thought to actually dive into that we thought to actually dive into that was was yeah really interesting and kind was was yeah really interesting and kind of felt quite novel. It was a real it of felt quite novel. It was a real it was an absolute nightmare to get was an absolute nightmare to get published. I think it was I think it was published. I think it was 19 publishers before we actually got 19 publishers before we actually got one. So it was a real stretch and you one. So it was a real stretch and you know we obviously thought you know is know we obviously thought you know is this is just not going to happen. So I this is just not going to happen. So I think it was took about a year and a think it was took about a year and a half to get to get a publisher but half to get to get a publisher but because in a way publishing can be quite because in a way publishing can be quite conservative and people were saying you conservative and people were saying you know where's the evidence people will know where's the evidence people will buy books on T20 and the whole point of buy books on T20 and the whole point of the book was there weren't books on T20 the book was there weren't books on T20 so you're kind of you're kind of stuck so you're kind of stuck right um but that was yeah that was a right um but that was yeah that was a really yeah really enjoyable process really yeah really enjoyable process because it felt like it was filling in a because it felt like it was filling in a lot of blanks uh in terms of you know lot of blanks uh in terms of you know there's just stuff wasn't really out there's just stuff wasn't really out there. Um, so that was Yeah. And then there. Um, so that was Yeah. And then I've I do found co-wrote I have found I've I do found co-wrote I have found co-writing very yeah stimulating. It's co-writing very yeah stimulating. It's not Yeah. So my um well Freddy not Yeah. So my um well Freddy describing he said I was like the dad in describing he said I was like the dad in the in our co-writing partnership the in our co-writing partnership because I was I was kind of pretty because I was I was kind of pretty pretty on it in terms of I'm I'm used to pretty on it in terms of I'm I'm used to kind of writing a lot and um from kind of writing a lot and um from previously being a freelancer you was previously being a freelancer you was used pretty comfortable deal with lots used pretty comfortable deal with lots of deadlines and and everything. Um, but of deadlines and and everything. Um, but co-writing I think what I draw to it is co-writing I think what I draw to it is more the the sense of tapping into more the the sense of tapping into someone else's brain has been has been someone else's brain has been has been really fun and you know I've done a few really fun and you know I've done a few bits with academics and therefore bits with academics and therefore they're seeing things in quite a they're seeing things in quite a different different way and so that's different different way and so that's actually quite that's quite good and you actually quite that's quite good and you have some um pretty some frank some have some um pretty some frank some frank debates which is all good fun but frank debates which is all good fun but you you hopefully get somewhere at the you you hopefully get somewhere at the end that's better than you would have end that's better than you would have either you would have got to either you would have got to individually. Um I think that um yeah individually. Um I think that um yeah with uh with Stephan Jamsky with uh with Stephan Jamsky cricketomics um which was a yeah sort of cricketomics um which was a yeah sort of a cuz he done a book soomics which was a cuz he done a book soomics which was looking at um football so through a kind looking at um football so through a kind of yeah an economic well partly economic of yeah an economic well partly economic lens but more a sense of curiosity and lens but more a sense of curiosity and and trying to explain you phenomena that and trying to explain you phenomena that were distinct to football and things and were distinct to football and things and it was taking a similar approach to it was taking a similar approach to cricket. So that was you know that was cricket. So that was you know that was very similating and I think one of the very similating and I think one of the big things in in that which actually big things in in that which actually informed the test bookers well from an informed the test bookers well from an in from an Indian perspective which was in from an Indian perspective which was actually looking at where does India get actually looking at where does India get their players from over time and that's their players from over time and that's been one of the big shifts for India is been one of the big shifts for India is that they've gone from over relying that they've gone from over relying overwhelmingly on five or six cities uh overwhelmingly on five or six cities uh for the bulk of their talent to now you for the bulk of their talent to now you know that's opened up massively and so know that's opened up massively and so it's just such a simple you know way of it's just such a simple you know way of explaining why someone would improve as explaining why someone would improve as well if they're picking from if their well if they're picking from if their talent pools increase and of course they talent pools increase and of course they would improve. Um so that that's been would improve. Um so that that's been that was that was interesting in lots of that was that was interesting in lots of ways. One of the things in that as well ways. One of the things in that as well that was um showing that in in cricket that was um showing that in in cricket um basically to be a batsman you need is um basically to be a batsman you need is much more labor intensive. Um so you much more labor intensive. Um so you need so the you know facilities the need so the you know facilities the coaching the infrastructure the sheer coaching the infrastructure the sheer number of balls you face is much more number of balls you face is much more important for batsmen than bowlers. uh important for batsmen than bowlers. uh which is why again and again we get this which is why again and again we get this habit where this trend which we habit where this trend which we certainly see in England we see certainly see in England we see elsewhere where where batsmen tend to be elsewhere where where batsmen tend to be you know socially you know generally you know socially you know generally much more on average much more advantage much more on average much more advantage of course you get exceptions but of course you get exceptions but generally much more advantage than than generally much more advantage than than than bowlers. Um so to go back so than bowlers. Um so to go back so England would have this traditional England would have this traditional cliche but it was kind of true that the cliche but it was kind of true that the bats would be from sort of public bats would be from sort of public schools and south and then the uh the schools and south and then the uh the balls would be from the the coal mines balls would be from the the coal mines you know which was obviously a big you know which was obviously a big cliche and massively exaggerated but cliche and massively exaggerated but there was also a grain of truth in that there was also a grain of truth in that as well. as well. as well. How did writing in different forms How did writing in different forms affect the writing and affect you? affect the writing and affect you? Because uh uh the bulk of your writing Because uh uh the bulk of your writing you would have done before this would be you would have done before this would be uh short form journalism. So you're uh short form journalism. So you're writing pieces which are a few hundred writing pieces which are a few hundred words. Uh or once in a while even if you words. Uh or once in a while even if you do a slightly longer form deep dive do a slightly longer form deep dive it'll just be a couple of thousand at it'll just be a couple of thousand at max. I mean I don't know how many words max. I mean I don't know how many words you get out there for in the you get out there for in the publications you wrote for but most publications you wrote for but most would be just a few hundred. So and most would be just a few hundred. So and most are written to deadlines. So they are are written to deadlines. So they are kind of quick. They can't afford to go kind of quick. They can't afford to go too too deep. You're getting it over by too too deep. You're getting it over by a deadline and it's done. And a book is a deadline and it's done. And a book is a sort of a longer project. It's like a sort of a longer project. It's like not even a marathon. It's it's it's just not even a marathon. It's it's it's just a whole different ballgame where your a whole different ballgame where your state of mind has to be uh different state of mind has to be uh different where uh you know you settle into a where uh you know you settle into a subject and you go deeper and deeper and subject and you go deeper and deeper and deeper and etc and often I guess the deeper and etc and often I guess the process can be more frustrating because process can be more frustrating because there's no immediate gratification of there's no immediate gratification of actually getting a piece out and uh etc actually getting a piece out and uh etc etc. So what was that like for you as a etc. So what was that like for you as a writer and a thinker the challenge of uh writer and a thinker the challenge of uh you know uh writing your books and I and you know uh writing your books and I and I guess each of your books would have I guess each of your books would have had a different challenge like this is had a different challenge like this is different from all the your test cricket different from all the your test cricket book is different from all the previous book is different from all the previous ones because it's covering a much uh ones because it's covering a much uh longer span of time there's more longer span of time there's more sociology in this in a sense and you sociology in this in a sense and you know there's more uh sense of the know there's more uh sense of the shifting sands of culture and society shifting sands of culture and society and how countries are changing etc etc. and how countries are changing etc etc. So, how did your writing change through So, how did your writing change through this period? How did you change as a this period? How did you change as a person through this period? And was it a person through this period? And was it a great challenge to move from one form to great challenge to move from one form to the other? the other? the other? Well, yeah. I mean, obviously was a huge Well, yeah. I mean, obviously was a huge challenge. I I've worked with some great challenge. I I've worked with some great editors, so I've got um by standards of editors, so I've got um by standards of a sort of day-to-day journalist, I I've a sort of day-to-day journalist, I I've got, you know, more scope. I have I have got, you know, more scope. I have I have had more scope than most to do the these had more scope than most to do the these longer projects. So I've been I've been longer projects. So I've been I've been you know very grateful in that sense you know very grateful in that sense that um so of course writing a book is a that um so of course writing a book is a complete quantum leap from that but um complete quantum leap from that but um maybe a little bit less less of a leap maybe a little bit less less of a leap than had I not had those you know yeah than had I not had those you know yeah pretty regular chance to do the um more pretty regular chance to do the um more more in-depth pieces um in my day job more in-depth pieces um in my day job but yeah clearly I suppose a book like but yeah clearly I suppose a book like this was such a yeah it caused it very this was such a yeah it caused it very very daunting and it's how do you uh you very daunting and it's how do you uh you know I suppose I came to it really with know I suppose I came to it really with the spirit of this is the book I I want the spirit of this is the book I I want to read and I don't think it it to read and I don't think it it currently exists. um which was yeah and currently exists. um which was yeah and I was uh yeah talking to Simon Wild who I was uh yeah talking to Simon Wild who wrote a very good biography of the wrote a very good biography of the England test team uh uh and I basically England test team uh uh and I basically said you know have you thought of doing said you know have you thought of doing this but globally and he sort of said this but globally and he sort of said you need to be mad to to do that and I you need to be mad to to do that and I thought okay maybe I am mad and then thought okay maybe I am mad and then yeah five five years later I think to um yeah five five years later I think to um I was amazed by I mean I knew I'd have I was amazed by I mean I knew I'd have to do a lot of reading but I the sheer to do a lot of reading but I the sheer scale probably hadn't uh dawned on me. I scale probably hadn't uh dawned on me. I think I think about 350 books I I would think I think about 350 books I I would have read. Uh the the bibliography is have read. Uh the the bibliography is pretty chunky. Um and to go and that was pretty chunky. Um and to go and that was the real that was a real joy actually of the real that was a real joy actually of this book which I haven't had on the this book which I haven't had on the previous ones just because they've had previous ones just because they've had been more contemporary. So it was going been more contemporary. So it was going back reading primary material from the back reading primary material from the the 19th century actually. Yeah. Sort of the 19th century actually. Yeah. Sort of challenging those received wisdoms and challenging those received wisdoms and making you think you know this this was making you think you know this this was not inevitable. This this really could not inevitable. This this really could have gone differently. Um that was have gone differently. Um that was that's really Yeah. So you you very much that's really Yeah. So you you very much are trying to are trying to kind of think of the story through um kind of think of the story through um how it was uh played out at at at the how it was uh played out at at at the time rather than knew everything through time rather than knew everything through a lens of of hindsight. And this is me a lens of of hindsight. And this is me in 20 2025. And so explaining how in 20 2025. And so explaining how something developed in how this test something developed in how this test cricket developed in such this ad hoc cricket developed in such this ad hoc way through the the prism of kind of how way through the the prism of kind of how things were were at the things were how things were were at the time and and not kind of retrospectively time and and not kind of retrospectively um go going well and not uh almost not um go going well and not uh almost not imposing imposing imposing um what what I would think you know uh um what what I would think you know uh yeah so just not looking at it through a yeah so just not looking at it through a contemporary lens but But kind of yeah contemporary lens but But kind of yeah so that that was just kind of I guess so that that was just kind of I guess rolling back a look at the decisions rolling back a look at the decisions that people people face to get from from that people people face to get from from from A to B. Um which was and it's it's from A to B. Um which was and it's it's quite an unusual book in that I think quite an unusual book in that I think you know normally you'd have you'd have you know normally you'd have you'd have you know either a current book which you know either a current book which you'd rely a lot on you know on you'd rely a lot on you know on interviews or you'd have a history book interviews or you'd have a history book where you're going through the archives. where you're going through the archives. You know my approach really fuses both. You know my approach really fuses both. I've we went through, you know, read I've we went through, you know, read over 300 books, spent absolute hours and over 300 books, spent absolute hours and hours and hours on on YouTube trying to hours and hours on on YouTube trying to get a sense of these of actual how get a sense of these of actual how players were were playing and and you players were were playing and and you know, looking through some very grainy know, looking through some very grainy grainy footage in a lot of cases, but grainy footage in a lot of cases, but but still getting a sense, which was but still getting a sense, which was really important. And then I was able to really important. And then I was able to do which I really wasn't expecting when do which I really wasn't expecting when I started the book. I thought it would I started the book. I thought it would be I thought very much it would be, you be I thought very much it would be, you know, books and an old YouTube and that know, books and an old YouTube and that would be uh you know, that would be would be uh you know, that would be plenty. And then I end I kind of got to plenty. And then I end I kind of got to a point when I realized to to do what I a point when I realized to to do what I really wanted to do and fill in what really wanted to do and fill in what actually work a lot of gaps because um actually work a lot of gaps because um this story had really been told through this story had really been told through a prism of individual countries rather a prism of individual countries rather than um every piecing everything than um every piecing everything together as I wanted to do. So I I together as I wanted to do. So I I realiz I had to actually do a lot of realiz I had to actually do a lot of interviews and that I wasn't blank for interviews and that I wasn't blank for that but I'm so glad I did. I did do that but I'm so glad I did. I did do probably 40 or 50 interviews um really probably 40 or 50 interviews um really with with with players and I was yeah with with with players and I was yeah kind of really blown blown away by the kind of really blown blown away by the um the number of great players I got and um the number of great players I got and how generous they were with their time how generous they were with their time and actually their their pride at being and actually their their pride at being part of this store which I think has part of this store which I think has helped to open doors. Obviously I I know helped to open doors. Obviously I I know some of these guys anyway but um but to some of these guys anyway but um but to have got you know I suppose from India I have got you know I suppose from India I got I talked to you Rajid Sachin got I talked to you Rajid Sachin Tendulka Rab Chandraan Ashwin Jinka Tendulka Rab Chandraan Ashwin Jinka Roane um and then you know around the Roane um and then you know around the world you know tons of you know Michael world you know tons of you know Michael Holding Ian Chapel you know Kevin Pson Holding Ian Chapel you know Kevin Pson Dale Stone you know tonsily Dale Stone you know tonsily uh you know so many great great uh you know so many great great interviews and and yeah that was a real interviews and and yeah that was a real joy and and I think we talked about how joy and and I think we talked about how strange cricket is and one of the things strange cricket is and one of the things that came a kind of a you know a common that came a kind of a you know a common theme among those was um this sort of theme among those was um this sort of rapport they have with opponents. Um and rapport they have with opponents. Um and it is like of course they're they want it is like of course they're they want to win and everything but there there is to win and everything but there there is a sense of this kind of mutual Yeah. a sense of this kind of mutual Yeah. this mutual respect and the sense of of this mutual respect and the sense of of being part of a shared story which which being part of a shared story which which I think I think the nature of test I think I think the nature of test cricket lends itself to that in terms of cricket lends itself to that in terms of you have this series you know you're you have this series you know you're just the fact you're the wheelers of you just the fact you're the wheelers of you play a five match series you you are play a five match series you you are potentially sharing um over those five potentially sharing um over those five games 150 hours on the field with these games 150 hours on the field with these with these guys um it is absolutely with these guys um it is absolutely crazy so of course you and then you you crazy so of course you and then you you know you're going to socialize with them know you're going to socialize with them and stuff off the field and stuff so you and stuff off the field and stuff so you do have a sense of um they have this do have a sense of um they have this kind of bond between them which I think kind of bond between them which I think is a bit I think it's distinct to test is a bit I think it's distinct to test cricket because of just the time factor cricket because of just the time factor and the amount of time. Um and you know and the amount of time. Um and you know you think if you're playing a you know a you think if you're playing a you know a club IPL season or a Premier League club IPL season or a Premier League football season actually you're playing football season actually you're playing so many different opponents the whole so many different opponents the whole time. So you you know you this guy is time. So you you know you this guy is amazing. You play you once or twice a amazing. You play you once or twice a season. It's not the not the same for season. It's not the not the same for for 90 minutes. It's not the same as for 90 minutes. It's not the same as being on the field with these guys for being on the field with these guys for so so long. Um and the other weird kind so so long. Um and the other weird kind of thing is you do get quite a lot of of thing is you do get quite a lot of secrets that are shared across country secrets that are shared across country lines because people often with lines because people often with spinballers they have a real sense of spinballers they have a real sense of the loyalty uh loyalty to their art the loyalty uh loyalty to their art transcends uh national divide. So you transcends uh national divide. So you have um these great stories of seeks of have um these great stories of seeks of the googly being shared. Originally it the googly being shared. Originally it starts in England and it spreads to starts in England and it spreads to South Africa. Then South Africa end up South Africa. Then South Africa end up beating England with their four googly beating England with their four googly bowlers in in 1906 and then you know the bowlers in in 1906 and then you know the story um story that the douch develops story um story that the douch develops when Sak Mushtak on his debut plays with when Sak Mushtak on his debut plays with with Murley sorry as it plays against with Murley sorry as it plays against Merilli um and and Mury sees you know Merilli um and and Mury sees you know after the game he's like you know he after the game he's like you know he sees this and they're talking to each sees this and they're talking to each other and Sacklane just gives just gives other and Sacklane just gives just gives him the state secrets there again. He him the state secrets there again. He just gives them the code. Uh and then just gives them the code. Uh and then Mirley becomes obviously you know Zack Mirley becomes obviously you know Zack is a great baller but Mirley is you know is a great baller but Mirley is you know one of the absolute best of all time. one of the absolute best of all time. And I and I talked to Sackle and I said And I and I talked to Sackle and I said why did you do that? And he why did you do that? And he said well I was given this gift. Uh my said well I was given this gift. Uh my job is to share this gift not just to job is to share this gift not just to keep it for for myself. Uh which was a keep it for for myself. Uh which was a lovely story and and there something lovely story and and there something very yeah I think people do have such a very yeah I think people do have such a pride in their art. uh spin bowling pride in their art. uh spin bowling would be the most extreme example, but would be the most extreme example, but you have also with um with seams. a talk you have also with um with seams. a talk with Alan Donald. So he was having a with Alan Donald. So he was having a chat with Courtney Walsh and Curtly chat with Courtney Walsh and Curtly Ambrose about how to bowl with such to Ambrose about how to bowl with such to satchin um and they were you know you satchin um and they were you know you know sharing secrets and or we have the know sharing secrets and or we have the the wobble seam which is where uh you the wobble seam which is where uh you know where you bowl with the your know where you bowl with the your fingers are s kind of slightly loose fingers are s kind of slightly loose either side of of the seam uh and it and either side of of the seam uh and it and it basically can can veer in either it basically can can veer in either direction. Um and anyway, so so Donald direction. Um and anyway, so so Donald learned that Ambrose and Walsh were learned that Ambrose and Walsh were doing this ball to Tendulka. Then he doing this ball to Tendulka. Then he starts to do it himself to to Tendulka. starts to do it himself to to Tendulka. So you have this Yeah, you get a lot of So you have this Yeah, you get a lot of butterfly effects in test cricket where butterfly effects in test cricket where you know a small thing happens here and you know a small thing happens here and then it gets taken a different level then it gets taken a different level somewhere else. A and again you get um somewhere else. A and again you get um of the kind of big changes in in the way of the kind of big changes in in the way the game is played. Uh it's very rarely the game is played. Uh it's very rarely the inventor who is the perfector of the inventor who is the perfector of something. the inventor takes something something. the inventor takes something and then others others perfect it which and then others others perfect it which is a nice dynamic as well. is a nice dynamic as well. So in the course of writing this book So in the course of writing this book you know you would have gone in with a you know you would have gone in with a broad outline of what the territory broad outline of what the territory you're going to cover and then you dive you're going to cover and then you dive in and then you uh do um you know you in and then you uh do um you know you read 350 books and you watch all these read 350 books and you watch all these videos and so on and so forth. What did videos and so on and so forth. What did you learn you learn you learn uh about this territory at the end of uh about this territory at the end of the process that you didn't know at the the process that you didn't know at the start? Like what surprised you? What start? Like what surprised you? What delighted you? What disturbed you? what delighted you? What disturbed you? what patterns did you find? patterns did you find? So the the big big the the sort of So the the big big the the sort of central myth to test cricket um which I central myth to test cricket um which I think of now as a complete myth is that think of now as a complete myth is that this is a very conservative sport that this is a very conservative sport that that doesn't change. Uh and you know I that doesn't change. Uh and you know I kind of all knew this was a myth but I kind of all knew this was a myth but I was surprised by the extent to which was surprised by the extent to which this is a myth because this this game this is a myth because this this game has really changed. It's evolved has really changed. It's evolved constantly. That's been the only constantly. That's been the only constant really in test cricket's constant really in test cricket's evolution. So you've had, you know, m evolution. So you've had, you know, m test matches have been scheduled over 3 test matches have been scheduled over 3 days, 4 days, 5 days. Uh they've been days, 4 days, 5 days. Uh they've been timeless over 6 days and timeless days. timeless over 6 days and timeless days. You know, we have had rest days. We have You know, we have had rest days. We have had number of balls per over has gone. had number of balls per over has gone. You've had four, five, six, and eight. You've had four, five, six, and eight. Um we've had we had helmet, you know, no Um we've had we had helmet, you know, no helmets versus helmets was a a massive helmets versus helmets was a a massive massive change. Um you had the wickets massive change. Um you had the wickets being uncovered, which is when you they being uncovered, which is when you they were unbelievably difficult to bat on. were unbelievably difficult to bat on. Um and then from the sort of 70s they're Um and then from the sort of 70s they're they're covered when it's raining. Um they're covered when it's raining. Um which makes a huge huge difference as which makes a huge huge difference as well. Um you know the number of teams well. Um you know the number of teams has gone from two to 12. We've had day has gone from two to 12. We've had day night matches. Um night matches. Um world test championship we we now have world test championship we we now have um people always complain about this um people always complain about this this one change too far but actually you this one change too far but actually you know test cricket it does it has kept on know test cricket it does it has kept on evolving and so when it gets called for evolving and so when it gets called for being a conservative sport it is it is being a conservative sport it is it is pretty odd. um because of course it's pretty odd. um because of course it's remained a multi-inninging sport but remained a multi-inninging sport but beyond that it's almost like almost beyond that it's almost like almost everything else has been negotiable over everything else has been negotiable over time um which which kind of gets well it time um which which kind of gets well it certainly got me to think actually now certainly got me to think actually now that I think we are maybe better having that I think we are maybe better having four day matches and more of them uh four day matches and more of them uh than necessarily having because we have than necessarily having because we have a situation now where apart from the big a situation now where apart from the big three there's been no um three match three there's been no um three match series since 2019 so when you know South series since 2019 so when you know South Africa play New Zealand I think now Africa play New Zealand I think now better if that was three tests times 4 better if that was three tests times 4 days than 2 * 5 and the economics means days than 2 * 5 and the economics means they can't really have three * 5. Um so they can't really have three * 5. Um so the the the kind of yeah the conserism the the the kind of yeah the conserism of of test cricket that was a a big a of of test cricket that was a a big a big takeaway. Um, big takeaway. Um, you know, a really a huge one which you know, a really a huge one which which which did did shock me was um with which which did did shock me was um with a veneration of you know what it is to a veneration of you know what it is to have a test match and stuff was was how have a test match and stuff was was how rare it's been that a test match has rare it's been that a test match has genuinely been the best 11 players on genuinely been the best 11 players on both sides. It it is really crazy how both sides. It it is really crazy how rare this has been. And the reason it's rare this has been. And the reason it's been so rare is because cricket test been so rare is because cricket test cricket has been used for all these cricket has been used for all these other purposes. Um and people have often other purposes. Um and people have often uh these have often got in the way of uh these have often got in the way of picking your your best team. Um so West picking your your best team. Um so West Indies um because of the the way in Indies um because of the the way in which uh the selection process you know which uh the selection process you know giving a huge role to the individual giving a huge role to the individual host in the particular country. Um host in the particular country. Um basically meant that historically there basically meant that historically there would be a lot of horse trading over you would be a lot of horse trading over you know you want to get Barbados want to know you want to get Barbados want to get their play in Jamaica wants to get get their play in Jamaica wants to get their player in. is there it might be a their player in. is there it might be a horse ring whatever and so you know with horse ring whatever and so you know with Cindy's first home series 1930 they have Cindy's first home series 1930 they have 28 different players over the four 28 different players over the four matches um so they changing seven eight matches um so they changing seven eight players a match they have four different players a match they have four different captains so a captain each in each uh captains so a captain each in each uh different cap each test in each case the different cap each test in each case the the home territory because they want the home territory because they want their guys as captain so that that's their guys as captain so that that's been um that's been quite constant so been um that's been quite constant so we're then that manifests itself when it we're then that manifests itself when it manifests itself in um in the kind of in manifests itself in um in the kind of in the white captain's policy which remains the white captain's policy which remains till 1960 um and and I show in the book till 1960 um and and I show in the book how much this actually hurts the team on how much this actually hurts the team on the field. So the the white so where the field. So the the white so where Cindy's generally the board tries to Cindy's generally the board tries to have sort of four or five white players have sort of four or five white players in the side um and this significantly in the side um and this significantly undermines the competitive undermines the competitive competitiveness of the team. So the competitiveness of the team. So the average um for players in the in the top average um for players in the in the top six, so who are picked as specialist six, so who are picked as specialist batsmen effectively um for white players batsmen effectively um for white players until 1960 is 28. For everybody else is until 1960 is 28. For everybody else is 43. So you're losing 15 runs and innings 43. So you're losing 15 runs and innings to maintain your position of prejudice to maintain your position of prejudice basically. Um and we see that in England basically. Um and we see that in England with with with with amateurs uh and with with with with amateurs uh and professionals um in India is not as you professionals um in India is not as you said is not immune to this at all said is not immune to this at all because you have the sort of social because you have the sort of social dynamics plays a big role in in in the dynamics plays a big role in in in the captains. Um and you also I think have a captains. Um and you also I think have a situation where it's just so so situation where it's just so so difficult to play for if you're not from difficult to play for if you're not from the sort of five or six big big centers. the sort of five or six big big centers. Um and that that really hurts hurts the Um and that that really hurts hurts the team as well. So, so one of my, you team as well. So, so one of my, you know, and actually, and this actually know, and actually, and this actually leads me to another thing, which is leads me to another thing, which is that, you know, everyone knows Australia that, you know, everyone knows Australia is strong. I was kind of shocked by how is strong. I was kind of shocked by how much better than the rest Australia has much better than the rest Australia has been over time. So, Australia over time been over time. So, Australia over time win 1.75 tests for every one that they win 1.75 tests for every one that they lose. The next best is 1.25. So, the lose. The next best is 1.25. So, the Australian team on average is basically Australian team on average is basically 50% better than the rest, which is 50% better than the rest, which is astonishing. and and from my my I think astonishing. and and from my my I think between my second point and my third I between my second point and my third I think there's a very clear link actually think there's a very clear link actually which is that Australia is is not immune which is that Australia is is not immune to the the you know perennial thing of to the the you know perennial thing of not picking your your best team. We have not picking your your best team. We have the story of Eddie Gilbert great ainal the story of Eddie Gilbert great ainal fast bowl of 1930s who you should have fast bowl of 1930s who you should have played. Don Bra said he was the fastest played. Don Bra said he was the fastest you ever faced. He's he's not picked. Um you ever faced. He's he's not picked. Um but in general an Australian team over but in general an Australian team over time in pick any random match is closer time in pick any random match is closer to being the best 11 players that that to being the best 11 players that that um country possesses than true in in um country possesses than true in in other countries. Um and that is a big other countries. Um and that is a big fact in Australia are so good a and you fact in Australia are so good a and you know so until 1980s you don't have pro know so until 1980s you don't have pro cricketers in in Australia in the sense cricketers in in Australia in the sense that we do now but everyone is a that we do now but everyone is a semi-professional which means everyone semi-professional which means everyone is paid to play but will do other work is paid to play but will do other work on the side which might be a different on the side which might be a different job it might be kind of working you job it might be kind of working you typically for a kit manufacturer that typically for a kit manufacturer that kind of thing so it's sort of um but the kind of thing so it's sort of um but the point is you have a situation where point is you have a situation where everyone is through the same system So, everyone is through the same system So, everyone's a semi-pro uh and therefore everyone's a semi-pro uh and therefore you have the classic Australian thing of you have the classic Australian thing of we pick the team first and then we pick we pick the team first and then we pick the captain. But because there's less of the captain. But because there's less of the the social dynamics and and the kind the the social dynamics and and the kind of um the challenge of maintaining that of um the challenge of maintaining that is is not an issue Australia in in the is is not an issue Australia in in the same way makes it easier for them to same way makes it easier for them to just pick their their best players. Um just pick their their best players. Um and so actually, you know, that's a and so actually, you know, that's a simple kind of moral lesson to other simple kind of moral lesson to other countries, you know, be a bit more like countries, you know, be a bit more like Australia. just um yeah pick your actual Australia. just um yeah pick your actual best players without all the the horse best players without all the the horse trading and and maybe is in some ways it trading and and maybe is in some ways it can it has been a bit easier for for can it has been a bit easier for for Australia because you know clearly West Australia because you know clearly West Indies has different countries and so Indies has different countries and so on. Um but but yeah that that's been a on. Um but but yeah that that's been a that was a yeah kind of astonishing to that was a yeah kind of astonishing to think and also makes you think when think and also makes you think when people you know people talked about the people you know people talked about the san the sanctity of statistics in test san the sanctity of statistics in test matches. Well, I mean this is kind of matches. Well, I mean this is kind of ludicrous because England used to 1890s ludicrous because England used to 1890s they would send literally about a D or E they would send literally about a D or E team to South Africa because they would team to South Africa because they would send a deliberately weak team to try and send a deliberately weak team to try and be competitive you know to try and not be competitive you know to try and not not win too easy basically. Um so when not win too easy basically. Um so when people say you know oh Ireland or people say you know oh Ireland or Zimbabwe ruin the stats of test cricket Zimbabwe ruin the stats of test cricket it's like well you you haven't looked at it's like well you you haven't looked at the history of this at all because the history of this at all because there's so many matches we've had that there's so many matches we've had that shouldn't have been test matches. shouldn't have been test matches. Yeah. And we you know kind of take it Yeah. And we you know kind of take it for granted that cricket has always been for granted that cricket has always been a particular way and this is the a particular way and this is the orthodoxy and this is how it's always orthodoxy and this is how it's always been. And one of the things of you know been. And one of the things of you know going back into history makes you going back into history makes you realize how rapidly things have changed realize how rapidly things have changed and how much they have changed. Like and how much they have changed. Like when I started following cricket 40 when I started following cricket 40 years back it would have seemed to me years back it would have seemed to me that 200 years is a long time but when that 200 years is a long time but when you follow a sport for 40 years it you follow a sport for 40 years it doesn't seem like a long time. It's just doesn't seem like a long time. It's just you know a couple of lifetimes before you know a couple of lifetimes before me. And in in your in your book there's me. And in in your in your book there's a fascinating passage at the start where a fascinating passage at the start where you describe the evolution of balling you describe the evolution of balling from underarm to sidearm to overarm and from underarm to sidearm to overarm and how eventually in 1864 they finally how eventually in 1864 they finally decided okay it's only going to be decided okay it's only going to be overarm uh you know and then you then overarm uh you know and then you then how does one even imagine cricket uh how does one even imagine cricket uh before that you know you've got in in in before that you know you've got in in in the middle of all the human stories and the middle of all the human stories and in the middle of the cultural drama you in the middle of the cultural drama you also talk about the evolution of the also talk about the evolution of the craft of the game itself and you know WG craft of the game itself and you know WG Grace being the first person who went on Grace being the first person who went on the front foot and the back foot. Nobody the front foot and the back foot. Nobody before him kind of did that. Everybody before him kind of did that. Everybody did one thing and it's kind of did one thing and it's kind of mind-blowing to realize that. And then mind-blowing to realize that. And then Ranji Singi who was such a fan of WG Ranji Singi who was such a fan of WG Grace himself, you know, becomes a Grace himself, you know, becomes a pioneer because he starts playing on the pioneer because he starts playing on the on side. As you point out before that it on side. As you point out before that it was considered rude to play a ball on was considered rude to play a ball on the onside. You would sometimes the onside. You would sometimes apologize to the baller if it apologize to the baller if it accidentally accidentally accidentally unjudgment in conduct. Yeah. unjudgment in conduct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And uh and he starts doing Yeah. Yeah. And uh and he starts doing that for that and he starts doing that for practical reasons. He's going on the practical reasons. He's going on the back foot. he's playing the ball late back foot. he's playing the ball late and etc etc. And uh you know that kind and etc etc. And uh you know that kind of plays itself out and you see the uh of plays itself out and you see the uh for such a long time pitches were for such a long time pitches were uncovered so the conditions were so uncovered so the conditions were so different you you wonder about you know different you you wonder about you know what it would be like to play a fast what it would be like to play a fast baller at times where the uh you know baller at times where the uh you know the noball rule was different and your the noball rule was different and your front foot could be completely all the front foot could be completely all the way forward uh on uncovered pitches way forward uh on uncovered pitches without helmets uh no fun at all. So you without helmets uh no fun at all. So you know this thing called cricket then know this thing called cricket then feels so nebulous that if you write feels so nebulous that if you write about the history of the game on the one about the history of the game on the one hand it is a game and you're writing hand it is a game and you're writing about the history of it but on the other about the history of it but on the other hand you can't compare cricket today to hand you can't compare cricket today to 40 years ago to 40 years before that to 40 years ago to 40 years before that to 40 years before that. So what even are 40 years before that. So what even are you doing you know so like for you when you doing you know so like for you when does modern cricket therefore really uh does modern cricket therefore really uh begin in a sense and and can you begin in a sense and and can you possibly compare comp compare across possibly compare comp compare across eras and kind of get a sense I mean eras and kind of get a sense I mean apart from coming at absolute judgments apart from coming at absolute judgments like you look at the stats of Bradman like you look at the stats of Bradman and sovers and what their contemporaries and sovers and what their contemporaries said about them obviously they are said about them obviously they are complete outliers and all-time greats complete outliers and all-time greats but otherwise how does one think about but otherwise how does one think about this like I was startled by the the stat this like I was startled by the the stat about Sydney Barnes who was supposed to about Sydney Barnes who was supposed to be such a great medium fast baller be such a great medium fast baller actually bowling at somewhere like 60 to actually bowling at somewhere like 60 to 70 mph which is really not terribly fast 70 mph which is really not terribly fast and you know bowling off breaks and all and you know bowling off breaks and all of that. of that. of that. So how how does one imagine the cricket So how how does one imagine the cricket of those days and how how how does one of those days and how how how does one then build that continuous story from uh then build that continuous story from uh the uh you know there to now. the uh you know there to now. No it's a great question. So different No it's a great question. So different aspects. aspects. aspects. in terms of in terms of what we conceive of as test cricket in what we conceive of as test cricket in terms of being this genuinely terms of being this genuinely multi-nation um game for me that begins multi-nation um game for me that begins in the 1950s. So until then 3/arters of in the 1950s. So until then 3/arters of all test matches had involved England. all test matches had involved England. So test wicket is almost a series of So test wicket is almost a series of bilateral engagements with England at bilateral engagements with England at their core. Um but from 1950s you begin their core. Um but from 1950s you begin to get really good rivalries that don't to get really good rivalries that don't involve England. Um, and so, you know, involve England. Um, and so, you know, when people talk about the best test when people talk about the best test teams of all time, I I think it's very teams of all time, I I think it's very hard to to think of as pre 1950 teams hard to to think of as pre 1950 teams because they are basically generally, because they are basically generally, you know, great Australian teams who who you know, great Australian teams who who win the ashes. Um, rather than, you win the ashes. Um, rather than, you know, be being good around the world cuz know, be being good around the world cuz they're not going to win or whatever. So they're not going to win or whatever. So um I think 1950s onwardlands is when we um I think 1950s onwardlands is when we think of when when I think of as test think of when when I think of as test cricket really being um yeah a cricket really being um yeah a multination sport you know even though I multination sport you know even though I I would argue that we could have had I would argue that we could have had more nations more we could have had more nations earlier and so on but that 1951 was when earlier and so on but that 1951 was when yeah it's you begin to get to be a great yeah it's you begin to get to be a great strict you need to to play well in you strict you need to to play well in you know across different countries and know across different countries and continents and stuff rather than just continents and stuff rather than just you know Don Brad was great because he you know Don Brad was great because he was yeah he played in Australia, England was yeah he played in Australia, England and South Africa and that was it. So and South Africa and that was it. So it's like okay well you know that's um it's like okay well you know that's um yeah that that we can't really in a way yeah that that we can't really in a way it's hard to compare that to a Montre it's hard to compare that to a Montre who has to play in eight eight eight who has to play in eight eight eight nine countries or whatever. Um and then nine countries or whatever. Um and then the the game itself, well, you know, the the game itself, well, you know, talking to talking to talking to players who lived either side of this, players who lived either side of this, you know, you helmets is such a such a you know, you helmets is such a such a big fundamental thing and and what big fundamental thing and and what happens is um bowling is getting faster happens is um bowling is getting faster and faster. Uh and then hel and then and faster. Uh and then hel and then world series cricket is is the catalyst world series cricket is is the catalyst for helmets to to find to actually for helmets to to find to actually become well helmets to really be become well helmets to really be developed very rapidly and then actually developed very rapidly and then actually quite quickly vivid rich is an exception quite quickly vivid rich is an exception but quite quickly become stand to wear but quite quickly become stand to wear against false bowling and the reason is against false bowling and the reason is is basically um self-interest of of is basically um self-interest of of Kerry Packer. So I talked with Ian Kerry Packer. So I talked with Ian Chapel about a long uh a shouting match Chapel about a long uh a shouting match he has with uh with Packer um in World he has with uh with Packer um in World Series cricket when you know um Ian Series cricket when you know um Ian Chapel says you know I paid my whole my Chapel says you know I paid my whole my whole career you know I just don't I I whole career you know I just don't I I I've never worn a helmet. I I don't want I've never worn a helmet. I I don't want to wear wear a helmet and you know and to wear wear a helmet and you know and Packer says you know I I really could Packer says you know I I really could not care less if you get hit. Like I not care less if you get hit. Like I just couldn't care less if you if you just couldn't care less if you if you get hit. But what I will not have and get hit. But what I will not have and what I will not do is pay for three what I will not do is pay for three months for you to be lying in a hospital months for you to be lying in a hospital bed uh on me because you were hit in one bed uh on me because you were hit in one of my games. Um and out of this chapel of my games. Um and out of this chapel kind of kicking and screaming is forced kind of kicking and screaming is forced to wear to wear to wear a helmet. Um so to wear to wear to wear a helmet. Um so I think I think helmets is we we said I think I think helmets is we we said 1970s you get the start of helmets and 1970s you get the start of helmets and the end of uncovered wickets. Um so the end of uncovered wickets. Um so those things together are pretty those things together are pretty fundamental in terms of test cricket fundamental in terms of test cricket looking what it it looks like today. Um looking what it it looks like today. Um I think from the I think yeah so I think I think from the I think yeah so I think from the ' 50s onwards you can it is a from the ' 50s onwards you can it is a recogniz more recognizable game but but recogniz more recognizable game but but yeah I think from yeah 70s 80s you're yeah I think from yeah 70s 80s you're then looking at a game that that does then looking at a game that that does feel pretty you know the fundamentals feel pretty you know the fundamentals feel pretty similar to what to what we feel pretty similar to what to what we have today. Um and of course you can you have today. Um and of course you can you know looking back of course you can know looking back of course you can absolutely appre you know the the the absolutely appre you know the the the gold the so-called golden age in 1900s gold the so-called golden age in 1900s you know there is a lot of great of you know there is a lot of great of cricket that would be great in any era cricket that would be great in any era um but I think yeah I think the fast um but I think yeah I think the fast bowling is such a a big factor you know bowling is such a a big factor you know my would never be able to answer this my would never be able to answer this question but my sense is before you know question but my sense is before you know 1950 you do you don't really have anyone 1950 you do you don't really have anyone who's bowling more than 85 m miles an who's bowling more than 85 m miles an hour or so which still. So, I mean, 85 hour or so which still. So, I mean, 85 mph without wearing a helmet, that is mph without wearing a helmet, that is bloody quick. Let's I'm not taking bloody quick. Let's I'm not taking anything away, but it is, you know, anything away, but it is, you know, slightly, but you've had evolutions in slightly, but you've had evolutions in that. And also, you've had evolutions in that. And also, you've had evolutions in just the rel relentlessness of it. So, just the rel relentlessness of it. So, before you might get a guy who could before you might get a guy who could bowl really quick for three or four bowl really quick for three or four overs and then and his pace is falling overs and then and his pace is falling and he's a one-off in his team. Now I and he's a one-off in his team. Now I think what you get is not so much the think what you get is not so much the the top top speed being more but it's the top top speed being more but it's more that you get guys who can bowl 140 more that you get guys who can bowl 140 kilometers again and again and again and kilometers again and again and again and that relentlessness and that physical that relentlessness and that physical threat is there. Um but but you have threat is there. Um but but you have this weird thing where this weird thing where mid70s is where you get both fast mid70s is where you get both fast bowling that's very quick and helmets bowling that's very quick and helmets that are not yet and helmets not yet that are not yet and helmets not yet being uh worn which is why actually the being uh worn which is why actually the the the physical threat it's probably as the the physical threat it's probably as a batter is in those sort of 5 10 years a batter is in those sort of 5 10 years is actually kind of bigger than it had is actually kind of bigger than it had ever been I think before or since ever been I think before or since and also I guess what would have changed and also I guess what would have changed in the 70s and 80s is that to go back to in the 70s and 80s is that to go back to your earlier point the national teams your earlier point the national teams would have been far likelier to actually would have been far likelier to actually select their best 11 or actually at select their best 11 or actually at least make a good faith effort in trying least make a good faith effort in trying to select their uh best 11. Fans will of to select their uh best 11. Fans will of course never agreed that any 11 is the course never agreed that any 11 is the best 11 at the moment. Let's sort of best 11 at the moment. Let's sort of talk talk talk one of yeah if I could just um yeah one one of yeah if I could just um yeah one of the great stories that is England to of the great stories that is England to India 19512 and their captain is a guy India 19512 and their captain is a guy called Nigel Howard who had never played called Nigel Howard who had never played for England before is he doesn't bowl for England before is he doesn't bowl he's just a batsman. His average is 24 he's just a batsman. His average is 24 in first class cricket and he's elected in first class cricket and he's elected to be the captain and he goes to India to be the captain and he goes to India has average of 17 in those test matches has average of 17 in those test matches which is probably about as well as we which is probably about as well as we could have expected and it and it's kind could have expected and it and it's kind of absolutely insane and England do this of absolutely insane and England do this very classic thing so England don't win very classic thing so England don't win that 1-1 that series they have a classic that 1-1 that series they have a classic thing which they where they unless it's thing which they where they unless it's for the ashes they send a kind of for the ashes they send a kind of purposely weaker team abroad and then if purposely weaker team abroad and then if they lose to injury or cities they have they lose to injury or cities they have a kind of thing oh it didn't it didn't a kind of thing oh it didn't it didn't really count um so for England actually really count um so for England actually the point when test cricket becomes this the point when test cricket becomes this genuinely multi nation game actually genuinely multi nation game actually that is clean that's actually kind of that is clean that's actually kind of 1950 when they lose at home to West 1950 when they lose at home to West Indies in England they've lost before Indies in England they've lost before away but again it hasn't we've had it away but again it hasn't we've had it you know or half hasn't counted um but you know or half hasn't counted um but when they get beaten at home for them when they get beaten at home for them that's that's a big a big moment so that's that's a big a big moment so that's yeah in terms of yeah that that that's yeah in terms of yeah that that happens again where you you get happens again where you you get especially touring teams because you especially touring teams because you know players don't want to travel and know players don't want to travel and things or whatever um so you don't send things or whatever um so you don't send the strongest sides and again that that the strongest sides and again that that does yeah sort of 60s7s that that's does yeah sort of 60s7s that that's properly changing where you actually do properly changing where you actually do get your strongest side and it is you get your strongest side and it is you know what we think of as a an actual know what we think of as a an actual test match. test match. test match. You know the economist John Robinson You know the economist John Robinson once said of India that whatever you say once said of India that whatever you say of India the opposite is also true and of India the opposite is also true and it seems to me that cricket can also it seems to me that cricket can also contain the same kind of multitudes contain the same kind of multitudes especially in the role that it plays in especially in the role that it plays in society. Like on the one hand through society. Like on the one hand through your book we find all these different your book we find all these different strands about how race and class and strands about how race and class and other prejudices kind of get in the way. other prejudices kind of get in the way. We you you speak early on of how William We you you speak early on of how William Hendrickx Crom Hris of South Africa is Hendrickx Crom Hris of South Africa is not selected for the first tour to not selected for the first tour to England. Uh you know Tommy Barton of England. Uh you know Tommy Barton of West Indies is uh castigated for not West Indies is uh castigated for not carrying the bags of his uh superiors as carrying the bags of his uh superiors as it were and uh so on and so forth. And it were and uh so on and so forth. And you see this just happening down the you see this just happening down the decades where West Indies is constantly decades where West Indies is constantly captained by white people and so on and captained by white people and so on and so forth. And at the same time you also so forth. And at the same time you also quote a beautiful couple of passages quote a beautiful couple of passages from CLR James where he speaks about how from CLR James where he speaks about how on a cricket field everyone's equal you on a cricket field everyone's equal you know where he talks about the social know where he talks about the social divisions in the west Indies but or divisions in the west Indies but or speaks of cricket almost as a great speaks of cricket almost as a great leveler that hey we are all equal here leveler that hey we are all equal here you mentioned the pentangular uh which you mentioned the pentangular uh which was of course an Indian domestic was of course an Indian domestic tournament where you had parses versus tournament where you had parses versus Hindus versus Muhammadans versus Hindus versus Muhammadans versus Europeans uh and the rest and Mahatma Europeans uh and the rest and Mahatma Gandhi correctly criticized it saying Gandhi correctly criticized it saying that hey you are um you know tying that hey you are um you know tying people to their identity and you're people to their identity and you're solidifying these divisions. And at solidifying these divisions. And at first sight that seems completely first sight that seems completely correct, but then as you also point out correct, but then as you also point out in your book, actually the tournament in your book, actually the tournament was always played in very good graces was always played in very good graces and uh you could equally look at it as and uh you could equally look at it as an example of how different people while an example of how different people while not giving up their core cultural not giving up their core cultural identity could coexist together. Um you identity could coexist together. Um you know play the beautiful game as it were. know play the beautiful game as it were. So how does one think of this that at So how does one think of this that at one level sport can bring can reflect one level sport can bring can reflect the worst things within society and can the worst things within society and can bring out our worst impulses war minus a bring out our worst impulses war minus a shooting as it were and at the same time shooting as it were and at the same time it can also mitigate these impulses by it can also mitigate these impulses by putting everyone on a a common field of putting everyone on a a common field of play where there is no place to hide and play where there is no place to hide and where your class or your race won't save where your class or your race won't save you once uh uh you know the ball is you once uh uh you know the ball is coming at you at uh 80 m hour or 60 m coming at you at uh 80 m hour or 60 m hour or whatever. hour or whatever. Yeah, it's never simple, right? Um I Yeah, it's never simple, right? Um I think that um yeah, your your kind of think that um yeah, your your kind of lovely use of those examples from lovely use of those examples from history does does show that that test history does does show that that test cricket has brought out it has brought cricket has brought out it has brought out some of the best of humanity really out some of the best of humanity really in terms of it it's shown the you think in terms of it it's shown the you think of but it's also exposes contradictions of but it's also exposes contradictions and and you know one of the you know you and and you know one of the you know you think so you think of you know so Frank think so you think of you know so Frank Quarl's first series as captain becomes Quarl's first series as captain becomes the first permanent black captain in his the first permanent black captain in his 1960 in Australia. Well that's an 1960 in Australia. Well that's an alltime great series. you have the tie alltime great series. you have the tie test first, you then have Australia win test first, you then have Australia win 2-1 potentially only because of the lack 2-1 potentially only because of the lack of neutral umpires. Um, just putting of neutral umpires. Um, just putting that out there and and and then at the that out there and and and then at the end uh so is you know you have you know end uh so is you know you have you know hundreds of thousands of people in hundreds of thousands of people in Melbourne they are applauding War and Melbourne they are applauding War and his team on the way home. So it's an his team on the way home. So it's an amazing amazing moment but that is that amazing amazing moment but that is that is happening at at a time in a country is happening at at a time in a country which still has the white Australian which still has the white Australian policy immigration and stuff. Yeah. policy immigration and stuff. Yeah. bizarre bizarre contradiction just kind bizarre bizarre contradiction just kind of bit built in. Things are hard to of bit built in. Things are hard to reconcile sometimes. Yeah, I'm not sure reconcile sometimes. Yeah, I'm not sure there's always easy answers. I think there's always easy answers. I think there has been a capacity of test there has been a capacity of test cricket to bring out the the best, but cricket to bring out the the best, but there's also of course there's been there's also of course there's been Yeah, it it can be a catalyst for it for Yeah, it it can be a catalyst for it for tension and things. Well, now I think I tension and things. Well, now I think I would say test cricket on balance is a would say test cricket on balance is a has been a force for good um on the kind has been a force for good um on the kind of wider stuff but I wouldn't I wouldn't of wider stuff but I wouldn't I wouldn't but I would say like on balance is doing but I would say like on balance is doing a lot of work there but it is it can be a lot of work there but it is it can be either thing right and certainly you saw either thing right and certainly you saw the you know with for example with West the you know with for example with West Indies and the great fast in 1980s I Indies and the great fast in 1980s I think there was a think there was a racial dimension to how that was racial dimension to how that was attacked and criticized in in many attacked and criticized in in many cases. Um, so cases. Um, so and there's there's al sense also that and there's there's al sense also that the the laws of the game, right? They the the laws of the game, right? They they exist to they exist to they are used by the establishment when they are used by the establishment when they're in the establishment's interest. they're in the establishment's interest. They're also ignored by the They're also ignored by the establishment when they're not in the establishment when they're not in the establishment's interest. And and the establishment's interest. And and the classic example of this, so we talked classic example of this, so we talked about the Commonwealth aspect of you are about the Commonwealth aspect of you are literally you have to be part of the literally you have to be part of the Commonwealth to play test cricket. Commonwealth to play test cricket. That's literally part of the the rules That's literally part of the the rules the you know the early rules of of the the you know the early rules of of the sport as um established and set up by sport as um established and set up by South Africa in 1909. They are the South Africa in 1909. They are the indicators of this and then 1960 South indicators of this and then 1960 South Africa are kicked out of the Africa are kicked out of the Commonwealth because of apartheid Commonwealth because of apartheid policies which means by the laws that policies which means by the laws that they have helped to establish they are they have helped to establish they are not eligible to play test cricket but not eligible to play test cricket but what happens is Australia, England, New what happens is Australia, England, New Zealand they just ignore their own laws Zealand they just ignore their own laws which they've helped to create and just which they've helped to create and just carry on playing test matches against carry on playing test matches against India against South Africa for the um India against South Africa for the um another 10 10 years throughout the 60s another 10 10 years throughout the 60s and so yeah they've just ignored ignore and so yeah they've just ignored ignore laws when they when they they don't tell laws when they when they they don't tell them what they what's in their interests them what they what's in their interests and so that That's a very that and so that That's a very that contradiction is quite prevalent contradiction is quite prevalent throughout the history of of test throughout the history of of test cricket that these these laws that we cricket that these these laws that we think are kind of these immutable laws think are kind of these immutable laws it turns out they can be they're very it turns out they can be they're very malleable when certain people want them malleable when certain people want them to be malleable otherwise they they they to be malleable otherwise they they they can't they can't be changed for anything can't they can't be changed for anything which is yeah that's quite a persistent which is yeah that's quite a persistent this hypocrisy is is often there. No, this hypocrisy is is often there. No, actually South Africa is a great example actually South Africa is a great example for exactly this because on the one hand for exactly this because on the one hand you have uh you know the sporting you have uh you know the sporting boycott of South Africa becoming a way boycott of South Africa becoming a way in which sport is used as a tool to in which sport is used as a tool to handle uh this issue but at the same handle uh this issue but at the same time it almost didn't happen you know as time it almost didn't happen you know as you point out in your uh uh chapter on you point out in your uh uh chapter on that there were efforts to you know pay that there were efforts to you know pay off Basil Diva so that he wouldn't go off Basil Diva so that he wouldn't go for the trip to give him another for the trip to give him another lucrative job coaching colored lucrative job coaching colored cricketers elsewhere and uh so on and so cricketers elsewhere and uh so on and so forth. So it it almost went the other forth. So it it almost went the other way and it just so happens that it went way and it just so happens that it went this way. You know, some of these this way. You know, some of these divisions uh are alive and issues to the divisions uh are alive and issues to the current day like issues of race and current day like issues of race and class and I don't know if they'll if if class and I don't know if they'll if if they'll ever leave us. But some of them they'll ever leave us. But some of them are not like this professionals versus are not like this professionals versus amateurs thing is is is something that I amateurs thing is is is something that I think confounds everyone who is not think confounds everyone who is not British because it doesn't really seem British because it doesn't really seem to exist anywhere outside of the empire to exist anywhere outside of the empire to uh this extent. uh you know New to uh this extent. uh you know New Zealand barred professionals for Zealand barred professionals for decades. In fact, you talk of Stewie decades. In fact, you talk of Stewie Dempster who averaged 65 in the 10 test Dempster who averaged 65 in the 10 test matches he played or much later Martin matches he played or much later Martin Donnelly who averaged 52.9 in the seven Donnelly who averaged 52.9 in the seven tests he played and you speak about how tests he played and you speak about how the discrimination in England remained the discrimination in England remained um to the point that all their captains um to the point that all their captains were amateurs and you know average what were amateurs and you know average what you said they average really low you said they average really low averages and even the way the names were averages and even the way the names were written like if you were professional uh written like if you were professional uh you know you'd be Fred Truman if you you know you'd be Fred Truman if you were amateur you'd be PBH May and it's were amateur you'd be PBH May and it's interesting how the word changes because interesting how the word changes because today amateur is almost a cuss word. today amateur is almost a cuss word. Like if somebody plays badly, you'll Like if somebody plays badly, you'll tell them, "Hey, you're just an tell them, "Hey, you're just an amateur." Give me a sense of this. And amateur." Give me a sense of this. And uh and I'm guessing class is like uh and I'm guessing class is like completely embedded in this because completely embedded in this because anyone who's a professional is almost anyone who's a professional is almost like a working man who's playing for like a working man who's playing for money. But all the great English icons money. But all the great English icons from Hobbes and Sutliff to Hammond to from Hobbes and Sutliff to Hammond to Hutton, they were all professionals as Hutton, they were all professionals as it were. But uh you know until perhaps it were. But uh you know until perhaps Hutton becomes a captain, you know, the Hutton becomes a captain, you know, the the discrimination remains. the discrimination remains. Well, of course with with with Hammond. Well, of course with with with Hammond. So he's professional but he then becomes So he's professional but he then becomes an amateur and he's one who says an amateur and he's one who says actually he doesn't kind of get it. He's actually he doesn't kind of get it. He's like nothing has changed and I'm like nothing has changed and I'm suddenly he says this is completely suddenly he says this is completely illogical what's happened. I was the illogical what's happened. I was the same person as as before. So what same person as as before. So what happens is he he joins uh the board of happens is he he joins uh the board of directors of a tire company who allow directors of a tire company who allow him to play as much cricket as he wants. him to play as much cricket as he wants. So it's almost a de facto professional So it's almost a de facto professional uh but they use him for PR purposes and uh but they use him for PR purposes and then he's allowed to then be a amateur then he's allowed to then be a amateur which then means he can captain and which then means he can captain and stuff. Um but hypocrisy is is hard to uh stuff. Um but hypocrisy is is hard to uh overstate. So the the amateurs would overstate. So the the amateurs would earn expenses inverted commas but these earn expenses inverted commas but these would often be worth more than the would often be worth more than the salaries of the professionals. So Jim salaries of the professionals. So Jim Leica um 19589 Leica um 19589 um he's like you know uh he requests to um he's like you know uh he requests to the MCC to switch from professional to the MCC to switch from professional to amateur for the tour uh because he wants amateur for the tour uh because he wants to earn more money from the tour. Uh to earn more money from the tour. Uh this is just the hypocrisy is absolutely this is just the hypocrisy is absolutely ludicrous. um but he's not allowed to ludicrous. um but he's not allowed to because he is the the wrong sort of because he is the the wrong sort of person to be an amateur. So this this is person to be an amateur. So this this is embedded in embedded in embedded in in England's conception of how to to in England's conception of how to to build a team really. Um and so it's build a team really. Um and so it's actually until 1962 you have the actually until 1962 you have the division in in county cricket and division in in county cricket and there's a real sense of you people there's a real sense of you people really mourn this. Um and there's a really mourn this. Um and there's a great quote from uh Lord Hawk um 1925 great quote from uh Lord Hawk um 1925 100 years ago who says you know I love 100 years ago who says you know I love and admire them all but pray God that no and admire them all but pray God that no professional should ever captain England professional should ever captain England it would be a thousand pies. Um so this it would be a thousand pies. Um so this is this is a a bastion which exists to is this is a a bastion which exists to be protected. Um and I kind of goes back be protected. Um and I kind of goes back to you know you always say the officer to you know you always say the officer class thing where you have a certain class thing where you have a certain type of person that the MTC want to be type of person that the MTC want to be the leaders the captains and and there's the leaders the captains and and there's another dimension too which is that a another dimension too which is that a cricket tour is not just a cricket tour cricket tour is not just a cricket tour you know it is a lot of of what you know it is a lot of of what goes into being into being a captain and goes into being into being a captain and what people want from a captain is what people want from a captain is actually to have a good person to talk actually to have a good person to talk to the ambassador at cocktail parties to the ambassador at cocktail parties and stuff like that. And so this is why and stuff like that. And so this is why there's there's such this social there's there's such this social standing. It's it's not just you know standing. It's it's not just you know England have this most extreme example England have this most extreme example but you do get other countries where you but you do get other countries where you get I think yeah it's pretty clear that get I think yeah it's pretty clear that uh preferential treatment is given to uh preferential treatment is given to people from you know higher social people from you know higher social standing obviously who can speak English standing obviously who can speak English or who went to Oxbridge or whatever. So or who went to Oxbridge or whatever. So with Jav Mandad he rails against what he with Jav Mandad he rails against what he calls the Oxbridgeidge complex um and calls the Oxbridgeidge complex um and says you know in Pakistan he says you says you know in Pakistan he says you why why does it why should it matter you why why does it why should it matter you know where someone went to school if know where someone went to school if they can how they can speak English you they can how they can speak English you know what how does that qualify them to know what how does that qualify them to be captain of of the team and that's a be captain of of the team and that's a you know persistent thing as well so you you know persistent thing as well so you you do get in yeah to be honest pretty you do get in yeah to be honest pretty much every country apart with with much every country apart with with Australia being at the the bottom of of Australia being at the the bottom of of that scale there is a big um element of that scale there is a big um element of social standing informing who who is who social standing informing who who is who is captain. um which yeah is is is just is captain. um which yeah is is is just from the outside it's it's just from the outside it's it's just preposterous but then but then test did preposterous but then but then test did serve this this this broader function serve this this this broader function and hence the establishment was so keen and hence the establishment was so keen to to to pro to to to protect this and to to to pro to to to protect this and of course this is much more you know in of course this is much more you know in the case of West Indies you know what the case of West Indies you know what what was this about well actually if you what was this about well actually if you kind of really really take a step back kind of really really take a step back so so we're seems to have these great so so we're seems to have these great teams who who win in England with black teams who who win in England with black players is you know largely you know players is you know largely you know doing you the bulk of of the work and doing you the bulk of of the work and actually the the leading players but actually the the leading players but there's you know as Li Conson says you there's you know as Li Conson says you know why is there this this strand that know why is there this this strand that the you know the establishment said well the you know the establishment said well of course but there's a a white captain of course but there's a a white captain so that is maintaining something that is so that is maintaining something that is resonates far far more more than than resonates far far more more than than cricket and and I think the cricket and and I think the establishment have always been midway establishment have always been midway have always really been keenly aware of have always really been keenly aware of the the resonance that this this this the the resonance that this this this game this game has and are so keen to game this game has and are so keen to protect their own interest through protect their own interest through through the game and then then the through the game and then then the dollar affair in South Africa well dollar affair in South Africa well actually a lot of MCC figures who were actually a lot of MCC figures who were anti- a ban anti-apartid ban well they anti- a ban anti-apartid ban well they often had business interests financial often had business interests financial interests in South Africa as well as you interests in South Africa as well as you know close friendships and stuff so it know close friendships and stuff so it was not you know so actually by opposing was not you know so actually by opposing a ban they were actually benefiting a ban they were actually benefiting their own business interests and their their own business interests and their ability to make money from Anglo African ability to make money from Anglo African trade and everything um so yeah it's not trade and everything um so yeah it's not just about cricket for them you know just about cricket for them you know They probably don't really care who They probably don't really care who England pick, but they they do care England pick, but they they do care about whether it will whether um their about whether it will whether um their best interest in South Africa could best interest in South Africa could could be damaged and they want things to could be damaged and they want things to be as normal as possible. And that's the be as normal as possible. And that's the thing for the South African government. thing for the South African government. They you know they basically say well we They you know they basically say well we can play test cricket that tells a bulk can play test cricket that tells a bulk of our population uh that stuff is of our population uh that stuff is really not is pretty normal here. It's really not is pretty normal here. It's not as strange as some people say not as strange as some people say because you know we can still but we're because you know we can still but we're still playing Australia and England and still playing Australia and England and everything is is is is all roses right everything is is is is all roses right and and there are elements of uh and and there are elements of uh hypocrisy even here throughout this hypocrisy even here throughout this issue of playing South Africa like you issue of playing South Africa like you point out these different rebel tours go point out these different rebel tours go and at one point Kis King when he's and at one point Kis King when he's casticated for going actually asked a casticated for going actually asked a question that hey all of you are trading question that hey all of you are trading with South Africa if I trade my services with South Africa if I trade my services with South Africa what the is a with South Africa what the is a problem why is it uh you know something problem why is it uh you know something different and you also point out the different and you also point out the startling way in which when you look at startling way in which when you look at what happens in the '90s, everyone who what happens in the '90s, everyone who went on the rebel tours for the West went on the rebel tours for the West Indies is pretty much destitute and Indies is pretty much destitute and destroyed by circumstances, Richard destroyed by circumstances, Richard Austin and so on. Whereas everyone who Austin and so on. Whereas everyone who went from England is actually went from England is actually rehabilitated. They are again part of rehabilitated. They are again part of the elites. You know, Guj goes on to the elites. You know, Guj goes on to captain England successfully. At one captain England successfully. At one point you point out how all the point you point out how all the selectors are people who once been on a selectors are people who once been on a rebel tour to uh South Africa. So I'm rebel tour to uh South Africa. So I'm like what happened here? How did it like what happened here? How did it change so fast that you know South change so fast that you know South Africa's back but why was that wrong Africa's back but why was that wrong then and not wrong now? And uh you know then and not wrong now? And uh you know that's also kind of baffling to me. that's also kind of baffling to me. Yeah. No, that is astonishing the Yeah. No, that is astonishing the difference as well. I I think to explain difference as well. I I think to explain those and and I think anyone who wants those and and I think anyone who wants to to go even deeper on this particular to to go even deeper on this particular topic uh Ashley Gray's book the topic uh Ashley Gray's book the unforgiven is is very good uh which is unforgiven is is very good uh which is looking at all the West Indies players looking at all the West Indies players who went on those tours and what what who went on those tours and what what happens to them. But but essentially I happens to them. But but essentially I think the racial context is so much more think the racial context is so much more it just resonates so much more in West it just resonates so much more in West Indies because um you know uh there is a Indies because um you know uh there is a sense of yeah people feel a sense of sense of yeah people feel a sense of betrayal with West Indies players who betrayal with West Indies players who who go uh and they're obviously you know who go uh and they're obviously you know Caribbean people are so aware of you Caribbean people are so aware of you know racial racial injustice um whereas know racial racial injustice um whereas the English establishment you know they the English establishment you know they who as I said often have trading links who as I said often have trading links themselves and South Africa and they themselves and South Africa and they kind feel um they don't I mean the issue kind feel um they don't I mean the issue doesn't exercise them in the same way to doesn't exercise them in the same way to be honest so the the the rebels where be honest so the the the rebels where they get a life ban in some other they get a life ban in some other countries you know Caribbean although countries you know Caribbean although yeah Ezra Moji does play does play for yeah Ezra Moji does play does play for West Indies after but in the bulk they West Indies after but in the bulk they they actually banned from kind of all they actually banned from kind of all cricket you know in England it's it's cricket you know in England it's it's you know they get these threeear bans you know they get these threeear bans from test cricket but they're allowed to from test cricket but they're allowed to play county cricket in the in the play county cricket in the in the meantime um Australia has a similly kind meantime um Australia has a similly kind of similarly gentle approach and I think of similarly gentle approach and I think the establishment aren't particularly the establishment aren't particularly well or they want to be seen to be doing well or they want to be seen to be doing something. Um but uh they just don't to something. Um but uh they just don't to I don't think they just they just don't I don't think they just they just don't think they care all that much. Um and so think they care all that much. Um and so you know once they once they've done you know once they once they've done what you know once they've done some what you know once they've done some performative you know performative band performative you know performative band that they they're not going to let this that they they're not going to let this stop them picking the players that they stop them picking the players that they want for the the England team and then want for the the England team and then yeah you have this incredible situation yeah you have this incredible situation where so of the 30 England Rebel tours where so of the 30 England Rebel tours across the the two tours 12 play test across the the two tours 12 play test wicket again you know John Embry who wicket again you know John Embry who goes on he's the only player who goes on goes on he's the only player who goes on both rebel tours so he does it it twice both rebel tours so he does it it twice he's then records in crash cricket on he's then records in crash cricket on both occasions becomes assistant coach both occasions becomes assistant coach for England. A and then you have a you for England. A and then you have a situation where you said the have a situation where you said the whole selection panel but also that you whole selection panel but also that you have a selection panel comprising susly have a selection panel comprising susly rebels who are then lecturing future rebels who are then lecturing future players on loyalty on um you know not on players on loyalty on um you know not on playing for money criticize them for playing for money criticize them for playing for money and not for the badge playing for money and not for the badge and stuff in the context of the the rise and stuff in the context of the the rise of T20 leagues and and stuff. Um so it's of T20 leagues and and stuff. Um so it's it's it is it is incredible actually. it's it is it is incredible actually. Yeah. how how toleranting are and and Yeah. how how toleranting are and and Australia as well you know this your Australia as well you know this your chairman of selection is Trevor Hans he chairman of selection is Trevor Hans he was went the rebel tours as well and you was went the rebel tours as well and you know players all really return and know players all really return and everything is kind of you know is fine everything is kind of you know is fine for them whereas yeah there's there's for them whereas yeah there's there's huge differences whereas for yeah guys huge differences whereas for yeah guys wing Caribbean it it is life ruining for wing Caribbean it it is life ruining for all of them because they're completely all of them because they're completely ostracized um this is pretty bleak stuff ostracized um this is pretty bleak stuff in terms of it's very much a different in terms of it's very much a different rule for for for different people rule for for for different people frankly frankly frankly it's also sad how all of the like it's also sad how all of the like geopolitics takes so many prisoners geopolitics takes so many prisoners here. Like I imagine if Barry Richards here. Like I imagine if Barry Richards was a musician or a guitarist or Graham was a musician or a guitarist or Graham Pollock was an author, they would still Pollock was an author, they would still be flourishing and doing their thing. be flourishing and doing their thing. But these guys because they're playing a But these guys because they're playing a team sport and because um u you know team sport and because um u you know that that sport is under a board that that that sport is under a board that has a monopsiny on the sport. They have has a monopsiny on the sport. They have no options. Um you know they're kind of no options. Um you know they're kind of screwed forever. They're victimized by screwed forever. They're victimized by that forever. Of course, they make a that forever. Of course, they make a fair bit of money playing county cricket fair bit of money playing county cricket and all of that, but they don't have the and all of that, but they don't have the careers. And as you point out in your careers. And as you point out in your book, these are not even the primary book, these are not even the primary victims. The primary victims are all victims. The primary victims are all those black and colored cricketers who those black and colored cricketers who never got a chance in the first place. never got a chance in the first place. And I mean, they are the real unseen. And I mean, they are the real unseen. They are the ones u um whose names we do They are the ones u um whose names we do not know. When I look at cricket, you not know. When I look at cricket, you know that quip that you made about the know that quip that you made about the golden age where you speak about the golden age where you speak about the 1910s, 1920s and you say the imperial 1910s, 1920s and you say the imperial cricket conference was more imper cricket conference was more imper imperial than cricket. It would seem imperial than cricket. It would seem that in certain ways that carries that in certain ways that carries through to the day in the sense that the through to the day in the sense that the countries that play cricket today are countries that play cricket today are pretty much countries that were once pretty much countries that were once part of the British Empire. We got the part of the British Empire. We got the game from them. Uh you know we inherited game from them. Uh you know we inherited that sense of values right down to the that sense of values right down to the point of you know your batsmen tend to point of you know your batsmen tend to be more upper class and your bowlers be more upper class and your bowlers tend to be more working man. in the tend to be more working man. in the classic Gawaskar versus Capilv kind of classic Gawaskar versus Capilv kind of uh uh dichotomy and only recently uh uh dichotomy and only recently perhaps in the last 20 25 years that's perhaps in the last 20 25 years that's kind of be begun to change but cricket kind of be begun to change but cricket still is an imperial sport and not a still is an imperial sport and not a global sport because it is only played global sport because it is only played in these handful of countries and it in these handful of countries and it wasn't always thus you know the USA wasn't always thus you know the USA played Canada once Argentina had had a played Canada once Argentina had had a flourishing cricketing culture as you flourishing cricketing culture as you pointed out so you know what could the pointed out so you know what could the counterfactual have been you know counterfactual have been you know because with the benefit of hindsight because with the benefit of hindsight everything that happened in history everything that happened in history seems inevitable. But what could the seems inevitable. But what could the counterfactual have been? Could it have counterfactual have been? Could it have been a global sport? Can it be a global been a global sport? Can it be a global sport today? Or uh you know, is it just sport today? Or uh you know, is it just the few of us tragic fans in this the few of us tragic fans in this handful of countries who think of it as handful of countries who think of it as a global sport, but it's not really. a global sport, but it's not really. So the footprint of cricket is was not So the footprint of cricket is was not inevitable. I completely agree. Like inevitable. I completely agree. Like there are moments that things could have there are moments that things could have been a more global game. Remember been a more global game. Remember cricket in America before the civil war cricket in America before the civil war is the most popular game in America. you is the most popular game in America. you know, Abraham Lincoln goes to a game and know, Abraham Lincoln goes to a game and everything. Um, and then we have and everything. Um, and then we have and then it retreats after the Civil War, then it retreats after the Civil War, but in Philadelphia, it's still really but in Philadelphia, it's still really really vibrant. Um, they have have um really vibrant. Um, they have have um Barty King, who's a sort of Sydney Barty King, who's a sort of Sydney Barnes type type of bowler and he's seen Barnes type type of bowler and he's seen as, you know, about 1900s, you know, as, you know, about 1900s, you know, many people think he's the best bowler many people think he's the best bowler in the whole world. They go on a number in the whole world. They go on a number of tours. England are very, very of tours. England are very, very competitive. Um, and so that is, so 1909 competitive. Um, and so that is, so 1909 for me is a big slide doors moment. So for me is a big slide doors moment. So what what happens? Well, if you get you what what happens? Well, if you get you get US and Argentina, um I'm pretty sure get US and Argentina, um I'm pretty sure you then get Canada fairly soon you then get Canada fairly soon afterwards because cricket is pretty is afterwards because cricket is pretty is pretty strong in Canada as well. And and pretty strong in Canada as well. And and clearly if America if if America in it clearly if America if if America in it that will make things so much easier in that will make things so much easier in in Canada. um you then in Canada. um you then potentially actually because you have potentially actually because you have more countries so you're not you're not more countries so you're not you're not like you need to play test if because like you need to play test if because you have more countries you then make it you have more countries you then make it easier to have other countries because easier to have other countries because um it's it then wouldn't be like you um it's it then wouldn't be like you play test cricket you'd then play play test cricket you'd then play Australia and England straight away. So Australia and England straight away. So then might might mean that who knows then might might mean that who knows where Sydney's Indian New Zealand who where Sydney's Indian New Zealand who who all get to status in the mid mid20s who all get to status in the mid mid20s they could get to status they could have they could get to status they could have got to status earlier or if they get it got to status earlier or if they get it at the same time then you have a more at the same time then you have a more suddenly you know you get those three as suddenly you know you get those three as well u and then suddenly you have and well u and then suddenly you have and you have Canada US Argentina you have you have Canada US Argentina you have nine p you have nine by 1930 you have nine p you have nine by 1930 you have nine countries nine test playing nine countries nine test playing countries already uh and then you you countries already uh and then you you acquire the at least the ones you acquire the at least the ones you acquire already uh that that did that acquire already uh that that did that cricket did in fact acquire but you cricket did in fact acquire but you suspect if a game is you know I don't suspect if a game is you know I don't think the counterfactuals are cricket is think the counterfactuals are cricket is like the number one game in America but like the number one game in America but counteract if cricket is like a number counteract if cricket is like a number well established number six sport six well established number six sport six seven sport in America which I think is seven sport in America which I think is a plausible counterfactual that's still a plausible counterfactual that's still very you know that is a still a very very you know that is a still a very serious sport in America that's America serious sport in America that's America producing a very solid and frankly you producing a very solid and frankly you know America is so big that even if know America is so big that even if Philadelphia remains the cradle of Philadelphia remains the cradle of cricket and and this that's that in cricket and and this that's that in itself is you know you Philadelphia you itself is you know you Philadelphia you compared to New Zealand or whatever you compared to New Zealand or whatever you you can easily produce a pretty good you can easily produce a pretty good cricket team from Philadelphia alone and cricket team from Philadelphia alone and it would have I'm sure with a national it would have I'm sure with a national team of sort of spread out there. Um and team of sort of spread out there. Um and I think just the kind of cultural cash I think just the kind of cultural cash that you get by virtue of it being that you get by virtue of it being pretty big in America brings that brings pretty big in America brings that brings more as well. But you also if you had more as well. But you also if you had this side in DS I think you also get a this side in DS I think you also get a normalization of of the the laws of the normalization of of the the laws of the game because remember how um we have all game because remember how um we have all these anomalies where you have you know these anomalies where you have you know different overs in different countries different overs in different countries and and things like that. I suspect with and and things like that. I suspect with with America there might have been more with America there might have been more of an attempt to properly kind of codify of an attempt to properly kind of codify this thing earlier um and so make a test this thing earlier um and so make a test m you know not have you know three day m you know not have you know three day test matches and then timeless test the test matches and then timeless test the following test. So, so maybe you get a following test. So, so maybe you get a slightly more coherently run run game. slightly more coherently run run game. And in terms of where we are now, well, And in terms of where we are now, well, I think T20 still happens and stuff. So, I think T20 still happens and stuff. So, I'm not but but you have Yeah, you have I'm not but but you have Yeah, you have more countries playing it. You have more more countries playing it. You have more tools. I think also you know you look at tools. I think also you know you look at actually the big big thing as you look actually the big big thing as you look at American sports they all have such a at American sports they all have such a structure and you look at you know the structure and you look at you know the history of test at the bilateral games history of test at the bilateral games you know again we talked we talked a lot you know again we talked we talked a lot earlier about trying to take a step back earlier about trying to take a step back suddenly like how's this thing look in suddenly like how's this thing look in comparison when you talk to American comparison when you talk to American they they just the conception of playing they they just the conception of playing a a test a bilateral series without a a a test a bilateral series without a reward other than winning or losing for reward other than winning or losing for what happens just makes no sense you what happens just makes no sense you know the the notion of playing you know know the the notion of playing you know you're 3-0 down. Why do you play two you're 3-0 down. Why do you play two more test matches and stuff as a more test matches and stuff as a perennial Clash of England when they go perennial Clash of England when they go on these Ashes tours of course um so I on these Ashes tours of course um so I suspect you probably get a sort of test suspect you probably get a sort of test championship or even a divisional championship or even a divisional structure a lot earlier remember you structure a lot earlier remember you know I think Pakistan in the 60s were know I think Pakistan in the 60s were first you know muting a divisional first you know muting a divisional structure and stuff um you might you structure and stuff um you might you might since you get the Netherlands might since you get the Netherlands where there's uh you could have got them where there's uh you could have got them potentially 5060s you Denmark you could potentially 5060s you Denmark you could have had you know divisions and stuff have had you know divisions and stuff more structure so you could have had more structure so you could have had quite a different sport um obviously for quite a different sport um obviously for as as a cricket journalist some great as as a cricket journalist some great away trips most importantly of all as away trips most importantly of all as well. well. well. Yeah. And also if there were more Yeah. And also if there were more countries there'd be more competition countries there'd be more competition there would be more pressure to perform there would be more pressure to perform and there would be more reform. I I you and there would be more reform. I I you know something like the professionals know something like the professionals versus amateurs saying or West Indies versus amateurs saying or West Indies not having a black captain sooner would not having a black captain sooner would just get sorted out sooner because hey just get sorted out sooner because hey you you want to compete at the end of you you want to compete at the end of the day and uh it's not just uh two or the day and uh it's not just uh two or three other uh sort of countries uh three other uh sort of countries uh playing the game. Uh let's take a quick playing the game. Uh let's take a quick break and let's continue this uh break and let's continue this uh conversation on the other side. Have you always wanted to be a writer Have you always wanted to be a writer but never quite gotten down to it? Well, but never quite gotten down to it? Well, I'd love to help you. Since April 2020, I'd love to help you. Since April 2020, I've enjoyed teaching 27 cohorts of my I've enjoyed teaching 27 cohorts of my online course, The Art of Clear Writing, online course, The Art of Clear Writing, and an online community has now sprung and an online community has now sprung up of all my past students. We have up of all my past students. We have workshops, a newsletter to showcase the workshops, a newsletter to showcase the work of students, and vibrant community work of students, and vibrant community interaction. In the course itself, interaction. In the course itself, through four webinars spread over four through four webinars spread over four weekends, I share all I know about the weekends, I share all I know about the craft and practice of clear writing. craft and practice of clear writing. There are many exercises, much There are many exercises, much interaction, and a lovely and lively interaction, and a lovely and lively community at the end of it. The course community at the end of it. The course cost Rs 10,000 plus GST or about $150. cost Rs 10,000 plus GST or about $150. If you're interested, head on over to If you're interested, head on over to register at indiaunut.com/clearwriting. register at indiaunut.com/clearwriting. That's india uncut.com/clearwriting. That's india uncut.com/clearwriting. Being a good writer doesn't require Being a good writer doesn't require God-given talent, just a willingness to God-given talent, just a willingness to work hard and a clear idea of what you work hard and a clear idea of what you need to do to refine your skills. I can need to do to refine your skills. I can help you. Welcome back to the scene and the Welcome back to the scene and the unseen. I'm still chatting with Tim unseen. I'm still chatting with Tim Bigmore about uh his magnificent writing Bigmore about uh his magnificent writing on cricket, particularly his latest book on cricket, particularly his latest book on the history of test cricket. You on the history of test cricket. You know, one of the uh sort of the things I know, one of the uh sort of the things I liked about this book is all the sort of liked about this book is all the sort of human stories that are in it, which also human stories that are in it, which also give us a sense of individual give us a sense of individual idiosyncrasies and why people play the idiosyncrasies and why people play the way they are or do the things they do. way they are or do the things they do. And I was in fact struck there by um you And I was in fact struck there by um you know all your detailed uh sort of know all your detailed uh sort of descriptions of how uh you know descriptions of how uh you know different players styles were shaped by different players styles were shaped by circumstances. You talk of a Everton circumstances. You talk of a Everton weeks, you would play with a tape ball. weeks, you would play with a tape ball. So, he'd learned to keep the ball down So, he'd learned to keep the ball down and play along the ground. I don't and play along the ground. I don't remember if your book mentions it, but remember if your book mentions it, but Sunil Gawaskkar has a similar story Sunil Gawaskkar has a similar story where he would play in the gullies where he would play in the gullies outside his house and the aunties would outside his house and the aunties would get mad if he broke the windows. So, get mad if he broke the windows. So, he'd be along the ground as well. You he'd be along the ground as well. You know, Gary Soers had his high back lift know, Gary Soers had his high back lift and played so much on the back foot and played so much on the back foot because he played beach cricket with the because he played beach cricket with the tennis ball. Similarly, Brian Lara tennis ball. Similarly, Brian Lara played softball cricket with the tennis played softball cricket with the tennis ball. So that uh uh you know helped him ball. So that uh uh you know helped him play spin really well as well as he did play spin really well as well as he did you speak about how both Hobbes and you speak about how both Hobbes and Hutton could actually split their Hutton could actually split their careers into two parts you know on careers into two parts you know on either side of World War I in Hobbs's either side of World War I in Hobbs's case and World War II in Hutton's case case and World War II in Hutton's case because they played differently because they played differently depending on the circumstances and you depending on the circumstances and you know you have all of these different know you have all of these different individual kinds of techniques coming up individual kinds of techniques coming up because of circumstances and I was sort because of circumstances and I was sort of struck by how little we know even of struck by how little we know even today about what is optimal and what today about what is optimal and what really works like you mentioned really works like you mentioned Bradman's rotary method you know where Bradman's rotary method you know where uh his bat doesn't come down in a uh his bat doesn't come down in a straight line but it's almost u uh uh straight line but it's almost u uh uh you know at that unusual angle towards you know at that unusual angle towards Gully and he was in fact told once that Gully and he was in fact told once that when you come to England you'll have to when you come to England you'll have to learn to play with a straight bat and of learn to play with a straight bat and of course you know he had to do no such course you know he had to do no such thing and as you point out that did not thing and as you point out that did not lead to his success did not lead to a lead to his success did not lead to a re-evaluation of technique because decad re-evaluation of technique because decad later when Steve Smith comes along and later when Steve Smith comes along and starts doing crazy things or starts starts doing crazy things or starts doing unusual things. Um you know people doing unusual things. Um you know people say the exact same things about him. I say the exact same things about him. I think you've quoted uh you know Justin think you've quoted uh you know Justin Langanger telling the then captain Langanger telling the then captain Paunting that hey this kid is never Paunting that hey this kid is never going to play test cricket and you know going to play test cricket and you know uh look what kind of happens. So you uh look what kind of happens. So you know and and given that your other books know and and given that your other books also uh are about uh you know cricket's also uh are about uh you know cricket's embrace of modern ways of thinking in embrace of modern ways of thinking in terms of technology and data and all of terms of technology and data and all of that give me a sense of the evolution of that give me a sense of the evolution of understanding of how people uh do the understanding of how people uh do the things that they do. Like one of the things that they do. Like one of the things that for example strikes me about things that for example strikes me about another sport I love and follow deeply another sport I love and follow deeply which is chess is that there is an which is chess is that there is an orthodox orthodox orthodox way of thinking about the game and that way of thinking about the game and that way is broadly correct in terms of way is broadly correct in terms of giving initiative and space the value giving initiative and space the value that they deserve. that it actually gets that they deserve. that it actually gets a balance between them slightly wrong. a balance between them slightly wrong. As we discovered when Alpha Zero came As we discovered when Alpha Zero came and uh pretty much knocked the pants of and uh pretty much knocked the pants of the existing best engines in the world the existing best engines in the world at that time which were already way at that time which were already way better than the best human players and better than the best human players and then you could get into that and realize then you could get into that and realize that okay this is uh in terms of that okay this is uh in terms of knowledge it came as far as we know but knowledge it came as far as we know but then it went further. So now we have to then it went further. So now we have to re-evaluate what we know about the game. re-evaluate what we know about the game. So has there been uh a similar evolution So has there been uh a similar evolution in terms of thinking about cricket in terms of thinking about cricket technique and the way we play like technique and the way we play like earlier of course we spoke about you earlier of course we spoke about you know Grace being the first person to go know Grace being the first person to go on the back foot and the front foot at on the back foot and the front foot at the same time. Ranji playing on the on the same time. Ranji playing on the on side. Uh give me a sense of the side. Uh give me a sense of the evolutions of technique as it were and I evolutions of technique as it were and I just mentioned batting technique here just mentioned batting technique here but you know feel free to bring bowling but you know feel free to bring bowling into it as well. You have a couple of into it as well. You have a couple of great chapters on uh reverse swing and great chapters on uh reverse swing and so on. So give me a sense of uh how an so on. So give me a sense of uh how an understanding of technique has evolved understanding of technique has evolved through the years because it seems to me through the years because it seems to me that while there is an evolution, it can that while there is an evolution, it can happen at a glacial pace which is why uh happen at a glacial pace which is why uh the way Bradman played would not be the way Bradman played would not be considered orthodox or even acceptable considered orthodox or even acceptable even today. No, I think it's a very it gets to a few No, I think it's a very it gets to a few different strands. I think one of which different strands. I think one of which is how England is how England there's a kind of fetishization of the there's a kind of fetishization of the orthodox and you know being correct orthodox and you know being correct inverted commas more so than in other inverted commas more so than in other countries which is why the English countries which is why the English cricket culture traditionally has not cricket culture traditionally has not lent itself to to difference you know lent itself to to difference you know look at um if lassis moling or jasper look at um if lassis moling or jasper brim you know had come through the brim you know had come through the English system people you know all the English system people you know all the coach I talked to say under 13 someone coach I talked to say under 13 someone said you cannot bowl like that you know said you cannot bowl like that you know what are you doing you know you're what are you doing you know you're answer is all wrong. You're, you know, answer is all wrong. You're, you know, why is your arm so low when you bowl and why is your arm so low when you bowl and everything? Um so there's a real um everything? Um so there's a real um there is a bit of a sense I think there is a bit of a sense I think historically you know most historically you know most innovations have come from outside innovations have come from outside England for whatever I I think I think England for whatever I I think I think this this sort of conservatism this this this sort of conservatism this reverence of you know what people say reverence of you know what people say the MC the co the coaching manual MCC the MC the co the coaching manual MCC coaching manual um is is a strand of coaching manual um is is a strand of that and and yeah so you had you need that and and yeah so you had you need you know Ranji was was one obviously who you know Ranji was was one obviously who challenged this um you know the the kind challenged this um you know the the kind of the correct way of of playing if you of the correct way of of playing if you like um and you do so in terms of of like um and you do so in terms of of batting so let's go back so you talk batting so let's go back so you talk with WG Grace DG Grace is a pioneer in with WG Grace DG Grace is a pioneer in terms of being a allround um you know terms of being a allround um you know front and back foot player um and front and back foot player um and actually just reacting what he does I actually just reacting what he does I think think think he reacts to the length of the ball and he reacts to the length of the ball and uses the length of the ball to work out uses the length of the ball to work out where is the best place for him to hit where is the best place for him to hit the ball in terms of you know if it's if the ball in terms of you know if it's if it's a um fuller ball he bowls he he he it's a um fuller ball he bowls he he he he will be more on the front foot if he will be more on the front foot if it's shorter ball on the on the back it's shorter ball on the on the back foot um as opposed to just being that foot um as opposed to just being that I'm a front foot player and then not I'm a front foot player and then not really adjusting to where it is. So really adjusting to where it is. So that's that's a kind of revolutionary that's that's a kind of revolutionary step. What Ranji does is it's the leg step. What Ranji does is it's the leg side, but it's also he some people hit side, but it's also he some people hit on the leg side, but it's basically if on the leg side, but it's basically if the the taboo is really hitting a ball the the taboo is really hitting a ball from the offside to the leg side. And from the offside to the leg side. And this is the juice of the leg the leg this is the juice of the leg the leg glance is he he will be flicking balls glance is he he will be flicking balls from off stump or even just outside off from off stump or even just outside off stump to the on side to find leg and stump to the on side to find leg and suddenly so it's he's kind of reimagined suddenly so it's he's kind of reimagined the geography of the cricket field the geography of the cricket field there. And obviously that means you know there. And obviously that means you know people people are going to complain it's people people are going to complain it's not fair blah blah blah but you need to not fair blah blah blah but you need to have you need to spread your your field have you need to spread your your field around a lot more which then means it's around a lot more which then means it's hard to get him out because if he hits a hard to get him out because if he hits a ball in the air the offside you're going ball in the air the offside you're going to have fewer fielders there because you to have fewer fielders there because you need to cover the leg the leg side as need to cover the leg the leg side as well. So of course what with a great well. So of course what with a great backing like that you you one of the backing like that you you one of the interesting things is the more pace you interesting things is the more pace you can hit the ball as a batsman you are can hit the ball as a batsman you are also reducing the the penalty you have also reducing the the penalty you have to pay for when you make a mistake to pay for when you make a mistake because they have to set a field because they have to set a field accordingly whereas if you're more accordingly whereas if you're more limited as a batsman actually means limited as a batsman actually means they're going to have more slips. So they're going to have more slips. So when you make an edge there's more when you make an edge there's more chance of that being being fatal for chance of that being being fatal for you. Um so so Randy uh is is a a pioneer you. Um so so Randy uh is is a a pioneer there. Bramley is a very historically a there. Bramley is a very historically a very hard batsman to place I think very hard batsman to place I think because he has this method that is because he has this method that is unbelievably successful and yet it's not unbelievably successful and yet it's not really copied which is is kind of really copied which is is kind of perplexing. So I remember I was asked to perplexing. So I remember I was asked to pick a most significant test team of all pick a most significant test team of all time obviously which is not the same as time obviously which is not the same as best but I didn't have Batman in I had best but I didn't have Batman in I had Rang at number three instead and people Rang at number three instead and people are attacking me. But I I would say are attacking me. But I I would say actually Rani changes the game. Like actually Rani changes the game. Like when you watch a cricket game today, you when you watch a cricket game today, you you feel Rani's impact when you watch a you feel Rani's impact when you watch a test cricket game. I I'm not sure you test cricket game. I I'm not sure you feel Bradman's impact, which is crazy to feel Bradman's impact, which is crazy to say about someone who statistically is, say about someone who statistically is, you know, maybe one of the biggest you know, maybe one of the biggest outliers in any sport. Not just he's outliers in any sport. Not just he's obviously the biggest outline cricket, obviously the biggest outline cricket, but maybe the biggest outline in any but maybe the biggest outline in any sport, full stop. But there's this weird sport, full stop. But there's this weird sense of how much does he actually sense of how much does he actually change change the game? Um change change the game? Um and you there's a histo yeah and then and you there's a histo yeah and then historically there is a trend I think historically there is a trend I think the very best two interesting other the very best two interesting other aspects where the the very best batters aspects where the the very best batters tend to be more back foot players than tend to be more back foot players than front foot. So with with Garfield so he front foot. So with with Garfield so he or he they did say that that the back or he they did say that that the back was his default. Obviously he could play was his default. Obviously he could play on the front. He did play the front, but on the front. He did play the front, but I think because of playing the ball I think because of playing the ball late, the the back is slightly uh and late, the the back is slightly uh and you also have a have a a trend where you also have a have a a trend where most great batters historically have most great batters historically have been average height or slightly shorter been average height or slightly shorter than average. So I think of the what I than average. So I think of the what I as a kind of catch all for for great a as a kind of catch all for for great a test bats is 5,000 runs and average test bats is 5,000 runs and average above 50 and I think only four of the 28 above 50 and I think only four of the 28 members of that club are 6 foot or more. members of that club are 6 foot or more. So that is an interesting trend his So that is an interesting trend his historically. Um and I I think part of historically. Um and I I think part of that is in terms of the lengths you you that is in terms of the lengths you you bowl. I think as a sort of to to to bowl. I think as a sort of to to to shorter players actually there can be shorter players actually there can be more margin for error in their legs more margin for error in their legs because because they can you know if because because they can you know if you're if you're slightly short that's you're if you're slightly short that's easier for them to to actually um to to easier for them to to actually um to to to hook or pull potentially. Um, I think to hook or pull potentially. Um, I think that there's there's something there and that there's there's something there and and potentially a balance thing and also and potentially a balance thing and also actually just a kind of a function of actually just a kind of a function of practice as well is that if you're practice as well is that if you're shorter, you're going to have much more shorter, you're going to have much more practice over your lifetime of facing practice over your lifetime of facing short balls and bouncers. Uh, because it short balls and bouncers. Uh, because it means, you know, if you're 5'5 actually means, you know, if you're 5'5 actually when you're a kid, people can still bowl when you're a kid, people can still bowl short to you. Whereas if you're if short to you. Whereas if you're if you're six six foot plus, you won't face you're six six foot plus, you won't face any short bowling until you get into any short bowling until you get into adults cricket. But I think that's a big adults cricket. But I think that's a big function as well actually where you know function as well actually where you know think of Sax dog or whoever some of the think of Sax dog or whoever some of the the the shorter batsmen are very good the the shorter batsmen are very good against fast bowling and short bowling I against fast bowling and short bowling I think I think the practice element is is think I think the practice element is is important there so there's a few and important there so there's a few and maybe a balance sense as well and then I maybe a balance sense as well and then I suppose you have impact of one day suppose you have impact of one day cricket um and I think one day cricket cricket um and I think one day cricket really from probably winning the world really from probably winning the world cup in 1983 it begins to be a a kind of cup in 1983 it begins to be a a kind of a proper which is the third world cup a proper which is the third world cup but I think only after that does it but I think only after that does it become from a really proper become from a really proper game in terms of the way it's it's game in terms of the way it's it's analyzed and how seriously people are analyzed and how seriously people are taking it. And really probably early in taking it. And really probably early in the early '9s do you begin, you know, the early '9s do you begin, you know, more more specialization in terms of, more more specialization in terms of, you know, more one day special, which is you know, more one day special, which is often used kind of a negative term often used kind of a negative term actually, someone that, you know, it actually, someone that, you know, it sort of implied they're not good up test sort of implied they're not good up test cricket rather than being, oh wow, cricket rather than being, oh wow, they're really good at one day cricket. they're really good at one day cricket. Um but that I think so the Australian so Um but that I think so the Australian so you see an interesting trend where you you see an interesting trend where you see Sri Lanka win the World Cup in 1996 see Sri Lanka win the World Cup in 1996 and then they bring in those that kind and then they bring in those that kind of tactic the kind of more aggressive of tactic the kind of more aggressive expansive batsmanship they then bring expansive batsmanship they then bring that into test cricket um and then the that into test cricket um and then the overall 1988 there's a real seminal test overall 1988 there's a real seminal test when they beat England by 10 wickets and when they beat England by 10 wickets and this is Mur's Mur's test you get 16 this is Mur's Mur's test you get 16 wickets is unbelievable feat but from a wickets is unbelievable feat but from a batting point of view this is actually a batting point of view this is actually a fascinating test as well which is fascinating test as well which is basically in their first innings basically in their first innings Um, England get 445 and everyone thinks Um, England get 445 and everyone thinks that this game is safe. Sri Lanka bat that this game is safe. Sri Lanka bat for the same amount of time but get a for the same amount of time but get a lead of 146 because they're scoring so lead of 146 because they're scoring so much quicker and they're buying much quicker and they're buying themselves time in the game. So in the themselves time in the game. So in the 90s you begin to get one day tactics 90s you begin to get one day tactics important to test cricket. One of which important to test cricket. One of which actually is um we think about boundaries actually is um we think about boundaries but I think a very significant one is but I think a very significant one is what happens on non-boundary balls. So what happens on non-boundary balls. So you actually get more more intense you actually get more more intense running running between the wickets running running between the wickets which Australia are very good at. Um and which Australia are very good at. Um and Australia under the sort of Steve War Australia under the sort of Steve War team from 99 they they do instigate a team from 99 they they do instigate a leap forward in run rates not just for leap forward in run rates not just for them but it's actually mimicked around them but it's actually mimicked around the world. Um and and run and the kind the world. Um and and run and the kind of intensity which they run between the of intensity which they run between the wickets is part of that. Um, you also wickets is part of that. Um, you also then subsequently begin to get, you then subsequently begin to get, you know, more, you know, scoops and and so know, more, you know, scoops and and so on used uh in in test matches more and on used uh in in test matches more and you get this trade-off where um the you get this trade-off where um the the taboo of getting out to this shot is the taboo of getting out to this shot is less and suddenly like well you can get less and suddenly like well you can get out if you play a cover drive or out if you play a cover drive or whatever and just as you can get out whatever and just as you can get out reverse sweeping or whatever. Um but but reverse sweeping or whatever. Um but but actually when you look at these things actually when you look at these things the um we always like to you know say the um we always like to you know say T20 or whatever has caused these new T20 or whatever has caused these new shots. Uh it's clearly caused them to shots. Uh it's clearly caused them to it's popularized them and stuff but when it's popularized them and stuff but when it's invented them I'm often not so it's invented them I'm often not so sure. So you know I in my research found sure. So you know I in my research found with the Liry Constantine the great was with the Liry Constantine the great was in his around 1930s he was playing you in his around 1930s he was playing you know basically what we now call a know basically what we now call a rampant laws in 1939. um reverse sweep rampant laws in 1939. um reverse sweep sweep. Uh you the Muhammad brothers were sweep. Uh you the Muhammad brothers were playing at you 1950s, 1960s. So you you playing at you 1950s, 1960s. So you you do um yeah, these shots that are thought do um yeah, these shots that are thought of as very modern actually often have of as very modern actually often have much longer histories than we when we much longer histories than we when we realize, but but the difference is how realize, but but the difference is how common they are they are now. Um so in common they are they are now. Um so in terms of of batting that would be and I terms of of batting that would be and I suppose helmets is is the big other suppose helmets is is the big other factor, right? Um because that that also factor, right? Um because that that also makes it easy to play on the the front makes it easy to play on the the front foot. So we talked about historically foot. So we talked about historically most players have f have most great most players have f have most great great players have been more bat foot. I great players have been more bat foot. I think playing on the front foot there's think playing on the front foot there's just the physical the physical threat of just the physical the physical threat of of being on the front foot with helmets of being on the front foot with helmets is a little bit less than than without. is a little bit less than than without. So that that has been a factor as well So that that has been a factor as well and maybe in terms of and maybe in terms of encourage yeah actually probably encourage yeah actually probably encouraging players to to take on the encouraging players to to take on the short ball a little bit more as well. short ball a little bit more as well. and and obviously without uncover and and obviously without uncover wickets as well there's a bit more um wickets as well there's a bit more um you know sort of trust that people can you know sort of trust that people can have in in the bounce in general and so have in in the bounce in general and so on you know Don Bradman famously you on you know Don Bradman famously you know people pulled through his records know people pulled through his records you know on uncovered wickets his record you know on uncovered wickets his record was was pretty average um and uh so was was pretty average um and uh so there was you know a sense of this is a there was you know a sense of this is a completely different game well that's completely different game well that's that's become less so uh but clearly that's become less so uh but clearly you've had actually just as you've had you've had actually just as you've had the the rise rise of Asia in test the the rise rise of Asia in test cricket you've just had the amount of cricket you've just had the amount of spin that's bold has gone up a lot spin that's bold has gone up a lot historically. So playing, you know, how historically. So playing, you know, how well you play spin has been become much well you play spin has been become much more essential to determining who is a more essential to determining who is a great as as a batsman. Um does that work great as as a batsman. Um does that work as a bit of an overview of batting? as a bit of an overview of batting? That's a great overview sort of That's a great overview sort of followup. You know, in your book you followup. You know, in your book you also document how scoring rates have also document how scoring rates have changed through the decades and for changed through the decades and for different reasons and and how much of it different reasons and and how much of it is really shaped by circumstance. For is really shaped by circumstance. For example, as you point out in the 1910s example, as you point out in the 1910s before when pitches are still uncovered, before when pitches are still uncovered, it makes sense to bat aggressively it makes sense to bat aggressively because you're going to get out sooner because you're going to get out sooner or later to a ball that misbehaves. So, or later to a ball that misbehaves. So, make as many runs as you can. So, you make as many runs as you can. So, you increase variance there because that increase variance there because that makes sense in that situation. makes sense in that situation. Similarly, in you know, you've Similarly, in you know, you've documented how Pakistan and India when documented how Pakistan and India when they play each other especially are they play each other especially are incredibly dar the run rates are really incredibly dar the run rates are really slow. you have many more draws than you slow. you have many more draws than you would expect and uh uh you know and both would expect and uh uh you know and both teams are pretty weak early on uh in teams are pretty weak early on uh in India certainly it is a case that so India certainly it is a case that so many of our batsmen all the way up to many of our batsmen all the way up to the '90s would have this mindset of the '90s would have this mindset of going for individual glory and going for individual glory and individual landmarks because they assume individual landmarks because they assume that the team is going to lose anyway that the team is going to lose anyway and that shapes the way that you play and that shapes the way that you play and you also pointed out that hey Sri and you also pointed out that hey Sri Lanka when they came into test cricket Lanka when they came into test cricket were actually pretty damn aggressive and were actually pretty damn aggressive and the reason for that is that they played the reason for that is that they played one day cricket first so they were used one day cricket first so they were used to those sort sort of rhythms of one day to those sort sort of rhythms of one day cricket and aggression came more cricket and aggression came more naturally to them and you have naturally to them and you have circumstances changing all of this and circumstances changing all of this and then you have that deliberate attempt then you have that deliberate attempt which comes in say at the end of the which comes in say at the end of the 1990s of course Sri Lanka you know used 1990s of course Sri Lanka you know used that tactic of Kalu and Jurya at the top that tactic of Kalu and Jurya at the top to win the 96 World Cup but then uh you to win the 96 World Cup but then uh you have John Buchanan and Steve W you know have John Buchanan and Steve W you know deciding that hey let's bat faster and deciding that hey let's bat faster and lift runs because that will give our lift runs because that will give our bowlers more time to take 20 wickets and bowlers more time to take 20 wickets and you have uh you know run rates going up you have uh you know run rates going up from 3 and over to 4 and over from 3 and over to 4 and over practically in that era of the early practically in that era of the early 2000s. So give me a sense of how the 2000s. So give me a sense of how the thinking about this has evolved because thinking about this has evolved because you know I remember when T20 came about. you know I remember when T20 came about. I was right. I I wrote a piece for I was right. I I wrote a piece for cricket and for circa 2008 before it cricket and for circa 2008 before it began talking about many of the things began talking about many of the things that it would do and I'm kind of proud that it would do and I'm kind of proud that I got some of them right and one of that I got some of them right and one of them certainly was that the value the them certainly was that the value the way people look at the value of way people look at the value of aggression would change like when people aggression would change like when people first began playing one day cricket in first began playing one day cricket in the 1970s they adopted almost a test the 1970s they adopted almost a test match template to it which is how India match template to it which is how India makes 136 with Gawaskkar making 36 not makes 136 with Gawaskkar making 36 not out because they haven't figured out out because they haven't figured out that you have to play differently and that you have to play differently and that takes a long long time to change that takes a long long time to change and my criticism of early T20 cricket and my criticism of early T20 cricket which persists with many teams to this which persists with many teams to this day is that you've taken the ODI day is that you've taken the ODI template to it where you slog early you template to it where you slog early you consolidate you slog at the end and the consolidate you slog at the end and the case that I made was that look in um in case that I made was that look in um in one day cricket you have 50 overs and 11 one day cricket you have 50 overs and 11 batsmen and here you have the same batsmen and here you have the same number of resources in terms of 11 number of resources in terms of 11 batsmen but you have 20 overs so the v batsmen but you have 20 overs so the v the cost of a dot ball goes up uh the the cost of a dot ball goes up uh the cost of a wicket comes down etc etc And cost of a wicket comes down etc etc And therefore the expected value I was a therefore the expected value I was a professional poker player for a while so professional poker player for a while so I use these terms the expected value of I use these terms the expected value of aggression is higher. Now what I did not aggression is higher. Now what I did not expect is that one of course I expected expect is that one of course I expected that teams will adapt to the expected that teams will adapt to the expected value of aggression being higher in T20 value of aggression being higher in T20 cricket and played more aggressively as cricket and played more aggressively as indeed West Indies did while winning the indeed West Indies did while winning the T20 World Cup where they did what I call T20 World Cup where they did what I call front loading from the very start front loading from the very start attacked all the way through but that uh attacked all the way through but that uh other teams particularly England figured other teams particularly England figured out that they had been underestimating out that they had been underestimating the expected value of aggression in one the expected value of aggression in one day cricket all along and I think that day cricket all along and I think that um a remarkable period of 5 years where um a remarkable period of 5 years where England would regularly score 300 in ODI England would regularly score 300 in ODI games um by playing much more games um by playing much more aggressively which was something earlier aggressively which was something earlier that happened only on the batting that happened only on the batting pitches of the subcontinent. that shift pitches of the subcontinent. that shift kind of took place and now recently uh I kind of took place and now recently uh I see another shift where people are see another shift where people are figuring out much as you could say figuring out much as you could say Buchanan did um in in in 2000 and FL Buchanan did um in in in 2000 and FL after that and etc etc that even the after that and etc etc that even the expected value of aggression in test expected value of aggression in test matches has been vastly underestimated matches has been vastly underestimated and when I look at what game theory and when I look at what game theory tells us about different sports in tells us about different sports in pretty much every sport the finding that pretty much every sport the finding that you get is that conventional thinking you get is that conventional thinking underestimates the value of aggression underestimates the value of aggression you know whether it is in poker where you know whether it is in poker where people fold too much and don't raise people fold too much and don't raise enough or you know whether it is in enough or you know whether it is in cricket so you've actually written cricket so you've actually written multiple books on exactly this uh uh multiple books on exactly this uh uh including cricket 2.0 and your book on including cricket 2.0 and your book on how England won the World Cup and so on how England won the World Cup and so on and so forth. So give me a sense of how and so forth. So give me a sense of how thinking on this strategic and tactical thinking on this strategic and tactical thinking uh has evolved. thinking uh has evolved. So I mean to take a step back I think So I mean to take a step back I think what what explains this phenomenon is what what explains this phenomenon is obviously the availability bias which is obviously the availability bias which is that if you do something unusual and that if you do something unusual and lose it's like what the hell are you lose it's like what the hell are you doing and you're criticized more for doing and you're criticized more for that. So in cricket I mean Mike Gatting that. So in cricket I mean Mike Gatting 1987 World Cup final classic example he 1987 World Cup final classic example he get pays a reverse switch Alan Border get pays a reverse switch Alan Border misses it gets out LBW and that is still misses it gets out LBW and that is still like you know even now almost 40 years like you know even now almost 40 years later that's still brought up again and later that's still brought up again and again as well what what the hell are you again as well what what the hell are you doing and if he's caught playing a doing and if he's caught playing a forward defensive um which has no forward defensive um which has no actually expected return if he's if he's actually expected return if he's if he's trying to block the ball and he misses trying to block the ball and he misses it so not even trying to score a run and it so not even trying to score a run and he's out you know no one's actually he's out you know no one's actually remembering that that that shot and I remembering that that that shot and I think that so that's a good example that think that so that's a good example that just shows just shows just shows the the the there is such a tendency towards there is such a tendency towards protecting yourself and I think that's protecting yourself and I think that's also true that you know I think as as also true that you know I think as as John May Kane said you know failing John May Kane said you know failing convention uh uh as John Oane says fail convention uh uh as John Oane says fail taking risks and then failing is is what taking risks and then failing is is what what what gets you fired basically um so what what gets you fired basically um so actually if you're under pressure from actually if you're under pressure from the point of view of like preserving the point of view of like preserving your place in the team it can sometimes your place in the team it can sometimes be rational to play more conservatively be rational to play more conservatively and do the kind of the done thing in and do the kind of the done thing in inverted commas because yeah if you're inverted commas because yeah if you're if or if you're as a batsman and you're if or if you're as a batsman and you're struggling and you get out playing a struggling and you get out playing a full defensive, you're you're going to full defensive, you're you're going to be criticized less if you're caught, you be criticized less if you're caught, you know, going for a six, caught on the know, going for a six, caught on the boundary or whatever in a test match. boundary or whatever in a test match. Um, Um, Um, and I think there's also in tennis in and I think there's also in tennis in sport a real sport a real if you're seen to be sort of taking the if you're seen to be sort of taking the piss, that's really really hated and piss, that's really really hated and playing an unconventional shot is seen playing an unconventional shot is seen as a way of taking the piss, even though as a way of taking the piss, even though you're just seeing as a utilitarian way you're just seeing as a utilitarian way to get from A to B to score some runs, to get from A to B to score some runs, right? Um so I think these forces all right? Um so I think these forces all combine together and there's lots of combine together and there's lots of examples actually in football shows it examples actually in football shows it really well. Um if you're behind in a really well. Um if you're behind in a match say you're you're one n down after match say you're you're one n down after 50 minutes. So the rational thing from 50 minutes. So the rational thing from the point of view of uh drawing or the point of view of uh drawing or winning that match the rational point of winning that match the rational point of view is to make your substitutions very view is to make your substitutions very decisively very early. So make it make decisively very early. So make it make attacking substitutions. That's a attacking substitutions. That's a rational thing for manager to do. But rational thing for manager to do. But why why don't they do it? Well, I think why why don't they do it? Well, I think the reason in this case is because by the reason in this case is because by playing that hand early, you actually playing that hand early, you actually you in you you actually increase the you in you you actually increase the variance at both the positive and the variance at both the positive and the negative side. So by making you're one negative side. So by making you're one nil down, so you make the series of nil down, so you make the series of substitutions, you've now got more substitutions, you've now got more chance of winning the game positive. chance of winning the game positive. You've also got more chance of losing You've also got more chance of losing three three or 4 nil. Obviously big big three three or 4 nil. Obviously big big negative. So again, imagine you're under negative. So again, imagine you're under pressure and you're playing against a pressure and you're playing against a side who's better than you. Well, you side who's better than you. Well, you might think gh, you know, if we just might think gh, you know, if we just hold out, we obviously want to get back hold out, we obviously want to get back into it, but we lose 1 nil, maybe I'll into it, but we lose 1 nil, maybe I'll keep I'll keep my job. Whereas, if we go keep I'll keep my job. Whereas, if we go all out, we lose three or 4, then the all out, we lose three or 4, then the whole crowd saying you're getting sacked whole crowd saying you're getting sacked in the morning and then you probably are in the morning and then you probably are getting sacked, right? So, these forces getting sacked, right? So, these forces all play out in a way that uh encourages all play out in a way that uh encourages a kind of regression, a kind of more a kind of regression, a kind of more more conservatism. And so cricket you more conservatism. And so cricket you know the the the ways of count the ways know the the the ways of count the ways that have been shown to counter this yet that have been shown to counter this yet T20 basically is like T20 basically is like if you lose wickets early in what is as if you lose wickets early in what is as you said a very very short game you you said a very very short game you prove the tend you know if you you lose prove the tend you know if you you lose three wickets early the tendency would three wickets early the tendency would be to you know to consolidate to take be to you know to consolidate to take your time but actually you're by doing your time but actually you're by doing that you're putting a uh you're you're that you're putting a uh you're you're lowering the the ceiling that you can lowering the the ceiling that you can reach the number of runs you can get reach the number of runs you can get which is again the which is again the If you keep on attacking as a batting If you keep on attacking as a batting team, well, there's you got more chance team, well, there's you got more chance of being bowled out for 100, which is of being bowled out for 100, which is embarrassing, humiliating. You've also embarrassing, humiliating. You've also got more chance of getting the score got more chance of getting the score that you need to to actually to win the that you need to to actually to win the game rather than get respectable in game rather than get respectable in averted commas, which is just you're averted commas, which is just you're just sleepwalking to to your your just sleepwalking to to your your defeat. Um, and so yeah, it test matches defeat. Um, and so yeah, it test matches it is interesting how this plays out. it is interesting how this plays out. you know, um I think running between the you know, um I think running between the wickets, you know, there's again there's wickets, you know, there's again there's such a thing, oh, you should never be such a thing, oh, you should never be run out. But of course, if if you all run out. But of course, if if you all run out for um if you run out a bit more run out for um if you run out a bit more in your career, but the price you pay is in your career, but the price you pay is you get, you know, 50 extra runs per run you get, you know, 50 extra runs per run uh for each run out. Well, that is, you uh for each run out. Well, that is, you know, for most players in history, that know, for most players in history, that is a trade-off that's massively in your is a trade-off that's massively in your favor because most players average less favor because most players average less than 50, for example. But but being run than 50, for example. But but being run out is seen as you the height of out is seen as you the height of superity and so on and the kind of thing superity and so on and the kind of thing that will get you really really that will get you really really attacked. So that potentially is attacked. So that potentially is something that teams have been being something that teams have been being resident for resident to do. We've seen resident for resident to do. We've seen you know um the Steves Australian were you know um the Steves Australian were yeah they were pioneers in after Sri yeah they were pioneers in after Sri Lanka but they took it to the next level Lanka but they took it to the next level in terms of of how attacking they they in terms of of how attacking they they were they were with the bat and it was were they were with the bat and it was um in a sense less risky than it seemed um in a sense less risky than it seemed from the outside because the kind of from the outside because the kind of logic there was these guys are all logic there was these guys are all playing this way in one day cricket so playing this way in one day cricket so why can't they do it in in test test why can't they do it in in test test cricket as as well you know obviously cricket as as well you know obviously there's times when the ball's doing more there's times when the ball's doing more it's more difficult but actually in it's more difficult but actually in general we we do this and then you find general we we do this and then you find that in return of course the opposing that in return of course the opposing teams go very very defensive um and it teams go very very defensive um and it means you can then score very quickly. means you can then score very quickly. So one of the things I'd looked I looked So one of the things I'd looked I looked at um Adam Gilchrist obviously he was a at um Adam Gilchrist obviously he was a yeah he was one of those players who yeah he was one of those players who does change the game you know the does change the game you know the aggressor as a wicket keeper batsman. So aggressor as a wicket keeper batsman. So in his his second test he gets a great in his his second test he gets a great one for nuts out against Pakistan to to one for nuts out against Pakistan to to to win the test and he's scoring to win the test and he's scoring basically a runner ball. So, an amazing basically a runner ball. So, an amazing innings and you would expect that that innings and you would expect that that innings was, you know, the Gilgus, you innings was, you know, the Gilgus, you know, the Gilg we know, which was know, the Gilg we know, which was basically smacking the ball to the basically smacking the ball to the boundary and out the boundary and stuff, boundary and out the boundary and stuff, but actually in that in that game, I but actually in that in that game, I think he only in that innings, I think think he only in that innings, I think he only hit 13 fours and no no sixes. he only hit 13 fours and no no sixes. So, 52 runs in boundaries, which is So, 52 runs in boundaries, which is quite a small number. And basically what quite a small number. And basically what happens is he scores a flurry of happens is he scores a flurry of boundaries early on. Pakistan then put a boundaries early on. Pakistan then put a load of sweepers on the, you know, load load of sweepers on the, you know, load of of fielders on the on the boundary on of of fielders on the on the boundary on both sides. He's able to score basically both sides. He's able to score basically a runner ball without taking any risks. a runner ball without taking any risks. And so the initial flurry of boundaries And so the initial flurry of boundaries has then created has then made Pakistan has then created has then made Pakistan go so defensive that he can then exploit go so defensive that he can then exploit that and actually he was then smart that and actually he was then smart enough to realize he could score quickly enough to realize he could score quickly without taking risk subsequently which without taking risk subsequently which shows how these tactics you know when shows how these tactics you know when you are a bit brave they can really work you are a bit brave they can really work work in your favor but again there's work in your favor but again there's always a thing of anyone under pressure. always a thing of anyone under pressure. Yeah, not all failure, you know, not all Yeah, not all failure, you know, not all failure ultimately is treated equal in failure ultimately is treated equal in in cricket. There's failures that annoy in cricket. There's failures that annoy people more. Um, and if you're seen as people more. Um, and if you're seen as is pushing the boundaries, a lot of is pushing the boundaries, a lot of people want want you to fail and kind of people want want you to fail and kind of take a certain perverse joy uh in in you take a certain perverse joy uh in in you in you failing, which is and and that in you failing, which is and and that Yeah. And so I guess England with Basil Yeah. And so I guess England with Basil are trying to to challenge that that are trying to to challenge that that thinking as well a little bit. Um, how thinking as well a little bit. Um, how successful that will be in history is is successful that will be in history is is probably for another for another day. probably for another for another day. But um yeah, there is this instinctive But um yeah, there is this instinctive conservatism in yeah, not just cricket, conservatism in yeah, not just cricket, but in in all sports. Um and I suppose but in in all sports. Um and I suppose with with bowling, you probably have a with with bowling, you probably have a little bit more leeway, but there's little bit more leeway, but there's still, you know, with new deliveries and still, you know, with new deliveries and stuff, there's still often resonance to stuff, there's still often resonance to that. We we've seen innovations in in that. We we've seen innovations in in bowling. They often come from, you know, bowling. They often come from, you know, relative from teams doing you relatively relative from teams doing you relatively badly and then seeking to find a new way badly and then seeking to find a new way out of their their their kind of out of their their their kind of problem. So I guess classic example you problem. So I guess classic example you know West Indies their fast bowling know West Indies their fast bowling their four fast bowlers and that their four fast bowlers and that actually comes out of they're playing actually comes out of they're playing India in Trinidad Indian have to yeah India in Trinidad Indian have to yeah 404 to win they they win by six wickets 404 to win they they win by six wickets they cruise there als that leads Clive Lloyd to say enough's that leads Clive Lloyd to say enough's enough let's let's go all out with with enough let's let's go all out with with pace and then that that lead that pace and then that that lead that contributes to an incredible run for contributes to an incredible run for West Indies West Indies West Indies when I read the Gilchrist example in when I read the Gilchrist example in your book. I actually thought it's a your book. I actually thought it's a perfect example to illustrate the point perfect example to illustrate the point that when you calculate the expected that when you calculate the expected value of something, you take reflexivity value of something, you take reflexivity into account. So if I try to hit a six, into account. So if I try to hit a six, the expected value is not just the expected value is not just calculated by my frequency of getting a calculated by my frequency of getting a six and my frequency of getting out, but six and my frequency of getting out, but by also the impact it has on the by also the impact it has on the opposition and how they change the way opposition and how they change the way they play. And if I succeed in hitting they play. And if I succeed in hitting that six, they could set a more that six, they could set a more defensive field. So then I can take easy defensive field. So then I can take easy singles and the whole game is a singles and the whole game is a different ball game. That's uh sort of a different ball game. That's uh sort of a fantastic insight. You know, I had fantastic insight. You know, I had Gideon Hay on the show a few years ago Gideon Hay on the show a few years ago and he was chatting about the 2016 ODI and he was chatting about the 2016 ODI World Cup and saying that what World Cup and saying that what particularly fascinated him about that particularly fascinated him about that is that the bowlers were bowling as if is that the bowlers were bowling as if they were bowling in a test match and they were bowling in a test match and the batsmen were batting as if they were the batsmen were batting as if they were batting in a T20 game. Right. And I I I batting in a T20 game. Right. And I I I found that deeply interesting. So I want found that deeply interesting. So I want you to talk about and who better than you to talk about and who better than you because you've written books about you because you've written books about all these forms. I want you to talk all these forms. I want you to talk about how the impact that each of these about how the impact that each of these forms have had on the others which is forms have had on the others which is inevitably going to be T20 on ODIs and inevitably going to be T20 on ODIs and tests and uh uh and because I would now tests and uh uh and because I would now imagine that with these different forms imagine that with these different forms the rate of learning about any of these the rate of learning about any of these games will be accelerated because you games will be accelerated because you are just getting so much action are just getting so much action happening across a variety of happening across a variety of circumstances. circumstances. circumstances. No, definitely. So I think I think yeah No, definitely. So I think I think yeah I think I talked about a little bit I think I talked about a little bit earlier. I think post 83 is when you earlier. I think post 83 is when you begin to get ODI cricket as a more begin to get ODI cricket as a more serious version of the game and serious version of the game and therefore as a version that's having an therefore as a version that's having an impact in in test matches. Um and I impact in in test matches. Um and I suppose running between the wicket and suppose running between the wicket and aggression with the bat would be the aggression with the bat would be the main examples. also see you know a long main examples. also see you know a long long run trend but the big improvements long run trend but the big improvements of of fielding athleticism that is you of of fielding athleticism that is you know ODIs and T20 both you know crucial know ODIs and T20 both you know crucial in in driving that and then of course as in in driving that and then of course as you get more short form batting in well you get more short form batting in well more batting influenced by short formats more batting influenced by short formats in test cricket you then actually begin in test cricket you then actually begin to see in return uh a bit more short to see in return uh a bit more short format bowling tactics you know more format bowling tactics you know more slower balls and cutters sometimes as a slower balls and cutters sometimes as a way of disturbing rhythm in test matches way of disturbing rhythm in test matches as a as opposed to just uh just being as a as opposed to just uh just being used in one day. So there is that that used in one day. So there is that that dynamic going on. Um and and then just dynamic going on. Um and and then just the range of shots right from the the range of shots right from the shorter formats which then feeds in and shorter formats which then feeds in and often we talked about you know expect often we talked about you know expect rate of return and stuff often you get rate of return and stuff often you get guys which are very very orthodox very guys which are very very orthodox very kind of classical in their upbringing kind of classical in their upbringing suddenly they're playing in you know T20 suddenly they're playing in you know T20 or whatever and they're so liberated and or whatever and they're so liberated and they're able to score really quickly in they're able to score really quickly in a sort of classical way and then they're a sort of classical way and then they're like oh you know maybe there is some and like oh you know maybe there is some and and then could they then do that in test and then could they then do that in test matches and you you see that more and matches and you you see that more and more. Um you've actually but you've also more. Um you've actually but you've also seen a bit the other way. I think seen a bit the other way. I think something happened recently where so something happened recently where so about you know seven eight years ago in about you know seven eight years ago in T20 there was a thing of you would use T20 there was a thing of you would use the the first over or two of an innings the the first over or two of an innings often you would bowl you know one of often you would bowl you know one of your actually one of your weaker bowlers your actually one of your weaker bowlers and you'd use it as a way to get through and you'd use it as a way to get through a potentially high-risk over you know a potentially high-risk over you know you you would bowl your fifth or your you you would bowl your fifth or your sixth bowler so not one of your sixth bowler so not one of your frontline bowlers um and the over would frontline bowlers um and the over would go for sort of five or six and it' be go for sort of five or six and it' be almost true and you'd be like oh that's almost true and you'd be like oh that's good because we haven't had damage of good because we haven't had damage of that and Actually now what's happened is that and Actually now what's happened is you've had um because because it's you've had um because because it's become so hard to contain in T20 you've become so hard to contain in T20 you've actually had a movement away from that actually had a movement away from that which actually made for pretty pretty which actually made for pretty pretty drab cricket often you now actually get drab cricket often you now actually get test match bowling um is used more in test match bowling um is used more in T20 where you get bowlers actually who T20 where you get bowlers actually who are trying to swing the ball bowling are trying to swing the ball bowling hard you know bowling full just off you hard you know bowling full just off you know having a couple of slips and really know having a couple of slips and really really trying trying to get wickets you really trying trying to get wickets you you see that that more as well in T20 um you see that that more as well in T20 um which kind of fees with Gideon's point which kind of fees with Gideon's point Right. So you're seeing it is Right. So you're seeing it is remarkable. So the best bowlers remarkable. So the best bowlers definitely do tend to be the best definitely do tend to be the best bowlers regardless of format and even bowlers regardless of format and even the the bats there's not that much the the bats there's not that much difference you have. I suppose the role difference you have. I suppose the role of the power hitter you a kind of a of the power hitter you a kind of a Kieran Pollard Tim David Hardock Pa that Kieran Pollard Tim David Hardock Pa that is more of a special Glen Watson that's is more of a special Glen Watson that's more of a specialist position in the more of a specialist position in the shorter formats but relation the kind of shorter formats but relation the kind of correlation between being good at one correlation between being good at one really good at test cricket and good really good at test cricket and good yards is still massive and I think the yards is still massive and I think the 2023 world ODI world cup final so 21 of 2023 world ODI world cup final so 21 of those players have played test cricket those players have played test cricket and seven I think I was looking 17 of and seven I think I was looking 17 of those 22 players were you know regulars those 22 players were you know regulars and and you know very good very very and and you know very good very very good as test players. So if you're if good as test players. So if you're if you're very good at test cricket it it's you're very good at test cricket it it's um it's generally still a very good base um it's generally still a very good base to be really good at the the shorter to be really good at the the shorter formats actually. formats actually. formats actually. And what are the trade-offs in terms of And what are the trade-offs in terms of skills? Like there are certain things skills? Like there are certain things which batsmen can do better whether it which batsmen can do better whether it is uh you know in uh playing 360° like is uh you know in uh playing 360° like ABW could or whether it is in playing a ABW could or whether it is in playing a previously unconventional strokes almost previously unconventional strokes almost as if they are out of the textbook and as if they are out of the textbook and with the same kind of ease. But at the with the same kind of ease. But at the same time while their range of attacking same time while their range of attacking strokes might have gone up you could strokes might have gone up you could also say that hey they can't uh play the also say that hey they can't uh play the swinging ball on an overcast day so well swinging ball on an overcast day so well though as you point out in your book uh though as you point out in your book uh whether it is overcast or not has whether it is overcast or not has nothing to do with how much is swinging nothing to do with how much is swinging but uh you know that cliche still comes but uh you know that cliche still comes to mind. So you know in terms of certain to mind. So you know in terms of certain skills when I just look at Indian teams skills when I just look at Indian teams over the ages you know if you're playing over the ages you know if you're playing at headingly in leads and the ball is at headingly in leads and the ball is swinging wildly I'd rather have Rahul swinging wildly I'd rather have Rahul Raid and Sachin Tendulkar there than any Raid and Sachin Tendulkar there than any two batsmen of the current team where two batsmen of the current team where and it is no fault of theirs. Uh they and it is no fault of theirs. Uh they are not necessarily worse batsmen per are not necessarily worse batsmen per se. It's just that incentives have led se. It's just that incentives have led them to t to cater to a different uh them to t to cater to a different uh kind of skill set given the fact that uh kind of skill set given the fact that uh it is so rare in their career that it is so rare in their career that they'll actually be facing that swinging they'll actually be facing that swinging ball at headingly and most of the time ball at headingly and most of the time they are optimizing for something else they are optimizing for something else entirely. So both in terms of batting entirely. So both in terms of batting skills and fielding skill uh and sorry skills and fielding skill uh and sorry and bowling skills uh we'll come to and bowling skills uh we'll come to fielding later. What are the trade-offs fielding later. What are the trade-offs that you've seen in in that? Yeah, this that you've seen in in that? Yeah, this brings a lot of value to any kind of brings a lot of value to any kind of cricket, test cricket or otherwise and cricket, test cricket or otherwise and oh my god but we have lost that oh my god but we have lost that particular skill. Yeah. So that's I think batting Yeah. So that's I think batting defensive defensive defensive techniques with the bat I think they techniques with the bat I think they probably have declined a bit. In fact, probably have declined a bit. In fact, it's not just me. Like there is um so it's not just me. Like there is um so the analytics companies who who track um the analytics companies who who track um you know a batsman's record the batting you know a batsman's record the batting records when they play certain types of records when they play certain types of shot so quick fizz and so on. Um I think shot so quick fizz and so on. Um I think they they've shown that the the they they've shown that the the frequency of being dismissed when frequency of being dismissed when playing a say a forward defensive has playing a say a forward defensive has gone up over you 15 years or so. So gone up over you 15 years or so. So basically which does actually suggest basically which does actually suggest which which feeds into what in which which feeds into what in intuitively seems right actually that um intuitively seems right actually that um in general the capacity to defend has in general the capacity to defend has has lessened a little bit. So I think has lessened a little bit. So I think that that skill has declined a bit but I that that skill has declined a bit but I think pretty much everything else has think pretty much everything else has improved. You know, I think the game improved. You know, I think the game test cricket itself, I think as a just test cricket itself, I think as a just as a pure sporting game, I think is as a pure sporting game, I think is better than is probably more so than it better than is probably more so than it ever has been in terms of the range of ever has been in terms of the range of skills that you can you can see on offer skills that you can you can see on offer and the quality is, you know, yeah, I and the quality is, you know, yeah, I think the short performance have have think the short performance have have basically improved the product of test basically improved the product of test cricket as well encourage you know more cricket as well encourage you know more unorthodoxy with with the ball with the unorthodoxy with with the ball and things and I think the other ball and things and I think the other good thing actually is that as batting good thing actually is that as batting has become a bit more aggressive, it's has become a bit more aggressive, it's almost become harder to even for a almost become harder to even for a bowling team to contain. So we we often bowling team to contain. So we we often kind of get both teams attacking um at kind of get both teams attacking um at the same which which can be be make for the same which which can be be make for very compelling test cricket. So yeah I very compelling test cricket. So yeah I mean I think the capacity to to sort of mean I think the capacity to to sort of just block out and defend has lessened a just block out and defend has lessened a bit and which might you know explain why bit and which might you know explain why last 10 years or so we have had quite a last 10 years or so we have had quite a lot of collapses kind of from from lot of collapses kind of from from nowhere. So there there can be teams can nowhere. So there there can be teams can fall over like a stack of cards some fall over like a stack of cards some sometimes and potentially I think yeah sometimes and potentially I think yeah just you think of as as just what goes just you think of as as just what goes into being a batsman right batsmen are into being a batsman right batsmen are more familiar with um almost every shot more familiar with um almost every shot now than they have before but they spend now than they have before but they spend less time practicing their their defense less time practicing their their defense you know across and that probably does you know across and that probably does have an impact in um their their ability have an impact in um their their ability to defend. Of course, if they're smart to defend. Of course, if they're smart and uh you know, think about those and uh you know, think about those trade-offs actually, it means trade-offs actually, it means potentially um sort of smart smart potentially um sort of smart smart attacking then actually reduces the the attacking then actually reduces the the penalty you pay if you're if you then penalty you pay if you're if you then make make a mistake in terms of you make make a mistake in terms of you there's fewer slips in play. So, you there's fewer slips in play. So, you know, one of the things not not all know, one of the things not not all edges are equal in cricket, right? Um, edges are equal in cricket, right? Um, so if you're bowling to, you know, a so if you're bowling to, you know, a player who doesn't have a very rounded, player who doesn't have a very rounded, who doesn't have a range of shots, you who doesn't have a range of shots, you more to have a third a third slip than, more to have a third a third slip than, you know, B to Adam Gilg or whoever. Um, you know, B to Adam Gilg or whoever. Um, which means people say, "Oh, Gilg is which means people say, "Oh, Gilg is lucky cuz his edges keep going for for lucky cuz his edges keep going for for four." Well, he's made that luck four." Well, he's made that luck actually by being such a rounded player actually by being such a rounded player that is he's built a game where he's that is he's built a game where he's less likely to be penalized if he does less likely to be penalized if he does make a mistake. make a mistake. Exactly. That that's a great point. Let Exactly. That that's a great point. Let let's talk about work ethic and fitness let's talk about work ethic and fitness like you know in your book you have uh like you know in your book you have uh you you often contrast different kind of you you often contrast different kind of pairs and their different kind of pairs and their different kind of approaches like Hutton and Compton was approaches like Hutton and Compton was so completely different. Compton so completely different. Compton actually once arrived at the ground late actually once arrived at the ground late for a test match. You contrast Lily and for a test match. You contrast Lily and Thommpson that you know Lily uh I think Thommpson that you know Lily uh I think in the first match they played together in the first match they played together the evening before he sees Tommo the evening before he sees Tommo drinking what appears to be water but is drinking what appears to be water but is straight up scotch. So like just straight up scotch. So like just different approaches to the game. So different approaches to the game. So someone like so and I believe this is someone like so and I believe this is also true of Gundapa Vishnuad could just also true of Gundapa Vishnuad could just drink all night and party and then come drink all night and party and then come to the game and just make a to the game and just make a splashbuckling 100 before lunch. But splashbuckling 100 before lunch. But somebody else had to be totally somebody else had to be totally disciplined. You quote WG Grace in your disciplined. You quote WG Grace in your first chapter talking about how first chapter talking about how discipline was everything to him. So he discipline was everything to him. So he would make sure he got his sleep. He would make sure he got his sleep. He would make sure that he got to the would make sure that he got to the ground early on the day of the game and ground early on the day of the game and uh you know uh you know he didn't make his railway trip the day he didn't make his railway trip the day before not the morning of. before not the morning of. Exactly. Yeah. And there's tremendous Exactly. Yeah. And there's tremendous discipline there. And equally, that discipline there. And equally, that seems to be pretty much the default seems to be pretty much the default modern approach. You quote one of Koh's modern approach. You quote one of Koh's teammates talking about how, you know, teammates talking about how, you know, Kohi talks about things like BMI and the Kohi talks about things like BMI and the fat percentage, which no one before him fat percentage, which no one before him did. Uh so how has that changed uh did. Uh so how has that changed uh through the game? Because on the one through the game? Because on the one hand, you can look at the Cavalier hand, you can look at the Cavalier geniuses of the past, the Comptons and geniuses of the past, the Comptons and the Sovers and all of that, not really the Sovers and all of that, not really giving a about that and still giving a about that and still producing genius. But at the other hand, producing genius. But at the other hand, you could say that number one, you don't you could say that number one, you don't know the counterfactual. Maybe they have know the counterfactual. Maybe they have done better if they were more done better if they were more disciplined. And number two, you could disciplined. And number two, you could argue that there isn't really an option argue that there isn't really an option today. The game is played at such a high today. The game is played at such a high standard that you have to be uh at your standard that you have to be uh at your peak. Uh so give me a sense of just in peak. Uh so give me a sense of just in terms of fitness and work ethic and the terms of fitness and work ethic and the science behind those things. Uh how science behind those things. Uh how cricket has changed. cricket has changed. You talked about you know some of the You talked about you know some of the guys at at one extreme of that. Um yeah, guys at at one extreme of that. Um yeah, so I mean the I think the 93 1973 so I mean the I think the 93 1973 L test match. Um yeah, he's 31 out L test match. Um yeah, he's 31 out overnight. He then goes out the entire overnight. He then goes out the entire night, comes back at 9:00 a.m., has a night, comes back at 9:00 a.m., has a cold shower, and then hits 150. I mean, cold shower, and then hits 150. I mean, that is just like so absurd. You can't that is just like so absurd. You can't really um Yeah, you just say it's life's really um Yeah, you just say it's life's not fair. Some people just just just not fair. Some people just just just have more have more gifts. Um would he have more have more gifts. Um would he have been better without it? Well, a few have been better without it? Well, a few dimensions that I mean doing this that dimensions that I mean doing this that sort of baby it kind of creates its own sort of baby it kind of creates its own legend in in real time and it almost legend in in real time and it almost kind of builds up a certain aura around kind of builds up a certain aura around if you're able to pull it up a bit that if you're able to pull it up a bit that maybe it does actually help you on on maybe it does actually help you on on the field as well in terms of the the field as well in terms of the opposition like this guy is is super opposition like this guy is is super human kind of thing. Although yeah, even human kind of thing. Although yeah, even Ashley Soas, you know, he does if you Ashley Soas, you know, he does if you look at you when he was actually talking look at you when he was actually talking about the game uh rather than just sort about the game uh rather than just sort of the bravado he does talk about his of the bravado he does talk about his you know his his method and everything you know his his method and everything and he was you know start of his innings and he was you know start of his innings especially you know batting in England especially you know batting in England and the scene of the ball he's very much and the scene of the ball he's very much trying to eliminate risk at the start of trying to eliminate risk at the start of his innings. Um, so there's still a real his innings. Um, so there's still a real method there. Um, and he is he's still method there. Um, and he is he's still very I mean he's you know as a as a kid very I mean he's you know as a as a kid he's playing all all sports and stuff. he's playing all all sports and stuff. So he's yeah it's obviously his So he's yeah it's obviously his metabolism must be fairly extraordinary metabolism must be fairly extraordinary but he's is still a level of fitness but he's is still a level of fitness there like a real level of and he's also there like a real level of and he's also like he's just on the field the whole like he's just on the field the whole time because as in he's always doing time because as in he's always doing stuff cuz he's you know this is a stuff cuz he's you know this is a multi-dimensional player. He he bowls multi-dimensional player. He he bowls three different he bowls yeah he bats three different he bowls yeah he bats amazingly. He bowls two types of spin amazingly. He bowls two types of spin and and he swings the ball as well. So and and he swings the ball as well. So he's he is a completely multinational he's he is a completely multinational and he's a great fielder. So he's always and he's a great fielder. So he's always involved, right? So he's always doing involved, right? So he's always doing something. Yeah. I mean clearly I think something. Yeah. I mean clearly I think in general there has been a trend in general there has been a trend towards being more professional. But I towards being more professional. But I think the trade-off for think the I think the trade-off for everyone is different to be honest everyone is different to be honest because I just think the the pressure of because I just think the the pressure of the relentless of test cricket. You the relentless of test cricket. You know, some people will want for some know, some people will want for some people will need an escape from that and people will need an escape from that and actually having a few drinks probably actually having a few drinks probably will actually make them play better if will actually make them play better if it loosens them up and relaxes them. it loosens them up and relaxes them. Otherwise, you can spend your whole time Otherwise, you can spend your whole time kind of in your in your room practicing kind of in your in your room practicing your forward defensive and not sure your forward defensive and not sure that's healthy for for most people. that's healthy for for most people. Maybe not for anyone, but yeah, Maybe not for anyone, but yeah, certainly not for most people. Um, so certainly not for most people. Um, so that that that trade-off is different. I that that that trade-off is different. I think you do have a a recognition think you do have a a recognition actually from some of the the best actually from some of the the best captains that you need to you need to captains that you need to have certain rules for sure and certain have certain rules for sure and certain standards but you need a little bit of standards but you need a little bit of flexibility to accommodate different flexibility to accommodate different personality types. um you just as Alex personality types. um you just as Alex Ferguson actually you know with Eric Ferguson actually you know with Eric with with Eric Hans at Man United he was with with Eric Hans at Man United he was famously the guy who you know he didn't famously the guy who you know he didn't dress code doesn't necessarily apply to dress code doesn't necessarily apply to him and so on and actually when Andrew him and so on and actually when Andrew Strauss was England captain you know um Strauss was England captain you know um players really praised him kind of players really praised him kind of subsequently for actually he had he was subsequently for actually he had he was pretty you know you don't want to get pretty you know you don't want to get the wrong side of him he was pretty the wrong side of him he was pretty strict in what he demanded but there was strict in what he demanded but there was rigoring within that and there was rigoring within that and there was treating you as as adults as as well uh treating you as as adults as as well uh and I suppose you've had a lot of you and I suppose you've had a lot of you know teams have gone through different know teams have gone through different phases with with curfews and stuff and I phases with with curfews and stuff and I know now in India there's there's a know now in India there's there's a debate about families and and stuff and debate about families and and stuff and in general like in general like I I think if you if you're having you I I think if you if you're having you kind of you almost shouldn't you kind of you almost shouldn't you shouldn't have to have a policy right shouldn't have to have a policy right you should ideally the players know what you should ideally the players know what they need to do and and they might know they need to do and and they might know that actually for them to be out another that actually for them to be out another hour that night is actually what what hour that night is actually what what they need and their interest and and they need and their interest and and that level of trust is important I I that level of trust is important I I think if you're think if you're kind of babysitting guys too much it kind of babysitting guys too much it that that is difficult as well. Um but that that is difficult as well. Um but yeah, some some people are built yeah, some some people are built differently and yeah goal soas is one of differently and yeah goal soas is one of those who yeah was dealt most of the those who yeah was dealt most of the cars in life and yeah we we don't yeah cars in life and yeah we we don't yeah well most even most testers can't well most even most testers can't imagine what it's like to be dealt that imagine what it's like to be dealt that let alone the rest of us let alone the rest of us indeed. Uh in your great chapter on body indeed. Uh in your great chapter on body line, you talk about how not everyone in line, you talk about how not everyone in the England team went along with Douglas the England team went along with Douglas Jardine. Like Gabby Allen refused to Jardine. Like Gabby Allen refused to bowl leg theory. Uh the NAB of Pati bowl leg theory. Uh the NAB of Pati senior refused to field in the as part senior refused to field in the as part of the lexside uh uh field and um you of the lexside uh uh field and um you know Jardine kind of made fun of them as know Jardine kind of made fun of them as uh amateurs uh and etc etc. And I want uh amateurs uh and etc etc. And I want to ask you about that um nebulous phrase to ask you about that um nebulous phrase the spirit of cricket that and and and the spirit of cricket that and and and this is something that I wonder about this is something that I wonder about when it comes to literally just about when it comes to literally just about anything. For example, if you look at anything. For example, if you look at journalism, you have this duality that journalism, you have this duality that on the one hand you can say that we are on the one hand you can say that we are driven by a certain set of values. We driven by a certain set of values. We have to afflict the comfortable, comfort have to afflict the comfortable, comfort the afflicted, always search for truth. the afflicted, always search for truth. But on the other hand, you you are part But on the other hand, you you are part of a a media outlet and they have to of a a media outlet and they have to make a profit and they have a make a profit and they have a responsibility to their readers to give responsibility to their readers to give them what they want and etc etc. And if them what they want and etc etc. And if you look at absolutely any profession, you look at absolutely any profession, there is always clashes of this sort. there is always clashes of this sort. And through the evolution of cricket, And through the evolution of cricket, how does one look at this? Right? On the how does one look at this? Right? On the one hand, you look at uh the stands that one hand, you look at uh the stands that um Allan and Pati took and you say that um Allan and Pati took and you say that okay in that particular case uh I agree okay in that particular case uh I agree with them because um you know hey body with them because um you know hey body line was clearly penicious and uh etc line was clearly penicious and uh etc etc. But quite often it might seem that etc. But quite often it might seem that what you call the spirit of cricket is what you call the spirit of cricket is just a kind of pompous posturing that is just a kind of pompous posturing that is happening. you know the recent uh uh happening. you know the recent uh uh sort of controversies over monking in sort of controversies over monking in India like should you monk someone being India like should you monk someone being an example of that where punting is like an example of that where punting is like that hey you just can't do it it's that hey you just can't do it it's against the spirit of the game and Ravi against the spirit of the game and Ravi Chandran Ashwin and I have to say I Chandran Ashwin and I have to say I agree with him says that I'm just going agree with him says that I'm just going by the rules of the game you have to go by the rules of the game you have to go by the rules of the game why would you by the rules of the game why would you give a non-striker an unfair advantage give a non-striker an unfair advantage so how has thinking on this evolved so how has thinking on this evolved through the days and the reason I'm through the days and the reason I'm asking is that once upon a time where asking is that once upon a time where you didn't select your best 11 where you you didn't select your best 11 where you had amateurs and professional and where had amateurs and professional and where it was a completely different game you it was a completely different game you could look at it in a particular way. could look at it in a particular way. But today when the game is so But today when the game is so professional and when the stakes are so professional and when the stakes are so high um you know what role do values high um you know what role do values play in it any kinds of values whether play in it any kinds of values whether it's values in terms of a cricketing it's values in terms of a cricketing rule like manking or whether is values rule like manking or whether is values in terms of do we play South Africa or in terms of do we play South Africa or not in or do we play the apartheid not in or do we play the apartheid regime or not rather what role do values regime or not rather what role do values play in it what role does individual play in it what role does individual sort of conscience play in it so what is sort of conscience play in it so what is your sense of how thinking on this has your sense of how thinking on this has evolved uh through the decades evolved uh through the decades well I think So the idea of spirit of well I think So the idea of spirit of cricket has been one of those concepts cricket has been one of those concepts again it's very establishment concept again it's very establishment concept that has been um used and probably that has been um used and probably abused in a in a kind of convenient way abused in a in a kind of convenient way because you know lots of people would because you know lots of people would have said bottom line was contrary to have said bottom line was contrary to the spirit of cricket but that the MCC the spirit of cricket but that the MCC did not you know did not see it that way did not you know did not see it that way and then you know man Kelly whatever is and then you know man Kelly whatever is is a huge row um and so it's it's it's is a huge row um and so it's it's it's quite odd um for me I'm always so I I I quite odd um for me I'm always so I I I don't really like the concept the spirit don't really like the concept the spirit of cricket to be honest. I I I see you of cricket to be honest. I I I see you this is a serious sport and I this is a serious sport and I just think if you have gray you lend you just think if you have gray you lend you lend it to you create these kind of lend it to you create these kind of awkward areas right and of course you awkward areas right and of course you want to see good spirit between players want to see good spirit between players you want to see I mean yeah I think yeah you want to see I mean yeah I think yeah so it's treating opponents with with a so it's treating opponents with with a level of respect that that is I guess level of respect that that is I guess you know that is for me kind of the you know that is for me kind of the spirit of of cricket if if there is one spirit of of cricket if if there is one and and but I you know with banketting and and but I you know with banketting and stuff I'm you know if if you stick and stuff I'm you know if if you stick within the laws you you never have a you within the laws you you never have a problem. And so for me, I'm never have a problem. And so for me, I'm I'm very much on on that side of it. And I'm very much on on that side of it. And I think as cricket has become more I think as cricket has become more professional in terms of its its professional in terms of its its administration administration administration and the states, frankly, the financial and the states, frankly, the financial states have have increased, we are states have have increased, we are seeing a a big move towards things being seeing a a big move towards things being more codified and less of these these more codified and less of these these ambiguities and this confusion and ambiguities and this confusion and stuff. And you know, I remember when Ian stuff. And you know, I remember when Ian Bell was run out against India a few Bell was run out against India a few years ago, um, Ederson, when he kind of years ago, um, Ederson, when he kind of thought it it was tea, but it but it thought it it was tea, but it but it wasn't and and kind of thing. I I just wasn't and and kind of thing. I I just think I think all those kind of things I think I think all those kind of things I think yeah in general I think we'll have think yeah in general I think we'll have less of these spirit debates I think I less of these spirit debates I think I hope with Celia because I find them hope with Celia because I find them quite tedious actually um and I think in quite tedious actually um and I think in general we'll you know players will general we'll you know players will stick more than the laws and that will stick more than the laws and that will be be simpler again a kind of American be be simpler again a kind of American approach. So you have seeding a base in approach. So you have seeding a base in in America is almost like the equivalent in America is almost like the equivalent of a in baseball, you know, equivalent of a in baseball, you know, equivalent of a manga or whatever, but it's just, of a manga or whatever, but it's just, you know, you can run them out, you know, you can run them out, whatever, that's that's all fine. You whatever, that's that's all fine. You can, you know, that's all part of the can, you know, that's all part of the game. And yeah, I I just I don't Yeah, I game. And yeah, I I just I don't Yeah, I think this concept, it can be has been think this concept, it can be has been quite damaging actually quite damaging quite damaging actually quite damaging for cricket at at times. Um, and I think for cricket at at times. Um, and I think as the and it it it just in terms of as the and it it it just in terms of where it stems from, it very much stems where it stems from, it very much stems from the early development of test from the early development of test cricket and and kind of who had the the cricket and and kind of who had the the keys to the the power really. There's an keys to the the power really. There's an amusing anecdote in your book about how amusing anecdote in your book about how Jim Laker after he takes 19 wickets Jim Laker after he takes 19 wickets actually on the way home he stops at a actually on the way home he stops at a pub in Lichfield or Lickfield, whatever pub in Lichfield or Lickfield, whatever it's called. He stops at a pub and he it's called. He stops at a pub and he treats himself to a sandwich and a drink treats himself to a sandwich and a drink and no one freaking notices. The whole and no one freaking notices. The whole pub is full of people talking about the pub is full of people talking about the match and no one notices Rejim Leur who match and no one notices Rejim Leur who just took 19 minutes is right there and just took 19 minutes is right there and that got me thinking about the nature of that got me thinking about the nature of celebrity and how it has changed and how celebrity and how it has changed and how that can be a challenge for modern that can be a challenge for modern cricketers like you also quote Beno cricketers like you also quote Beno talking about uh commentary in those talking about uh commentary in those days and saying silence is your greatest days and saying silence is your greatest weapon don't speak unless you can add to weapon don't speak unless you can add to the picture and equally I've had the picture and equally I've had television commentator friends of mine television commentator friends of mine who have told me that their brief their who have told me that their brief their brief from the broadcaster is literally brief from the broadcaster is literally the opposite that there should be no the opposite that there should be no silence. You have to fill up every silence. You have to fill up every moment of silence. That is literally moment of silence. That is literally their brief. they are supposed to do their brief. they are supposed to do that and therefore we live in an age that and therefore we live in an age where everything is um there's where everything is um there's hyperbully everywhere and uh the hyperbully everywhere and uh the pressures of celebrity are intense you pressures of celebrity are intense you know when people fail in an important know when people fail in an important match at least in India their houses can match at least in India their houses can get stoned by mobs you know uh and get stoned by mobs you know uh and they're not even home their mother's they're not even home their mother's home but their houses getting stoned home but their houses getting stoned somewhere um and it's crazy and back in somewhere um and it's crazy and back in the day you would not have to deal with the day you would not have to deal with this but today I think it's it's this but today I think it's it's increasingly a little bit of uh it's increasingly a little bit of uh it's increasingly a great challenge like I increasingly a great challenge like I once um uh asked I think hersh uh who once um uh asked I think hersh uh who when he was on my show about the when he was on my show about the difference between uh India and Pakistan difference between uh India and Pakistan in the sense that and this was really in in the sense that and this was really in the '9s and 2000s a period we were the '9s and 2000s a period we were talking about that Pakistan would keep talking about that Pakistan would keep throwing up these young geniuses who throwing up these young geniuses who would do something amazing for a test or would do something amazing for a test or two and then completely vanish and why two and then completely vanish and why the hell was that and his theory was the hell was that and his theory was that most of the Indian cricketers who that most of the Indian cricketers who were making it in those days were from were making it in those days were from solid middle class backgrounds like a solid middle class backgrounds like a Dravid and a Tendulkar and a Lakshman Dravid and a Tendulkar and a Lakshman and a Gangali. So uh they were sorted and a Gangali. So uh they were sorted they could take it. While Pakistan they could take it. While Pakistan didn't really have a middle class they didn't really have a middle class they had a small elite and otherwise they had had a small elite and otherwise they had largely uh a a lower middle class and largely uh a a lower middle class and the kids who would suddenly be elevated the kids who would suddenly be elevated might have all the talent in the world might have all the talent in the world but they didn't have the other tools but they didn't have the other tools they would need to counter the celebrity they would need to counter the celebrity and the expectations and etc etc and uh and the expectations and etc etc and uh they would kind of fall apart there. And they would kind of fall apart there. And in this modern age where cricketers are in this modern age where cricketers are expected to be on Instagram as well expected to be on Instagram as well where they are trolled for the smallest where they are trolled for the smallest dropped catch etc etc. How does that dropped catch etc etc. How does that change the equation? Because I imagine change the equation? Because I imagine when you look at players of the past when you look at players of the past till up till maybe 20 25 years ago uh till up till maybe 20 25 years ago uh you know outside of the cricket field you know outside of the cricket field are living human lives whereas today are living human lives whereas today it's like you're in a fishbowl all the it's like you're in a fishbowl all the time. What's your sense of this? time. What's your sense of this? Yeah and I think we forget almost how Yeah and I think we forget almost how rapidly that's that's changed in a kind rapidly that's that's changed in a kind of grand historical context of history of grand historical context of history of test cricket. Um so yeah it through of test cricket. Um so yeah it through India contact Sun Gravasa so his his you India contact Sun Gravasa so his his you know first series to the West in 1971 know first series to the West in 1971 when he gets your 700 runs this kind of when he gets your 700 runs this kind of absolutely legendary legendary series absolutely legendary legendary series well the whole that whole feat um there well the whole that whole feat um there was um on on Dashan there was 26 minutes was um on on Dashan there was 26 minutes of highlights of the entire tour not of highlights of the entire tour not only from him but from the entire tour only from him but from the entire tour full stop and you can contrast that with full stop and you can contrast that with you know being able to watch you know you know being able to watch you know every ball and not just in five, but you every ball and not just in five, but you know again and again replayed endlessly. know again and again replayed endlessly. So even between Gavasa and Tendulka in So even between Gavasa and Tendulka in that sort of even 15- year period that sort of even 15- year period between their their peaks really um between their their peaks really um there's an absolute there is a complete there's an absolute there is a complete shift. Um and so you know Tuka comes and shift. Um and so you know Tuka comes and it is he is like you know no one cricket it is he is like you know no one cricket has ever seen that before and even you has ever seen that before and even you know Brabman obviously so so famous know Brabman obviously so so famous ubiquitous but people would you know not ubiquitous but people would you know not actually kind of not everyone is actually kind of not everyone is recognizing him because they don't you recognizing him because they don't you know there's something about seeing know there's something about seeing someone on TV actually they feel more someone on TV actually they feel more real than seeing photographs of them and real than seeing photographs of them and stuff and obviously the photographs stuff and obviously the photographs would always have been you know of of would always have been you know of of modern quality and stuff so that has modern quality and stuff so that has become yeah in cricket that has become become yeah in cricket that has become so much more more of a thing. Um, and so much more more of a thing. Um, and obviously you have things like you know obviously you have things like you know player social media, Instagram and player social media, Instagram and stuff. So I think for for players that's stuff. So I think for for players that's that's more that is a whole new that's more that is a whole new challenge. I a lot of players aren't on challenge. I a lot of players aren't on social media deliberately to avoid to social media deliberately to avoid to kind of to give themselves a break kind of to give themselves a break release, right? That's a difficulty and release, right? That's a difficulty and actually I suppose in actually I suppose in yeah I suppose in writing this book yeah I suppose in writing this book actually so New Zealand's always actually so New Zealand's always interested me in terms of how are they interested me in terms of how are they the the smallest of the the the smallest of the of the um full member countries done so of the um full member countries done so well in the last 50 15 20 years or so of well in the last 50 15 20 years or so of course the the W the world championship course the the W the world championship final 2021 you know the inaugural one final 2021 you know the inaugural one they beat India fantastic game and stuff they beat India fantastic game and stuff so that's that was interesting story and so that's that was interesting story and and you from the outside you always like and you from the outside you always like you know they have so few people it's you know they have so few people it's kind of a miracle and some ways it is kind of a miracle and some ways it is but actually um in terms of you know but actually um in terms of you know researching this this book and and just researching this this book and and just your project actually you I was aware of your project actually you I was aware of like the flip side the positive side like the flip side the positive side which is that New Zealand you don't have which is that New Zealand you don't have it's all very very normal there you know it's all very very normal there you know Kane Williamson a great greatsman but Kane Williamson a great greatsman but his life you know he earns a lot less his life you know he earns a lot less than if he was Indian but he also his than if he was Indian but he also his life is so much more chilled as well and life is so much more chilled as well and so and the pressure and so there's a bit so and the pressure and so there's a bit of a more sense of um this is a normal of a more sense of um this is a normal game and stuff and it's it's probably game and stuff and it's it's probably easier for New Zealand players for their easier for New Zealand players for their test matches to feel like an extension test matches to feel like an extension of their domestic matches and so on. So of their domestic matches and so on. So there's there is um there's actually there's there is um there's actually real advantages of being a smaller real advantages of being a smaller country and you know just not not being country and you know just not not being anything like as famous and stuff. Um anything like as famous and stuff. Um and so yeah that that obviously in and so yeah that that obviously in Indian context is a different different Indian context is a different different level for players to to to deal with um level for players to to to deal with um and is kind of not going to that trend and is kind of not going to that trend is not going to change right you know is not going to change right you know you just have uh you know more digital you just have uh you know more digital digital world and everything and digital world and everything and everything's more ubiquitous and stuff everything's more ubiquitous and stuff so that's that's that is yeah and so in so that's that's that is yeah and so in terms of what goes into being a great terms of what goes into being a great player in cricket like the the actual player in cricket like the the actual physical mechanics of being great as a physical mechanics of being great as a bat ball or whatever like they're bat ball or whatever like they're obviously, you know, the most important obviously, you know, the most important part, but they're like if they're a part, but they're like if they're a condition, they're a necessary, but condition, they're a necessary, but they're not sufficient as a condition. they're not sufficient as a condition. So, you can't live with all the outside So, you can't live with all the outside noise, then you you're you're going to noise, then you you're you're going to struggle as well, actually. And that's struggle as well, actually. And that's and I think that's more true now than and I think that's more true now than ever than it's ever been been before as ever than it's ever been been before as well. Um because that outside noise well. Um because that outside noise becomes so so much greater. Let's talk becomes so so much greater. Let's talk about another aspect in which cricket is about another aspect in which cricket is different from many other sports, which different from many other sports, which is the role of the captain. Like in is the role of the captain. Like in football, the captain isn't really that football, the captain isn't really that important. Sure you can be an inspiring important. Sure you can be an inspiring figure but you can have different figure but you can have different leaders on a pitch. You might have you leaders on a pitch. You might have you know if you look at Liverpool you might know if you look at Liverpool you might have Salah in front or you might have have Salah in front or you might have Virgil van Djk at the back marshalling Virgil van Djk at the back marshalling the back line but by and large they are the back line but by and large they are not as critical as a cricket captain is not as critical as a cricket captain is because cricket is not a continuous because cricket is not a continuous flowing game. It's a series of set flowing game. It's a series of set pieces and every set piece is something pieces and every set piece is something that the captain can say something that the captain can say something about. He's changing the bowlers. He's about. He's changing the bowlers. He's setting the field. uh there's a uh much setting the field. uh there's a uh much greater part being played there and um greater part being played there and um and obviously we see uh many captains and obviously we see uh many captains make their appearance in your pages. make their appearance in your pages. There is the 39year-old Mike Bradley There is the 39year-old Mike Bradley taking over from Ian Bertham. There is taking over from Ian Bertham. There is Ranatunga who almost went on a rebel Ranatunga who almost went on a rebel tour uh and you know counted himself out tour uh and you know counted himself out of later testicate but he didn't go on of later testicate but he didn't go on the rebel tour and instead he's the rebel tour and instead he's captaining Sri Lanka when Moodi is captaining Sri Lanka when Moodi is called for chucking and he supports MLI called for chucking and he supports MLI wholeheartedly and thank god for that wholeheartedly and thank god for that because a different captain might have because a different captain might have dealt with it in a really different way. dealt with it in a really different way. So give me a sense of how the role of So give me a sense of how the role of the captain has evolved because once the captain has evolved because once upon a time the idea was that you pick upon a time the idea was that you pick your best 11 and then you make one of your best 11 and then you make one of them the captain or you pick your best them the captain or you pick your best 11 plus a couple of players who don't 11 plus a couple of players who don't really belong there but they're really belong there but they're professional or white and you make one professional or white and you make one of them the captain uh back in the day of them the captain uh back in the day but you know now it almost seems like as but you know now it almost seems like as in Brley's case Bradley was practically in Brley's case Bradley was practically a specialist captain in a manner of a specialist captain in a manner of speaking no disrespect intended. Uh so speaking no disrespect intended. Uh so how does one sort of think about this how does one sort of think about this and the importance of of the captain and and the importance of of the captain and and in in a country with as much and in in a country with as much diversity as say India the captain has diversity as say India the captain has an even more important role because an even more important role because you've got a diverse dressing room and you've got a diverse dressing room and you've got another man management role you've got another man management role to play out there. But what is your to play out there. But what is your sense of how this has evolved through sense of how this has evolved through the course of test cricket? the course of test cricket? Well, Australia has certainly been where Well, Australia has certainly been where this dynamic is simplest and it it is it this dynamic is simplest and it it is it has been the closest to just pick you has been the closest to just pick you pick the best team and then you from pick the best team and then you from there you're picking the captain. Um so there you're picking the captain. Um so and then in in other countries you've and then in in other countries you've had a whole series of dynamics at work. had a whole series of dynamics at work. We haven't really talked about actually We haven't really talked about actually the batting the bowling divide and the batting the bowling divide and captaincy yet which very much interplays captaincy yet which very much interplays with with other aspects because you tend with with other aspects because you tend to batsmen tend to be from you know more to batsmen tend to be from you know more privileged backgrounds than bowlers in privileged backgrounds than bowlers in general um really across every every general um really across every every cricket cricket country. Um so you have cricket cricket country. Um so you have a big almost taboo where you you have a a big almost taboo where you you have a real lack of bowls as captain real lack of bowls as captain historically and it's it's always said historically and it's it's always said you know the bowlers you know they need you know the bowlers you know they need someone who is um more of a thinking someone who is um more of a thinking person and he's more detached from the person and he's more detached from the process and everything but then it turns process and everything but then it turns out actually when bowlers are captains out actually when bowlers are captains they tend to do really well. I mean Pat they tend to do really well. I mean Pat Pat comes down for Australia is you know Pat comes down for Australia is you know is just doing terrifically as as a is just doing terrifically as as a captain and he's not really he's barely captain and he's not really he's barely missed a test as captain either. Um so missed a test as captain either. Um so you don't Yeah. It turns out that being you don't Yeah. It turns out that being a batsman doesn't give you a superpower. a batsman doesn't give you a superpower. In fact, Immran Khan argued that um In fact, Immran Khan argued that um being a bowler actually massively being a bowler actually massively strength who's obviously an allrounder, strength who's obviously an allrounder, but yeah, he was a great bowler and he but yeah, he was a great bowler and he said being a bowler massively improved said being a bowler massively improved his captaincy because rather than, you his captaincy because rather than, you know, being a captain, he could just say know, being a captain, he could just say just bowler on a on a good length just bowler on a on a good length bowler, he could actually say, you know, bowler, he could actually say, you know, maybe you should do this with your wrist maybe you should do this with your wrist or or whatever. And and actually gives or or whatever. And and actually gives more of a sense of what it's like to be more of a sense of what it's like to be a bowler and have your plans not not a bowler and have your plans not not going as you wanted. Um uh although you going as you wanted. Um uh although you and we also have this perennial debate and we also have this perennial debate with bowler captains about how much do with bowler captains about how much do you bowl yourself. So historically some you bowl yourself. So historically some have you know um railing with England have you know um railing with England seem to under bowl himself didn't seem to under bowl himself didn't actually bowl himself a great deal but actually bowl himself a great deal but then some bowls who bowl themselves too then some bowls who bowl themselves too much. Andrew Flintto when he was you much. Andrew Flintto when he was you know standing as captain he got he know standing as captain he got he injured himself really because he bowl injured himself really because he bowl 50 years ago in Sri Lanka just kept on 50 years ago in Sri Lanka just kept on you know pounding in. Um so that that you know pounding in. Um so that that that's a challenge for um bowlers and that's a challenge for um bowlers and captains. But then the flip side of that captains. But then the flip side of that is actually as a bowler uh captain if is actually as a bowler uh captain if you're often the um the best bowl in the you're often the um the best bowl in the team. So actually knowing when's the team. So actually knowing when's the best time for you to bowl and you can be best time for you to bowl and you can be used most effectively. Well, if you can used most effectively. Well, if you can do that in a dispassionate way, that do that in a dispassionate way, that should actually improve your team should actually improve your team because you know actually um al although because you know actually um al although we revere the batsman in in test we revere the batsman in in test cricket, you know the most important cricket, you know the most important factor in how good your team is is how factor in how good your team is is how good your bowling is. And um you know good your bowling is. And um you know basically fast bowling throughout basically fast bowling throughout history is the biggest determinant of history is the biggest determinant of how good your your team actually is. And how good your your team actually is. And flip side that you statul is a great flip side that you statul is a great example of the flip side of that. So you example of the flip side of that. So you know away from home he only wins one of know away from home he only wins one of his first 44 test matches and this is his first 44 test matches and this is probably during Tendulka's absolute peak probably during Tendulka's absolute peak and he's playing all these great and he's playing all these great innings. But because the bowlers aren't innings. But because the bowlers aren't aren't doing the job then those aren't doing the job then those performances going in vain. Well, if performances going in vain. Well, if you'd if you'd bowl to the same level as you'd if you'd bowl to the same level as Tendulka for a long period, even if the Tendulka for a long period, even if the rest of the team are not doing very rest of the team are not doing very well, you're probably winning seven or well, you're probably winning seven or eight matches kind of off your own um eight matches kind of off your own um you know, with with your own arms kind you know, with with your own arms kind of thing, you know. Um and so that that of thing, you know. Um and so that that is the um that that's the difference in is the um that that's the difference in those dynamics. And so with Yeah. And so those dynamics. And so with Yeah. And so that uh and and captainy obviously yeah, that uh and and captainy obviously yeah, we've had this odd um yeah, preference we've had this odd um yeah, preference for for batsman captains. And it'll be for for batsman captains. And it'll be interesting to see if that persists interesting to see if that persists actually, you know, with with with with actually, you know, with with with with pack with packs doing very well. We had pack with packs doing very well. We had Tim Sally the New Zealand as well. So it Tim Sally the New Zealand as well. So it might be that we get to an era where might be that we get to an era where that's less of an issue either way in that's less of an issue either way in terms of determining who is actually the terms of determining who is actually the the captain. Um but but yeah, just to the captain. Um but but yeah, just to kind of finish off your question, it is kind of finish off your question, it is a unique role because you know football a unique role because you know football captain is almost a ceremonial position. captain is almost a ceremonial position. Um you don't really there's kind of not Um you don't really there's kind of not a lot that you can't do if you're not a lot that you can't do if you're not captain. you can still be a leader and captain. you can still be a leader and of course you can still in some ways be of course you can still in some ways be leader in cricket but you don't make you leader in cricket but you don't make you don't physically tell the bowler the don't physically tell the bowler the bowler that he's bowling then you know bowler that he's bowling then you know that is the thing you're making those that is the thing you're making those strategic decisions all the time um and strategic decisions all the time um and so there's that that dynamic element and so there's that that dynamic element and you're reacting on the fly and stuff so you're reacting on the fly and stuff so it is it's a lot to compartmentalize it is it's a lot to compartmentalize um and I suppose actually the one of the um and I suppose actually the one of the interesting questions is you how much interesting questions is you how much will the the role of the coach change will the the role of the coach change that um you we've had coaches from the that um you we've had coaches from the you late 80s Australia were the first you late 80s Australia were the first kind of modern to Well, the first team kind of modern to Well, the first team to have what we think of as a modern to have what we think of as a modern coach and coaches, yeah, they have coach and coaches, yeah, they have played an important role. Um, but I played an important role. Um, but I don't think there's any real sense of don't think there's any real sense of them assuring the captain. So, the them assuring the captain. So, the captain really is a a unique role across captain really is a a unique role across sport in terms of, you know, they are sport in terms of, you know, they are obviously as a player so important, but obviously as a player so important, but that strategic element, you know, in that strategic element, you know, in terms of that they're probably doing terms of that they're probably doing they're probably at least as important they're probably at least as important as a coach in general. Um, so they're as a coach in general. Um, so they're doing all the strategic stuff and the doing all the strategic stuff and the management stuff as well, plus actually, management stuff as well, plus actually, you know, maintaining their performance. you know, maintaining their performance. So it's a lot for that's a lot. It's a So it's a lot for that's a lot. It's a lot to say that's for sure. lot to say that's for sure. Yeah. There's a fabulous stat in your Yeah. There's a fabulous stat in your book that out of the 18 men who've book that out of the 18 men who've captained in 50 test matches uh they are captained in 50 test matches uh they are all batsmen except Dhoni and one could all batsmen except Dhoni and one could haggi Dhoni is also a batsman basically. haggi Dhoni is also a batsman basically. So which just illustrates exactly what So which just illustrates exactly what you said. Let's double click on the role you said. Let's double click on the role of the coach a little bit more because of the coach a little bit more because one thing that we have had is that until one thing that we have had is that until the 80s and the '90s uh certainly your the 80s and the '90s uh certainly your coach was basically just like the coach was basically just like the manager of the team. It was some senior manager of the team. It was some senior player who was coming along for the ride player who was coming along for the ride and uh uh I forget who it was. Was it and uh uh I forget who it was. Was it Shane War who said the only kind of Shane War who said the only kind of coach I like is the one that takes me coach I like is the one that takes me into the hotel from the airport or into the hotel from the airport or whatever. whatever. whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Classic War. Yeah. Warn Buchanan Yeah. Classic War. Yeah. Warn Buchanan was a clash. Yeah. was a clash. Yeah. Yeah. And uh so you know but since the Yeah. And uh so you know but since the late '9s we've had a bunch of coaches late '9s we've had a bunch of coaches like Buchanan, Bob Wulmer, John Wright, like Buchanan, Bob Wulmer, John Wright, Duncan Fletcher, Andy Flower, Gary Ken Duncan Fletcher, Andy Flower, Gary Ken uh who have played a more sort of uh who have played a more sort of prominent role in terms of strategy and prominent role in terms of strategy and tactics and using data and setting the tactics and using data and setting the direction of events and uh some would direction of events and uh some would even argue in Buchanan's case with the even argue in Buchanan's case with the rise of the strike rate even changing rise of the strike rate even changing the direction of cricket. How much of the direction of cricket. How much of this is sort of us going too far on the this is sort of us going too far on the great man theory because we like to great man theory because we like to personalize everything and make heroes personalize everything and make heroes out of people who just happen to be out of people who just happen to be there in the sense surely a lot of these there in the sense surely a lot of these changes would have happened anyway and changes would have happened anyway and how much of it is actually the right how much of it is actually the right coach at the right time uh you know coach at the right time uh you know managing to make the needle move. managing to make the needle move. So I think what's happening I think the So I think what's happening I think the rise of sort of TV and video footage you rise of sort of TV and video footage you actually need a coach now to be in actually need a coach now to be in charge of that. Not that they're charge of that. Not that they're necessarily going to be want to go going necessarily going to be want to go going through the footage themselves but to be through the footage themselves but to be a kind of a central hub for where that a kind of a central hub for where that information is being fed and then information is being fed and then deciding what then gets fed to the deciding what then gets fed to the players because obviously you only need players because obviously you only need to give you only want to give the to give you only want to give the players a tiny bit of of of info that's players a tiny bit of of of info that's very very selective. You don't want to very very selective. You don't want to overwhelm them, but you need a coach to overwhelm them, but you need a coach to kind of be on top of it. And you know, kind of be on top of it. And you know, good strategic coaches can have a real good strategic coaches can have a real impact in terms of how to to get players impact in terms of how to to get players out. You it was always said it's always out. You it was always said it's always said that impact of said that impact of coaches on the skill of players coaches on the skill of players international level is quite small international level is quite small because at that level they should be because at that level they should be skilled enough already. But you do get skilled enough already. But you do get coaches you get, you know, Duncan coaches you get, you know, Duncan Fletcher was instrumental in helping Fletcher was instrumental in helping England players um in how they played England players um in how they played against Spin for example. So against Spin for example. So you you they can have an impact on you you they can have an impact on multi- dimensions. Of course the coach multi- dimensions. Of course the coach is also you know in the kind of media is also you know in the kind of media age right they're also a figurehead and age right they're also a figurehead and you know with Brenon McCullum and stuff you know with Brenon McCullum and stuff with England you they are actually uh with England you they are actually uh they have an important role as a you they have an important role as a you know a conduit to the to the media and know a conduit to the to the media and therefore to the whole outside world you therefore to the whole outside world you they are the just as a managers in they are the just as a managers in football the kind of the spokesperson football the kind of the spokesperson for for the team and that's happening for for the team and that's happening more and more and actually you know good more and more and actually you know good coach actually you'd want them to take coach actually you'd want them to take on quite a lot of media responsibilities on quite a lot of media responsibilities and stuff themselves which is which kind and stuff themselves which is which kind of to protect their captain who's got to of to protect their captain who's got to do so much else um themselves. Um but I do so much else um themselves. Um but I mean so Andy Flower as Eng he's he's mean so Andy Flower as Eng he's he's very instrumental and he has this great very instrumental and he has this great partnership with Andrew Strauss which is partnership with Andrew Strauss which is really about bring a bit more structure really about bring a bit more structure and discipline to to the team and um and discipline to to the team and um quite a methodical way of playing quite a methodical way of playing cricket. Um it's not it's definitely not cricket. Um it's not it's definitely not not bad ball you It's about building not bad ball you It's about building building pressure with the with the with building pressure with the with the with the ball, you know, the theory of you the ball, you know, the theory of you bowling four mains in a row will then bowling four mains in a row will then bring a wicket, that kind of thing. And bring a wicket, that kind of thing. And then with the bat very much setting up then with the bat very much setting up your top three, then setting up for the your top three, then setting up for the middle all to come. Um, and there's also middle all to come. Um, and there's also a sense, you know, Flower is also big on a sense, you know, Flower is also big on the fitness, the fitness aspect as well. the fitness, the fitness aspect as well. Um, so they know they are important. Um, Um, so they know they are important. Um, John McCann is like I think you could John McCann is like I think you could ask 100 people about John McCann, you ask 100 people about John McCann, you get 100 different answers to be honest. get 100 different answers to be honest. You know, I've I've I've given a sense You know, I've I've I've given a sense of of the the range of him and actually, of of the the range of him and actually, you know, he clearly is he's he's a very you know, he clearly is he's he's a very intense, very demanding, but you know, intense, very demanding, but you know, Justin Langanger says uh about people Justin Langanger says uh about people about whom people would use some of the about whom people would use some of the same adjectives, but just Justin Justin same adjectives, but just Justin Justin Langanger, you know, he says actually he Langanger, you know, he says actually he helped us to unleash five extra levels helped us to unleash five extra levels and stuff and that his his depth of and stuff and that his his depth of planning actually and and actually in ' planning actually and and actually in ' 04 in India is probably when it shows 04 in India is probably when it shows the best. So India you know Australia the best. So India you know Australia lose in 01 in India you have the miracle lose in 01 in India you have the miracle test in K cold Carter Eden Gardens and test in K cold Carter Eden Gardens and then India win the series 2-1 and in and then India win the series 2-1 and in and Australia actually do take they evaluate Australia actually do take they evaluate there you know they're obsessed with the there you know they're obsessed with the final frontier they call they're final frontier they call they're obsessed with winning in India and obsessed with winning in India and Buchanan is instrumental in them in Buchanan is instrumental in them in Australia coming back to India with a Australia coming back to India with a slightly actually slightly less slightly actually slightly less aggressive approach actually we talked aggressive approach actually we talked about the positives of aggression about the positives of aggression earlier but they actually think they earlier but they actually think they didn't have enough of a plan B a didn't have enough of a plan B a fallback option so they're about um and fallback option so they're about um and then they lead this plans to bulb bulb then they lead this plans to bulb bulb much drier um in India but basically much drier um in India but basically find a way to protect the boundaries and find a way to protect the boundaries and and close off the the revenue uh the and close off the the revenue uh the regular source of runs so actually you regular source of runs so actually you know maybe you have a slip field and know maybe you have a slip field and stuff and you are you have these these stuff and you are you have these these short catches and things and you you're short catches and things and you you're choking off the supply of runs and that choking off the supply of runs and that that works really really well and so no that works really really well and so no I think coaches are important important I think coaches are important important players I think I think the coach varies players I think I think the coach varies in each team and and it's and they're in each team and and it's and they're kind of linked often linked to the kind of linked often linked to the captain so you have South Africa become captain so you have South Africa become world number one with Graeme Smith and world number one with Graeme Smith and Mickey Arthur as a captain coach Mickey Arthur as a captain coach partnership. Mickey Arthur's job is very partnership. Mickey Arthur's job is very much a support Smith that he is a he's much a support Smith that he is a he's he's backing up the the captain more he's backing up the the captain more than being a kind of independent driver than being a kind of independent driver him himself I think which works him himself I think which works brilliantly for that for that team. So brilliantly for that for that team. So it's not criticism it's just it's an it's not criticism it's just it's an observation that um a coach's role is observation that um a coach's role is and their power is is linked is linked and their power is is linked is linked to the captain and what what works. So to the captain and what what works. So there's not there's very much not a there's not there's very much not a one-izefits- all model as maybe as one-izefits- all model as maybe as showed with Arthur when he goes to showed with Arthur when he goes to Australia and he he really struggles and Australia and he he really struggles and it just his role just doesn't doesn't it just his role just doesn't doesn't work at all there. There are about a few work at all there. There are about a few thousand things I'd like to double click thousand things I'd like to double click on which are in your book but uh I I I'd on which are in your book but uh I I I'd rather that everyone listening to this rather that everyone listening to this actually pick up the book because it's actually pick up the book because it's such a pleasure to kind of uh soak into such a pleasure to kind of uh soak into it. Each of the 35 chapters is great and it. Each of the 35 chapters is great and could actually have been a book on its could actually have been a book on its own. So you know why don't you write 35 own. So you know why don't you write 35 more books? But I'll I'll I I'll sort of more books? But I'll I'll I I'll sort of end with uh three uh final questions. end with uh three uh final questions. And the first one could um uh either be And the first one could um uh either be easy or tough, but you must have done easy or tough, but you must have done this already a million times. Give me an this already a million times. Give me an all-time England test 11. all-time England test 11. Oh wow. So ju just England and this is Oh wow. So ju just England and this is just on the pitch. just on the pitch. Actually, I I'll leave the I'll leave Actually, I I'll leave the choice to you. Uh either an England the choice to you. Uh either an England test 11 or just an alltime world 11. test 11 or just an alltime world 11. Whatever you prefer. Give me an 11 and Whatever you prefer. Give me an 11 and give me your reasons. give me your reasons. Uh, I'll go for world. Am I picking uh Uh, I'll go for world. Am I picking uh my favorite team or the best team? my favorite team or the best team? Your favorite team with your reasons. Your favorite team with your reasons. Okay. Uh, I'll open with so this is not Okay. Uh, I'll open with so this is not my best 11 players. This is this is not my best 11 players. This is just Okay. I'll open with Victor Trumper just Okay. I'll open with Victor Trumper uh and Jack Hobbs. Uh so Trumpeter is um uh and Jack Hobbs. Uh so Trumpeter is um so one of the the kind of in terms of so one of the the kind of in terms of how we watch cricket one of those um how we watch cricket one of those um amazing nuggets actually that found out amazing nuggets actually that found out is Trumper still scores faster per hour is Trumper still scores faster per hour than any player in test match history. than any player in test match history. So obviously that was function that he a So obviously that was function that he a he scored very quickly and b they were he scored very quickly and b they were more uh you know per hour bowl then but more uh you know per hour bowl then but if you're going to a game you're not if you're going to a game you're not really counting the balls but you are really counting the balls but you are thinking oh my god he's got it's been thinking oh my god he's got it's been two hours he's got 100 and stuff and it two hours he's got 100 and stuff and it kind of embodies the golden age. Um, I kind of embodies the golden age. Um, I think Trump, um, yeah, I'll go with think Trump, um, yeah, I'll go with Trumper and and Hobbs is one of those. Trumper and and Hobbs is one of those. Which Hobbs? Part one of Hobbs or part Which Hobbs? Part one of Hobbs or part two of Hobbes? two of Hobbes? Well, so the beauty of Hobbs is is there Well, so the beauty of Hobbs is is there there's two parts, right? Which is true there's two parts, right? Which is true of very few great players. Um, I mean, of very few great players. Um, I mean, yeah, part one of Hobbs is the more he's yeah, part one of Hobbs is the more he's the more adventurous, more enterprising the more adventurous, more enterprising um version. And you know he says after um version. And you know he says after the war they start printing the averages the war they start printing the averages and everything is all it's all the and everything is all it's all the accountants kind of take take over and accountants kind of take take over and stuff. So it's a measure of his great he stuff. So it's a measure of his great he was fantastic in both eras. But you was fantastic in both eras. But you know, look, Hobs Hobbs one is more more know, look, Hobs Hobbs one is more more exciting and he's also this um because exciting and he's also this um because he captains England albeit like he's on he captains England albeit like he's on the pitch and he's he stands as captain the pitch and he's he stands as captain rather than he's named captain, but he rather than he's named captain, but he he actually is important in baking that he actually is important in baking that that taboo in terms of being a that taboo in terms of being a professional and he u well he gets professional and he u well he gets what's seen as the highest praise what's seen as the highest praise possible at the time which is he's possible at the time which is he's described as a professional who bats described as a professional who bats like an amateur. So Hobbs Hobbs. Yeah. like an amateur. So Hobbs Hobbs. Yeah. Which is which says a lot about England, Which is which says a lot about England, right? But um yeah, so I'll go with right? But um yeah, so I'll go with Hobbs as well. Um, oh, three. Yeah, I Hobbs as well. Um, oh, three. Yeah, I might actually stick with Rangi here at might actually stick with Rangi here at three. Um, three. Um, three. Um, I just think the way he opens up the the I just think the way he opens up the the on side is is amazing. I just think how on side is is amazing. I just think how we watch wicket today is still is shaped we watch wicket today is still is shaped by him. Um, yeah, I think I think um by him. Um, yeah, I think I think um yeah, I think he speaks for himself. I I yeah, I think he speaks for himself. I I yeah, I'll sit with Randy at three. Um, yeah, I'll sit with Randy at three. Um, oh god, now it's getting very difficult. oh god, now it's getting very difficult. Um, I'm going to avoid my childhood Um, I'm going to avoid my childhood debate by picking them both. I'm going debate by picking them both. I'm going to go with Tendulka 4 and Lara 5. Um, to go with Tendulka 4 and Lara 5. Um, both of whom I was lucky enough to to both of whom I was lucky enough to to talk to as part of this project, which talk to as part of this project, which is amazing. Um, uh, I think Teddora, we is amazing. Um, uh, I think Teddora, we talked about the era thing with HOBS talked about the era thing with HOBS actually. You know, Tanora, you could actually. You know, Tanora, you could say there was almost three eras, you say there was almost three eras, you know, because he's he's he starts off in know, because he's he's he starts off in the kind of the four that, you know, the the kind of the four that, you know, the era of, you know, where Sydney's all the era of, you know, where Sydney's all the quicks and stuff. There's then you the quicks and stuff. There's then you the very bowler friendly era in the nines. very bowler friendly era in the nines. So we have you accommodation these great So we have you accommodation these great quick bowlers and and of course he has quick bowlers and and of course he has to face you know War and Mirly and he to face you know War and Mirly and he then actually has he then kind of gets then actually has he then kind of gets his reward at the end which is then he his reward at the end which is then he has this great batting area towards the has this great batting area towards the end of his his career. Um so actually we end of his his career. Um so actually we talk about averages you know Tinora talk about averages you know Tinora towards the end has an amazing average towards the end has an amazing average but actually the best Tora is actually but actually the best Tora is actually in the in the mid mid late 90s when uh in the in the mid mid late 90s when uh over averages are much less so he's over averages are much less so he's actually standing out by a lot more actually standing out by a lot more relative to the competition um I mean relative to the competition um I mean yeah 200 test matches is pretty absurd yeah 200 test matches is pretty absurd and um the to be yeah I mean one of the and um the to be yeah I mean one of the best players ever fast bowling best players ever fast bowling particularly you'd have to say and particularly you'd have to say and incredible um and Lara actually who I go incredible um and Lara actually who I go number five I think maybe the best ever number five I think maybe the best ever player of spin bowling So a nice player of spin bowling So a nice compliment there. We talked a lot about compliment there. We talked a lot about upbringing um and how it shapes. So um upbringing um and how it shapes. So um you know Lara explained to me that you you know Lara explained to me that you know from Trinidad that isn't you know a know from Trinidad that isn't you know a part of the Caribbean partly because you part of the Caribbean partly because you the history of Indian indentured labor the history of Indian indentured labor and even things like the saw type. So and even things like the saw type. So you have a lot of spin bowling there. Um you have a lot of spin bowling there. Um and also in um and also in um uh kind of windball cricket there at uh kind of windball cricket there at times uh spinners are allowed to bowl times uh spinners are allowed to bowl with imperfect actions and things. So with imperfect actions and things. So all this this develops uh Lara's game all this this develops uh Lara's game against spin and um he played you know against spin and um he played you know my all-time favorite test innings which my all-time favorite test innings which is one for a three not out against is one for a three not out against against Australia 999 you know whizzes against Australia 999 you know whizzes win by one wicket chasing 308 um and he win by one wicket chasing 308 um and he at 5:00 a.m. morning he told me about at 5:00 a.m. morning he told me about how he was visualizing the whole innings how he was visualizing the whole innings in his head before he actually played in his head before he actually played it. You know, very much you trying to it. You know, very much you trying to see off the pace bowls and then going see off the pace bowls and then going very hard against their spinners. They very hard against their spinners. They had Shane War and Stuart McIll um and had Shane War and Stuart McIll um and you know and yeah, there's actually you know and yeah, there's actually great footage of that innings on on great footage of that innings on on YouTube actually. They've it's kind of YouTube actually. They've it's kind of been remastered recently and it's it is been remastered recently and it's it is so incredible. I'm going to go with just so incredible. I'm going to go with just interrupt that was one of the most fun interrupt that was one of the most fun parts of the book to read because you parts of the book to read because you describe on how the previous night he describe on how the previous night he calls his uh friend to come and sit with calls his uh friend to come and sit with him and they watch old clips together him and they watch old clips together and then he comes up with this tactic and then he comes up with this tactic that I'm going to see the fast ballers that I'm going to see the fast ballers out and then I'm going to attack one and out and then I'm going to attack one and McIll only so that the fast ballers have McIll only so that the fast ballers have to come back before they've had time to to come back before they've had time to rest and then I'm going to take them to rest and then I'm going to take them to the cleaners. And that kind of thinking the cleaners. And that kind of thinking is pretty incredible. And once again, is pretty incredible. And once again, had, you know, while attacking Vaughn had, you know, while attacking Vaughn and McGill, had he gotten out, everyone and McGill, had he gotten out, everyone would have criticized him for being too would have criticized him for being too aggressive, except that, hey, you know, aggressive, except that, hey, you know, there's a plan there and he's worked it there's a plan there and he's worked it all out and he's visualized it. So, I all out and he's visualized it. So, I love that chapter, but sorry, please love that chapter, but sorry, please continue. continue. continue. Yeah. Yeah. Because cuz he's he's saying Yeah. Yeah. Because cuz he's he's saying that like McGra is the main threat. Uh, that like McGra is the main threat. Uh, but the way to use him as a threat was but the way to use him as a threat was not to attack McGra, but to attack the not to attack McGra, but to attack the others to make McGra bowl when he's only others to make McGra bowl when he's only 80% physically. So it does show the 80% physically. So it does show the layers of thinking. There is so much layers of thinking. There is so much going on here. Uh so that was that was going on here. Uh so that was that was amazing to kind of deconstruct how you amazing to kind of deconstruct how you played such a great great innings and played such a great great innings and it's a lot more obviously it's it's a lot more obviously it's unbelievable just the stroke making but unbelievable just the stroke making but a lot layers and layers on top of that. a lot layers and layers on top of that. Um so that was that was a real joy to Um so that was that was a real joy to talk to him as well. Uh number six I I talk to him as well. Uh number six I I think we'll you know I'm not going to think we'll you know I'm not going to overink it. I think we'll go with with overink it. I think we'll go with with Soers. I just think as you know uh just Soers. I just think as you know uh just a a joke of a cricketer quite frankly. a a joke of a cricketer quite frankly. We talked a bit about the off the pitch We talked a bit about the off the pitch stuff but just the the spell. I mean you stuff but just the the spell. I mean you know he averages know he averages 58 with the bat. He he's he opens the 58 with the bat. He he's he opens the bowling. He bowls uh orthodox spin. He bowling. He bowls uh orthodox spin. He bowls wrist spin. He's an incredible bowls wrist spin. He's an incredible fielder. Um yeah just just a complete fielder. Um yeah just just a complete freak of a cricketer. I think hard to freak of a cricketer. I think hard to hard to overlook. um hard to overlook. um seven h this is a two I don't want to seven h this is a two I don't want to choose between actually two yeah choose between actually two yeah contrasting but great keeper batsman contrasting but great keeper batsman been uh Andy Flower and and and Adam been uh Andy Flower and and and Adam Gilchrist um there's something um Gilchrist um there's something um yeah there's something really heroic yeah there's something really heroic about Andy Flower the that being I think about Andy Flower the that being I think is unique in terms of being world number is unique in terms of being world number one um in the worst team in the world I one um in the worst team in the world I mean that's it's such an amazing thing mean that's it's such an amazing thing to achieve and the kind of bloody to achieve and the kind of bloody mindness I There's a game in um against mindness I There's a game in um against South Africa. He gets uh 152 and 199. South Africa. He gets uh 152 and 199. Sorry, 142 and 199 not out in the match. Sorry, 142 and 199 not out in the match. Batting at five and keeping wicket and Batting at five and keeping wicket and they still lose by nine wickets and it's they still lose by nine wickets and it's like you really couldn't have done any like you really couldn't have done any more. He's been on the field for like 26 more. He's been on the field for like 26 hours in the test match. It's like um hours in the test match. It's like um yeah an amazing and he talked about his yeah an amazing and he talked about his story of how he become number one. So he story of how he become number one. So he uh he got sat as captain was very very uh he got sat as captain was very very angry about that. writes number one in angry about that. writes number one in the middle of a sheet of paper, you the middle of a sheet of paper, you know, writes all the things he needs to know, writes all the things he needs to do to get to that level. And it ends do to get to that level. And it ends with him with him with him uh basically doing um recording to uh basically doing um recording to himself how he's going to himself how he's going to like watch the ball really closely. Uh like watch the ball really closely. Uh and then so it can feel like he's and then so it can feel like he's slowing the ball down in its flight and slowing the ball down in its flight and it'll be easy for him to hit. And he's it'll be easy for him to hit. And he's listening to then he basically a listening to then he basically a self-hypnosis. He listens to uh this on self-hypnosis. He listens to uh this on an old school Walkman in in his bed and an old school Walkman in in his bed and his wife's like I'm trying to get get his wife's like I'm trying to get get some sleep here kind of thing. Um that some sleep here kind of thing. Um that was uh yeah there's something quite was uh yeah there's something quite heroic about I mean George Headley was heroic about I mean George Headley was another figure earlier who who was another figure earlier who who was similar level while the kind of sense of similar level while the kind of sense of being as a back you know his country's being as a back you know his country's you know his his size bet you know you know his his size bet you know almost first and only hope um yeah so FL almost first and only hope um yeah so FL is very hard and maybe we should go for is very hard and maybe we should go for FL for um for for balance lots let the FL for um for for balance lots let the Aussies have everything right and then Aussies have everything right and then last four I will go for Murley is one of last four I will go for Murley is one of my bowlers. Um he won't he won't bat my bowlers. Um he won't he won't bat eight, I should I should add. But um eight, I should I should add. But um Mury will will be there and just um I Mury will will be there and just um I think he's the most valuable player in think he's the most valuable player in test cricket history in the sense of test cricket history in the sense of like adding wins to his country that like adding wins to his country that they would not otherwise have had. um they would not otherwise have had. um you know and and he's just getting you you know and and he's just getting you know getting six wickets a test is know getting six wickets a test is unbelievable and um actually so good you unbelievable and um actually so good you know his record in you know England know his record in you know England South Africa New Zealand is is South Africa New Zealand is is unbelievable and and just the amount unbelievable and and just the amount he's bowling he's you know he's he's two he's bowling he's you know he's he's two players and you know he's he's worth two players and you know he's he's worth two players inside I I just think um and players inside I I just think um and also you know what he was up against in also you know what he was up against in terms of the the throwing when when terms of the the throwing when when actually what they found was basically actually what they found was basically they looked at guys like McGra who had a they looked at guys like McGra who had a sort of pristine action and they found sort of pristine action and they found out that actually everyone was throwing out that actually everyone was throwing so that's you know you brought something so that's you know you brought something to cricket and you found that um to cricket and you found that um everyone had a bit of flex in their everyone had a bit of flex in their thing which is what in their actions thing which is what in their actions which is why they moved to which is why they moved to 15° being being permitted um because 15° being being permitted um because this sort of idea of a completely this sort of idea of a completely perfect action and she no one was perfect action and she no one was achieving that um I'll go for Mur is one achieving that um I'll go for Mur is one of the bowlers I would also go for um of the bowlers I would also go for um I think what I think reverse swing I think what I think reverse swing deserves to be there I think Wazi deserves to be there I think Wazi Mackram as a exponent of reverse swing Mackram as a exponent of reverse swing is is really unbeatable ball. Um, and is is really unbeatable ball. Um, and you know, it's a left arm moving ball 90 you know, it's a left arm moving ball 90 mph and obviously amazing with a new mph and obviously amazing with a new ball, incredible with the with the old ball, incredible with the with the old ball and a very useful um dangerous ball and a very useful um dangerous hitter down the order. So, I'll have he hitter down the order. So, I'll have he can be my number eight. Um, can be my number eight. Um, I'd like to have a West Indies quick. I I'd like to have a West Indies quick. I will maybe go for um will maybe go for um go for Curly Ambrose. I think was go for Curly Ambrose. I think was probably yeah probably my my favorite. I probably yeah probably my my favorite. I I think the the kind of something very I think the the kind of something very formidable the way that you know people formidable the way that you know people always had a sense of he was you know always had a sense of he was you know would often be on site with himself but would often be on site with himself but there was a sense there was more to be there was a sense there was more to be unleashed and stuff and and a kind of unleashed and stuff and and a kind of just a sheer you know mastery of of that just a sheer you know mastery of of that length he would bowl again and again. length he would bowl again and again. you're kind of that in between length you're kind of that in between length and you know moving the ball ball off and you know moving the ball ball off the seam uh and from that great height the seam uh and from that great height just just you know unbelievably just just you know unbelievably difficult ball bowl to face uh and a difficult ball bowl to face uh and a lovely guy to to shout to as well. Um so lovely guy to to shout to as well. Um so that leaves one one pick. Uh if we can that leaves one one pick. Uh if we can let uh Sabers do more focus more on his let uh Sabers do more focus more on his scene bar and then we can have have have scene bar and then we can have have have war that finishes us off roundly and we war that finishes us off roundly and we have both warn and merly to avoid uh have both warn and merly to avoid uh only having one. only having one. Marvelous. What a team. Uh awesome. That Marvelous. What a team. Uh awesome. That was fun, wasn't it? So uh all right my was fun, wasn't it? So uh all right my penultimate question is that you know penultimate question is that you know these are times of such great change. these are times of such great change. You've written a book on the history of You've written a book on the history of a form of the game which many would a form of the game which many would argue is archaic. It's an anacronism. It argue is archaic. It's an anacronism. It may not even survive. Is there a logic may not even survive. Is there a logic for it to survive? You and I would love for it to survive? You and I would love to see it survive. But do we watch to see it survive. But do we watch enough of it to be able to say that enough of it to be able to say that without being hypocritical? I think it's without being hypocritical? I think it's your job. So you do. I don't think I do. your job. So you do. I don't think I do. But uh uh but yeah, I mean just like But uh uh but yeah, I mean just like Opera, we should and Shakespeare plays, Opera, we should and Shakespeare plays, we should find a way to watch more T20 we should find a way to watch more T20 cricket so that test cricket stays cricket so that test cricket stays alive. Uh but here's my question. If I alive. Uh but here's my question. If I ask you to look 15 years into the future ask you to look 15 years into the future and I'm not asking for a prediction but and I'm not asking for a prediction but if you look 15 years into the future and if you look 15 years into the future and you think of 2040 what is uh you know you think of 2040 what is uh you know what what is the best case scenario you what what is the best case scenario you see for cricket and what is a worst case see for cricket and what is a worst case scenario. scenario. scenario. So just to take a step back, you know, So just to take a step back, you know, in writing this book, one of the in writing this book, one of the reoccurring reoccurring themes, people reoccurring reoccurring themes, people love to say test is is about to die. You love to say test is is about to die. You know, people have been even during the know, people have been even during the golden age, they were saying people golden age, they were saying people aren't watching anymore too long and aren't watching anymore too long and stuff. Players players are paying are stuff. Players players are paying are playing for money now. They're not playing for money now. They're not playing for the badge on the shirt playing for the badge on the shirt anymore and stuff. So these things keep anymore and stuff. So these things keep on on reoccurring. So that is a the fact on on reoccurring. So that is a the fact it's last for so long does tell you that it's last for so long does tell you that this is, you know, it survived for a this is, you know, it survived for a reason. It's it's worth it's worth reason. It's it's worth it's worth something. it's, you know, potentially something. it's, you know, potentially worth something beyond the the worth something beyond the the financials and stuff. Um, I also think financials and stuff. Um, I also think on balance, if someone had offered you on balance, if someone had offered you test cricket today in 2010, 15 years test cricket today in 2010, 15 years ago, you would have people have actually ago, you would have people have actually would probably be pretty content would probably be pretty content actually with where it is now, which is actually with where it is now, which is not to say it's not got a heap of not to say it's not got a heap of problems, but the last 15 years problems, but the last 15 years incredibly really we've gained countries incredibly really we've gained countries rather than than lose them and things. rather than than lose them and things. Um, we have a structure now of sorts. Um, we have a structure now of sorts. The World Championship for me is is very The World Championship for me is is very flawed, but very important. Um so to flawed, but very important. Um so to fast forward 15 years you know for me fast forward 15 years you know for me the world championship is actually so so the world championship is actually so so important because that is I think the important because that is I think the best uh solution to give all countries best uh solution to give all countries not just Australia, England, India um a not just Australia, England, India um a sense of pinnacle to to aspire to as you sense of pinnacle to to aspire to as you had you know when Kane Williamson ned had you know when Kane Williamson ned the first trophy um a sense you know you the first trophy um a sense you know you want every country to to uh have an want every country to to uh have an aspiration just like with the World Cup aspiration just like with the World Cup you know everyone can see there's a you know everyone can see there's a pathway for them to win it you know if pathway for them to win it you know if you play well enough it's all you know you play well enough it's all you know um and you need that in test cricket as um and you need that in test cricket as well um so the the best case is actually well um so the the best case is actually the World Championship is um is really the World Championship is um is really established and is a better system than established and is a better system than it is now. Um and my proposal actually it is now. Um and my proposal actually is for so you currently have the world is for so you currently have the world championship has nine teams you each championship has nine teams you each play six series but it's a very play six series but it's a very complicated you play different length complicated you play different length series and it's comes down to points series and it's comes down to points percentage of points contested which is percentage of points contested which is a mouthful and is a nightmare. So for me a mouthful and is a nightmare. So for me the solution is to have each series of the solution is to have each series of world championship uh be three matches world championship uh be three matches each of four days each which will help each of four days each which will help with the cost and scheduling. Um three with the cost and scheduling. Um three points for a win, one point for a draw. points for a win, one point for a draw. Very transparent fair system. You can Very transparent fair system. You can play extra matches in you know play extra matches in you know Australia, England, India they're Australia, England, India they're outside the structure that's fine but outside the structure that's fine but the series themselves the the uh the the series themselves the the uh the count for WTC everything is three count for WTC everything is three matches times four days each. um very matches times four days each. um very simple and the top team uh goes to the simple and the top team uh goes to the final 2v3 has a playoff to get to the final 2v3 has a playoff to get to the final which is you know we play paid a final which is you know we play paid a week before um and I think actually you week before um and I think actually you do that um has 18 tests every two years do that um has 18 tests every two years guaranteed for teams or be in the 4day guaranteed for teams or be in the 4day format um and I think it's it's sort of format um and I think it's it's sort of it's a great it's be a great outcome but it's a great it's be a great outcome but it's also not utopian like I think you it's also not utopian like I think you can do that with three windows a year of can do that with three windows a year of three weeks each right so that's you three weeks each right so that's you know three months a year would would know three months a year would would would be enough and then you have the would be enough and then you have the rest for for other for other forms of rest for for other for other forms of cricket. So I I think that's a a good cricket. So I I think that's a a good solution, a rigger solution that's not solution, a rigger solution that's not utopian that is actually plausible. Um I utopian that is actually plausible. Um I mean to to get there you you need better mean to to get there you you need better administration. You need kind of joined administration. You need kind of joined up thinking and a bit of a sense of uh up thinking and a bit of a sense of uh this thing is actually worth worth this thing is actually worth worth protecting even if it means you know protecting even if it means you know using some T20 money and stuff and you using some T20 money and stuff and you need to have windows as need to you need to have windows as well. So you need to have these windows well. So you need to have these windows when there's no other cricket and this when there's no other cricket and this is just like you have football you have is just like you have football you have international football international international football international windows and stuff. So you need you need windows and stuff. So you need you need so a South African or New Zealand player so a South African or New Zealand player will not be able to play in the league will not be able to play in the league earning more money during the test earning more money during the test cricket because test cricket will be the cricket because test cricket will be the only thing they can play at that time. only thing they can play at that time. And the other thing actually which would And the other thing actually which would that allow us to do is have more matches that allow us to do is have more matches at the same time which actually add a at the same time which actually add a real narrative to test cricket which we real narrative to test cricket which we haven't seen that much historically but haven't seen that much historically but some you get boxing day test you have some you get boxing day test you have three four tests at the same time three four tests at the same time actually it's it's a really nice feeling actually it's it's a really nice feeling and if the test championship is to gain and if the test championship is to gain and you know England might need to be and you know England might need to be India uh to get to the final so they India uh to get to the final so they want they're actually cheering on New want they're actually cheering on New Zealand against India and that adds a Zealand against India and that adds a narrative as well and just gives more narrative as well and just gives more points of interest. So that would be my points of interest. So that would be my best outcome. Um, probably won't get best outcome. Um, probably won't get there, but I don't think it's utopian to there, but I don't think it's utopian to think. think. think. That's a ceiling. What's a floor? That's a ceiling. What's a floor? A floor is a good question. Uh, a floor A floor is a good question. Uh, a floor is five or six countries playing. is five or six countries playing. Everyone else has given up. You have the Everyone else has given up. You have the kind of Australia, England, India play kind of Australia, England, India play like you have like the Ryder Cup in golf like you have like the Ryder Cup in golf or something where you have these series or something where you have these series that play against each other and then that play against each other and then they play occasionally. They might place they play occasionally. They might place Africa or New Zealand as like a warm-up Africa or New Zealand as like a warm-up um kind of thing to those main series, um kind of thing to those main series, but it's very much like but it's very much like it's on a path to almost being three it's on a path to almost being three countries only. I think that that that's countries only. I think that that that's that's the that is the um the worst case that's the that is the um the worst case the flaw. Yeah. So the the floor is not the flaw. Yeah. So the the floor is not testit dies cuz the ashes and border testit dies cuz the ashes and border frankly make so much money that that's frankly make so much money that that's not dying anytime soon. The floor is um not dying anytime soon. The floor is um administrators just can't be through a administrators just can't be through a lack of interest and uh sort of sense of lack of interest and uh sort of sense of powerlessness um and just kind of a lack powerlessness um and just kind of a lack of smart thinking. The the the flaw is of smart thinking. The the the flaw is they just they just cannot find a way to they just they just cannot find a way to make test cricket you know vibrant make test cricket you know vibrant beyond three countries which would be a beyond three countries which would be a real shame in my view. real shame in my view. Dto agree with that. Uh my final Dto agree with that. Uh my final question for me and my listeners uh question for me and my listeners uh recommend to us books, films, music, any recommend to us books, films, music, any kind of art at all that you love and kind of art at all that you love and that means the world to you. Uh throw in that means the world to you. Uh throw in some cricket books in there, but it some cricket books in there, but it doesn't have to be just cricket, but doesn't have to be just cricket, but just stuff that brings you joy. just stuff that brings you joy. Wow, lovely question. Uh so we'll start Wow, lovely question. Uh so we'll start with a bit of uh bit of cricket books. with a bit of uh bit of cricket books. Um Um Um I think think punits from Pakistan from I think think punits from Pakistan from Rahul we talked about earlier one of my Rahul we talked about earlier one of my favorite books on cricket. So that would favorite books on cricket. So that would be um as a kind of cricket uh book to be um as a kind of cricket uh book to recommend that would be right up there. recommend that would be right up there. Beyond uh cricket Beyond uh cricket uh very tricky. Uh I read a a novel uh very tricky. Uh I read a a novel called Homeland by Fernando Aaron called Homeland by Fernando Aaron Burough which is a kind of bass novel Burough which is a kind of bass novel that was a terrific book that I read that was a terrific book that I read recently. I loved uh levels of the game recently. I loved uh levels of the game as a piece of sports writing by John McI as a piece of sports writing by John McI which was um he he used a you know US which was um he he used a you know US Open match as a window to write about Open match as a window to write about these these two players Arthur Ash one these these two players Arthur Ash one and um and the whole the whole world and and um and the whole the whole world and the kind of world of tennis and the the kind of world of tennis and the world beyond tennis and and it's very world beyond tennis and and it's very skillful to be able to and pull it off skillful to be able to and pull it off to use one one feature as a prism to do to use one one feature as a prism to do a lot more. So that was uh that was a a lot more. So that was uh that was a book that's a book I I really enjoyed. book that's a book I I really enjoyed. Um, any more you want? Um, any more you want? Um, films, music, whatever gives you Um, films, music, whatever gives you joy. I'm sure many things give you joy. joy. I'm sure many things give you joy. Uh, I watch a lot of Alfred Hitchcock Uh, I watch a lot of Alfred Hitchcock films, Review Windows, stuff like that. films, Review Windows, stuff like that. Um, Psycho, not sure that gives you joy. Um, Psycho, not sure that gives you joy. That that's hell of a I really enjoyed That that's hell of a I really enjoyed watching thing called State of Happiness watching thing called State of Happiness Now, which is very good. Um, a about Now, which is very good. Um, a about what happens when uh small village in what happens when uh small village in Norway discovers loads of oil and loads Norway discovers loads of oil and loads of Americans come in. That was a that's of Americans come in. That was a that's a nice one to watch you at the moment. a nice one to watch you at the moment. Um, yeah, Um, yeah, Um, yeah, Tim, thanks a lot, man. You've given me Tim, thanks a lot, man. You've given me a lot of your time. Uh, and of course, a lot of your time. Uh, and of course, you spend much much much much much much you spend much much much more time writing this awesome book, more time writing this awesome book, which everyone listening to this is which everyone listening to this is instantly going to buy right now and instantly going to buy right now and read. So, thanks a lot. I really enjoyed read. So, thanks a lot. I really enjoyed this. this. this. Oh, thank you so much for having me. A Oh, thank you so much for having me. A real pleasure to be on. Um, and yeah, real pleasure to be on. Um, and yeah, thank you for indulging me for so long. thank you for indulging me for so long. If you enjoyed listening to this If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out the show notes. Enter episode, check out the show notes. Enter rabbit holes at will. Go to your nearest rabbit holes at will. Go to your nearest bookstore online or offline and pick up bookstore online or offline and pick up every book by Tim Wigmore, especially every book by Tim Wigmore, especially test cricket a history. It's a great test cricket a history. It's a great read. You can follow Tim on Twitter at read. You can follow Tim on Twitter at Tim Wig. You can follow me on Twitter at Tim Wig. You can follow me on Twitter at Amitma AMIV AMA. You can browse past Amitma AMIV AMA. You can browse past episodes of the scene and the unseen at episodes of the scene and the unseen at seen unseen. And every podcast app of seen unseen. And every podcast app of your choice. Thank you for listening. your choice. Thank you for listening. Did you enjoy this episode of The Scene Did you enjoy this episode of The Scene and the Unseen? If so, would you like to and the Unseen? If so, would you like to support the production of the show? You support the production of the show? You can go over to seen ununseene.in/support can go over to seen ununseene.in/support and contribute any amount you like to and contribute any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking. keep this podcast alive and kicking. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.