================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: MSivGOsaqbs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MSivGOsaqbs
TITLE: Trump’s Game Show: How Much of Ukraine Will Putin Win?
CHANNEL: The Rest Is Politics
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-12
DURATION: 44m 28s
VIEWS: 181,285
LIKES: 3,862
COMMENTS: 1,066

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Watch AD FREE here: https://youtu.be/wuCLe2eTdB0

Have Zelensky and Europe lost all leverage over Trump and Putin? What’s behind Vance’s ‘odd relationship’ with UK foreign secretary David Lammy? Why does Rory think Starmer’s terrorist proscription of direct action group Palestine Action is ‘really foolish’?

Join Rory and Alastair as they answer all these questions and more.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rest Is Politics is powered by Fuse Energy. Fuse are giving away FREE TRIP+ membership for all of 2025 to new sign-ups  TRIP+ gets you ad-free listening, discounts, and early access to episodes and pre-sale tickets for live shows! To sign up and for terms and conditions, visit https://www.fuseenergy.com/politics ⚡
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Podcast episode: 436
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
✅ Subscribe Here:  https://www.y
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 17,255

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Coming up on the show today, all the Coming up on the show today, all the cards again are on Putin's side. There's cards again are on Putin's side. There's nothing Trump will ever actually really nothing Trump will ever actually really do to punish him. do to punish him. What's perfect for Putin is this idea What's perfect for Putin is this idea that he and Trump are coming together to that he and Trump are coming together to decide what to tell Europe is going to decide what to tell Europe is going to happen to a major part of Europe. happen to a major part of Europe. The central security question probably The central security question probably of our age is Russia's threat to Europe. of our age is Russia's threat to Europe. Even I at the moment I'm waking up Even I at the moment I'm waking up feeling a little bit sick about what's feeling a little bit sick about what's going to happen. Just imagine what going to happen. Just imagine what Zalinski is feeling like. Zalinski is feeling like. The rest is politics is powered by Fuse The rest is politics is powered by Fuse Energy and Fuse are now offering 20 Energy and Fuse are now offering 20 credit and free trip plus membership if credit and free trip plus membership if you switch to a fixed tariff before the you switch to a fixed tariff before the end of August. end of August. They've listened carefully to their They've listened carefully to their customers and the number one request was customers and the number one request was gas tariffs. So now at last you can gas tariffs. So now at last you can switch both your gas and electricity to switch both your gas and electricity to fuse. One supplier, one bill, one less fuse. One supplier, one bill, one less quagmire to navigate. quagmire to navigate. It's also cheaper. Fuse, gas, and It's also cheaper. Fuse, gas, and electricity customers typically save electricity customers typically save £150 versus the price cap. £150 versus the price cap. Today's political climate is full of Today's political climate is full of talk about control and clarity. Well, talk about control and clarity. Well, Fuse have quietly exercised some, at Fuse have quietly exercised some, at least when it comes to your energy bill. least when it comes to your energy bill. And they began with a mission which was And they began with a mission which was to make electricity cheaper, cleaner, to make electricity cheaper, cleaner, simpler. And Fuse now supplies over simpler. And Fuse now supplies over 50,000 homes across the UK. All done 50,000 homes across the UK. All done quietly, efficiently, and without a quietly, efficiently, and without a single campaign bus tour. single campaign bus tour. Fuse's support is available 24 hours a Fuse's support is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with real people day, 7 days a week, with real people replying in under 2 minutes. replying in under 2 minutes. So go to fuseenergy.com/politics So go to fuseenergy.com/politics to switch your gas and electricity to to switch your gas and electricity to Fuse and get your 20 credit and free Fuse and get your 20 credit and free Trip Plus membership. Welcome to the rest is politics with me Welcome to the rest is politics with me Alistister Campbell Alistister Campbell Alistister Campbell and with me Rory Stewart. and with me Rory Stewart. So Rory big big big week on the So Rory big big big week on the international front Ukraine and the international front Ukraine and the Alaska summit Putin Trump at this stage Alaska summit Putin Trump at this stage no Zalinsky and I doubt that there will no Zalinsky and I doubt that there will be and then I think the second half we be and then I think the second half we should look at um various elements of should look at um various elements of what's been going on in Gaza and what's been going on in Gaza and including Palestine action these including Palestine action these protests in in London. Are we allowed to protests in in London. Are we allowed to say Palestine action? I think we are. say Palestine action? I think we are. It's a good question, Alison. I think It's a good question, Alison. I think you should be careful, but you'd be on you should be careful, but you'd be on the younger demographic being arrested. the younger demographic being arrested. Let's answer it in part two. So, where Let's answer it in part two. So, where do you want to start with this um Trump do you want to start with this um Trump summit? I mean, in a way, this is this summit? I mean, in a way, this is this is a perfect week for Donald Trump. is a perfect week for Donald Trump. Everybody's talking about him at the Everybody's talking about him at the start of the week about an event that's start of the week about an event that's going to happen at the end of the week. going to happen at the end of the week. And between now and then, as yesterday, And between now and then, as yesterday, he will do lots of his kind of weaves he will do lots of his kind of weaves and rambles. The one that he did and rambles. The one that he did yesterday with Pete Hexert and Pam Bondi yesterday with Pete Hexert and Pam Bondi and various former Fox presenters behind and various former Fox presenters behind him at the White House was kind of all him at the White House was kind of all over the place. Really was a ramble. But over the place. Really was a ramble. But in the end, at the end of the week, I in the end, at the end of the week, I guess it is a very very important guess it is a very very important meeting. But right now, as things stand, meeting. But right now, as things stand, I feel Vladimir Putin is getting a lot I feel Vladimir Putin is getting a lot more out of this than Trump or Zalinski. more out of this than Trump or Zalinski. How do you see it? There's a really How do you see it? There's a really interesting theme I think which is true interesting theme I think which is true of everything that Trump's done so far of everything that Trump's done so far from Ukraine all the way through to from Ukraine all the way through to tariffs which is and it's part of your tariffs which is and it's part of your story about reality TV which is that on story about reality TV which is that on the surface he changes his position a the surface he changes his position a lot so on Ukraine we've gone from lot so on Ukraine we've gone from moments where he's been cutting off all moments where he's been cutting off all the basic American support including the basic American support including satellite support to Ukraine and then satellite support to Ukraine and then sometimes he's saying he's very angry sometimes he's saying he's very angry with Putin and he's threatening him with with Putin and he's threatening him with sanctions and he's doing a day threat. sanctions and he's doing a day threat. But actually beneath the surface of all But actually beneath the surface of all this stuff, he remains remarkably this stuff, he remains remarkably consistent because my guess is that the consistent because my guess is that the kind of deal he's going to try to strike kind of deal he's going to try to strike with Vladimir Putin this week is going with Vladimir Putin this week is going to be very similar to the kind of thing to be very similar to the kind of thing we would have been talking about in we would have been talking about in January. In other words, a deal where he January. In other words, a deal where he doesn't really put any pressure on doesn't really put any pressure on Russia, where he pushes Ukraine to make Russia, where he pushes Ukraine to make territorial concessions and he claims territorial concessions and he claims he's ended the war. And I think it's s he's ended the war. And I think it's s and the reason I'm drawing the analogy and the reason I'm drawing the analogy is I think the same sort of true with is I think the same sort of true with tariffs. It sort of goes up and down tariffs. It sort of goes up and down with him signaling that he's going to be with him signaling that he's going to be nice to India and given the impression nice to India and given the impression everything's fine and then suddenly he everything's fine and then suddenly he whacks him with it. One of the whacks him with it. One of the achievements of this wizardry is that a achievements of this wizardry is that a deal which 5 months ago would have deal which 5 months ago would have seemed absolutely terrible. In other seemed absolutely terrible. In other words, a deal where he has made it clear words, a deal where he has made it clear that the US is not going to provide more that the US is not going to provide more money to Ukraine and where the best we money to Ukraine and where the best we can hope for is that Europe has to buy can hope for is that Europe has to buy American weaponry to send it to Ukraine. American weaponry to send it to Ukraine. I mean was a pretty bad case scenario is I mean was a pretty bad case scenario is now seen as a diplomatic triumph which now seen as a diplomatic triumph which Mark Rut gets congratulated for. Mark Rut gets congratulated for. Watching some of his his comments and I Watching some of his his comments and I think it's really important with Trump think it's really important with Trump as you say to kind of try to separate as you say to kind of try to separate out from when he goes on these weird mad out from when he goes on these weird mad weaves and rambles and and when actually weaves and rambles and and when actually he's saying something that seems to fit he's saying something that seems to fit with the position that he's held. the with the position that he's held. the position that he's held reinforced by position that he's held reinforced by Vance who seems to hold the position Vance who seems to hold the position even more strongly is that basically even more strongly is that basically we're on Russia's side in this war and we're on Russia's side in this war and and then lay in lay in with that um this and then lay in lay in with that um this absolute obsession with wanting a Nobel absolute obsession with wanting a Nobel Peace Prize and if you think about these Peace Prize and if you think about these two leaders so they decided on Alaska two leaders so they decided on Alaska and of course Alaska has its own amazing and of course Alaska has its own amazing symbolism in this because Alaska used to symbolism in this because Alaska used to be Russia and then when Alexander II was be Russia and then when Alexander II was in deep trouble financially. They sold in deep trouble financially. They sold it to America for seven just over $7 it to America for seven just over $7 million in 1867. And then of course the million in 1867. And then of course the other kind of historical element you other kind of historical element you used to talk about wizardry. Let's just used to talk about wizardry. Let's just pretend that Trump maybe did think these pretend that Trump maybe did think these things through. Alaska obvious things through. Alaska obvious resonance. The other word that keeps resonance. The other word that keeps coming up in the in the massive buildup coming up in the in the massive buildup to this meeting is Yaltta where to this meeting is Yaltta where Roosevelt, Stalin, and Churchill got Roosevelt, Stalin, and Churchill got together and said, "Right, we're the big together and said, "Right, we're the big powers. We'll carve up the world." And powers. We'll carve up the world." And of course, what's perfect for Putin is of course, what's perfect for Putin is this idea that he and Trump are coming this idea that he and Trump are coming together to decide what to tell Europe together to decide what to tell Europe is going to happen to a major part of is going to happen to a major part of Europe. Of course, the reason why Yaltta Europe. Of course, the reason why Yaltta is so resonant is because it's part of is so resonant is because it's part of Crimea, which is also kind of on the Crimea, which is also kind of on the table in terms of the the bits of land. table in terms of the the bits of land. And of course, this quote really, first And of course, this quote really, first of all, something Trump said yesterday. of all, something Trump said yesterday. He said, He said, He said, you know, I'm going to see Putin. I'm you know, I'm going to see Putin. I'm going to Russia on Friday. going to Russia on Friday. He's getting on a bit. We know that. He's getting on a bit. We know that. Just imagine if Joe Biden had said that, Just imagine if Joe Biden had said that, I'm going to Russia. I mean, it's barely I'm going to Russia. I mean, it's barely barely landed. And and the second thing barely landed. And and the second thing he said, Rory, try and unpick this one he said, Rory, try and unpick this one for me. We're going to get some back and for me. We're going to get some back and we're going to get some switched. There we're going to get some switched. There will be some swapping of territories to will be some swapping of territories to the betterment of both. Who is we? We're the betterment of both. Who is we? We're going to get some back. Who is we? going to get some back. Who is we? Well, it's really good. I I like the Well, it's really good. I I like the who's we because of course the big uh who's we because of course the big uh missing party in all of this is Ukraine. missing party in all of this is Ukraine. Ukraine who have suffered at least Ukraine who have suffered at least 400,000 casualties, who've been fighting 400,000 casualties, who've been fighting this horrifying war, who were invaded, this horrifying war, who were invaded, who had their territory taken from them who had their territory taken from them that continues to be occupied and who that continues to be occupied and who are not invited to the table. And of are not invited to the table. And of course, quite understandably, the course, quite understandably, the Ukrainians and and when the Europeans Ukrainians and and when the Europeans occasionally develop a backbone, the occasionally develop a backbone, the Europeans who sometimes make mild Europeans who sometimes make mild comments about this are terrified that comments about this are terrified that Trump doesn't do a big summit with Trump doesn't do a big summit with Putin, particularly when the Russian Putin, particularly when the Russian president's been out in the cold for president's been out in the cold for years now. No American president's met years now. No American president's met him. So, as you say, for Nobel Peace him. So, as you say, for Nobel Peace Prize reasons, ego reasons, he's going Prize reasons, ego reasons, he's going to want to come out with a deal. to want to come out with a deal. Yeah. So all the cards again are on Yeah. So all the cards again are on Putin's side because Putin and the other Putin's side because Putin and the other figure I guess is Binyamin Netanyahu who figure I guess is Binyamin Netanyahu who you get the sense there's nothing Trump you get the sense there's nothing Trump will ever actually really do to punish will ever actually really do to punish him. He may criticize him or complain him. He may criticize him or complain but he's never going to impose tariffs but he's never going to impose tariffs on him. He's never going to do anything on him. He's never going to do anything of that sort. of that sort. You said last week about you know he's You said last week about you know he's always got this two weeks thing and he always got this two weeks thing and he talked the other recently about you know talked the other recently about you know in 10 to 12 days he's going to put these in 10 to 12 days he's going to put these secondary sanctions on Putin. Well, of secondary sanctions on Putin. Well, of course, they've we've passed the 10 to course, they've we've passed the 10 to 12 days, but now he's got a different 12 days, but now he's got a different chapter in the reality TV show, which is chapter in the reality TV show, which is the big one. The big one in Alaska. the big one. The big one in Alaska. Who's going to talk to him about 10 to Who's going to talk to him about 10 to 12 days of the sanctions when he's got 12 days of the sanctions when he's got this massive event where Putin's flying this massive event where Putin's flying in on a 9-hour flight that way and he's in on a 9-hour flight that way and he's coming up from Washington on a 7-hour coming up from Washington on a 7-hour flight that way. We don't even know yet flight that way. We don't even know yet where they're actually going to meet. where they're actually going to meet. the whole thing I just imagine. Look, the whole thing I just imagine. Look, I'm not Ukrainian and I'm not I don't I'm not Ukrainian and I'm not I don't I'm not remotely involved in these I'm not remotely involved in these discussions, but even I at the moment discussions, but even I at the moment I'm waking up feeling a little bit sick I'm waking up feeling a little bit sick about what's going to happen. Just about what's going to happen. Just imagine what Zalinski is feeling like. imagine what Zalinski is feeling like. He's got his country on the table where He's got his country on the table where Putin is basically the main voice Putin is basically the main voice alongside Trump. And in this ramble alongside Trump. And in this ramble yesterday, Trump, there was only one yesterday, Trump, there was only one person in this equation that he person in this equation that he criticized yesterday and that was criticized yesterday and that was Zalinski. He said, "I get on fine with Zalinski. He said, "I get on fine with Zilinsky, but I really disagree with Zilinsky, but I really disagree with him. This war should never have him. This war should never have started." What does that even mean when started." What does that even mean when he says that this war should never have he says that this war should never have started? started? started? It's really disturbing. And the, as you It's really disturbing. And the, as you say, the lack of details are revealing. say, the lack of details are revealing. There's this lovely analogy that you've There's this lovely analogy that you've you found there um with Alaska. And of you found there um with Alaska. And of course, you could extend it to course, you could extend it to Greenland, which is another territory, Greenland, which is another territory, which uh obviously he hopes that he can which uh obviously he hopes that he can buy in the way that the United States buy in the way that the United States bought Alaska. and another enormous bought Alaska. and another enormous territory that a bit like Alaska full of territory that a bit like Alaska full of minerals that he could add to his minerals that he could add to his country. But the other detail thing country. But the other detail thing which I thought was quite revealing, which I thought was quite revealing, it's a small moment, but you might have it's a small moment, but you might have picked up that when Pete Hexith was picked up that when Pete Hexith was speaking recently about NATO. speaking recently about NATO. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It turned out that he didn't know It turned out that he didn't know anything about Keningrad. Didn't know anything about Keningrad. Didn't know where it was. Now the the reason why where it was. Now the the reason why that matters, it sounds like a small that matters, it sounds like a small thing, but actually given that the thing, but actually given that the central security question probably of central security question probably of our age is Russia's threat to Europe, our age is Russia's threat to Europe, Russia's threat to Ukraine, Russia's Russia's threat to Ukraine, Russia's threat to the Baltics and Khenrad, this threat to the Baltics and Khenrad, this tiny little bit of Russian territory tiny little bit of Russian territory deep into Europe is going to be central deep into Europe is going to be central to that. It was very interesting that to that. It was very interesting that Hexith apparently 6 months into the job, Hexith apparently 6 months into the job, seven months of the job, hadn't been seven months of the job, hadn't been briefed on it, wasn't even remotely briefed on it, wasn't even remotely familiar with it. That would have been familiar with it. That would have been very unusual with previous American very unusual with previous American defense secretaries who for all their defense secretaries who for all their flaws were always, I found, in my flaws were always, I found, in my experience, unbelievably well briefed. I experience, unbelievably well briefed. I mean, talking to American defense mean, talking to American defense secretaries or secretaries of state, boy secretaries or secretaries of state, boy were they briefed. Boy, could they do were they briefed. Boy, could they do you know the the talking points you know you know the the talking points you know Kerry could always drop names of towns Kerry could always drop names of towns in Afghanistan and talk about push tagic in Afghanistan and talk about push tagic divisions because he sat through endless divisions because he sat through endless briefings. Was this the Senate or the briefings. Was this the Senate or the Congress uh hearing? Cuz I I saw one Congress uh hearing? Cuz I I saw one where Hexathy eventually said, "What are where Hexathy eventually said, "What are we turning this into a quiz show which we turning this into a quiz show which of course was it was like leading with of course was it was like leading with the his chin because of course he is the his chin because of course he is basically a Fox News presenter." But the basically a Fox News presenter." But the point is he didn't know the answer to point is he didn't know the answer to any of these questions. And when we any of these questions. And when we talked to Seth Molton on leading, he talked to Seth Molton on leading, he made the point, and I'm sure this is made the point, and I'm sure this is right, that people at the top of the right, that people at the top of the military, they just they see the guy as military, they just they see the guy as a joke. There was a very very funny a joke. There was a very very funny moment Rory yesterday when um Trump was moment Rory yesterday when um Trump was standing there at the podium Hexath and standing there at the podium Hexath and Pam Bondi behind him and he was asked Pam Bondi behind him and he was asked about something that Putin had done or about something that Putin had done or some something about some general who'd some something about some general who'd made a mistake and Trump basically said made a mistake and Trump basically said I'm sure Vladimir of course he called I'm sure Vladimir of course he called Zalinski Zilinski but with Vladimir I'm Zalinski Zilinski but with Vladimir I'm you know Vladimir's probably taken out you know Vladimir's probably taken out the general and shot him kind of thing the general and shot him kind of thing right and Hexus did a very nervous smirk right and Hexus did a very nervous smirk in the in the background in the in the background those tanks got stuck in the mud I don't those tanks got stuck in the mud I don't know who that general is, but knowing know who that general is, but knowing Vladimir, he's probably not around any Vladimir, he's probably not around any longer because all those tanks were longer because all those tanks were stuck in the mud and they went along stuck in the mud and they went along with the javelins. with the javelins. I find this whole thing so depressing I find this whole thing so depressing and of course Europe's position, you're and of course Europe's position, you're right, that there is a sort of sense of right, that there is a sort of sense of impotence. At least they're kind of impotence. At least they're kind of trying to get their voice heard. Matt trying to get their voice heard. Matt has actually been quite forceful on has actually been quite forceful on this. There's apparently some sort of this. There's apparently some sort of conference call that they're having conference call that they're having tomorrow, Wednesday, where the Europeans tomorrow, Wednesday, where the Europeans are going to be able to speak directly are going to be able to speak directly to Trump in terms of saying what their to Trump in terms of saying what their concerns are. But look, he's already concerns are. But look, he's already talking about giving away pretty chunky talking about giving away pretty chunky sections of Ukraine and added to which sections of Ukraine and added to which Putin will say, "Yeah, thank you very Putin will say, "Yeah, thank you very much. I'll have that." And then you'll much. I'll have that." And then you'll go away and Zilinsky will tell you to go away and Zilinsky will tell you to get lost and meanwhile I'll just sit get lost and meanwhile I'll just sit back and then I'll carry on. That's back and then I'll carry on. That's what's going to happen out of this what's going to happen out of this meeting. meeting. meeting. Just a very very quick reminder of I Just a very very quick reminder of I think for listeners of what's been think for listeners of what's been happening since January because it is happening since January because it is pretty bewildering and I was trying to pretty bewildering and I was trying to remind myself of it but everyone will remind myself of it but everyone will remember that Trump came into office remember that Trump came into office saying that he was going to end this war saying that he was going to end this war in 24 hours describing Putin as a in 24 hours describing Putin as a genius. Then there was the amazing genius. Then there was the amazing humiliation of Zilinski in the White humiliation of Zilinski in the White House. Then in March he cut weapons to House. Then in March he cut weapons to Ukraine. Then in June, June 30th, the Ukraine. Then in June, June 30th, the Americans actually turned back the cargo Americans actually turned back the cargo planes which had all the main uh stuff planes which had all the main uh stuff on it, had the Patriot missiles, um had on it, had the Patriot missiles, um had the hellfires, had the stingers. They the hellfires, had the stingers. They literally stopped the planes from taking literally stopped the planes from taking off. And there was a real panic cuz this off. And there was a real panic cuz this was the point at which it was going to was the point at which it was going to be almost impossible for Ukraine to deal be almost impossible for Ukraine to deal with Russian planes in particular. And with Russian planes in particular. And then suddenly the story changed and we then suddenly the story changed and we had one of these kind of cliffhanger had one of these kind of cliffhanger moments where suddenly things seemed to moments where suddenly things seemed to be going back in Ukraine's direction. be going back in Ukraine's direction. There were stories that Trump was saying There were stories that Trump was saying openly he was disappointed with Putin. openly he was disappointed with Putin. There was this meeting with NATO where There was this meeting with NATO where Rut sent these cringey texts and he was Rut sent these cringey texts and he was calling Trump daddy and then the cargo calling Trump daddy and then the cargo planes flew and then there were tariffs planes flew and then there were tariffs being put on India because India was being put on India because India was buying Russian oil by Trump and and so buying Russian oil by Trump and and so all of that seemed very very positive. all of that seemed very very positive. But meanwhile while the deadline was But meanwhile while the deadline was ticking up to the sanctions which as you ticking up to the sanctions which as you say he missed there were all these say he missed there were all these different texts going around three at different texts going around three at least. There was a negotiation between least. There was a negotiation between Russia and Ukraine where the Ukrainians Russia and Ukraine where the Ukrainians had a very optimistic vision and their had a very optimistic vision and their vision was fighting ceases on the vision was fighting ceases on the current front lines. No recognition of current front lines. No recognition of the territory that Russia's taken and the territory that Russia's taken and Ukraine can't join NATO but it can join Ukraine can't join NATO but it can join the EU. So that that was the deal that the EU. So that that was the deal that Ukraine was happy with. Kellogg, who's Ukraine was happy with. Kellogg, who's the general, who's been his supposed to the general, who's been his supposed to be his Ukraine point man, was doing some be his Ukraine point man, was doing some very detailed negotiations, looking at very detailed negotiations, looking at lots of nuances, the kind of stuff your lots of nuances, the kind of stuff your friend Jonathan Pal would been looking friend Jonathan Pal would been looking at, very micro questions around how we at, very micro questions around how we can calibrate sanctions against arms can calibrate sanctions against arms supplies, against territory. Yeah. And supplies, against territory. Yeah. And meanwhile, Wititov flies into the middle meanwhile, Wititov flies into the middle of all of this and blows it all up and of all of this and blows it all up and essentially creates a complete mess essentially creates a complete mess because he's back in a world in which because he's back in a world in which Putin is saying recognize on Luhansk Putin is saying recognize on Luhansk lift the sanctions and everything will lift the sanctions and everything will be fine. be fine. be fine. You've got to be very very careful what You've got to be very very careful what you read on this because there's so much you read on this because there's so much sort of misinformation flies around. sort of misinformation flies around. There was a German report yesterday that There was a German report yesterday that Witco misunderstood Witco misunderstood Witco misunderstood what Putin was offering. And what what what Putin was offering. And what what Witoff reported back as Putin offering a Witoff reported back as Putin offering a concession was actually Putin saying I concession was actually Putin saying I can kind of live with the status quo in can kind of live with the status quo in terms of the territory that we've taken. terms of the territory that we've taken. This German report said that Wickoff This German report said that Wickoff thought he was saying you can have some thought he was saying you can have some of that back which is highly unlikely. of that back which is highly unlikely. So what you what you've got I sense I So what you what you've got I sense I mean I don't know. I'm not I can't mean I don't know. I'm not I can't pretend that I've talked to either Putin pretend that I've talked to either Putin or Trump in recent days. But what you or Trump in recent days. But what you have is Putin going to Anchorage, have is Putin going to Anchorage, assuming this is Anchorage. He's assuming this is Anchorage. He's basically going to say, "We keep what basically going to say, "We keep what we've taken. Crimea, forget it. Eastern we've taken. Crimea, forget it. Eastern Ukraine is basically Russian." Donald Ukraine is basically Russian." Donald nods away at that. Ukraine can never nods away at that. Ukraine can never join NATO. And I wouldn't be surprised join NATO. And I wouldn't be surprised if he adds the European Union to that. if he adds the European Union to that. NATO can never go near any of the former NATO can never go near any of the former Soviet realms. We have to keep limits on Soviet realms. We have to keep limits on the size of Ukraine military and any the size of Ukraine military and any government which follows Zalinski government which follows Zalinski because he's toast. Donald, let's just because he's toast. Donald, let's just agree that you know you and I both think agree that you know you and I both think he's toast has got to be much more he's toast has got to be much more friendly towards me. Now there's nothing friendly towards me. Now there's nothing in any of that stuff that is remotely in any of that stuff that is remotely different to what he's been saying from different to what he's been saying from the very very very start. the very very very start. So it's it's it's victory. He's won. So it's it's it's victory. He's won. Well, it's certainly it's certainly it's Well, it's certainly it's certainly it's progress on his terms. And if you think progress on his terms. And if you think about it, Rory, the deal, if you about it, Rory, the deal, if you remember, for example, I guess the remember, for example, I guess the biggest reality TV show episode possibly biggest reality TV show episode possibly in term one was Trump's summit with Kim in term one was Trump's summit with Kim Yongun. And if you think about all the Yongun. And if you think about all the talk that went into what it meant to talk that went into what it meant to have a one-on-one summit on a major have a one-on-one summit on a major foreign policy issue with the president foreign policy issue with the president of the United States, Trump has given it of the United States, Trump has given it to him. And this at a time when the to him. And this at a time when the guy's an indicted war criminal. And what guy's an indicted war criminal. And what this also says, come to Alaska. Sorry, I this also says, come to Alaska. Sorry, I said it was Russia a minute ago, but said it was Russia a minute ago, but actually it's the United States. Come to actually it's the United States. Come to my country. That's also saying, by the my country. That's also saying, by the way, Vlad, we don't buy any of this way, Vlad, we don't buy any of this that you're a war criminal. The that you're a war criminal. The Americans are not going to be Americans are not going to be cooperating with the international court cooperating with the international court at all. Don't have any worries about at all. Don't have any worries about that. So if you're Zillinsky, you're that. So if you're Zillinsky, you're sitting there thinking, well, yes, I've sitting there thinking, well, yes, I've got my friends in Europe trying to bang got my friends in Europe trying to bang me on the door to get me into the me on the door to get me into the meeting somehow. Trump sometimes says he meeting somehow. Trump sometimes says he might come, sometimes says he might talk might come, sometimes says he might talk to him after he's talked to the to him after he's talked to the Europeans, but I find I find the whole Europeans, but I find I find the whole thing really really gut-wrenching. thing really really gut-wrenching. What one thing I think people haven't What one thing I think people haven't focused on enough is that Trump has lost focused on enough is that Trump has lost a lot of the leverage that he had over a lot of the leverage that he had over Zilinski. He's certainly not using Zilinski. He's certainly not using leverage over Putin, but there's no leverage over Putin, but there's no reason now for Zilinski to accept this reason now for Zilinski to accept this stuff. Trump has basically taken away stuff. Trump has basically taken away everything that the US uh provided and everything that the US uh provided and supported in Ukraine. All that's left supported in Ukraine. All that's left now is he's saying, "I'm prepared to now is he's saying, "I'm prepared to sell American kit to European sell American kit to European governments who can then donate it to governments who can then donate it to Ukraine." And he describes this as good Ukraine." And he describes this as good business. I suppose he could stop doing business. I suppose he could stop doing that, but one sense is that the arms that, but one sense is that the arms manufacturers who are making tens of manufacturers who are making tens of billions of dollars out of this and billions of dollars out of this and Trump's general instincts, which are to Trump's general instincts, which are to make money, will lead him to continue make money, will lead him to continue selling it. So, for that reason, it's selling it. So, for that reason, it's difficult to know exactly what leverage difficult to know exactly what leverage he has over Zilinsky to force Zilinsky he has over Zilinsky to force Zilinsky to accept whatever deal comes forward. to accept whatever deal comes forward. And and my guess is we're then going to And and my guess is we're then going to get into a very interesting world where get into a very interesting world where Trump and Putin announce with great Trump and Putin announce with great fanfare. Let's imagine if you're Putin, fanfare. Let's imagine if you're Putin, presumably part of this is going to be presumably part of this is going to be business. Part of it is going to be why business. Part of it is going to be why don't we divide up the Arctic between don't we divide up the Arctic between us? Why don't we do some lovely mineral us? Why don't we do some lovely mineral explorations together? You drop the explorations together? You drop the sanctions. The Russian and American sanctions. The Russian and American economy brackets Greenland going in some economy brackets Greenland going in some funny direction, right? And that's funny direction, right? And that's announced and then presumably Zilinski announced and then presumably Zilinski says no and Europe has to find a way to says no and Europe has to find a way to say no or redevelop some kind of say no or redevelop some kind of backbone because it's existential for backbone because it's existential for Europe. I think that's the other thing Europe. I think that's the other thing that's sort of lost in all of this as we that's sort of lost in all of this as we get dragged back into the rowout TV get dragged back into the rowout TV show. The scenario that you laid out, show. The scenario that you laid out, which is a demilitarized Ukraine which is a demilitarized Ukraine acknowledgement of everything that Putin acknowledgement of everything that Putin has taken, no Ukraine joining NATO is has taken, no Ukraine joining NATO is essentially the worst case scenario for essentially the worst case scenario for Europe. That that significantly Europe. That that significantly increases the likelihood of Putin then increases the likelihood of Putin then continuing to push into the Baltic, for continuing to push into the Baltic, for example. you want to know to talk about example. you want to know to talk about about the whole issue of drones in this about the whole issue of drones in this war because I I was reading a thing the war because I I was reading a thing the other day about the the way the other day about the the way the Ukrainians are now becoming like global Ukrainians are now becoming like global leaders in use of and manufacturer of leaders in use of and manufacturer of drones but you've actually been talking drones but you've actually been talking to some of these people involved in this to some of these people involved in this just tell us a bit about that just tell us a bit about that it's bizarre at the front line now if it's bizarre at the front line now if you go to the front line essentially the you go to the front line essentially the sky is filled with drones a lot of them sky is filled with drones a lot of them loitering and they've created a world loitering and they've created a world that has fixed the front lines. Partly that has fixed the front lines. Partly because unless you're in your bunker, if because unless you're in your bunker, if you step outside, you're hit by a drone. you step outside, you're hit by a drone. Some calculations suggest 70 or 80% of Some calculations suggest 70 or 80% of the casualties on the front line are the casualties on the front line are currently created by these pretty basic currently created by these pretty basic cheap drones. And there are two sorts. cheap drones. And there are two sorts. There's a kind of analog drone and There's a kind of analog drone and there's a digital drone. And the digital there's a digital drone. And the digital drone has slightly better video drone has slightly better video capacity. But what you need to imagine capacity. But what you need to imagine with these these small drones is with these these small drones is something very similar to what you'd see something very similar to what you'd see if you go to a park in London. Many of if you go to a park in London. Many of them are those little quadricopters that them are those little quadricopters that you can almost buy for your kid on you can almost buy for your kid on Amazon flying around with a very small Amazon flying around with a very small payload. And then they get bigger and payload. And then they get bigger and bigger. By the time you get to the bigger. By the time you get to the really impressive big Russian stuff really impressive big Russian stuff which can fly up 4,000 m into the sky which can fly up 4,000 m into the sky and then come down at 400 km an hour, and then come down at 400 km an hour, you're looking at something that's you're looking at something that's costing you about $200,000. But it it's costing you about $200,000. But it it's the cheap swarms of this stuff that is the cheap swarms of this stuff that is dominating a lot of the war. There are a dominating a lot of the war. There are a lot of problems around them and one of lot of problems around them and one of the biggest problems is a problem around the biggest problems is a problem around uh jamming. So there's a lovely uh jamming. So there's a lovely description by somebody who was a drone description by somebody who was a drone operator at the front line for 5 months operator at the front line for 5 months talking about just the technicalities of talking about just the technicalities of these things. I mean they get them these things. I mean they get them they're obviously commercially available they're obviously commercially available cheap things. About 10% of them simply cheap things. About 10% of them simply basically don't work when you take them basically don't work when you take them out of the packet. Then you try to put out of the packet. Then you try to put them up into the air and it turns out them up into the air and it turns out that your side is jamming the Russian that your side is jamming the Russian drones, but the jamming of the Russian drones, but the jamming of the Russian drones jams you too. Then it turns out, drones jams you too. Then it turns out, I don't know if you ever remember I don't know if you ever remember whether you play with your kids with whether you play with your kids with radio cars, but if you got the two same radio cars, but if you got the two same radio cars from the same manufacturer, radio cars from the same manufacturer, they're on the same frequency, so they they're on the same frequency, so they can't actually race each other because can't actually race each other because they're controlled by the same uh radio they're controlled by the same uh radio controller. So often you're on the same controller. So often you're on the same frequency as the Russians and the whole frequency as the Russians and the whole thing's getting muddled up in the air. thing's getting muddled up in the air. And they've tried to deal with this by And they've tried to deal with this by flying them now with fiber optic cables flying them now with fiber optic cables trailing out of them. So the way to get trailing out of them. So the way to get around your radio signal being jammed is around your radio signal being jammed is you basically fly something in the air you basically fly something in the air with a large dog leash behind it so that with a large dog leash behind it so that you're flying it on a wire. The result you're flying it on a wire. The result is that if you go to the front line, all is that if you go to the front line, all the trees in Ukraine are now festuned the trees in Ukraine are now festuned with fiber optic cables and and there with fiber optic cables and and there are hundreds of thousands of these are hundreds of thousands of these things ultimately will be deployed in things ultimately will be deployed in this war. So there'll be bits of plastic this war. So there'll be bits of plastic and fiber optic cable everywhere. and fiber optic cable everywhere. Meanwhile, the drone operator, I'll Meanwhile, the drone operator, I'll finish on this, that I was talking to, finish on this, that I was talking to, there are two views that I was talking there are two views that I was talking to one drone operator who's like, "This to one drone operator who's like, "This is the future of warfare. Here are our is the future of warfare. Here are our new drones. This is going to change new drones. This is going to change everything. This is a drone war." And everything. This is a drone war." And another view, which is, "No, no, the another view, which is, "No, no, the whole thing is massively uh over pumped. whole thing is massively uh over pumped. Uh we're using them largely because Uh we're using them largely because we're getting them for free. And I'd we're getting them for free. And I'd much prefer an oldfashioned mortar. You much prefer an oldfashioned mortar. You just drop the thing down the tube and just drop the thing down the tube and fire it over the thing over you." No, fire it over the thing over you." No, it's interesting because of course it it's interesting because of course it does mean that you know countries around does mean that you know countries around the world are just looking at the way the world are just looking at the way that warfare has changed and this this that warfare has changed and this this war I think we still in our head have a war I think we still in our head have a very traditional view of of what a war very traditional view of of what a war looks and feels like but as you say this looks and feels like but as you say this is completely different to anything that is completely different to anything that we we've had before but before we go to we we've had before but before we go to the break let's just talk a little bit the break let's just talk a little bit about our friend the the the subject of about our friend the the the subject of our first miniseries JD Vance and and by our first miniseries JD Vance and and by the way thank you we've had well into the way thank you we've had well into the five figures of people who've signed the five figures of people who've signed up as members to listen to that and and up as members to listen to that and and if you want To listen to our series on if you want To listen to our series on JD Vance, you go to the JD Vance, you go to the restispolitics.com. restispolitics.com. restispolitics.com. More to come, Elisa. Right. You're about More to come, Elisa. Right. You're about to bring together a series on Murdoch. to bring together a series on Murdoch. Is that right? Is that right? We are. I'm I'm going to sit down with We are. I'm I'm going to sit down with with our friend Michael Wolf. He who with our friend Michael Wolf. He who knows a lot about Trump and Murdoch. And knows a lot about Trump and Murdoch. And of course, I know Murdoch from a of course, I know Murdoch from a slightly different perspective as a sort slightly different perspective as a sort of political operative. We're going to of political operative. We're going to do Murdoch. But the Vance stuff is is do Murdoch. But the Vance stuff is is fascinating. And Vance, you know, we fascinating. And Vance, you know, we talked a lot on that series about how talked a lot on that series about how much he seems to hate Europe. And boy, much he seems to hate Europe. And boy, he loves having holidays here. I mean, he loves having holidays here. I mean, you know, he spent the weekend at you know, he spent the weekend at Chievening with David Lambie. We should Chievening with David Lambie. We should talk a little bit about that. What seems talk a little bit about that. What seems a very, very odd relationship. He's then a very, very odd relationship. He's then going around and you know, the going around and you know, the Cotswwells. I mean, why does he have to Cotswwells. I mean, why does he have to have this? It's like a status symbol. I have this? It's like a status symbol. I was talking to somebody who who who saw was talking to somebody who who who saw the security operation around Vance. the security operation around Vance. They said it was ridiculous to do a They said it was ridiculous to do a threepoint turn. The convoy needed about threepoint turn. The convoy needed about an hour. Um, you know, when it got stuck an hour. Um, you know, when it got stuck down one of these little country roads. down one of these little country roads. And so he and he has an ambulance going And so he and he has an ambulance going after him. I mean, he's only the after him. I mean, he's only the vice president of America. When the king vice president of America. When the king when your friend the king wanders off when your friend the king wanders off down to High Grove, what does he have? A down to High Grove, what does he have? A couple of cars. couple of cars. Exactly. or when he's doing the Windsor Exactly. or when he's doing the Windsor Flower Show, he's going around shaking Flower Show, he's going around shaking hand after hand after hand in the middle hand after hand after hand in the middle of a crowd in a way that American of a crowd in a way that American presidents or vice presidents never presidents or vice presidents never would. I suppose there's going to be would. I suppose there's going to be real hope that um Chievening which is real hope that um Chievening which is this fancy country house which was this fancy country house which was donated I think for foreign secretaries donated I think for foreign secretaries to use and which I think was donated in to use and which I think was donated in this clever way that the donor um said this clever way that the donor um said that if the foreign secretary stopped that if the foreign secretary stopped using it, it could revert to the family using it, it could revert to the family that gave it to stop the foreign office that gave it to stop the foreign office doing what it would normally do, which doing what it would normally do, which was to fogg it off to save money, was to fogg it off to save money, which which I think Gordon tried to do which which I think Gordon tried to do with quite a few of the the grace and with quite a few of the the grace and favor places. uh as as they're called. favor places. uh as as they're called. There were certainly by the time I came There were certainly by the time I came in um a lot of them weren't being used in um a lot of them weren't being used because um you know there had been these because um you know there had been these sort of grumbles about John Prescott sort of grumbles about John Prescott playing croquet at Dornywood and stuff playing croquet at Dornywood and stuff right next to me when I was the right next to me when I was the secretary of state for international secretary of state for international development. We lived in this incredible development. We lived in this incredible building which was the first building which was the first purpose-built government building I purpose-built government building I think almost in the world certainly in think almost in the world certainly in Britain was 1703 the old uh Admiral Ty Britain was 1703 the old uh Admiral Ty and right next door was this really and right next door was this really beautiful 18th century apartment which beautiful 18th century apartment which traditionally was used by ministers traditionally was used by ministers during my years as a minister nobody was during my years as a minister nobody was in it. in it. in it. I can assure you that John Prescott had I can assure you that John Prescott had access to that one as well. Had some access to that one as well. Had some very nice had some very nice dinners very nice had some very nice dinners with John in that one. with John in that one. Yeah. Well, I could I could occasionally Yeah. Well, I could I could occasionally ask the security guard to let me in to ask the security guard to let me in to period it, but when I politely suggested period it, but when I politely suggested that nobody was using it and you know that nobody was using it and you know would it be okay for us to move in, that would it be okay for us to move in, that was not the direction that Theresa May was not the direction that Theresa May wanted to go in or indeed David Cameron wanted to go in or indeed David Cameron want to go. They want to limit the want to go. They want to limit the number of people getting into these number of people getting into these things. Yeah, things. Yeah, things. Yeah, my memory is achievement. It is I mean my memory is achievement. It is I mean it is ridiculous that we have this it is ridiculous that we have this thing, you know, Checkers, Dorywood, thing, you know, Checkers, Dorywood, Carton Terrace, all these sort of places Carton Terrace, all these sort of places and and I guess they do belong to the and and I guess they do belong to the sense of British grandeur of a different sense of British grandeur of a different era. But I can imagine diplomatically era. But I can imagine diplomatically and and I'm sure I'm not the only as it and and I'm sure I'm not the only as it were Labour father whose family WhatsApp were Labour father whose family WhatsApp group was what the f pictures of Lammy group was what the f pictures of Lammy and Vance fishing together talking about and Vance fishing together talking about praying together. I've got to say by praying together. I've got to say by WhatsApp group was quite sort of quite WhatsApp group was quite sort of quite agitated over the weekend. But I guess agitated over the weekend. But I guess here's a question for you Roy. If you here's a question for you Roy. If you had been foreign secretary, had been foreign secretary, um you as an individual knowing um you as an individual knowing believing what you do and thinking about believing what you do and thinking about Trump and Vance, what you do and Vance Trump and Vance, what you do and Vance had come to the UK for a holiday and you had come to the UK for a holiday and you saw the opportunity to have two or three saw the opportunity to have two or three days kind of, you know, doing a bit of days kind of, you know, doing a bit of work but also the socializing and the work but also the socializing and the trying to build a genuine bond. My guess trying to build a genuine bond. My guess is you'd have done it. is you'd have done it. Yeah, you're you're you're probably Yeah, you're you're you're probably right. I mean, I think couple of things. right. I mean, I think couple of things. Is there a way of doing it which I think Is there a way of doing it which I think in a sense Angela Merkel and Theresa May in a sense Angela Merkel and Theresa May did back in Trump one which is to did back in Trump one which is to interact with these guys without totally interact with these guys without totally humiliating yourself. And then there's a humiliating yourself. And then there's a second darker question which is that if second darker question which is that if as I sometimes fear Trump does turn into as I sometimes fear Trump does turn into a new kind of Mussolini it's not going a new kind of Mussolini it's not going to look great in history to have endless to look great in history to have endless photographs of people clutching his photographs of people clutching his hands, slapping on his back and hands, slapping on his back and grinning. And part of the question there grinning. And part of the question there and that this is you know just to maybe and that this is you know just to maybe to wrap up and get back to your first to wrap up and get back to your first point of his consistency that everybody point of his consistency that everybody thought with Mussolini, the English and thought with Mussolini, the English and French particularly that they could French particularly that they could charm him, change him and they never charm him, change him and they never actually in the end changed his mind. actually in the end changed his mind. And I I get that sense with Trump too And I I get that sense with Trump too that we have to begin to acknowledge that we have to begin to acknowledge that he and Vance are genuinely that he and Vance are genuinely dangerous people and through all the dangerous people and through all the soap opera remember the basic consistent soap opera remember the basic consistent story. Number one, he is about to make story. Number one, he is about to make Europe Europe Europe a much more dangerous and much poorer a much more dangerous and much poorer place by essentially taking away the place by essentially taking away the American security guarantee against American security guarantee against Russia. Number two, he's going to make Russia. Number two, he's going to make the world much poorer through tariffs. the world much poorer through tariffs. And number three, he's making democracy And number three, he's making democracy in the United States and throughout the in the United States and throughout the world totally undermined and the world totally undermined and the rules-based international order rules-based international order completely undermined. And he himself is completely undermined. And he himself is the guy that came up with this idea of the guy that came up with this idea of essentially ethnically cleansing Gaza. essentially ethnically cleansing Gaza. So you're right. I'm sure if I was So you're right. I'm sure if I was foreign secretary, I would be very foreign secretary, I would be very tempted to do a lot of what David Lamb tempted to do a lot of what David Lamb is doing. But I wonder whether history is doing. But I wonder whether history will judge this kindly or whether will judge this kindly or whether actually in 20 years time people will be actually in 20 years time people will be looking back and saying what the hell looking back and saying what the hell did they think they were doing. did they think they were doing. Yeah. And the the current episode on Yeah. And the the current episode on leading is out. Jeremy Hunt, we leading is out. Jeremy Hunt, we discussed this last week about his idea discussed this last week about his idea that Karma should take a few leaves out that Karma should take a few leaves out of the Trump book on communications. of the Trump book on communications. There's one thing that Trump did do There's one thing that Trump did do which maybe leans into what you were which maybe leans into what you were saying. He basically does that thing of saying. He basically does that thing of saying about Kia Starmer, I get on with saying about Kia Starmer, I get on with him kind of even though he's a liberal. him kind of even though he's a liberal. And maybe what you're saying is that And maybe what you're saying is that David Lambie could have find a way to David Lambie could have find a way to say, look, I think Britain's say, look, I think Britain's relationship with the United States is relationship with the United States is incredibly important regardless of who's incredibly important regardless of who's in power. As it happens, I managed to in power. As it happens, I managed to make a connection with Vance because make a connection with Vance because through our shared Christianity, our through our shared Christianity, our shared poor backgrounds, our shared shared poor backgrounds, our shared belief that politics at its best is a belief that politics at its best is a force for good. But, you know, like a force for good. But, you know, like a true friend, we have to call things out true friend, we have to call things out as we see them. So, for example, I'm as we see them. So, for example, I'm very worried about the direction of very worried about the direction of travel on Ukraine. I really worry that travel on Ukraine. I really worry that we're going backwards on climate change, we're going backwards on climate change, whatever. What I find at the moment whatever. What I find at the moment difficult in the relationship is we very difficult in the relationship is we very rarely hear any of the of the the rarely hear any of the of the the calling out. And the other thing that calling out. And the other thing that relates to this, Rory, I was talking relates to this, Rory, I was talking this morning, there's this plastics this morning, there's this plastics convention going on in Geneva at the convention going on in Geneva at the moment where they're trying to come to moment where they're trying to come to an agreement on plastics and it's, you an agreement on plastics and it's, you know, 5 10 years ago, this would have know, 5 10 years ago, this would have been massive on the news because plastic been massive on the news because plastic in the oceans and plastics generally, in the oceans and plastics generally, it's a massive issue. It's just it's a massive issue. It's just completely fallen off the agenda and the completely fallen off the agenda and the chances are they're not going to reach chances are they're not going to reach an agreement. And I was talking to an agreement. And I was talking to somebody who's involved in this who said somebody who's involved in this who said we're in the era, he called it shock and we're in the era, he called it shock and yawn. And he said, we've had the dumbing yawn. And he said, we've had the dumbing down and now we've got the numbing down. down and now we've got the numbing down. And I thought that was a very And I thought that was a very interesting way to put it is that it's interesting way to put it is that it's almost like we're going to talk about almost like we're going to talk about Gaza in the second half that so much bad Gaza in the second half that so much bad stuff happens in the world that the stuff happens in the world that the world kind of goes, "Oh, well, yeah, world kind of goes, "Oh, well, yeah, that's bad, but I'm going to turn away that's bad, but I'm going to turn away from it." And plastics is a very good from it." And plastics is a very good example of that, I would say. So, I example of that, I would say. So, I thought that was a very interesting thought that was a very interesting observation. And the thing about about observation. And the thing about about Vance that I find I do find him Vance that I find I do find him genuinely quite quite scary because I genuinely quite quite scary because I think he's much more intellectually think he's much more intellectually rigorous than Trump. Trump was sort of rigorous than Trump. Trump was sort of dipping his toe in the waters of of dipping his toe in the waters of of indicating that Vance is the likely indicating that Vance is the likely successor. And I think you're right. I successor. And I think you're right. I think we've all of us got to be very think we've all of us got to be very very careful because let's just look at very careful because let's just look at this week alone. You talk about the some this week alone. You talk about the some of the kind of authoritarian of the kind of authoritarian protofascist stuff yesterday sending the protofascist stuff yesterday sending the the National Guard in to take over the National Guard in to take over Washington police talking about this Washington police talking about this crime wave at a time when crime is crime wave at a time when crime is falling quite rapidly. And of course we falling quite rapidly. And of course we see the same with Farrage in the UK see the same with Farrage in the UK right now playing exactly the same game. right now playing exactly the same game. We're going to you know talk up ramp up We're going to you know talk up ramp up crime at a time when most crimes are crime at a time when most crimes are coming down. So I' I've Yeah. Anyway, coming down. So I' I've Yeah. Anyway, and already I mentioned the current and already I mentioned the current leading Jeremy Hunt part two. Also want leading Jeremy Hunt part two. Also want to give a plug to a bonus episode that's to give a plug to a bonus episode that's coming out on Friday which you were coming out on Friday which you were having your your break but um I think having your your break but um I think you'll really really enjoy. President you'll really really enjoy. President Ali of Gana. He is quite a character. Ali of Gana. He is quite a character. I was saying that having initially I was saying that having initially thought that some people wouldn't have thought that some people wouldn't have been able to find Gana necessarily on a been able to find Gana necessarily on a map including me. Um I then talked to a map including me. Um I then talked to a friend who said that he's just the most friend who said that he's just the most interesting, charismatic, engaging guy, interesting, charismatic, engaging guy, which I guess is what you found. which I guess is what you found. I did. I did. Um there's part of the I did. I did. Um there's part of the interview that might be a little bit interview that might be a little bit over over your head. We have a long over over your head. We have a long discussion about the decline of West discussion about the decline of West Indian cricket. We must in ensure that Indian cricket. We must in ensure that your friend the king has a listen your friend the king has a listen because he is on the issue of because he is on the issue of biodiversity. Basically, our king biodiversity. Basically, our king appears to be President Ali's hero. appears to be President Ali's hero. That's going out as a bonus to all of That's going out as a bonus to all of our listeners on Friday. And then on our listeners on Friday. And then on Monday, we have part one of Nicholas Monday, we have part one of Nicholas Sturgeon. Part two will be a week later, Sturgeon. Part two will be a week later, unless of course you're a member or want unless of course you're a member or want to be a member when you can get them to be a member when you can get them both straight away uh by going to the both straight away uh by going to the restispolitics.com and becoming a member restispolitics.com and becoming a member of Trip Plus. Now, where do you want to of Trip Plus. Now, where do you want to start? what's happening in Gaza or start? what's happening in Gaza or Palestine action and the protest that we Palestine action and the protest that we had at the weekend with the biggest had at the weekend with the biggest single day of arrests since 1961. single day of arrests since 1961. It's unbelievable, isn't it? It's unbelievable, isn't it? And that was an anti-uclear protest. And that was an anti-uclear protest. Just to remind people of the fundamental Just to remind people of the fundamental thing, which is Palestine Action, which thing, which is Palestine Action, which is not a group that I was very familiar is not a group that I was very familiar with. In fact, you know, I I was talking with. In fact, you know, I I was talking to Chris Doyle, who's uh very very to Chris Doyle, who's uh very very active and runs Kaboo and has done active and runs Kaboo and has done amazing stuff on Palestine and amazing stuff on Palestine and explaining the Middle East to explaining the Middle East to generations of British politicians. And generations of British politicians. And I realized that Palestine Action wasn't I realized that Palestine Action wasn't really part of the normal meetings that really part of the normal meetings that people held in Palestine because it's a people held in Palestine because it's a direct action group. They are, I direct action group. They are, I suppose, more like, would I be right in suppose, more like, would I be right in saying Extinction Rebellion? Yeah, they saying Extinction Rebellion? Yeah, they call themselves a they don't harm call themselves a they don't harm humans, they say, but they are they're humans, they say, but they are they're actively disrupting and in particular actively disrupting and in particular they're trying to disrupt the the arms they're trying to disrupt the the arms trade, trade, trade, right? And so so so they will they will right? And so so so they will they will sometimes you'll find they've dorbed sometimes you'll find they've dorbed graffiti over their headquarters. Most graffiti over their headquarters. Most dramatically they got into an RAF base dramatically they got into an RAF base and managed to damage fighter jets. It and managed to damage fighter jets. It turns out getting into the RAF base was turns out getting into the RAF base was not really something out of Mission not really something out of Mission Impossible. that seemed as though all Impossible. that seemed as though all they had to do was push over a wooden they had to do was push over a wooden fence and they were in which and I'm fence and they were in which and I'm still not quite sure why all the blame still not quite sure why all the blame for that ends up on Palestine action for that ends up on Palestine action rather than heads rolling in the rather than heads rolling in the military for what on earth's wrong with military for what on earth's wrong with the security on our basis. Yeah, it did the security on our basis. Yeah, it did seem bit that did seem bit I mean I look seem bit that did seem bit I mean I look I I I mentioned the family WhatsApp I I I mentioned the family WhatsApp group in relation to Lavy advance in the group in relation to Lavy advance in the first part and the family WhatsApp group first part and the family WhatsApp group was also kicking off fairly lively way was also kicking off fairly lively way about these protests endlessly sending about these protests endlessly sending me pictures of as the kids put it you me pictures of as the kids put it you know people of your age know people of your age people of my age be sort of carted off people of my age be sort of carted off and it was interesting the age profile and it was interesting the age profile the single highest decade age decade. the single highest decade age decade. DESIL was my age group, 60 to 70. DESIL was my age group, 60 to 70. It's amazing cuz cuz one would imagine a It's amazing cuz cuz one would imagine a direct action group would tend to be direct action group would tend to be kind of cool young students out kind of cool young students out very small numbers of uh of of of 16 to very small numbers of uh of of of 16 to 25 year olds. No, but I looked into this 25 year olds. No, but I looked into this a bit. What I hadn't realized this a bit. What I hadn't realized this process of prescription of course the process of prescription of course the reason why people find it hard to get reason why people find it hard to get their heads around this understandably their heads around this understandably is that when we think of terrorist is that when we think of terrorist organizations we think of the IRA we organizations we think of the IRA we think of Hamas we think of think of we think of Hamas we think of HTS HTS HTS and and just just on that for a second and and just just on that for a second people who if they had got onto an RAF people who if they had got onto an RAF base in the same way that Palestine base in the same way that Palestine action did by just pushing over a fence action did by just pushing over a fence could have done unbelievable damage. I could have done unbelievable damage. I mean, if you I mean, given how bad our mean, if you I mean, given how bad our security is, they could have attached security is, they could have attached huge bombs to all those planes and had huge bombs to all those planes and had one of the most catastrophic terrorist one of the most catastrophic terrorist attacks in the world. Which brings me attacks in the world. Which brings me back to the question, why are we not back to the question, why are we not talking about military heads rolling for talking about military heads rolling for the lack of security? Anyway, back to the lack of security? Anyway, back to you. you. you. Maybe on that because you you you raised Maybe on that because you you you raised it, I want to I don't know if you saw it, I want to I don't know if you saw this this rather splendid letter in the this this rather splendid letter in the Times yesterday by somebody called Wing Times yesterday by somebody called Wing Commander Andrew Brooks, retired. Sir, Commander Andrew Brooks, retired. Sir, they still do, sir. In the times, the they still do, sir. In the times, the home secretary proposed to ban Palestine home secretary proposed to ban Palestine action on the ground of unacceptable action on the ground of unacceptable criminal damage after infiltrated RF criminal damage after infiltrated RF prize Norton. He goes on, in the 1980s, prize Norton. He goes on, in the 1980s, when I was UK commander of RAF Greenham when I was UK commander of RAF Greenham Common Cruise Missile Base, I had a Common Cruise Missile Base, I had a 250,000 annual budget to repair damage 250,000 annual budget to repair damage done by peace protesters to the done by peace protesters to the perimeter fence. We had a strong perimeter fence. We had a strong Ministry of Defense police presence to Ministry of Defense police presence to stop intruders, often in a rather Betty stop intruders, often in a rather Betty Hill fashion. The intruders were left in Hill fashion. The intruders were left in no doubt that if they tried to no doubt that if they tried to infiltrate the secured storage area with infiltrate the secured storage area with 96 nuclear warheads, they would be shot 96 nuclear warheads, they would be shot by US Air Force military police who were by US Air Force military police who were a mean crowd. There were thousands of a mean crowd. There were thousands of such protesters threatening, in quotes, such protesters threatening, in quotes, the base. But their freedom of speech the base. But their freedom of speech was always respected and I never heard was always respected and I never heard anyone in White Hall or the Pentagon anyone in White Hall or the Pentagon suggest that they should be classed as suggest that they should be classed as terrorists. And that is a very very terrorists. And that is a very very powerful letter. The only thing that I powerful letter. The only thing that I would push back a little bit on that. I would push back a little bit on that. I I kept saying to myself, why why are I kept saying to myself, why why are they doing this? because it just feels they doing this? because it just feels like and and I read the desagel like and and I read the desagel yesterday their account of the report yesterday their account of the report basically was saying people were being basically was saying people were being arrested for supporting Palestine. Okay, arrested for supporting Palestine. Okay, cuz if you don't have the context cuz if you don't have the context globally understood that's what it looks globally understood that's what it looks like. Now I then spoke to somebody who's like. Now I then spoke to somebody who's involved in the prescribing process. involved in the prescribing process. There is a pro. You'd be pleased to know There is a pro. You'd be pleased to know I'm sure listener and viewer there is a I'm sure listener and viewer there is a process. there was a plan to prescribe process. there was a plan to prescribe them and this is not the minister's them and this is not the minister's government coming along and saying I government coming along and saying I want to subscribe these people this want to subscribe these people this happened before Brian Norton these are happened before Brian Norton these are people from MI5 MI6 counterterrorism people from MI5 MI6 counterterrorism police who keep an eye on all these police who keep an eye on all these organizations and they wanted to do this organizations and they wanted to do this now I then repeated my point but what is now I then repeated my point but what is the big argument they then said that the big argument they then said that they were very styid at the moment they were very styid at the moment because there are some court cases going because there are some court cases going on at the moment which are under severe on at the moment which are under severe reporting ing restrictions. And of reporting ing restrictions. And of course, it felt to me that therefore course, it felt to me that therefore Iette Cooper was a little bit in the Iette Cooper was a little bit in the position that we were in before the Iraq position that we were in before the Iraq war of Tony Blair constantly saying, war of Tony Blair constantly saying, "Oh, if you knew what I knew about what "Oh, if you knew what I knew about what the intelligence people are saying, the intelligence people are saying, Saddam's up to um and what's happened Saddam's up to um and what's happened since Palestine action has been since Palestine action has been prescribed. I don't know if you're aware prescribed. I don't know if you're aware of this, Rory, but the some of them have of this, Rory, but the some of them have decided to form an organization which is decided to form an organization which is going to do the same sorts of things, going to do the same sorts of things, but they're going to call themselves Iet but they're going to call themselves Iet Cooper. Cooper. Cooper. Um, which this is the response saying, Um, which this is the response saying, well, so what you have is the Home well, so what you have is the Home Office saying these people are much much Office saying these people are much much more serious. more serious. more serious. It's it's it's it's mad. It's mad, I'm It's it's it's it's mad. It's mad, I'm afraid. I I don't believe the Home afraid. I I don't believe the Home Office. I think they're got it Office. I think they're got it completely out of proportion and I think completely out of proportion and I think they've got their knickers in a twist they've got their knickers in a twist and and one of the reasons that this is and and one of the reasons that this is completely absurd and I was talking to a completely absurd and I was talking to a Labour MP yesterday and I was saying, Labour MP yesterday and I was saying, you know, why on earth did they vote? you know, why on earth did they vote? And she said, none of us can work out. And she said, none of us can work out. We're all regretting it. Almost nobody We're all regretting it. Almost nobody she knows, except for maybe 20, 30 she knows, except for maybe 20, 30 pro-Israeli Labor MPs actually support pro-Israeli Labor MPs actually support prescribing this group. prescribing this group. But the majority was massive. But the majority was massive. Yeah. But they what they did is Yeah. But they what they did is and in the House of Lords, they put them and in the House of Lords, they put them in with these other neo-Nazi groups. in with these other neo-Nazi groups. They managed to do this packaging where They managed to do this packaging where they connected them to the Russian they connected them to the Russian imperial movement and something called, imperial movement and something called, get this, the maniacs murder cult. And get this, the maniacs murder cult. And as the MP was saying, they felt kind of as the MP was saying, they felt kind of tricked by the government and tricked by the government and manipulated by the government into manipulated by the government into sticking this group that she and most of sticking this group that she and most of the Labour MPs, at least that I know, the Labour MPs, at least that I know, see as relatively innocent into this see as relatively innocent into this group. Now, to add to this, it's really group. Now, to add to this, it's really bad politics. I mean, there's no space bad politics. I mean, there's no space in prison. What on earth are you going in prison. What on earth are you going to do? We can't take another 500 people to do? We can't take another 500 people into prison. We need prisons for genuine into prison. We need prisons for genuine murderers, burglars, robbers, not for murderers, burglars, robbers, not for people who are elderly people waving people who are elderly people waving flags or graffitiing planes. And flags or graffitiing planes. And furthermore, what's going to happen next furthermore, what's going to happen next week? They're going to arrest another week? They're going to arrest another 2,000 people and then another 5,000 2,000 people and then another 5,000 people. I mean, if I was passing that people. I mean, if I was passing that action, I would just keep rolling out action, I would just keep rolling out the pensioners and and the police, of the pensioners and and the police, of course, has lost all discretion. course, has lost all discretion. Traditionally, the police are able to Traditionally, the police are able to decide, you know, whether someone decide, you know, whether someone actually poses a threat or not. But by actually poses a threat or not. But by making them a terrorist group, suddenly making them a terrorist group, suddenly you leave the police with no option you leave the police with no option other than to arrest them, I think it's other than to arrest them, I think it's it's really foolish and I don't know why it's really foolish and I don't know why Salma thought he was doing it. Salma thought he was doing it. Well, as I say, their argument is that Well, as I say, their argument is that there is a process and these these lot there is a process and these these lot pass the threshold and you know, more pass the threshold and you know, more will become clear, etc., etc. I agree will become clear, etc., etc. I agree with you. The politics are terrible. And with you. The politics are terrible. And of course, we're going to talk in of course, we're going to talk in question, Tom, about Jeremy Corbyn's new question, Tom, about Jeremy Corbyn's new party. And of course, this plays right party. And of course, this plays right into his kind of style of politics. And into his kind of style of politics. And uh no, I I I think it's it's it's very uh no, I I I think it's it's it's very difficult. They keep targeting a company difficult. They keep targeting a company called Elbit. This has been going on a called Elbit. This has been going on a long time. This is an Israeli company, long time. This is an Israeli company, very, very strong in the arms trade. very, very strong in the arms trade. There's an Italian company that they go There's an Italian company that they go after. They've also been going into after. They've also been going into universities, stealing busts of Chime universities, stealing busts of Chime Vitesman, the first president of of Vitesman, the first president of of Israel. They they spray painted a Israel. They they spray painted a picture of Balfur in Trinity College. picture of Balfur in Trinity College. No, they spray painted a statue of No, they spray painted a statue of Balfur, Alison, No. Balfur, Alison, No. A painting. A painting. A painting. A painting. A painting. No wonder they're being prescribed as a No wonder they're being prescribed as a terrorist group. You're obviously not terrorist group. You're obviously not going to take this seriously. I did see going to take this seriously. I did see I did I did um I'll tell you somebody I did I did um I'll tell you somebody who I do listen to quite carefully in who I do listen to quite carefully in this. I I read his speech in the House this. I I read his speech in the House of Lords debate is Peter Hayne because of Lords debate is Peter Hayne because Peter Hayne of course you know Peter Hayne of course you know famously anti-aparttheide campaigner famously anti-aparttheide campaigner then became a politician became a member then became a politician became a member of the cabinet in in in our time and I of the cabinet in in in our time and I think a really kind of serious guy and think a really kind of serious guy and and his speech definitely is worth and his speech definitely is worth listening for for those of you like you listening for for those of you like you who think this is sort of you know all who think this is sort of you know all terrible. I of course as you know friend terrible. I of course as you know friend of the secure of the secure or you know if if Bla1 and her team want or you know if if Bla1 and her team want to tell me why something's happening to tell me why something's happening yeah I see okay I think the the other yeah I see okay I think the the other the other point which I think is that we the other point which I think is that we mentioned in the in the first part the mentioned in the in the first part the the thing about you know this ridiculous the thing about you know this ridiculous levels of security around Vance and levels of security around Vance and Trump when he was in was in the states Trump when he was in was in the states at a time when even though I think at a time when even though I think Farage is just being his usual dishonest Farage is just being his usual dishonest opportunist self in sort making crime opportunist self in sort making crime the big thing at the moment. The truth the big thing at the moment. The truth is the police are under pressure. And to is the police are under pressure. And to see the police having to do this and to see the police having to do this and to be fair to the police, they have to. If be fair to the police, they have to. If they're told that it is an offense to they're told that it is an offense to hold up a poster that says, uh, I'm hold up a poster that says, uh, I'm against genocide. I support Palestine against genocide. I support Palestine action brackets in saying those words, action brackets in saying those words, I'm reporting what I saw. Not that is my I'm reporting what I saw. Not that is my view, which is kind of ridiculous. I the view, which is kind of ridiculous. I the other thing the other point my home other thing the other point my home office person said is look the you are office person said is look the you are allowed to criticize allowed to criticize the government. You're allowed to say the government. You're allowed to say thank goodness for that. thank goodness for that. You're allowed to say I vet Cooper is You're allowed to say I vet Cooper is wrong to do this but what you cannot do wrong to do this but what you cannot do is recklessly or carelessly express is recklessly or carelessly express support for an organization that's been support for an organization that's been prescribed. Rory, I can see I'm not prescribed. Rory, I can see I'm not going to get you to take this seriously. going to get you to take this seriously. Hopefully, you'll take immigration more Hopefully, you'll take immigration more seriously. Question. I love MI5 gives seriously. Question. I love MI5 gives you a little call and says we can assure you a little call and says we can assure you that you're you're allowed to say you that you're you're allowed to say that I was wrong. Before we close, I that I was wrong. Before we close, I think there were obviously points that think there were obviously points that you wanted to make about Gaza itself. you wanted to make about Gaza itself. Well, I think there's Yeah, look, Gaza Well, I think there's Yeah, look, Gaza is just increasingly horrific and is just increasingly horrific and incredible aerial footage this week of incredible aerial footage this week of um you know before and after just seeing um you know before and after just seeing the this the level of the extent of the this the level of the extent of devastation and the death that has of devastation and the death that has of the many deaths that has really cut the many deaths that has really cut through this week. I think it's been through this week. I think it's been this journalist Anal Sharif. Now we're this journalist Anal Sharif. Now we're in this world now where leaders like in this world now where leaders like Trump can say I'm sending in the Trump can say I'm sending in the National Guard because crime is out of National Guard because crime is out of control in Washington DC when in fact control in Washington DC when in fact crime is coming down. Where the Israelis crime is coming down. Where the Israelis can say this guy led a Hamas cell. You can say this guy led a Hamas cell. You and I don't know if that is true. We and I don't know if that is true. We have to make a judgment about that. But have to make a judgment about that. But you you see a guy who I mean somebody you you see a guy who I mean somebody sent me some some of the stuff he did sent me some some of the stuff he did recently where actually was quite recently where actually was quite critical of Hamas on his social media. critical of Hamas on his social media. But the point is let's just take them at But the point is let's just take them at face value. They have evidence that we face value. They have evidence that we can't see that says he was Hamas. Could can't see that says he was Hamas. Could they really not have taken him out they really not have taken him out without taking out five of his without taking out five of his colleagues? Taking to I think the number colleagues? Taking to I think the number of journalists killed in Gaza. And bear of journalists killed in Gaza. And bear in mind most journalists can't get in in mind most journalists can't get in but we're now almost up to 250. The but we're now almost up to 250. The reason they don't want international reason they don't want international journalists in is because they don't journalists in is because they don't particularly want people to see what's particularly want people to see what's going on. And the reason why these going on. And the reason why these Alazer journalists have become so Alazer journalists have become so important is because they are amongst important is because they are amongst the few journalists have continued to the few journalists have continued to get pictures and footage out. And it's get pictures and footage out. And it's hard then to think well yeah from an hard then to think well yeah from an Israeli perspective you can see why they Israeli perspective you can see why they might they might do that. I'm obviously might they might do that. I'm obviously tempted to say that's also why the tempted to say that's also why the British government needs to be itself British government needs to be itself very careful on who it character very careful on who it character categorizes as terrorists because categorizes as terrorists because increasingly around the world one of the increasingly around the world one of the ways in which civil society ways in which civil society organizations are repressed and of organizations are repressed and of course ultimately people are killed is course ultimately people are killed is by accusing them of of being terrorists by accusing them of of being terrorists which is why I think we should keep the which is why I think we should keep the bar very very high. Well, Alistister, bar very very high. Well, Alistister, thank thank you for that. And I I think thank thank you for that. And I I think we're going to try to bring this to an we're going to try to bring this to an end. So, you don't want our episodes end. So, you don't want our episodes being too long, but that gives us a huge being too long, but that gives us a huge amount of material to be doing tomorrow amount of material to be doing tomorrow in question time. And that will give us in question time. And that will give us an opportunity to move from my statement an opportunity to move from my statement at the moment, which is that Iet Cooper at the moment, which is that Iet Cooper is wrong about Palestine action towards is wrong about Palestine action towards my controversial statement that I Cooper my controversial statement that I Cooper is right about migration. So, that and is right about migration. So, that and much more in Question Time. And of much more in Question Time. And of course, if you remember, you get course, if you remember, you get immediate early access to uh Question immediate early access to uh Question Times Trade after this episode. Just go Times Trade after this episode. Just go to the restlesspolitics.com. to the restlesspolitics.com. Bye-bye. See you later. Bye-bye. See you later.