================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: H3ZywEXbwwI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H3ZywEXbwwI
TITLE: What Kind of Great Power Will India Become?
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-07-02
DURATION: 47m 43s
VIEWS: 4,635
LIKES: 77
COMMENTS: 77
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Two summers ago, Ashley J. Tellis published an essay in Foreign Affairs titled, “America’s Bad Bet on India,” which led to an extended, highly charged debate about the future of the U.S.-India relationship.

Just a few weeks ago, Ashley published another big-picture piece in Foreign Affairs titled, “India’s Great-Power Delusions,” which has once again got people talking.

In his new piece, Ashley argues that India is on its way to becoming a great power, but perhaps not the kind of power that many in the world are expecting.

On this week’s season finale of Grand Tamasha, Ashley makes his return to the show. Ashley holds the Tata Chair for Strategic Affairs at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He served in the U.S. government during the George W. Bush administration, where he was intimately in involved in negotiating the U.S.-Indian civil nuclear deal.

Ashley and Milan discuss the U.S. policy of “strategic altruism” toward India, compare India and China’s growth record, 
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 6,991

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. The most unpredictable becomes a headline. The most volatile, outrageous behavior, unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. [Music] Welcome to Grant the Masha, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Hindusan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bash. Two summers ago, my colleague Ashley Telus published an essay in foreign affairs titled America's Bad Bet on India, which led to an extended debate about the future of the US India relationship. Now, just a few weeks ago, Ashley has published another big picture piece in foreign affairs titled India's Great Power Delusions, which has already got people talking. In his new piece, Ashley argues that India is on its way to becoming a great power, but perhaps not the kind of power that many in the world are expecting. As I'm sure our listeners will know, Ashley holds the Tata Chair for Strategic Affairs at the Carnegie Endowment. He served in the US government during the George W. Bush administration, where he was intimately involved in negotiating the US Indian civil nuclear deal. to discuss his new essay and the larger implications for Indian foreign policy. I am pleased to welcome Ashley back onto the show. Ashley, congrats on another fine foreign affairs piece and thank you for taking the time. Thank you, Melan. It's always great to be back. So, I want to jump right into your piece and I want to start by doing a little bit of history and some of this history might seem rather basic for our listeners, but I think it's important to kind of set the stage. You start your piece by noting that since the year 2000, the United States has sought to help India's rise as a great power and in making that case you quote George W. Bush as promising that the United States would help India become a major world power in the 21st century. Um you you note that you know the rationale for Bush's pledge was was pretty simple given that you served in the administration. maybe just tell us about what President Bush's simple rationale was at the time and has that rationale for the US India partnership changed over time. So, President B set out to transform the relationship in the aftermath of the cold war and there was a burden of the cold war when relations between the United States and India suffered various degrees of alienation and Bush wanted to overcome that alienation very decisively. That's the context in which he proposes the civil nuclear deal which was meant to emphasize to India that the United States was going to be a reliable partner. Now what was the driving motivation behind this deal? I think there were two motivations that came together in in very nice ways. The first was the conviction that aiding India's rise was in US interests and that if the United States helped India rise, both countries could work together to protect the liberal international order. That was the vision that underlay uh President Bush's judgment that a new relationship with India was desirable and important for the United States and and tell us a little bit Ashley about how motivations might have changed over time right because now you hear justifications having to do with the size of India's economy with the robust kind of diaspora this kind of you know human migration corridor. What were the things that were kind of added on in subsequent years that may not have been a part of President Bush's original intention to kind of, you know, reset this relationship? So all those elements were present to some degree or another. But I think the driving element was that Bush saw a good relationship with India as critical to preserving a wider balance of power that was favorable to US interests. Now remember when this decision to aid India was made, it was done at a time when US China relations were actually in relatively good shape. And so the administration's calculations were that if we repaired our relationship with India while enjoying a good relationship with China, what in effect we would unleash was a virtuous cycle of cooperation because the United States could cooperate with both and that would be mutually reinforcing. Now unfortunately something has changed since the time those decisions were made and that is US China relations now have become more and more convenient and the consequence of that is that the hard choices that India did not have to make in yesterday are now hard choices that US policy makers are increasingly contemplating. And those hard choices are essentially boiled down to what can India do for us in the context of this new rivalry between. We saw the first appearance of this kind of calculation in the first Trump term and my suspicion is that in the current Trump term uh these sentiments will only intensify. So there are two questions that I think are increasingly going to service and the first question is okay we may support India's rise still but what are we going to get out of this and then the second question which is a little more disconcerting is people will begin to ask the question more fundamentally about whether India's rise itself is in US and this question is asked now against the shadow of the experience with China because we did make decisions about aiding China 40 years ago only to create a competitor and I think it has occurred to at least some people in the Trump administration that if one pursues a strategy of aiding India's rise 40 years hence US policy makers might end up in a position that they'll have to ask the same question about India that they're now asking about China okay so Let's come back to this because I think this is a very interesting point and it's worth dwelling on but but but let me kind of come at it by through a different way. the the the main thesis of your new foreign affairs essay is that India's relative weakness, its desire for multipolarity and its current illiberal trajectory when you take those together mean that India will have less global influence than it desires even when it can justifiably call itself a great power and others may treat as a great power as well. I want to kind of go into each of these factors and let me start with what you call relative weakness. One of the things you focus on in the piece is India's economic growth trajectory, right? And you say look, no matter how impressive India's more recent performance has been post 1991 and the liberal reforms, the country has fallen short of China's uh reform era achievements. help us understand in your mind how you see India's performance and contrast it with the Chinese performance. So let's go back to some around 1979 or 1980. Uh around that time uh the Indian and Chinese economies were roughly similar in size. After Dung's reforms, looking at China today, the Chinese economy is close to five times the size of the Indian economy. And this differential in performance is simply a function of China's growth rates since 1979 to date. So during this period, China has grown on an average until very recently at about 9% every year. India and contracts which performed a decade later grew only on an average of about 6.5%. And that differential in annual growth is really what accounts for the differences in economic capability today between the two parties. So it's not that India's 6.5% average growth is unimpressive or inconsequential. It's just that it is less impressive when you compare it to its northern neighbor whose economic performance during this similar time frame has really been nothing but meteoric. And it's that point that is emphasized in the piece when it talks of relative. Ashley, let me come back to the point that you just made, which is okay, India's had a a pretty impressive growth trajectory, nothing like what China has experienced. Therefore, would you say the Trump administration's fears of potentially setting up a peer competitor are misplaced? Because frankly, as you note in the piece, India still lags behind China and the United States of course on so many fundamental economic indicators. I think that's right. I mean, if one looks simply at, you know, the empirical logic, I think expecting that India will become a major power rival of the United States anytime soon is a exaggerated fear. But you must understand it from the viewpoint of US policy makers. You know, if they were asked in 1979 whether China would one day become a great power competitor of the United States, most US policy makers would say not in our lifetimes. And yet we've seen this come about in lifetimes. Right? So it's the shadow of China that really leads us to this question of whether we can find ways of avoiding replicating the same experience with India. Let me just stick on the on the growth trajectory for a second. I mean you say look when you you look around the world many commentators are kind of putting their stock on China continuing to slow down and you say look even if this does come to pass it's not going to guarantee that India catches up and I just want to quote something that you write in the piece which is that based on current trends the Indian economy is unlikely to match its Chinese counterpart before the middle of the century if at all. What would it take in kind of concrete terms for your for you to be wrong here, right? For for India to actually get to where it wants to go. So if India somehow magically managed to change what I think will be the trend growth rate of 6% over the next two and a half decades into something closer to doubledigit growth or even double digit growth itself. And this performance is matched by a Chinese slowdown that is even worse than it currently is. Right? So we estimate that China is probably growing at somewhere around 4%. People even doubt that but let's take that at face value that they're growing at 4%. So if you could imagine that China drops to a growth rate below 2%. while India comes closer to doubledigit growth rates then I think you could get a situation somewhere around 2050 where uh the Indian economy rivals that of China and probably barely exceeds it. You have to do the arithmetic to find this out. But that's the kind of magnitude difference uh that you need to find in performance. Let me come now to the second factor which has to do with the principles of Indian foreign policy. Uh you note that if India wants to constrain Beijing and that is its objective, it's going to need Washington's help to do so. But it is constrained in fully exploiting the US relationship because of its commitment to multipolarity. Now I think a lot of lay people would say India talks about multipolarity. It talks about multi-alignment. It talks about strategic autonomy. But if you look at the overall trajectory of the last quarter century, it has moved very decisively towards the west and more specifically towards the United States. So does its stated commitment on paper to follow or or to desire a world that is multipolar, you know, have any bearing in fact given the moves it's actually made to to to kind of cidle up to the United States? Well, it certainly made a decisive shift in oriented, but I'm not sure that decisive shift has manifested in the details. So even as India has gravitated more closely to Washington you know since 2001 the fact remains that there are still substantial inhibitions that prevent India from working closely with the United States in the way that George W. Bush had imagined it and I'll give you three dimensions where there are still significant gaps. First, even though there are significant complimentarities between the US and the Indian economy, I would say that we have failed to really deepen economic integration between the two sides. And this is not simply a matter of trade performance though that's part of it but the kind of synergistic uh complimentarity of the economy that we had hoped would develop is still a long is still a long ways away. Uh second when you think in terms of geopolitical relations right India is closer to the United States today than it has ever been but it still retains relationships with other countries some of which the United States is uncomfortable with and that is of course India's prerogative but the consequence of that is that Washington then becomes hesitant about how far it can go in terms of cooperating with India especially in areas that India identifies as a priority like for example high technology cooperation. I mean there have been several instances in the recent past where the United States has consciously refrained from going as far as it could because of India's relations with for example Russia and I understand the logic of India maintaining these partnerships with others but it has had an inhibiting effect on the United States and could intensify in time. So when one talks about multipolarity and multi-alignment, it's not that India has shied away for from an embrace of the US but it's not willing to embrace the US with the wholeheartedness that we see for example on the part of many of our friends and partners and I think that simply happens to be a reality and then the last element that many have pointed out is in defense cooperation where even though it has become so much more expansive than it has been uh you know year before. The kind of intimacy in defense cooperation that we would like to see is still elusive. So has India moved towards the United States? Absolutely. I think it's recognized that it can't afford not to have a good relationship with the US. But I think we are still some distance away from the kind of relationship that would allow us to prioritize India above much else. So, so let me just kind of push you on this on this point with a with a specific kind of counter example, right? So one of the things you say in the piece is that India's pursuit of multipolarity means that India kind of uh gets entangled in these eclectic partnerships I think is the word that you use with various countries or groupings of countries many of which are have very anti-American agendas right so take one of those uh which is the bricks right um some Indian analysts will say look India doesn't have any great hopes for the bricks uh in and of itself but it finds a grouping like that to be a useful tool to try and keep the west in line because it's not getting any joy would say uh getting a seat at the UN security council or reforming the international financial institutions it can use the bricks as a kind of cudel you know so so I guess the question that comes out of this is how much of this is performative as opposed to actual principled so you've put your finger on exactly the right point, right? India uses many of these uh partnerships with third parties, not because these third parties have any intrinsic value to India, but because it serves as an instrument of diversifying the bets that it makes of the United States. And so the moment India does that, what starts out as performative fades into relationships that impose objective constraints on US. So it's not that India goes towards the bricks or the SEO because it thinks there's something there of value comparable to the US but the very act of playing in that sandbox ends up setting some thresholds beyond which India will not go for the United States and it's it's in the juggling of those two realities right that I think there is frustration on the part of US policy makers So again, India's calculations are completely understandable. But because it has certain psychic effects on the way India's perceived in the United States, it then ends up creating objective constraints in our cooperation. So let me just ask you one more question on on India's kind of foreign policy orientation. You know the kind of bottom line in your analysis is that look under a system of multipolarity India could end up worse off than it is under American unipolarity which may be a thing of the past or than it might be under USChinese bipolarity. And I wonder if you could just for a second contrast those other two scenarios. I think we have a sense of what India under multipolarity would look like and what the downsides are. But how would India fare in a bipolar order in which the US and China or the two poles or in a kind of hegemonic order where the US is the sort of dominant power? So just again now we'll bore our listeners with you know sort of elementary IR here but just you know sort of humor me for a few moments right American unipolarity works best for India when US India relations are exceptionally deep when the bilateral relationship is deep unipolarity is the best of all means because it does not undermine American power and America can essentially support India without any hesitations because of the strength of that bilateral relation. The problem is when India pursues a strategy of playing all sides against the middle. That's where you begin to see the complications that are imposed on India. So let's look at bipolarity. For example, India did quite well during the cold war under conditions of bipolarity. But that is because it had relatively good relations with both sides, the United States and the Soviet Union and it was able to play one against the other. The future USChina bipolarity will not be comparable because India has deep difficulties with one of the bonds and it has a good relationship with the other but its ability to derive benefits from the party that it has good relationships with depends very much on how the great power the hegemonic power in question the United States begins to see India's value for itself in that contest with China. And so the temptations to ask of India things that it may feel uncomfortable to do will become more and more prominent in the context of a US China bipolarity. So it's going to be a different experience of bipolarity compared to that of the cold war bipolarity where essentially India was in good terms more or less with both with both Washington and Moscow. I find multipolarity in many ways to be the most tantalizing and also the most problematic. I understand India's you know desire for multipolarity because it's essentially the precondition for India enjoying its own place on the sun. But the dangers of multipolarity for India are actually quite profound because among all the great powers, India is the weakest and multipolar systems are notorious for failures of balancing because of this phenomenon called buck passing because everyone expects the others to do the balancing because they don't want to pay the price for balancing. Now if India gets trapped in this predicament of buck passing it could end up finding itself in the worst of all because if the US and the other players like the EU fail to balance China then India will be essentially left holding the bag. And so multiparity has promise but it also has terrific pitfalls. And if you are a rational actor and especially if you are the weakest in the quartet then I would be a lot more cautious about multiparity than Indian policy makers seem to be. [Music] Hey Granthamasha listeners. Thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform, so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. [Music] Let me come to the third of the three elements you explore, Ashley, which is kind of India's domestic transformations. You highlight a pattern of democratic backsliding and rising illiberalism. And I think the question that many critics would ask after reading your piece is you know what does democratic backsliding if we accept that that's occurring have to do with India's foreign policy objectives right because I think many would look to their neighbor to the north and to the east to China and say well look uh authoritarianism hasn't stopped China from becoming a great power so why should India be judged by a different yard stick so it's a complex relationship right between domestic policy and foreign policy. But let me say the following which may provide some clues as to how to move the boundaries. Uh authoritarianism, illiberalism has not stopped China from becoming a great but it has certainly taken a today. China spends more on internal security than it does on external defense and it has an external defense budget which if the US intelligence communities we believe is actually close to 700 billion or thereabouts it spends much more on internal security and it spends so much on internal security despite having a population that is highly homogeneous 91% of the Chinese population is Han And despite having the benefits of cycroenity, China has to spend a lot of money in internal security. Now India's position is much more complex. It has much greater social, economic and cultural diversities. It is a much weaker state. And so to the degree that illiberal politics complicates India's ability to maintain internal peace, it's pathway to great power status becomes hard. Now, none of this is a given, right? We not drawing any straight line extrapolations between illiberalism and a failure to become a great power. But I think it is worth considering that if India's domestic uh heterogeneities increasingly intensify because of a rise of illiberalism and its politics, then I think it is worth asking the question about whether the illiberalism is worth it. Especially given that there is a constitutional inheritance that guarantees exactly the opposite. The Indian constitution is built on the edifice of liberal democracy. India does not have to deviate from that constitutional edifice. And if the price of that deviation is both greater frictions with respect to power production and the loss of India's exemplary uh status in the world because it has been a very successful liberal democracy despite being a developing country then I think you know the liberal project internationally really loses as a result. I mean, I I I want to kind of tie this together with kind of, you know, the United States and and its own trajectory, right? Because when it comes to the United States's foreign policy equities, you write that the US has tolerated India's behaviors in the past in part because both countries were largely liberal democracies, right? So if India exhibited a certain amount of nivism or chauvinism or protectionism or promiscuity with respect to other partners, it was okay because we had this kind of bedrock of shared values. Now um we've been focusing primarily on if if India becomes more liberal uh or less democratic but obviously the same question could be asked of our own country the United States. So what happens in a world in which both India and the United States become less democratic and more illiberal? So I think if that outcome were to occur and it's already occurring. I mean that's the direction we're clearly heading. Absolutely. Absolutely. So the real question is whether that trajectory is permanent. If one assumes that that trajectory is permanent that the United States and India both become illiberal democracies then I would say that's a double tragedy that it's neither good for each nor for both. Now I would say India can't change the US trajectory but it can shape its own and therefore it ought to do its damn best to protect the inheritance of liberal democracy because it's good for itself irrespective of what happens in the United States. Now for reasons that have nothing to do with India, I would like to see the United States return to the path of liberal poverty because even that has an impact on our own power produ production. Right? To give you a very simple example, a liberal United States would have a very different attitude to immigration. It would have a very different attitude to the primacy of the rule of law. It would have a very different attitude to the respect for persons and international cooperation across borders. And yet on each of these issues, rising illiberalism is taking a toll. And while we can decry that toll at an ideational level because it disfigures, you know, this shining city on the hill, when it comes to the question of power politics, we have to be concerned because it weakens the material foundations of American power. And to that degree, illiberalism in the United States not only imposes an ideal an ideational penalty, it also imposes a material penalty. And we are likely to see this most concretely on the issues of immigration where if you look for example at the shape of the US population pyramid 25 30 years out if we do not have access to open immigration we going to end up looking like many of the states that we would prefer not to become states where the dependency ratios are extremely by states which do not enjoy a large cohort of the productive population and so on and so forth and that has real implications for the future of American power. So I would simply say that you know uh a rising liberalism in the United States that ends up being its permanent terminus is not going to be good for the United States irrespective of what happens in India. Just to pause on this for a second. I mean this also has consequences for the US India relationship because India has been a massive beneficiary of America's liberal open immigration policies particularly those policies which have been in place now for the last you know 60 odd years that prioritize highskilled immigrations from country like India. Um and so therefore it's not just that it will have material impacts on in a negative direction for us but this will also reound negatively to India as well. Absolutely. Now for the moment uh people seem to think that we can obate the worst consequences by essentially utilizing Indian labor and seed. So Indian labor does not have to migrate to the United States. they can work in a sense in offshore locations within India while still supporting the rise of the Indian economy uh the US economy. I would say that works to a point but at the end of the day it does make a difference if the United States is fertilized by high-skilled Indian labor by high-skilled labor from a variety of other countries. Right? So this is really something that will affect both India and the United States and I on this count at least worry more about the United States than I do about India. So I I want to just come to another aspect of India's domestic transformations which which again is is is kind of more in the economic vein. Towards the end of the piece, you write that if India's continuing growth remains largely tied to domestic market expansion but not international integration, there are real downside consequences, right? Because first of all, its ability to grow faster will inevitably be constrained because it will have limited access to markets abroad. I'm curious whether on this score you see any signs of reversal, right? Because we know in recent months, India has reached a trade accord with the United Kingdom. It's actively negotiating packs with both the European Union and the United States. The reports today would suggest as early as July 8th, which is a day before the president's uh self-imposed deadline. The US and India could announce some kind of early agreement. Do you think that on this score we could debate the reasons behind it? There has been a shift from the kind of Indian perspective. I mean I'm hopeful but I see all the agreements that India has reached in recent months uh to be evidence of a tentative rather than a transformative shift. India is still very much focused on how to accelerate exports and it is driven to these new trade agreements essentially by a desire to find export markets. But I still see a reluctance with respect to an open-ended embrace of integration. In other words, India's free trade agreements, you know, are not entirely free trade agreements. Uh they are driven by a desire to access capital from abroad, to access markets from abroad. But I still don't see an openness to allow foreign partners to sort of walk into the Indian market and discover bigger opportunities for themselves. I hope that comes in time but at the moment I still see this as a glass you know half full rather than a glass entirely full. Ashley, I know that you spend a lot of your time not just thinking about India but also thinking about China. Let me just ask you a question on this front. You know, a lot of your piece as I read it um assumes that the United States has a coherent China policy because once you assume that you see very logically how India fits. But as you know better than most people in Washington, it's not necessarily assumption that one can bank on anymore, right? Because uh you know you and I have talked to a bunch of people in Washington, including the administration on Capitol Hill. And you know, depending on which meeting you have in which agency on which day, you may get a very different sense of what US China policy is. And so as far as the Trump administration is concerned, how do you assess as an analyst the focus of its China policy and then of course by extension how India fits into its larger logic? So I think this is the most powerful criticism that could be made of the peace right that if you assume that the US has a China policy that is coherent then India fits very nicely into that policy and that's pretty much the course that we have pursued for at least the last decade. Today it is unfortunate that the United States does not have a coherent China policy. uh the president's approach to China appears to be grounded on the assumption that China is a trade problem not a strategic problem and if that is the assumption on which our current China policy is based then you can understand why Indians would be skeptical about the need for partnering with the United States because Washington could simply declare a peace pack with China tomorrow and then the necessity of India relying on the United States or the United States relying on India simply disappears. But the point I make uh to those who you know articulate this criticism is that you've got to recognize that our current absence of mind is really a absence of mind that hopefully will have simply a three-year term and that after President Trump departs office the China problem will still remain and the United States will have objective interests that are competitive with China irrespective of who holds present. And so when one looks beyond the you know pathologies of the moment I think there are still very good grounds for India to think of the United States as its preferred partner because the China challenge is not going away and there are very good grounds comparably for the United States to think seriously about India because of the need to manage the China challenge. So if one were simply for the sake of argument, you know, to abstract from the current problems that we have with the Trump administration's worldview, I would say the broad conclusions of the peace would still hold that India is going to have a China problem that is going to be far, you know, more difficult to manage uh than it would be even for the United States. And so the imperatives of India working towards a privileged relationship with Washington remain persistent and become all the more you know all the more significant as time passes by. I mean just just to kind of dig in to that for a second Ashley. I mean in your answer you alluded to the fact that look I mean it's entirely possible that the president decides that he needs to have a high level summit with Xihinping and strike some kind of G2 accord. That is of course the the fear that Indian policy makers have long held which always seemed frankly outlandish until they don't right until and now you can kind of see a scenario where maybe that plays out. So given that that is a realistic probability it would be hard to put a kind of you know uh specific percentage likelihood on that outcome but it's certainly out there. It's non zero. Um, doesn't it make sense for India then to hedge somewhat because isn't it the worst of all worlds if China and the US kind of get together in some kind of daton leaving India out in the cold. So that makes absolute sense. I understand the I understand the temptations that India would have to hedge against a US failure to balance China. And it is entirely possible that in this current Trump term the US would fail to balance against China. Uh people have already talked about the traditional US objective of preserving its global primacy slowly devolving into a world where the US begins to recognize spheres of influence. And if the US moved in that direction, then an inevitable consequence of that devolution is that China would become essentially the preeminent power in lead. And if that's a realistic possibility and the United States is not available to balance, yes, India would be smart to look elsewhere except that India has been doing this even when uh the United States was the primate in the ethnic system and therefore the inhibitions are not because of the failures of US policy. Even though the failures of US policy are the most prominent driver right now, the inhibitions in India are much more deeproined. They have to do with India's vision of itself. It has to do with the troubled history of US India relations and the fact that the United States as a global power has relationships with some of India's adversaries that India does not like most prominently Pakistan. There's a long history to this. So my simple answer to Indians who make the argument about aging because I recognize the logic of aging, my simple answer to them is there will come a point where the United States will wake up where it'll begin to recognize that its objective interests are not served by splitting the world into spheres of interests. that it will look again for ways to retrieve the primacy it will have lost if it permit its fears of interest and when the US gets to that position, India will not be better served by a strategy of edging but rather by a strategy of the closest possible relations with Washington. And so in many ways this piece does not have the tenure of the Trump administration as its temporal horizon but it's looking at the world of 2047 or 2050. And I think if the United States is not to shoot itself in the foot, it will have no alternative but to protect its privacy over that time frame. And in that kind of a world, you know, US choices towards India and India's choices towards the United States all become, you know, very very relevant. So Ashley, let me ask you one final question before I wrap up, which is you are uh the kind of leading scholar associated with this phrase which we've all kind of adopted called strategic altruism, right? And it and it comes to my mind most specifically from a piece you wrote for another piece you wrote for foreign affairs with ambassador Bob Blackwell with whom you served in Delhi uh called the India dividend and and the argument that you made is that look uh from 2000 to 2019 which is when you published the piece uh the US has followed this policy of strategic altruism investing in India's rise because India's rise u benefited the United States and we did not have to ask as Americans or as a government you know what what have you done for me lately India right um we it was not a transactional relationship in which uh the United States demanded some kind of instant gratification and obviously things look very different now right I mean I don't think altruism is really on the menu these days so assuming that getting back to your idea of you know this is an argument about the long duray India still needs to survive the next three years. And so in a world in which the US is not uh exhibiting strategic altruism, how would you advise India to navigate the the remainder of of the Trump term? Right? How does it best take advantage of what America has to offer without necessarily doing things that it would find unpalatable or or frankly even impossible for domestic political reasons or other reasons? So I think what India needs to do is to put time at the clock and to provide the minimal wins that satisfy both sides so that we can build a bridge over the currents and when times effectively change in Washington hopefully there will be some in incentives to in a sense you know pick up where we last left and so I think That is what Prime Minister Modi has actually tried to do. But you know, he's run against the rough shores of Trump's temperament and sometimes Trump's failure to appreciate uh you know the history of this relationship and the neuralas that still uh you know are quite real. But from an Indian point of view, you have to I think hunker down. Uh hope that you survive this period without too much damage. But most important of all, I would say don't give up on the United States. Because if you give up on the United States, you end up in a very different world. Rather, you simply have to accept that relations with Washington are going to be hard to manage but have to be managed all the same because at the end of the day, the US is still the best bet uh with respect to enhancing Indian security in the geopolitical environment over the next two decades and that geopolitical environment will be marked by China's continued presence if not ascendancy and India will simply not have the capacity to deal with that ascendancy by itself and so keeping the US on side I think remains and should remain I think the enduring gold star of Indian geopolitics far more than investing in countries like Russia and any other state that you know occasionally India may take a fancy to. My guest on the show this week is my colleague Ashley J. tell us. He holds the Tata Chair for Strategic Affairs at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He's also the author of a new essay which appears in the July August print edition of foreign affairs titled India's Great Power Delusions: How New Delhi's Grand Strategy Tharts Its Grand Ambitions. Ashley, um this was a a pleasure to read. It has got a lot of people talking as I as I think you know, much like your foreign affairs essay of two years ago did. Um thank you so much for for writing the piece and for taking the time. Thank you. It's always been a pleasure to talk to you. [Music] Grandmash is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the Hindusan Times. This podcast is an HT Smartcast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Grandanthamasha, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer, Mera Verge is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabel Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart glass.