================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: YVYQCCi-p7M
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YVYQCCi-p7M
TITLE: Will unbeaten Palace end Liverpool's perfect start?
CHANNEL: The Totally Football Show
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-25
DURATION: 1h 4m 5s
VIEWS: 12,902
LIKES: 243
COMMENTS: 68
TAGS: Totally Football Show, James Richardson, Jimbo, James Horncastle, Rafa Honigstein, premier league, serie a, bundesliga, la liga, world cup

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jimbo's got Natalie Gedra, Duncan Alexander and Charlie Eccleshare alongside him for a look back on all the midweek action (so far) - and look ahead to MD6 in the Premier League.

We begin with all the League Cup drama - including Ekitike's misguided undressing, Diego Gomez's banger after banger - and Joao Palhinha's overhead kick. There's also reaction to Forest's 2-2 draw with Real Betis in the Europa League on Wednesday night.

Then it's all eyes on the Premier League weekend - with the battle of the unbeaten sides at Selhurst Park, Arsenal trying to break their recent St James' hoodoo, Villa hoping to end their worrying start to the season - and Chelsea desperate to recapture some of that Cole Palmer magic after his remarkable first half showing in this fixture last year.

All that plus stellar pitches, bucolic walks, tough interviews - and an unfortunate cameraman.

Producers: Charlie Jones and Lucy Oliva.
Video Producer: Jake Liascos

Listen to the audio version of the Totally Fo
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 12,213

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Totally football show today. Premier League match day six. From the pool party at the palace whose form will take a dip to Newcastle versus Arsenal to Villa versus Cottages the doicile derby. We look ahead to all the weekend's games. And back on the big midweek action. Nottingham Forest making their return to Europe away at Bettis. And in the Carabal Cup, a Wolves win. Echitk trouble and Brighton being brilliant. All that and more in this totally football show Thursday the 25th of September and it's a totally football show for you. Who's on it today? Well, for a start is Natalie Jedra of Sky Sports. Hello. Hi Natalie. Hi. Nice to see you. Good to see you too. Jimbo also here and it's nice to see them as well. Charlie Ekoshare. Hello. All right. And Duncan Alexander. Bonjour. Hi Duncan. You've had a haircut? Not that recently. Okay, then in my life. Yeah, definitely. What a busy week. Obviously, we got Premier League match day six looming, but a busy midweek as well of cup action with the Europa League and the League Cup. Uh, one of the fixtures of which, Natalie, I know you enjoy England's unique football culture. Did you notice that on Wednesday there was a totally unique fixture in the English football landscape? Really? Tell me about it. Port Vale against Arsenal. Okay. Which is Duncan. The only two teams not named after a place in the entire football league. Yeah. Some people will say Arsenal is sort of named after the Woolitch Arsenal. Oh, yeah. That's fair. But it's not a place. It's more It's not a thing, is it? But that is true. It was named after It was a location originally, wasn't it? They didn't name it after the Arsenal cuz they were big fans of buildings with lots of weapons. Well, I think they were I think that was the Oh, really? wasn't it? Cuz they all work there or something. Yeah, probably. But you know it's not like I don't know Atalanta which is named after a goddess rather than say something else than Stoke. Yeah. But all right. Port Veil G. What about Port Veil though? Cuz that's that's one of the long mysteries. Why Port Veil? No one knows. Um they're from Burlham which is a bit of Stoke. So yeah. Um very veil park known as the Wembley of the North back in the day. Was it? Even though it's not in the north. Well, it depends where you are, doesn't it? Well, if you're in Bronze Grove, it's north. I reckon if you leave Stoke with a heavy heart and head onto the motorway, you will see signs for the north if you turn left. So, I don't think Stoke is in the north. But anyway, there you go. In Brazil, you got loads of teams that are not called after like Corinthians. Yes, like Corinthians, which is named over Corinthians casuals from from here. Oh, nice. Yeah. Yeah. Any other should I say loads? Uh, no. Palmetas. You have loads. I was actually trying to remember other other teams. Flamingo though is an area. So it's not Flamingo is a is a club. Yeah. Yeah. But is also an area. Flamingo or not? Yes, it is in Rio. So Flamingo, Flumin, Botaafog, they're all areas. All areas. Yes. Vasco Doma is not an area. It's a man. Uh yes, it is a man. An intrepid explorer. Yes. Yes. So yeah, I have plenty of examples. I find that very intriguing. I do too. Of course, if you want teams that are not named after places, I think the Erid Devis is where you want to go for Hercules and go ahead Eagles and and that kind of thing. That sounds like fun, doesn't it, though? Doesn't it though? More creativity in team names. Natalie, you're going to be heading to a new ground this weekend. Sort of Monday. That's right. Yeah, Monday. Yeah. For Everton West Ham. Love a new ground. Yeah. Hill Dickinson. Yes. Hill meant to be nice. What was the last new ground you went to? Brand new ground. Well, it doesn't have to be new, but it was new to you. Oh, yes. No. So, yeah, it's like it's like going to an amusement park for me cuz it's a whole new experience. Each one has their own character, especially here in England. So, Carabal Cup. I do plenty of Carabal Cup. That gives me Cleth. You went to Clethor, didn't you? Yes. Yes. Grimby Town. Is it Blundle Park? Yes. Blundle Park. Right. Yes. And I did Brmley Switch on round one as well. That was It's always a great experience. I went to Brmley for round two. They played Wickham and uh such a good ground. Yeah, but you go past chickens and animals. Yes. There's a little farm on the way from the I call it a main road, but it's pretty much suburban. Suburban back street, southeast London. Yeah. No, it's um Yeah. And I'm always amazed with the quality of the pitch. Every time I post anything on social medias from like lower divisions here in England, I get tons of texts from from Brazilians say I cannot believe the the quality of the pitch is something England should take. It was interesting because they show yesterday when Port Vale were playing Arsenal, you know, it's a carpet of a pitch and but they showed, you know, nostalgia last time they played here in 98 and it was, you know, the classic kind of FA Cup on what looked like a bit of a bog of a pitch and yeah, how times have changed. So, what's happened there? just money or there no there is actually there was a few articles on the athletic about it but there was a bit of a revolution in British groundsmanship about 10 12 years ago and so much so that they're now headhunted by clubs around the world cuz they're so good back in the I say ' 90s maybe early naughties I remember interviewing the guy been brought into Sans to try and rescue their pitch which had been a a real issue for for well ever since they put the extra bit on it for 1990 so they had an English bloke that they'd flown basically now, you know, like a big signing, big groundsman signing unveiled. Yeah. With a mower. Yeah. This ride on mower. Yeah. Um but yeah, blending sort of I think it's like 20% plastic with real grass and all that really. So a lot of these pictures, these carpets are actually Yeah. Cuz it gives the the robustness, but also you get the na natural actual grass. Drainage has improved a lot as well, hasn't it? Yeah, that was always a big issue. Drainage. It is something you should take proud of. Okay. You should be proud of. Definitely. No. No. Yes. No. Because for if you watch first division of of the national league in Brazil, you see a few pitches that you go like, I cannot believe this is the first division. You know, love to stay and chat about drainage, but we got uh Premier League match day six to look forward to. Quite a mixed bag of fixtures in in that. And before any of that, let's get into what happened on top of these glorious pitches. Midweek League Cup. First of all, this midweek saw the third round completed, plus the draw for the last 16 among the headlines. Emil Heskies, two Suns playing for City. That's Jaden and Reagan in their two-nil win at Huddersfield. Wolves are getting a rare win and knocking out Everton. Both reached the last 16. Brighton scored six goals away for the second straight game in this competition. Four of them were for Diego Gomez. That was in their 6-nil victory at Barnesley on Tuesday. Anybody see this? Did you see Diego Gomez's goals? I saw the goals. Yes, I saw the goals. Second one and the third one. The second one was really nice. The third one from the long distance. He hits the ball flying. Such power. Yes. A poker of goals. A poker. Poker goal. Yeah. Yeah. No, absolutely. in Italian. I don't think in English there's a a word for scoring four goals. There isn't a four for No, there isn't. Criy and five. A five for because in Spanish is re reoker of goals. Really? Yeah. In in Spanish. Okay. And they use it. They really use it. Like hattrick is so popular. Why Why can't we make poker of goals? I don't know. Yeah. Brighton. Anyway, going to the last 16 where they'll face Arsenal who won 2-0 away on that lovely pitch at Port Vale. Oh, Eberi got his first goal for Arsenal. And then Trosard got the second. And Max Dam, how did he play? Charlie, you watching this? I saw this. Uh, yes, D. I mean, it was incredible the buildup that Dmond was given. I mean, honestly, it was as if like Arsenal were about to put on sort of a peak Leo Messi or something. And obviously, you know, he's 15 and there's a huge amount of hype around him. Yeah, he was pretty good. He kept it pretty simple. He played one really, really good first time pass, which actually you don't, it kind of made you realize how rarely you see that with Arsenal. Um, that, you know, it was one of those that comes to him, it's quite risky in some ways in the sense that you might easily just over hit it and lose the ball, but he catches it perfectly first time and plays in Yokarez who was oneonone, has a shot. Uh, the defender comes across and makes a tackle. Uh yeah, he was good. I mean, I would say other than that, didn't do anything massively spectacular, but very positive. I mean, and you know, was constantly looking for the ball. Um and, you know, meant that Sacka could have half an hour off, which was can't remember who it was in central defense, but over hit a pass to him quite early after he come on and he sort of turned around and I think berated him. It was like, "Yeah, fair play. That's that's good for a 15year-old." So, yeah. I mean, kind of crazy to be playing at 15. And there's maybe a moral question about whether 15y olds should be able to play, do you think? Well, it's funny. I remember I was watching the game where when came on at 15 with my wife who's a social worker, child protection, and she was and I was kind of like, "Isn't this cool? A 15-year-old's playing." She was kind of like, "That's really effed up. Like, what if he makes a big mistake?" And you know, what will he then be exposed to? This guy's a child. And I was kind of like, yeah, but what a left foot though, right? So, yeah, ever since that I have felt a little bit uncomfortable about aif I mean a 15-year-old is a child. Um, and you are exposing them to a huge amount. I mean, you know, that said that compared to being like a child film star or something like that, it's probably favorable like you're in a network, a system, you've got a lot of supportive people around you. But, um, yeah, I think it is definitely a question to be asked or a conversation to be had. Talking about youngsters, talented youngsters. Uh Mile Loose Kelly is back heel too is his goal. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Was lovely. I I I want to believe that he did. You You don't think he did? I watched it a few times. I couldn't I don't know. The intent was there anyway. Yeah. It served its purpose. It's an existent bamboozled the defender. Arsenal going through to the last team where they'll take on Brighton. And Charlie, you also watched Spurs in their 3-0 win against Doncaster, which featured quite a surprising opening goal. Yes, the the bicycle or sort of overhead kick uh from Palinia. Yeah. Um yeah, it was like as overheads bicycles go, it wasn't the kind of most I I think it's been slightly over, you know, some it wasn't like a sort of flying acrobatic one. It was more a kind of I mean it was it was very impressive but it was more a kind of not to take anything away from him but just like you might hear that and look it up and be like expecting you know one of those great kicks. I did look it up and I was impressed. You were okay. I thought it was a bit more hookie than maybe you were. Yeah. But it's Palinia and Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's the surprising factor. We we we didn't know he had it in Yeah. Yeah. He wasn't tackling uh to the goal. It was quite similar to do you remember Alan Sheer's one against Belgium in 1999 Stadium alone he saw they are overhead kicks but you know they're sort of just men sitting down and kicking the ball behind them more more than kind of Hugo Sanchez. We needed him for that as well but he was playing center back as well. So I mean well yeah I mean they did they did a lot of long throws. I mean it it felt a little bit because this game was so uncompetitive that they were just sort of practicing their set pieces which were obviously really important to Thomas Frank increasingly uh and you know long throws I mean obviously Arsel being in you know stoke adjacent would have brought back some memories for them of being you know so bullied by the long throws of Rory Dap but um they did face a few actually from Port Vale but largely managed to deal with them and Arsenal themselves have started using long throws everybody's doing it they're I myself yeah went at just after I start doing it put myself in the bin just you know you got to go with the Z guy sometimes you certainly have Spurs are going to face the holders Newcastle in the last 16 these matches will be played in the week starting the 27th of October in about a month's time anyway uh also Liverpool beat Southampton 2-1 wasn't the easiest of games for Arnot's side were very lively at the start almost took the lead but then almost immediately after Will Still's outfit had missed a chance. Alexander Isok scored his first goal for Liverpool and the second came from he was replaced at Halime by Ekkit who scored late on and then took his shirt off and held it up so the crowd could see his name. It was that he then subsequently got a yellow card for that as you do and he'd already picked up one. So he's now been sent off and will miss this weekend's game away at Crystal Palace. Is it away at Crystal Palace? home degree away at Crystal Palace which is quite big. No, the fact was there a particular reason why in the Carabal Cup he took his shirt off and pointed to his name. Was it it wasn't cuz Each had scored was it? I don't know but love the Caribel Cup always dreamt of honest thought was great because he was like okay if if it's Champions League final and it's the 87th minute and you dribble past three people and put it in the top corner do that but it's the Carabel Cup. He also said you're sorry Natalie. Yeah. No, I I I was impressed with what he said cuz he said uh if I went past three players and put it on the top corner, then maybe you can say, "Oh, this is all about me." But if I scored a goal like he did tonight, I would turn to KZA and say, "It's all about you, Federico. Great assist, great run, and I didn't have to do a lot." Maybe that's me being old school. Although maybe then Kza turns around to slot and says, "Why didn't you put him in the Champions League school?" So, you know, it can go on. But, um it was funny cuz Frim Pong ran up to him as well. He's like, "What are you doing? Put your shirt on. You're in big trouble." Like when when your mates sees a teacher come in, what what are you doing? But he doesn't usually do that. And EAC had just scored. I was maybe he's just really into the whole Will Still meme thing and was like for him scoring against a Will Still team was What's the Will Still meme? Well, you know, the when Will Still was forging his career in France, there was a there was a kind of people would be like, "Have you heard of this sort of English Belgian guy that's making his way in France?" So many people said it that it became like a kind of, you know, have you heard this thing? Yeah. Tiki, who will not be featuring for Liverpool this weekend against Palace. Liverpool do go through to the last 16 where they've drawn uh Palace. They just play Palace again and again and again. That will be what the third time in Yeah. Community. Yeah. Two months. We'll talk about that Premier League game the season as well. Yes. Yeah, they do. Really? Wow. It's it's quite the series. Uh what else from the draw? Let's see. Newcastle Spurs, Swansea, Man City. Arsenal, Brighton, Liverpool Palace, Grimby went through last week. Going to be hosting Brenford. Rexom who also made it through. They they drew Cardiff. It's going to be an all Welsh affair there. Cardiff who knocked out Burnley midweek. Rexom who put poor old Reading out 2 nil. They the Dra Dragons. Rexom. Dragons. Yeah, they're in the fourth round for the first time since 1977. Fact fans, uh, Wolves will be playing Chelsea who are world champions, but went behind to uh, Lincoln of League One and a really shaky display from their keeper. No, the reserve Jorgensson because Robert Sanchez was suspended for this. And uh well one other game which we haven't mentioned yet Duncan Wigan Wickham. Wigan Wickham. Yeah the homophone uh classicalico. Um yeah two wins out of two for Wickham under a new manager. So it's it's all fine and everything excellent. Um and then they drew Fulham in the next round. How do you feel about that? It would have been better away I think like a nice you know southwest London walk through Bishop's Park rain. But how's the walk to Wickchams ground? less less uh bukallic. Yeah. Well, there are a lot of trees. I had to say bukolik in Portuguese. Bukoliku. I see that's even better to be fair. Um Wickham do probably have the most buolic ground in the in the uh in the league. But the walk there through an industrial sake perhaps less so. But looking at the overall draw, I'm going to say that's the worst combination of fixtures you could get from the teams that are there. I don't like nothing, you know, you could have had Arsenal Spurs. I mean, I guess Rex from Cardiff is as close as you get to like a but most of those games are a bit like Newcastle Tottenham is I was going to say reasonably interesting. That's a good one. But yeah, I I know there's not a standout. But then does that mean the quarters and semis are going to be delicious? Yeah. Free Christmas treat that quarterfinal of the Carabel. One of the best weeks of the season, I reckon. Last 16 of the Caribbean Cup. No, the Oh, sorry. The quarterfinals just before Christmas. Very nice. Now that was the Caraba Cup clearly, but also going on this midweek were some early games from the Europa League first round of the league phase. There'll be more games tonight including Rangers. They're up against GK. Aston Villa hosting Bologna as well. Aston Villa having a rough time of it at the moment. But already in action were various sides. Celtic who drew 110 away to test Venice FZA Kletchi Inato opening the scoring for Celtic. Marco Al-Natovic for Red Star did not know that he was there. Very 2015 Premier League coded score sheet and Roma went to Nice and with Sir Jim Ratcliffe watching morosely from the stands beat the Riviera side 2-1 which means Gasprini's now had four wins in five matches in charge of the Jalarosi. Well done to them. Oh, did you see I don't know if you saw the goal. Simikas on loan from Liverpool made his first start and the second goal is an absolute gem. It's a very Premier League goal actually because he's bombed up the wing and he curls a delicious cross in which Jan Luca Manchini just meets first time and lashes in. Charlie will be going, "Oo, that is nice." Very, very shortly as this uh video player loads up. The other game which I think most people were looking out for took place in Seville and saw Real Bettis host Noddingham Forest playing their first European fixture in 29 years. Natalie, you watched this. Yes, it was fun. Fun time. Yeah, first half 13 shots from Forest, five on target, a loads going on really in the front foot. Hatches scored first and then I scored twice. Um but then halfime batis had three changes and and forest an goes and takes off Douglas Luis who was the one holding midfielder and and for Delane Bakqua who's a winger and you think okay this is good this is an ball we're here for it right but the the game completely changes you know an after the match he said that he he never really felt like they were a proper threat because they didn't create a lot of big chances realis but like that that momentum of being the front foot creating a lot of chances it completely disappeared and then in the end Anthony scored yeah because it had been better chance after better chance yeah and in the end an was questioned about the the change and I I can understand that he has to manage minutes Douglas Luiz especially and he he apparently had a a hamstring problem but still really changed the dynamic of of the game. If you look at it, a point against Halbachis is a good point against Halbatis away is a good point, but it was it was just a weird second half, right? Some people kind of calling this game a microcosm of of Spurs last season under an first first half a frenzy of attacking football. The second half very much all petering out while the opposition rain shots. Well, with a hamstring injury as well. I mean that that was a sort of um cherry on the Yeah, that was very much a staple of his time and his early time at Celtic as well. We should say it's a lovely girl from Anthony as well. The uh the eventual equalizer. It's a good finish. Yeah, I mean and he celebrates in a very humble uh humble fashion. Your compatriate Natalie. No, let's talk about the other compatriate then. So, he was never a prolific goal scorer for Botto. No. Yeah. No, no, he he scored he scored a lot for for them. But it's a funny story, James, because he starts as a pro in Brazil, plays for one year, uh, plays for Kurichiba for one year, and then he's off to Dubai and he plays for in Dubai for four years, which is very weird if you think of a 20 year old, you know, it's usually the other way around. But then last year he comes back to Brazil completely uh, out of the radar and he starts scoring goals. He wins the league with Bafogo. He wins Liberta Doris with Bafogo. And then he scores against PSG at the club world cup. He gets the move to Forest. He gets called up for the national team. All of this in the space of a year and a half for a guy that not so long ago was playing in Dubai. So that's amazing. Yeah, it is a funny story. He's he's a strong physical guy. He Elliot Henderson was mentioning that he's always in the right places, but I I think tactically he he can still improve a few things in his game and this is something that we we already saw when he was playing Bafog, but Bafogo fans obviously really really liked him and and yeah and and he Chris Wood started on the bench, right? So So that is that is big and it it is understandable he's 33 and and Eager Jus is 24. So it's it's only natural that they start looking for for options you know uh in terms of rotation but it's it's good for forest fans and and yeah okay good point as you say away to Rail Bessis who finished sixth in the Liga last season and brilliant form under Manuel Pelle Pelleini. Uh, one other bit of bad news for Forest though as they continue to chase their first win under Anostoki was Nicola Meenovic going off injured right at the end. Any word on how serious that is. Yeah, apparently it's not so serious. So that's that's the first thing an said, but you know, and Muro wasn't playing a slight pitch of salt. his in his sort of assess in instant assessments of injuries didn't always prove to be uh the most accurate over time. Premier League Saturday lunchtime. Manchester United will be visiting Brenford. They lost 4-3 there last season. In fact, United haven't won away from home anywhere since March. We'll see if they can do it Saturday lunchtime at 3:00. The league's two unbeaten sides go at it. Liverpool rare opportunity to take on Crystal Palace. Liverpool, you recall, five points clear. Palace currently in fifth spot. Chelsea will be hosting Brighton. This is all the 3:00 games. Leads uh their excellent home record. They're actually yet concede at Ellen Road this season. Will get a test from the visit of Bournemouth. And City will play host to Burnley. Bernie's last 10 visits to the Etihad has seen them lose 10 times with an aggregate score of 40 goals to three. Huh. Tea time it's Forest Sunderland and his home debut at the City ground. And then at 8:00 on Saturday, the increasingly popular time slot will see Spurs take on Wolves. Sunday at 2:00, Crisis Club Aston Villa host Fulham at 4:30, Arsenal R at Newcastle. And then on Monday night, it's the person you dumped now all loved up with somebody else. Classico as David Moyes's Everton face very much not David Moyes anymore, West Ham, where supposedly Grandpot's got two j two games to save his job. West Ham in the bottom three right now alongside Wolves and Aston Villa. What apart from long throws and teams passing less and goalkeepers sending it can we expect from this weekend? Ju just just a word on long throws. Yes. Cuz we haven't had enough of that, right? Yeah. No, cuz I was at Brenford Fulham. Yes. And now Brenford is playing Man United and I I thought it was an interesting insight because Fulham really managed to stop the long throws from Brenford and they just kept pushing and how did they do it? Yes. So Alexi, both Alexi Wobi and Marco Silva spoke about it after the match and they said they practiced throughout the week, not necessarily the long throws, but they practice a lot of second balls because with the long throws, you don't know the trajectory of the ball and you don't really know like the position of the plays of the players. So you go you put a lot of effort on the second balls. Okay. And that really worked. So if Man United is listening, maybe they're No, maybe they're they're doing it. And I I think it will be interesting to see how teams will deal with with this throughout the season. I mean, the main United have been vulnerable to set pieces, so this will be interesting to see. You'd imagine they would be testing them uh a lot. I mean, it is a weird that long throws is it's a strange one because it's obviously it has these negative connotations and I do think like, you know, does it have negative? I'm I'm really excited by the return. Uh, I think the whole Stoke thing, you know, it's seen as quite rudimentary and because it's very popular at lower levels of the game. You know, if you play Sunday league, you know, and you know, if a team's attacking you, they've got, they're probably going to hurl it in and which obviously is more hoping for the best. Well, it feels like now it's it's almost an equaliz not an equalizer, but it's a leveler in the sense that you have teams with enormous resources who buy these incredibly diff gifted technical players, but if you can get someone who can lob a ball a really long way, you got a chance of sure of of I think what's interesting is the fact that it's even the teams who spent a lot of money themselves who are doing it that you know, you think a team like Arsenal or whoever, I mean, when they played PSG in the Champions League semi-final, they had a lot of joy with long throws early on in that game in the second leg. PSG then got a bit wise to it and I think that that is a bit the thing with it is like there's a I think there's a limited amount of time for some teams anyway unless they're really expert at it that it really works because you should be able to defend them like Nat says with the trajectory long throw in case you're curious is defined as a throw of 20 m or more which arrives in the opposition box. Yeah, I think there's a difference in teams. I think some throw it in, some actually like Brenford do do it quite cleverly and have specific routines and it's kind of like the NFLification of football is is uh continuing a pace you know like special teams and you know every season people are finding little little marginal gains. Um do you remember Liverpool hired the throwin coach and that was grown. Yeah. And that caused this big culture war. You there was the whole like don't know how to take a throw in. Exactly. Although as we saw with Cal Fury the other day that some players don't know how to take a throw and need need a little reminder. There's an excellent piece uh by opter analyst David Seagar on Premier League.com where he breaks down the the various kind of tactical shifts and the numbers behind them. Long throws per game are more than double from last season. So this is a real shiftly a small sample size. They're up almost four times from five years ago. West Ham are the only team in the Premier League not to have attempted a long throw into the box yet this season. Brenford lead the way with 23. That's pretty busy. Other trends which David Tiger identifies and I think a lot of people have passing which is an at a 15-year low the amount of passing that teams are doing in the Premier League. Uh long goal kicks are on the rise percentage has gone up. Uh almost 50% of goal kicks now end in the opposition half. So that's that's quite a shift. The game hasn't gone. It's come back. I mean, this is what a lot of people did. You know, we had a couple of years ago people bemoning the fact that this sort of football which was prevalent in the '9s and 2000s had gone forever. But it never goes forever because but I do think those throw numbers will plateau a bit. I think like once team defensive teams get wise to it, um I think I think we'll see less of it. Oh, okay. How much variety can you put into it? Because with corners, with corners, for example, there's a lot of things you can do with corners. Maybe we're just at the start of the rebirth of long throwins because they're going to find out new ways to make it trick trickier like like it happened with corners. Bring back the somersault uh throw approach. Yeah. But there is there is something as well for a team like what Liverpool the way they're able to especially at Anfield that momentum they keep up with the you know the and and this is actually what you know what an always wanted to do was you know the ball's always in play you're making you're knackering defenders out because they're constant they're getting no rest. Long throws do stem momentum a little bit which I think works well if you're a team maybe like Brenford where you're not necessarily going to have all of the ball. If you are a more if you're if you're a team like a Liverpool or a Man City or an Arsenal and you're playing a defensive team at home, conc is quite a momentum staller and a vibe killer. Um well, Arsenal, even we saw against City a little bit on Sunday, but Arsenal have been, you know, at the vanguard of throws quite a lot in recent seasons. They have that one where Odigard kind of makes a run along the touch line and they angle it over the top of the defense because obviously you can't be offside from a throw in. So that's quite useful. Bellerin was a revolutionary in his foul throws. Three in a game. Yeah. What was that? He just couldn't couldn't really take a throw. But then said in uh he was like, "I've been doing this all my life in his sort of like Spanish cockney hybrid uh way to alignment." He was like, "You can't throw it like that." That said, players are generally allowed to do foul throws at Premier League level, which I think is great because it's just not Yeah, frankly, who cares? It just otherwise encourages hurling it, which is what you get at amateur level. If you take a short one, you'll be paid. Do you think it's good for the international audience that English football has returned to its core product and big men up front and people lobbing the ball over scrap? I'm not sure because I think a lot of people relate Premier League to a different type of football now. Of course. Yes. Yes. If you if you think about the expansion of of Premier League internationally and you think about you you're focusing on the last 10 15 years more or less and and when things just escalated to the Guardiola side of right football you know so so yeah it's it is a sweet but it's it's interesting the clash of the two unbeaten teams in the Premier League Crystal Palace hosting Liverpool Saturday at 3:00. The only two teams in the Premier League who are yet to go behind in a game this season. Palace of course on that incredible 17game unbeaten run which has featured not only the community shield victory on penalties over Liverpool but also the FA Cup win over Man City and one or two issues for Liverpool like no Hugo Ikatik. Should the should Liverpool's rivals get their hopes up for this game? I think so. Yeah. You know why? because I think they have a very underrated defensive line in the Premier League. They're their back three. There's a lot of talk about Marge, I know, but like Chris Richard's been brilliant. Lacroa, he's very consistent. You know, they they're just a good fit. They're three defenders who are different from one another and they they they complement each other. And we have to consider as well that they lost Shaloba midway through last season. So they they were able to rebuild this in in their own structure on the back using that back three. And this is where we need to give credit to Oliver Galner and what's been what he's been doing at at Crystal Palace because he's m he's made this side a team that really runs and sprints and shows a lot of energy and that can play big teams that can outplay big teams tactically especially they they've had the better of Man City, they've had the better of Liverpool. So there is a lot of credit that we need to give to Glasgner and to to Palace. So yeah, I think they can have their hopes up. Yeah, I mean it's definitely it feels like quite a big one in the sense that obviously Liverpool have won all their games and like there aren't I don't know there aren't that many games uh that you'd circle as like a potential um banana skin. I do think this is this is definitely a tricky one. Like if they go and make light of this one then I think that strikes a bit of a Have they made light of any fixture? Well, no they haven't. I mean they've all been hard work at this point but they have a fivepoint lead. Yeah, they have a five-point lead which is you know it's very I think it's only a few times anyone's had a five point lead this early since the three points for a win rule came in 1981 which you know great moment in history. Uh only two teams have had a fivepoint lead after five games. Did they both go on to win the title? They did not. City in 1516 did not. I came fourth and then Liverpool in 201920 did win the league but you know project restart. So if you want some more stats actually I do Liverpool are only the 14th team to start a Premier League season with five or more wins in a row and only four of the previous 13 went on to win the league. So starting with lots of wins looks good but deep down it's bad. Right. So I they don't they don't feel convincing do they really? But they don't. And it's just like what I was saying last week. It's that classic thing of like but winning when you're not playing well is the sign of a good team or it's you're gonna get found out. Exactly. But we're gonna find out soon. They're they're not at their best, but when they're not at their best, they're they're still producing like the first half uh against Everton was really good. So they're still producing brilliant moments with their midfield options and their forward options and you know so and and you have like so and and Gravenber playing a really good season. So it's maybe it's just yeah and they've won five games in a row without really using the most expensive player in British football history. So, yeah, you know, there's reasons to be positive as well, but definitely one that I would be watching were it available on UK television. 3 p.m. Saturday. What are Liverpool's rivals going to be up to? Well, Man City at the same time will be hosting Burnley. I mentioned their remarkable record against them. Arsenal, meantime, are at Newcastle. One thing from uh midweek and the Caraba Cup that we didn't mention for Liverpool was the sight of Javanni Leone going off uh stretched off and apparently a torn ACL. So likely to be a lengthy absence for that new signing. A real shame. Can I just say on that as well? I mean that is one of the elements about Liverpool I do find fascinating. I mean they until Leoni got that injur injury they had a completely fit squad and I mean last year their injury record was amazing and I'm really really interested to know the extent to which that is revolutionary on a slot practices and if it is then oh my god he's going to have a good career because in football right now that feels like honestly one of the biggest factors or if it's a little bit you know that was quite fortunate I mean Salah started every Premier League game last season. Wow, that's kind of amazing when you're looking at, you know, you look at their two big rivals, Arsenal and City. I mean, Arsenal have lost a player to injury pretty much every game, mid game this season, sometimes more than once. It's not rotation. Exactly. I don't That's what I mean. It's incredible alchemy. Yeah. If you think about how you manage training, for example, what I've always heard from Manchester City, for example, is that they get a lot of time off because they they really it's their methodology. They believe that they should have a lot of time off. they get like two days off uh in a row and and we really need to find out what what are they doing because if they have a similar record to what they had last season they just will in the league I'm pretty sure because their rivals won't with the volume of games that teams are playing and obviously coming off the club world cup as well. Yeah. Um City are also eight points back now. Arsenal who are along with Spurs and Bournemouth five points behind Liverpool. What are they up to this weekend? City or sorry. Yeah. And talking about City, I'm very We're talking about rotation. I'm interested to see which is going to be the starting 11 because they played they start the because they played the same starting 11 for three matches in a row and of course they rotated now for the Carabal Cup as expected, but against Burnley, I mean they they did pretty well at at home. They made it hard for Liverpool. Of course, we're talking about Liverpool making it hard for themselves, but that is that that is what happened. They came close to Old Trafford as well. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They did. So, but their record against uh Man City way as mentioned is not inspiring. Not inspiring. That's extraordinary number of I mean that to be averaging conceding four goals over over 10 games. Watfordesque. Yeah. That's Man City. Burnley is also a three o'clock game on Saturday. Arsenal. That's the 4:30 Sunday match. Their trip to St. James's to take on Newcastle. Newcastle who, not sure we mentioned this actually, had a big win midweek in the Caraba Cup. They were at home to Bradford 4-1. They triumphed with the braces from Jerintington or Joel Ellington, sorry. Joington and William Osula and a great girl from Andy Cook as a consolation. Was it brilliant girl? Yeah. Yeah. which he properly celebrated which I was pleased about. There was no attempt to be like, "Oh, it's a consolation. I can't celebrate." It's like, "You scored a great goal against Premier League team. Enjoy it." So far in the league, So far in the league for Newcastle, it hasn't really clicked, but is this do you think this is the game where it all comes together? The the big defensive numbers, but maybe with a bit more shot conversion, or do you fancy Arsenal to uh Well, you mentioned shot conversion, and Anthony Gordon's back for this game after suspension. He's averaging 6.7 shots per 90, which is the most, but with a conversion rate of 0%. Which sort of sums up, right? Obviously, Newcastle was the first team in Premier League history to draw their first three away games nil nil as well. It's not quite clicking, but could use the word obviously in that sentence. Well, yeah, go obvious to me. Um, but yeah, I think this game will have them. They love this fixture. They really do. And I mentioned Newcastle it's all I mean this is this has been hugely dramatic and this is and Newcastle fans hear me out but I mentioned before about Arsenal having those nightmares against Stoke back in the kind of late naughties and 2010s. This is I think the closest you can get to that in modern football with how things have changed. But Arsenal have gone there consistently and been roughed up for one of a better phrase. like they Newcastle are an incredibly physical team and they've been excellent against Arsenal in the home games. They've won four out of the last five against Arsenal at St. James's Park. One of those was in the cup, but three of those in the league. Arsenal didn't score in any of those games they lost. And it's it's tended to follow a pretty similar pattern where Newcastle in in the last few anyway, you know, they've got a lead and then once they've got a lead, really gone into lockdown mode and Arsenal have done next to nothing, you know, really struggled against uh a team that are brilliant defending a lead and then the crowd get up and it they get so encouraged by it. They start to relish the physical challenge and there's just no Dan Burn does a tackle. Dan Burn does a tackle and you know and I was thinking actually about Dan Burn um you know the fact that Noni Madek is out I think is really significant because then they can't just do like okay well you've handled sacka now have half an hour of noni madu I think that's a big that's where Arsenal are better now I wouldn't be bringing on Max D in this game oh my god I was yeah well I was thinking that down against Dan Burn would be quite something to see it would meow who came off at halftime against Man City and and we now know that's a knee injury which they're talking two months it's going to take to sort that out. Natalie, sorry. Yeah. No, and with Newcastle and obviously struggling with with scoring goals and it's going to take some I thought it was interesting what Eddie House said recently about them evolving into a different team uh in Saudi Arabia with a different when they attack with a different emphasis. I think that that's interesting because obviously we talk about Isak and and the goals that the the amount of goals he scored but what I always found interesting about Isak is the way that he moved and the way that he read spaces and how much of a handful he was without the ball as well while Volteate he's a completely different player in this sense. So, it it is going to take time for them to get used to this type of striker and I I I can understand why they're they're struggling a little bit to to to score wi with him. So, when is Visa going to be available? Not sure we know. I think it's sort of ongoing, but yeah, obviously that would make a difference. I really enjoy when fixtures just become something out of nowhere. And then like Charlie was saying, this really has. I mean, there was obviously all the stuff you mentioned, but also the the three incident VR decision. Disgrace. Out of when it went out of play. What was it? Out of play. Push. Push. Yeah. Also one of the great linguistic escapes when Arteta called it a disgrace in in baron sentence and then claimed that he was disgracia in Spanish means a bit more like a a misfortune. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Like I mean, fair enough. What an amazing claim. And they it was uh it was accepted right and of course you got Czech t and that yes the only time team's been four Premier League game and not one is wow can I say like on I mean the big dilemma I think that has here is does he fight fire with fire and do this very unpopular really physical midfield thing or does he do what he did the only time they've won against Newcastle in recent times and say actually we're going to out you and he played Georho this would have been May 23 three. They won two- nil, played really well and sort of played the game more on their terms. And again, I remember back in the Stoke day talking to the Stoke days when Arsenal would always go and struggle away at Stoke. I was talking to a Stoke fan. He was like, "The mistake Arsenal make is trying to match us physically. Like, don't do that. Like, we're really vulnerable to pace and trickery. Like, you would beat us if you did that." Whereas Wenger got quite spooked and was like, "Well, you know, we've been so roughed up." And I think that's tended to happen as well with our Teta against Newcastle. So, does he go Mourinho or does he out? I don't know if it's an indication that Mourinho he started the last two games in a row. He started as a striker in the cup and and in the midfield obviously last weekend. He started four games in a row now or five going back to Liverpool. I would love that to be on the signpost as you came into Stoke. We are vulnerable to pace and trickery. Be good. Uh that's Arsenal's trip to Newcastle which will be 4:30 on Sunday. And as ever, we'll be doing our weekend round up on Ty Football Show straight after that, which will be ready for you on Monday morning. But if you want to watch us doing it vyer uh then you can do that on YouTube. I think around about 7 in and around 7:00 Sunday evening, we'll be live streaming a recording of that show. Brenford Man United is Saturday lunchtime game. We mentioned this a little bit. Is it going to be more rubbernecking or signs of recovery after Man United's impressive 2-1 win against 10-man Chelsea last weekend? It feels is a sort of venue that kind of is a bit of a litmus test for United. Obviously, remember the 4-0 early in the 10 in the heat and Ronaldo. Here's here's a stat Duncan. I don't know if you like these or not, but the only Man United manager to actually win at the GTech is Ralph Ran. Correct. Don't tell Michael Cox. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, and Brenford, even though they're a very different outfit this time around, not least because Man United went and bought their best player, Brenford have done all right. They beat Aston Villa there, although asterisk Aston Villa. They also drew against Chelsea, although Yeah, another asterisk asterisk there. Uh, yeah, but and quick went on him. He's been United's most positive note for the season so far, which Yeah, I think Sat had more shots from inside the box than any player or something. And that was in in amongst some other quite uh encouraging stats for United about posting high xG numbers and that sort of thing. I wondered how skewed that was by playing 10-man Chelsea for pretty much that whole game, but you know, I'm sure they'll take it. United have not won an away fixture in the Premier League since March. H All right. Well, that's the Saturday lunchtime. Aston Villa who are in the bottom three are enjoying their worst start to a top flight campaign in 61 years. Criy uh situation was complicated at Villa on Monday with news that their president of football operations aka the man who does all the signings had left the club all of a sudden. Gonchi more like that definitely works. Um not not sure what the background is on that. Is it a positive? Mi has not covered himself in glory at some of his recent positions. Certainly, he's not missed at all in in the Italian capital, but yeah, it does speak, I guess, to the fact that this is unsettled times at Villa. Yeah, that was big. Mi leaving Villa was big. He worked with Unai in in Sevilla when when they had a different dynamic. It's a different structure in a different club and it it just wasn't effective. And it's funny because it wasn't so long ago that we were praising Villa for like making this really good January window and with all these loans, but the truth is now we have kind of a sense of stagnation with Villa with an aging squad and they have signed players. They have spent a lot of money. I think it's 28 players they signed since emi arrived at at Villa in in 2022, January 2022. So, of course, Munchchi hasn't been there the whole time, but someone has to take accountability because they just had a very poor transfer window and they are not coping with PSR and yeah, all these rules that well they they they're bringing Hberto Labi uh and he he he used to work for Siad. He brought Isizak for to sedat to sell him to to Newcastle afterwards and he sold to be Mendi to to Arsenal for yeah so for a good amount of money so we'll see what what type of effect he's going to be but Monty leaving is is was quite significant aforementioned Muel Marino as well but I think he is very well thought of um for what that's worth but then you know so is Monty for a time I mean it feels like Villa obviously they they went on a really good run at the end of last season but then lost at United on the on the final day which cost them Champions in his league spot which obviously then impacts what could have been and they kind of almost gambled to even get in that position cuz they had um Asencio and Rashford on loan which wasn't cheap and it almost worked but then it didn't quite and it feels like they're very much spiraling at the moment. Yeah, I mean and I think it was Enrique said that it was Villa who gave them the hardest time in the Champions League last season and they did very nearly half that second half was crazy that final had them absolutely pinned back. They're in action this evening as we record Thursday night uh at home to Bologna who they did beat 2-0il in the Champions League last season. They faced them this time in the Europa League. Fulham meanwhile who unlike Aston Villa are not down in 18th place but are actually in eighth. You saw them last weekend against Brenford. Natalie they were very good uh against Le the the match before that he they struggled to to create a lot of chances which did not happen against Brenford. they were in the front foot. We know how Fulham can be when they when they are in in in a good day. You know, they can be so organized. They can be hard to break and and they have Kevin now, which Fulham fans are very excited about. He hasn't started a match yet. He he had minutes against uh leads and against Brenford. So there is this expectation of him starting a match because he's that type of energetic player who likes the one v1s and he just brings a different spark to a team that didn't make a lot of signings in the transfer window. So so it is very significant but I can see Fulham making life hard for for us. I can see Fulham in a good day. I can see Fulham making life hard for everyone because they can be extremely well organized and well drilled. It's it's it's down to Marco Silva. He he needs a lot of credit for that. But yeah, should be good. Saturday evening, meantime, we have another late game and it's Spurs against Wolves. So, Wolves are only the sixth team in Premier League history to lose the first five games of a campaign. I don't know how how many teams have done it in the entire history of English topflight football. Duncan, do you know? Um, you'll have your LRs and your and your Man United's in the early 30s. Very bad start. Yeah, but it is it's pretty bad, right? The record worst startup for the Premier League is seven defeats, which is held jointly by that Crystal Palace and the Portsmouth. H uh Wolves you feel have a good chance of making it at least to six. They've had they've had some good wins against Spurs though um at Spurs. Oh yeah. Yeah, they've and like they Oh, they won four of their last seven visits to Tottenham. Yeah, there you go. like they they they for whatever reason they have put in um some pretty good performances there. Um and they did just knock out Everton in the Carabak Cup for what's that that's worth. Yeah, I mean you would think Spurs would be too strong but um I think I mentioned this last week that with Thomas Frank I think what's going to be interesting is that I I think they'll be far better against the strongest teams like we saw them against Man City. They were brilliant. I think they might have a harder time in some of these home games um against teams that want to sit deep and defend and ask them to unlock them. So, is that Wolves? Well, well, I guess we'll see, but I but I think they will surely just off the back of the start they've made, they'll at least try and, you know, be defensive for the start. Also interested to see if Shavei Simmons is starting or where is he starting more precisely because against Brighton he he played as a 10 in the second half and I I like him there. I I really like him there. Yeah, he was really really Harris was saying this on on Sunday. He came back from the game and that was his big takeaway. He has to start and he has to start number 10. And if you look at the the midfield options, if you have Pin and Bentonor is a very dense midfield, but you also have Papisar who's doing doing great this season. Bergval of course and you have Simmons and Kuluski is recovering from injury. So when he's back, he also likes to play as a 10. So there are a lot of good signs uh a good positive perspective for for Spurs midfield in terms of of creation. Excellent. And up from possibly your friend Rishatan. Yes. Wolves are his favorite opponent. He scored six times against them. Yeah. Oh, look at that. Good luck to Rishi. Yeah. Yeah. He started really well. Yeah. Unlike Wolves who are possibly heading for a record of uh opening run of defeats. We'll be talking, by the way, in this week's Totally Extra about the Premier League's worst team ever and who they really are. It's not who you think unless you think you're derby, which goes, "Yeah, that's you nailed it." slim. I've just looked up Manchester United 1930 31. They lost their first 12 games season. Yeah. Didn't win till November. I mean, even Ruben Amarim looks decent on that basis. So, you should mention that for a bit of context. Yeah. Excellent. Chelsea are taking on Brighton, a game which is going to take place exactly almost exactly a year after their last meeting at Stamford Bridge, which was a very memorable match, a record-breaking game. Natalie, pick me. Pick me. Yeah, I was doing that match. Uh I think Oh god, I'm singing. So you were there for that game? Yeah, I was there for that game. I spoke to Cole Palmer. The Palmer first half. Yes, exactly. When he scored four goals. This is why this is what made history, right? Yeah. No one's ever scored four goals. Four goals in a first half. Yeah. So yeah, and it was kind of a game changer for a poker of goals. Yes. And after that game, Brighton decided to drop the lines a little bit. Fabian Hutzler spoke about it afterwards. That was that game that that made him, okay, we're not going to play this way. We need to be a little bit more conservative. So, it was an important uh changing point to to Brighton as well. Chelsea are not in terrific form right now. Uh had a bit of a scare against Lincoln midweek. They drew at Brenford. They lost to Bayern. They lost last weekend to Man United. They do get Robert Sanchez back though. He only had a one game suspension apart from that that red card which is pretty good news given how Jorgensson's been looking between the post. Brighton players should be suspended for League Cup games from Premier League. Yeah, it does feel a bit of a loophole that exists. But Brighton have only managed one win so far in their five league matches. So yeah, neither of them on great runs. I think that was the first and last time that Cole Palmer scored from a free kick in the first half last time. I Yeah, I'm trying to remember if he scored from a free kick after that. But I remember uh interviewing him afterwards and asking like, "Oh, how much practice do you put into this?" Because it was a perfect free kick and he was like, "No, not no practice at all. I just find him nasty." He's famously like a, you know, doesn't give loads away as an interviewee. How do you find him? challenging to to pick my words here. Okay. Yes. No. And and for Natalie, that's the equivalent for most people to be like awful. What what's the challenge? Recall. Uh no, it's just that like this uh this interview for example, you you ask him that and he just gives you, oh no, I don't practice. I I didn't practice at all. Silence. And then you're like, okay, so you didn't you just you just decided Yeah. No, I just decided to go and take a shot and it worked. Right. And you're like, "Okay, where do I go from there?" Get a lot of questions in. Like, you know, total questions. Yeah. But a terrifying amount of questions. Yes. Yes. You're like, "Oh god, I've used up all 12 questions." Exactly. No, every time I'm interviewing him, I'm like, "Okay, I need to prepare 15 questions for 3 minutes." And then I go and and then you just you just go one after the other. Otherwise, it's just going to be blank blank blank. Which player was the nicest surprise? the nicest surprise uh on a pose match. God. Well, I remember when Honaldo was about to retire. Phenomenal. Oh, yeah. Yes. Did you interview him? Yes. He played for Kenance and and but it was carnage. It was absolute carnage because in Brazil you could enter the pitch to do the interviews, right? And it was just everyone we we it was just elbows everywhere. I knocked out a camera guy once. not proud of it but it was a matter of survival. I'm not a big person you know as you as you can. So so you can understand and Honaldo couldn't move so every postmatch interview because of the crowd or just generally because of the crowd. No, generally he was moving well and so so yeah that was big. Adrianu as well when he he was a good surprise. It was a really good surprise because I was working at a TV station that he didn't like because and he was right to like them because they were very tough on him. They they were very unfair to to Adrian. And I remember asking him could you could you give me a word? And he was like are you from this TV station? I'm like yes I am. And he was like I'm sorry I don't speak to you but nothing against you. I thought this is the example I always give to players not being speak to you. No, but he like you don't have to love it, but if you're nice enough about it, it's fine. It's and and he was very respectful with everyone. This was Adriano like in in throughout his career. So, I'm not going to ask you who's the worst cuz you won't tell us. I'd have to think about it, but no, I wouldn't. Also this weekend in I say other two games, there's actually three because I'd forgotten Monday night you got Everton against West Ham which Natalie you're going along to. Yes. Graeme Potter apparently will be making the journey as well despite some doubts after last weekend's defeat. Uh a lot of reports of West Ham contacting a variety of other exciting names including Slavin Bilich and Nuno Spiritto Santo. But latest word, Duncan, I'm not sure where the Athletic is on this. Latest word is that the Hammers board are giving him the next two away games, Everton and Arsenal, and would then look to make a change in the next international break. But no pressure. No pressure. Yeah, that's Yeah, that's kind of how it stands. Yeah, I feel like it's pretty rare managers once you know that they're down to like you have one more shot or two more shots feel like they rarely then escape and go on to do well. I'm sure it does happen from time to time but it also feels like if he's that close I mean most they really believe in it. Alex Ferguson was the most like was so close to the axe many times and just about yeah did all right in the end. So who knows what might glory might think pot is going to win 13 Premier League titles with West Ham. I'm not saying that potter does have I mean he West Ham beat Arsenal away last season and Potter has a good record at the end. So maybe they won against Forest, didn't they? Precipitating a regime change there. Everton with one or two issues of their own. They've now lost two on the bounce although Everton fans are particularly unhappy with the the team that Moyes put out for that Wolves Carabell Cup game. And I have a very good friend who's an Everton fan and he was very unhappy because like Ever it's a trophy this Everton team could target. Why why are they not they never won the league cup? No, but they could easily with the with the first team they've got they could you know challenge to win. And what's the I mean their league is probably going to be mid table. I mean they're not going to be well we went out the car early so we came ninth instead of 11th. It's like I do get that. Nati, I'd be curious to hear about um the media facilities at Everton given Goodison Park was always the uh sort of most cramp, especially those of us with quite long legs. It was not roomy. No, it Yeah. No, definitely. But people were very warm and welcoming. They they went out of their way to to because they knew how that doesn't give you more space. But yes, it did soften the blow. So, but yeah, they give you a metaphorical Yeah. hug. See if you can get any of the blue aioli that they're they're serving up. Blue i aioli. Yeah. Really? People thought it was ketchup at first, but it's not. Right. Very little about blue aioli would point to it being a tomato based condiment, but Well, it's blue. I mean, it's quite hard to discern, I imagine. I suppose. All right, then. Nottingham Forest are up against Sunderland. That's a 530 game on Saturday and could well be quite an interesting one. I mean, it's a postagogue team, so they're usually fairly lively. And it's the first time that Angel will be at home in his new role after four straightaway games. And Sunderland have been a real story. Sunland, how did you when you were explaining them to a Brazilian audience with ESB, ESPN Brazil, how did you explain Sunland to you know they are surprisingly popular because of the series Southern Till I Die. Yes. Yes. That that had really good traction in Brazil. So yeah. So, so when they came back to the Premier League, there there was a positive movement from from international fans because of we everyone loves an underdog. So, definitely these black cats of course, but the term still applies. Forester conceded nine goals in four matches so far under Posta Gogloo. That's a lot. Yeah, but not for him, I guess. Good to see Jaka back in the Premier League. He's already got two assists for them in five games and two yellow cards. That's his standard ratio. So yeah, I mean I think Sunland are probably the sort of feelgood story of the season so far. I mean feel good with brackets. They spent over200 million pounds on new players but still but we've been so start you know teams coming up have done so badly the last couple of years that I think everyone's desperate just even if it is off the back of spending a lot. Yeah, it is refreshing. And also this weekend there's a 3:00 game which you can't watch in the UK between Leeds and Bournemouth. Bournemouth who sit fourth right now in the Premier League and will be bidding to become the first visiting team to score at Helen Road this season lead so strong at home they haven't actually lost a game there in almost a year most of those fixtures of course in the championship but still 100% winning record as well at home to Bournemouth in the history with seven wins out of seven that's very much 100% very good that's a game taking place this weekend that's the word. They're good. They I think they are really good ball. I think we eulogize them most weeks, but by all means, let's heap a little bit more praise on the Areola bandwagon. They've got a chance. If if we think top five again is Champions League, then I think Bournemouth have got a really good chance of finishing top five. All right. Are they currently third? Currently fourth, but level on points with Arsenal and Spurs. And this fixture leads physical strong side and Bournemouth also a physical side you know like running up and down and the pressing and everything. So yeah should be good. Yeah should be good. Excellent. Well that game and all the other ones will be the subject of our totally football show on Sunday evening. So do join us for that either on Sunday evening or listen to the podcast on Monday. Before that, Saturday there'll be a totally extra which will feature Duncan and and Charlie and also Stuart James will be joining us for that as we explore a little bit some of the teams for whom the Premier League has not been so kind and in particular yes that Derby County from uh 2007208. Excellent. Have a spin on that if you fancy. Have a great weekend in any case and we'll catch up with you soon on the Totally Football Show. The Totally Football Show podcast is available three times a week bringing you all the football news you could reasonably be expected to care about. We've got views, we've got stats, we've got analysis, we've got some of the best football writers around and the whole thing is absolutely free. So have a listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts or all the usual places by clicking on the link below.