================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: HwFDbZXfl2k
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HwFDbZXfl2k
TITLE: Can Europe be India's Plan B?
CHANNEL: Carnegie Endowment
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-17
DURATION: 44m 25s
VIEWS: 4,142
LIKES: 72
COMMENTS: 19
TAGS: #foreign policy, #carnegie endowment

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
India’s once-flourishing ties with Washington have soured in Trump’s second term, marked by punishing tariffs and penalties over Russian oil. This turbulence reinforces New Delhi’s instinct for “multi-alignment,” and the desire to hedge between great powers rather than bet on any single partner.

Against this backdrop, a new paper by the journalist and analyst James Crabtree argues that now is the time for Europe to shine and to make the case that it is India’s most promising alternative in a shifting global order. 

The paper is called, “Pivot to Europe: India’s Back-Up Plan in Trump’s World,” and it has just been published by the European Council on Foreign Relations, where James is a distinguished visiting fellow. 

James spent ten years as a journalist and foreign correspondent, notably for the Financial Times, where he served as the Mumbai bureau chief. He is the author of the much-celebrated book, The Billionaire Raj: A Journey Through India’s New Gilded Age, published in 2018. H
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: youtube-transcript-api
Language: en
Word count: 8,005

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
unabashed. >> The most unpredictable >> becomes a headline. >> The most volatile, >> outrageous behavior, >> unsubstantiated narratives, a battle of personalities. >> Welcome to Grand Thea, a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Hindustan Times. I'm your host, Milan Bash. India's once flourishing ties with Washington have soured in Trump's second term, marked by punishing tariffs and penalties over Russian oil. This turbulence reinforces New Delhi's instinct for multi-alignment and the desire to hedge between great powers rather than bet on any single partner. Against this backdrop, a new paper by the journalist and analyst James Crabtree argues that now is the time for Europe to shine and to make the case that it is India's most promising alternative in a shifting global order. The paper is called Pivot to Europe, India's backup plan in Trump's world and it has just been published by the European Council on Foreign Relations where James is a distinguished visiting fellow. James has spent 10 years as a journalist and foreign correspondent, notably for the Financial Times, where he served as the Mumbai bureau chief. He's the author of a much celebrated book, The Billionaire Raj, a journey through India's new guilded age, published in 2018. He is currently a columnist foreign policy and hard at work on a second book on the United States and Asia. To talk more about his new paper, I'm pleased to welcome James back to Grand Theata. James, great to have you on. >> Lovely to be here, Milan. Nice to see you. So I want to provide our listeners with some context for your latest paper for ECFR which we will link uh on our show notes and I want to start with something that you say uh towards the front end of the paper and I just want to quote you say since the early 2000s India's approach to geopolitics has been akin to a cautious gambler slowly putting more chips on America while also avoiding full commitment or forsaking entirely its earlier principle of on alignment. Now, uh you know, given what's happening in the news, it seems like the strategy worked pretty well until one fine day, uh it it didn't work so great. Uh as you point out, US India relations have encountered stormy waters. The China challenge is only becoming more acute for India. But you argue that India should not double down on multi-alignment. uh you know doing more with Russia, bending fences with China, you know thinking about diversifying away from western partnerships and so I think this is where I'd like to start this conversation. Why should India not essentially uh double down on multi-alignment? So I think the argument that we're trying to make is that is actually that India is going to do a different version of multi-alignment because its partnership with the United States has deteriorated and and the question is well what sort of multi-alignment is it going to do that there's a hole in India's foreign policy strategy for the last two decades India's dominant foreign policy strategy not its only but it it the main thrust has been to make the United States most important diplomatic and strategic partner And until about 3 or 4 months ago, that still seemed like a reasonable bet. I was in Delhi uh indeed with um with you Milan earlier this year at a at a Cariegi event and the the tone in Delhi was still one of quiet confidence that the relationship with the the Americans could be made to work for all the reasons that your guests on this show have explained. the links between Trump and Modi, the the the sort of strategic rationale for the partnership, the mutually complimentary techn technology relationship, all of that was still seem to to stand. And those of us who were looking at this from Europe were a bit surprised by this as in because I think Europe had been clobbered first by the new administration and therefore was in a sense more cautious about how it was going to be dealing with Trump in his second term. And I suppose it just it took a while um for the new reality to to hit the India US bilateral um and so there's a hole there that needs to be filled and so the question is well how do you fill that hole and the argument that that we're trying to make is that actually the logic behind India's foreign policy strategy was was found that for India's uh economic development and security development strategy the kind of partners that it needs most are high capacity, high technology, high income uh economies. It's not they're not all European. I mean, that could be Israel or the GCC or it could be Singapore. Um but a country like Russia doesn't give you as much of that. And therefore, as you're thinking about how you reccalibrate your foreign policy to fill some of what you've lost from the United States, then the most capable partners are are mostly highincome, high technology democracies, and many of those are in Europe. And and so that that's in a sense the the pitch that we're making, which is um you know, if you want to fill some of that hole that the Americans have left, then look to Europe first. Don't look to countries like Russia. You know you are the first to acknowledge and you do this at several points in your paper that if you look back at the kind of historical record Europe and India's relationship has often underperformed and in your telling it has been hampered by two things differences in political priorities as well as what you describe as often incompatible bureaucracies. And I wonder if you could just pause for a second on that and help us understand a bit better in what ways have differing priorities and incompatible bureaucracies sort of placed a ceiling or a limit on cooperation between these two parties. So if you go back to the if you look at the decade prior to the Ukraine conflict and I I think for reasons we'll come on to Ukraine has been a big moment of change in this for a number of reasons but Europe was predominantly seen as an economic superpower without much strategic weight in the world. I mean and and I think the Indian security elite would admit that it looked to Europe principally for relations with with Germany, France and the United Kingdom um less so other European middle powers and less so Brussels and it simply took a while um to realize that that Europe was changing both in the way that it looked at the world um particularly after Ukraine um but but also that it was broadening institutionally. If you compare the relationship between Delhi and and Europe, both the European capitals and in Brussels with Washington, um particularly over the last five years or so of the Biden administration and the late Trump administration, there was a very not only was there a lot of self-interest in a deeper US India partnership, skepticism of China, India's desire for inward investment and technology transfer. There was also very compatible bureaucracy. So the the Indian national security adviser and the US national security adviser sort of sat at the middle of this bureaucratic nexus that was driving forward the partnership. On the European side there was nothing like that. I mean Brussels is a very difficult beast to deal with. Um there was what was called a trade and technology council which was set up uh between India and Europe but it didn't work very well. It didn't work nearly as well as the American one did. you know there were a lot of misconnections and so I think both you had um you know a a Europe that was predominantly seeking to strike trade deals and striking trade deals with India is quite difficult um it didn't have much to offer in the security and technology domain and then you had the the sort of problem of how do you actually interface these quite complex bureaucracies I mean Brussels and Delhi together are two labyrinthine beasts and it was very difficult to get them to play nicely with with one another until recently, >> you know, and when you look around the world today, the sense I get from your paper is that, you know, you are clearly sensing that circumstances have shifted such that the ground today is much more fertile uh for closer Europe India cooperation. Tell us a little bit about how you see the kind of emerging strategic convergence between India and Europe at this present moment in 2025. Well, I think you have common concerns. Um, to put Russia to one side, both Europeans and India are concerned about China, albeit in in different respects. Um, so common challenges uh in in a big picture geopolitical sense. You do have a degree of complimentarity as in um you know Europe is a rich continent with technology. It has the same attributes as the United States, albeit not always in the same respect. You know, it's not as strong a defense player as the US. It doesn't have um mega-ized technology companies. But if you're looking around the world and thinking where is it that advanced technology lives, then most of it is either in the United States, Europe, or Northeast Asia to some limited degree in a few other countries like Israel. So, you know, there are things that Europe has that that India um India won. But I think the main driver is that the that there's this second common challenge. Originally the common challenge with China and now you have the same common challenge with the United States which is that in both cases the United States was the most important strategic partner that both Europe and India have. But in both cases, um, you know, they're they're both coping with a degree of, um, uh, you know, sort of grief and mourning over how you now operate in a world in which the United States is is not a, you know, remains a very important partner, but operates in a much more transactional and coercive way than you've been used to in ways that, you know, you would rather it didn't operate. So you're you're trying to as I said you're trying to fill some of the gap that the US has been left has left and so you look around and think well who else can we we talk to um and so India has plenty of options it's a very popular diplomatic partner it's an enormous emerging market um therefore you know most global players seek improved relations with India and until relatively recently India had pulled off this remarkable trick of having pretty good relations with almost everybody um it's just that in the end ultimately you a fractured geopolitical environment. You couldn't keep that trip going forever. >> It seems like, you know, both India and Europe uh make references to a more fragmented multi-olar order. Um but I wonder if the two are using the term in the same manner. So when they talk about emerging world order being more fragmented, being multipolar, moving away from the kind of American hedgemonic moment, do they mean the same thing to both sides? >> I think they're coming at it in slightly different ways. So for India, my sense from doing the research for this report, from the the interviews that we did was that, you know, multipolarity is almost entirely viewed as a good thing. um that a more multipolar world which you know includes as Ashley Telis's recent paper noted a kind of contradictory element that that that necessarily involves a a smaller role for the United States that but that that gives India more space um it allows greater say in international affairs more representation in international institutions be they existing or emerging u and therefore India welcomes the world of multipolarity I I think I would say for Europeans that they are almost resigned to a world of multipolarity and in some ways they see some advantages to it. Um but you know this is also a world that has some trepidation because you know the the world that existed between 1947 and wherever we would date it conclusion to over the last uh decade or so um was one in which Europe had a very privileged position working as a close partner to the United States in the dominant political west and therefore the world that we're moving into um in which the west no longer has this um dominant and privileged role is one that um leaves Europeans more nervous. So I I think in I think in a sense that um that that's the distinction. Um and maybe there's further distinctions that you might draw in which you know Europeans hope that in a sense there will remain um a more powerful role for the residual west than Indians might might want. But um but anyway I think there's a sort of convergence in the middle about um a realization of the way that the world is moving. And I think in a sense you you can see that um I remember that the event uh that we were at one of our um colleagues used a rather charming phrase which is to say that Europe has overcome its problem of being strategically obnoxious as in in the in the in the high period of the rules-based international order. there was a tendency for Europeans to turn up in India and give lectures about minority groups and the decline of democracy um and Kashmir and whatever it might be in a way that used to really annoy understandably um Indian elites who who have a view that you know we're very happy to talk to you and develop partnerships but leave the internal management of our country to us and I think um Europe as its own geopolitical position has worsened and as it has become more geopolitical realistic has got out of that habit of of in a sense trying to behave in the way that a liberal internationalist would and is now in a sense a more amanable partner because it no longer has that habit. >> I want to go back James for a second to something that you alluded to earlier in this conversation which is really the way in which kind of Europe has shifted or changed after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. One of the things that you note in your report is that Europe's response to Russia's war has made it a more quote unquote geopolitically serious actor and that in turn is a factor which makes Europe more attractive to India particularly as the US becomes a less generous forthcoming defense and technology partner. um you know for for people who are not kind of steeped in Europe and the European Union it can often be really difficult to try and separate the kind of rhetoric from the reality when it comes to to European reform right uh what are the concrete signs that you can sort of point to that we can point to that show that you know in fact on a number of things specifically say defense modernization manufacturing Europe is actually getting its house in I'm glad you picked up on this point because I think it's a it's a very important argument that we try to make in this report. Generally speaking, people think that Ukraine was a problem for Europe India relations. India has a historically important relationship with Russia. Um, and Europeans at the time of the Ukraine invasion somewhat naively thought that because the Russian invasion was so um obviously wrong uh that all of our partners would sort of rush to the side of the Ukrainians. Um some some did. Um I used to live in Singapore and Singapore broadly speaking supported what what countries in Europe wanted it to do but India didn't. And in actual fact, um, India and particularly the external affairs minister Shanker got very fed up with, um, Europeans assuming that that everybody would simply rally to the Ukrainian cause because that was what was in Europe's interest. Um, India has a this heritage relationship with Russia which isn't going to go away. Um, you know, it remains important for all sorts of reasons that we can talk about. But so that was the predominant view which is that Russia Ukraine made a Europe India relationship much more problematic because anytime Europeans talk to India what they'd want to talk about is well why aren't you doing more on Ukraine and India didn't really want to talk about this so it kind of created this barrier. I see it in a slightly different way which is exactly as you put it in your introduction which is that what the the problem that Europe had despite the fact that it is the more economically and you know the more economically powerful richer of the partners is India didn't really take Europe seriously as a geostrategic actor. It saw it predominantly as this sort of peaceable free trade area um which was a nice place to go on holiday um or to take your business partners in the summer to go to the Wimbledon finals or the Saturday of the Lord's test. But you know in in the real world of security and geopolitics then you know you talk to the Americans and the Russians and the Chinese if you had to. Ukraine changed that uh in in an important respect. I mean Europe is now a battleh hardened continent. um it is rearming uh at at a really substantial level. I mean if you you look at the not just the topline NATO defense spending figures 2 and a half 3% but you know simply the amount of money that a country like Germany is beginning to spend on its military um after it loosened its fiscal um uh um rules. Uh you have all of the military learning that is coming from Ukraine. you you have European strengths in areas of security um like cyber or space um where although you know nobody can quite match what Russia and China can do you have real capabilities in Europe that are useful to to India. Um, so I think if you add all that together, the the the the sort of the learnings from Ukraine, the the the new spending, the furiousness about a world that is geopolitically complicated, then then you see a partner in not just in Brussels and and Merculand as a commission president, but in the large European countries, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Poland, and Ukraine itself, you know, the ones that are really on the front line, the these are are kind of capable geopolitically serious actors of the thought that India feels comfortable dealing with. [Music] Hey Granthamasha listeners, thanks for listening to the podcast. Putting this show together each week is a labor of love, but it takes a lot of work to put out a great show every week. If you'd like to support the work we do at Granamasha, please visit cip.org/donate. Don't forget to subscribe to us on Apple Podcast, Google Podcast, Spotify, or on your favorite podcasting platform so you'll be the first to know when a new episode rolls out. You've spoken a bit about kind of what's changed with the US and India and the US and Europe. I want to now turn to the other element which is the role of China. And you know, one of the things the report says is that China's rise and its continued kind of expansion has led New Delhi to play down hopes of deeper engagement with Beijing, right? But it seems like at least in the past couple of weeks, we've sort of seen a bit of the opposite taking place. I mean, we know last week Modi had this friendly sitdown with Xiinping on the sidelines of the SEO summit in China. The two also appeared with Vladimir Putin. Seems to me having just come back from India a couple weeks ago, there's an emerging consensus now that look, India can't afford to shut out China at least when it comes to trade and investment in kind of nonsensitive sectors. So I'm wondering if if if you agree. I mean do you think actually the way things were panning out were set for a kind of prolonged thaw in China India relations or do you think structurally they're real limits to what the two are going to be able to do which is going to create a kind of sustained opportunity for Europe? >> I suppose I think both of those things are true. So there is a Thor um albeit from a low base and I think it is important to recognize how um powerful the pictures from the Shanghai cooperation organization summit were. It's been quite a while since we have seen Prime Minister Modi uh President T and President Putin in one room together. They didn't all go to the brick summit recently in Brazil. And and it is very clear when you see that that people aren't wrong to think that this is an image of a new world order emerging with new institutions that are going to be increasingly powerful. You know these are very important relationships and I do think that it is likely that there is going to be a Thor in India China relations for exactly the reasons that you suggest. So there are things that could be very useful for India that China has to offer. Um foreign investment, green transition technologies, there's a reasonably long list and the relationship has been so bad over the last 5 years that there's a lot of lowhanging fruit. um not just visas and flights but um you know be pretty easy for India to reopen or or rene some of the the technology restrictions you know let Tik Tok back into the country perhaps um accept a little bit of investment in these areas so there's there's a lot of scope for um a modest I I think the question then becomes how likely is that to become something more than that and that's when you get into your point about structural long-term competition It's very hard to tell but I I think you know many of the voices that I talk to in Delhi are very skeptical about this. They feel that India and China not just in the border um but in the Indian Ocean in neighboring countries are locked into a pattern of structural competition that will be quite hard to break. Equally there are challenges with accepting some of what China has to offer. um you know it creates potential dependencies um that could be um you know weaponized or militarized in a future conflict scenario or a future tension scenario. I mean I think people were very shocked in India when China turned off the rare earth taps recently um which didn't get as much press as the fact that they turned it off for Europe um or the United States um but that was a real wakeup call which is that you know Beijing is perfectly willing to act um in this way and therefore if you do um accept in investment then that comes with risks. So I I think um I think that's the world that we're looking at and and a lot of it now depends on two factors that are uncertain. One is to what extent is it possible for China to make good on its promise to be a partner not a competitor. Um you know that promise by presidenc may have been meant sincerely but over the last decade that's not the pattern that you've seen. China has acted in a way that has consistently increased India's threat perceptions around the region. Which is why beginning from its re-entry into the Quad in the first Trump administration through to its ever closer relationship from the US, you know, the fundamental driver of that is increased threat perceptions to do with China. So, is it possible for China to behave in a way that systematically reduces those threat perceptions in order to create a space for greater competition? We'll see. But I think there are reasons to be doubtful about that. And then the second question is how does President Trump behave as in is it possible to imagine that despite the damage that has been done over the last month uh or two that that you know the US system and the Indian system um find a way through this so that the damage is is limited and and if not entirely repable then then you know not not on a kind of ever downward path. again unclear. There were some modest signs of this over the last week or so with the the tweet exchange between uh Trump and Prime Minister Modi, but that's you know very early days. So I think you're exactly right. Modest Thor is what we're going to see. Whether it's going to turn into anything more, there are reasons to be doubtful. And within that context, this is the moment where you know if you are an aspirant Indian partner as the Europeans are or it would be true also for Japan or the Republic of Korea or Australia or the GCC you know this is your moment to try and go and you know make your pitch as it were. >> I mean I want to say something uh a bit talk to you briefly about Russia because you know Russia is not a kind of the the the core focus of this piece but but you do bring it up at several points. I think it's worth just kind of pausing on it for a second. Um, you have a a kind of interesting warning or caution to our friends in Europe that I found quite interesting and I I was hoping to kind of draw you out on you. you say that look uh Europeans need to understand that India's partnership with Russia is changing and it is not the same rel relationship that say they had you know from the cold war and I wonder if you could just say a few words about how in your estimation and why furthermore why is this relationship between India and Russia changing >> well if I want to put it very crudely it is as India thinks about how to rebalance its multi-alignment strategy to replace the hole that is being left by the United States. It it has some options. Europe is not the only one. And so with China, China has a lot to offer, but what it has to offer comes with very heavy strings attached. With Russia, the challenge is that actually Russia doesn't have as much to offer as it used to. Um, so India used to see Russia as its predominant provider of technology, military support and energy. Russia is not a technology leader. It's a declining economy. It still is an important military supplier but nowhere near as important as it used to be. And that you know you can see that if you look at the data the proportion of Indian arms uh imports that come from Russia is consistently declining. Um that partly because India aspires to better quality uh kit but it's also because Russia is now an unreliable military supplier because many of its um weapons are needed on the battlefield. Hence why India has diversified to countries like Israel and France um um in particular. Um that said, I I think a lot of Europeans have been a bit naive because they misunderstand how important the Russia partnership remains. I mean it wasn't an accident that when at the real heart of this um unfortunate diplomacy over the last two months um when when Trump was doubling down on the tariffs and and saying uh rude things you know the first thing that Modi did was he called President Putin and J Shanker um went to Moscow and and that you know so so there is a lot that India still gets out of this uh this partnership um I suppose I would put it my former boss at the double S John Shipman used to say that countries should see their international partnerships as an investor would see a portfolio and the question is do you want to be overweight Russia or do you want to be underweight Russia? Um and India has historically been overweight Russia and I think is in a process of you know becoming more appropriately weighted and in a sense the task of other countries particularly Europeans who would like India not to be such a close partner of Russia is to say well maybe you should be underweight Russia and you know we have something to offer or we as the collective west have something to offer that is better than what you're going to get from your historic partnership with Russia. I mean I don't know if you agree with this James but like you know I think one of the interesting dynamics right now in this whole kind of nadier of US India relations is that you know I think Indians are quite happy to look for oil alternative oil suppliers outside of Russia you know I mean prior to 2022 it's not as if they were taking in vast amounts of Russian crude um you know there was an opportunity there was a change in the oil market there was a good price on offer And I think you know if this were handled quietly behind closed doors I think we we could see India very easily make a pivot. I mean is that your reading of the situation as well that yes obviously the defense relationship has a very long tail because even if India is diversifying towards Israel, Germany, the United States, France and so on and so forth because you have the stock of Russian equipment that need constant repair, resupply, maintenance and so on and so forth that that pipeline is not going to shut off immediately. But when it comes to energy, it seems to me that there actually could be a reasonably quick pivot away from Russia, just as there was a reasonably quick pivot towards Russia. >> Yeah, I mean, I agree with that completely, but it's very unlikely to happen if it's being handled as insensitively as it has been by the United States, as in if you threaten that you have to do this, then it puts everybody's back. So, so yes, I mean I I I think that I've not got the impression that India or you know Reliance Industries, the company that is doing most of the Russian refining is unwilling to find alternative suppliers. I mean there may be an economic hit to that because the Russian oil is often cheaper, but I think that they are they're they're willing willing to do that. But I I I think to be honest, a lot of this is simply accidental as in you're dealing with a White House that doesn't think terribly strategically about these things and therefore the India relationship has become collateral damage to a short-term attempt to put pressure on Russia over Ukraine peace that was a function of what was happening in the Alaska meeting between Russia uh between um Trump and Putin. And that's very unfortunate if you've been trying to build this strategic relationship between uh Washington and New Delhi over a two decade period that it gets mangled um for really really quite practical short-term reasons. Um but yes, I don't get the impression that that India is absolutely wedded to um its Russian crude. It sort of commercial opportunity um and has done reasonably well out of it. But India will will also point as I'm sure many of your guests have pointed out to the great hypocrisy of of Europeans who are happy to take the refined Indian crude that comes from Russia. Um and this is the the sort of you know the this is where you have these problems of double standards which remain a kind of thicking point um in a relation between India and some of its partners who've been critical of its role um in this particular case as a as a Russian as a refiner of Russian oil. I mean, you know, just as you were saying a moment ago that there have been some signs in, I'd say the past 5 to seven days of a a a sort of calming of the storms that have existed between the US and India. Trump had this kind of consilatory tweet Modi reciprocated. you know, the your old newspaper, the Financial Times, reported, I believe yesterday, that on a phone call with European heads of state, uh, Trump discussed the idea of or encouraged them, I should say, to try and levy secondary, uh, sanctions on on India for importing Russian oil. So, there seems to be a bit of kind of uh, cognitive dissonance going on where on the one hand, there seems to be a thaw, but then also a simultaneous ratcheting up, you know, in in different venues. I mean I think it's important to pause on this because it is I mean I I don't want to be naive about about this. There remain a different strategic interest in in Europe and in India and Ukraine is one of them. And so the the the bind that Europe finds itself in is that its predominant security threat is the east. It it it worries about Russia and a wider Russia aggression and it definitely doesn't want to see Ukraine um forced to accept um you know an unfair uh peace set of peace terms and the Americans come to them and say okay well if you want to put pressure on Russia then we're willing to clobber China and India with 100% tariff we're only going to do it if you do that and of course if Europe did that then that would blow up its relationship with India which it's been trying to develop and so it's in a very complicated ated position. I mean I I in a sense having written this paper I I hope that they find a way round this. Um but in a sense they're trying to achieve two things at the same time. One is putting genuine pressure on Russia so that it will feel some pain for the way that it is acting while not um in particular damaging the relationship with India. There are other niggles or more than niggles. the the the CBAM carbon adjustment mechanism is one for instance which um has been um a barrier to closer cooperation. But I think this this is this is at the moment the biggest one. The risk of secondary sanctions would be the kind of thing that I think would have a very significant effect in Delhi um and and would make a much deeper kind of a trust building process of uh building a deeper partnership between India and Europe much more complicated. So let's now pivot to this question of what exactly Europe and European should be doing. And I just want to again read a bit of a a selection from your piece where you write as Europe urges India not to shift away from the west it must do more to demonstrate its reliability as a partner in particular Europe must take care to avoid short-term policies that seek to win favor in Washington at the expense of its reputation with emerging partners elsewhere. I wonder if you could just spell out for us um James um in in kind of concrete terms what does this mean for the direction of European policy? Well, so I mean when I wrote that sentence this was exactly the example that I had in mind with the issue of secondary sanctions where um you know there are often these complicated trade-offs. I mean there may be others. I mean there are lots of pressure that the US is putting on its partners um in areas like technology regulation but those may not have such a direct impact as the uh as the sanctions for oil. I mean I think in terms in in a in a broader term if you look at what are the bases for a stronger US sorry Europe India partnership and again this can happen at the Brussels level or you can see it in some of the larger European states in in France in in um in Britain and Germany it has a number of elements so there's still there's still trade um I mean trade has been the traditional problem that we haven't got this trade deal done but there is a lot of new determination to at um a Europe India trade deal done by the time of um a long awaited summit that's happening in the early part of next year not impossible. The United Kingdom managed to get finally its trade deal with India over the line. Europe is more complicated but um nonetheless that that may happen. But I think the the other areas are the technology partnership which was really the way that the United States rebuilt and energized its partnership with India was by refocusing it around technology investment and technology transfer and Europe has a a good deal to offer offer there. um economic security which is supply chain and resilience the the common concern with Chinese coercion and an excessive reliance on Chinese supply chain um and defense and security which is the area where as we discussed earlier in this um podcast Europe traditionally you know you had medium-sized European arms exporters in countries like Britain, France, Italy um but now Europe has a lot more to offer. spending a lot more, developing a lot more technology, looking for partners in new ways. And so I think if you add all of that up, you have the, you know, you have the core of a very um sort of interesting set of partnerships. Um and in this, you know, this is a compliment that Europe is paying to the United States because before Trump came along, really the the US had been extremely imaginative um in the way that it refashioned its partnership with the US through um you know various top level initiatives and investments and and in a sense what Europe needs to do is learn a little bit of the way that the US behaved during the first Trump and Biden administration um and not behave in the way that it um is behaving in the second Trump administration. I want to kind of pause for a second on this very tricky issue of kind of India's own kind of you know commitment to kind of liberal democracy right when you come to the question of India's domestic transformations Europe often even more than the United States dresses democracy human rights but uh your report suggests that look Europe may have to tone down its lectures as you said before to try and win or win back India's trust you know how do Do you see them striking this balance between these deeply held values they believe are universal and this kind of you know moment of real politique where you know there's a battle out there and Europe wants India on side. >> Yeah. I mean I think I I think in the end what's happened is that Europeans have deemphasized the issue of values in order to develop the partnership as in you know bigger fish to fry in a world in which um you are anxious about the behavior of China and Russia and you know these are genuinely existential issues for the the European project then you rep prioritize what you're trying to do and with whom and therefore you know the European leaders of old who would come to Delhi and and say well we want to do business but we're also very worried about your declining economic institutions and have this slightly sort of school matronly function of wagging fingers and um you know all of that is true but um or at least there are sort of elements of truth to it but I I think um you know this is just a moment of geopolitical awakening where you have to learn to respect a world in which there are plural systems of government and you know the the way that India sees world order is different from the way that European used to the Europe used to in the sense that in common with China non-inference in domestic affairs is is a kind of precursor for any um any arrangement and therefore I think it just took Europeans a while and Americans too a while to come round to that fact um you know Trump is bothered about what you know is agnostic between democracies and dictatorships or authoritarian systems. Sometimes appears to prefer authoritarian systems. Europe clearly still in common with the democracies of of Northeast Asia. You know, has a has a preference. I mean, it wants still to have partners who share its values, but when push comes to shove, that's not always possible. And therefore you have to be um a little bit more practical about the way that you're building ties and being respectful of other uh systems and other beliefs. >> I mean I think maybe a good way of kind of bringing this to a close James is to kind of ask you to reflect a bit on the various factors that could derail the sort of close collaboration that you envision. Right. And it's something that you're not blind to at all in the paper. You you take it on directly. Let's let's maybe start first with with Europe. What to your mind are the barriers to cooperation you foresee on the European side? I think there's a narrow window of opportunity at the moment where in a sense the constellation has come together um you you have a high level political commitment to um uh to move this forward heading into this summit early next year. And you have two players who are alarmed not just by China's continuing behavior but by the US but you know it's always possible for these things to be bureaucratically derailed. Um uh both sides are complicated to deal with. Um you know Europe in particular is you know it has um nearly 30 member states at the European Union level and therefore there's always divisions about what the priorities should be and where the political capital is going to to be spent. We're we're speaking a day after Ursula Vanderelion, the president of the European Commission, gave a very stark um speech yesterday that the state of Europe address that that she gives from time to time which painted a very bleak picture of the world that Europe faces and all of the challenges that they face and and you know they only have so much political capital to spend. So I think it is possible to imagine a world in which um Europe's leaders decide that they need to spend that in a way that would not be as conducive to building a partnership with India and I I suppose part of the reason for writing this paper um is to argue that that would be a mistake and I think at the moment anyway that the the people who are around Bondelion and um you know they they seem to be still heading in a direction of putting serious energy behind this partnership and trying to get in a sense get it over the line >> and when you look at it from the Indian side I mean what are the potential stumbling blocks or barriers that you see from New Delhi's point of view. Well, I think you know in a sense I am not here to tell policy makers in Delhi that I know their self-interest better than they do and they will you know the the those in the security establishment and elsewhere in the Indian government will look at the world and work out what is in India's national interest and you know they may decide that a broader approach with China the short-term benefits are worth the long-term costs or they may look at a partnership with Russia and think although this is not a partnership which offers as much as it used to in the technology domain uh or or in uh the military domain look president Putin is the kind of person that we can do business with and we trust him and you know we'll move forward with that. So I think there you know any political ecosystem has competing voices and those in New Delhi who have been big advocates of the American partnership are now understandably on the back foot and those who in a sense have previously advocated for closer ties with you know with old partners like Russia are going to be having a moment and therefore there will be a debate and an argument going on. Um as we said right at the beginning of this discussion, India is not throwing away multi-alignment. The question is what sort of multi-alignment is India moving to. How does it fill this American hole and I think it is possible that that you know the people in India will look at the world in a way that is simply different uh from the way that we might look at it in Europe but I hope not. >> My guest on the show this week is the journalist and analyst James Crabtree. He is the author of a new report called Pivot to Europe India's Backup Plan in Trump's World. that's just been published by the European Council on Foreign Relations where James is a visiting fellow. I also want to commend to our listeners a recent foreign policy magazine uh column that James authored called why India should not walk into the China Russia trap. Uh it's something that has been doing the rounds amongst the policy elite. James uh it's always great to talk to you. Thanks so much for taking the time. >> Thanks so much for having me. Grandantham is a co-production of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in the English Sun Times. This podcast is an HT SmartCast original and is available on htsmartcast.com. You can also find us on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcast. Don't forget to rate and review. It helps others find the show more easily. For more information about the show, to support the work we do on Granthamasha, and to find the writing we mentioned on this week's episode, visit our website, granthemasha.com. Tim Martin is our audio engineer, Mera Verge is our executive producer. Additional assistance is provided by Annabelle Richtor. Thanks for listening and see you next week. >> This was a Hindustan Times production brought to you by HD Smartcast. HD smart. [Music]