================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: SvKv7D4pBjE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SvKv7D4pBjE
TITLE: Norman Ohler: Hitler, Nazis, Drugs, WW2, Blitzkrieg, LSD, MKUltra & CIA | Lex Fridman Podcast #481
CHANNEL: Lex Fridman
PUBLISHED: 2025-09-19
DURATION: 4h 25m 45s
VIEWS: 594,009
LIKES: 9,709
COMMENTS: 1,424
TAGS: Norman Ohler, alex friedman, lex ai, lex debate, lex freedman, lex fridman, lex friedman, lex interview, lex lecture, lex mit

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Norman Ohler is a historian and author of "Blitzed: Drugs in the Third Reich," a book that investigates the role of psychoactive drugs, particularly stimulants such as methamphetamine, in the military history of World War II. It is a book that two legendary historians Ian Kershaw and Antony Beevor give very high praise to for its depth of research. Norman also wrote "Tripped: Nazi Germany, the CIA, and the Dawn of the Psychedelic Age", and he is working on a new book "Stoned Sapiens" looking at the history of human civilization through the lens of drugs.
Thank you for listening ❤ Check out our sponsors: https://lexfridman.com/sponsors/ep481-sb
See below for timestamps, transcript, and to give feedback, submit questions, contact Lex, etc.

*Transcript:*
https://lexfridman.com/norman-ohler-transcript

*CONTACT LEX:*
*Feedback* - give feedback to Lex: https://lexfridman.com/survey
*AMA* - submit questions, videos or call-in: https://lexfridman.com/ama
*Hiring* - join our team: https://lex
... [truncated]

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 157
English available: True (manual)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: easysub-api
Language: en
Word count: 45,460

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Hitler invited three young tank generals to his office and they had a plan which was the plan to go through the Aden mountains. That was the victorious idea. So it's not the drugs actually that idea to go through the Aden mountain. If you if you think monocausal, you would say that's the reason. That idea was genius. And Hitler immediately understood it because before the plan was to attack in the north of Belgium, which is the same as World War I, and it comes a stalemate and they fight for months and no one really moves and it's bloody and it's nothing's happening. It's a bad. But that was the only plan that they had. That's why the high command said, "No, we're not going to do it. It's stupid." But these three tank generals they said look if we go with the whole army through the Aden mountains and like Hitler this is not possible this is like a mountain range how can the whole German army fit through this eye of a needle basically and they say no we can do it because everyone misunderstands what tanks can do. Tanks are not slow machines in the back that wait for the action to happen and then support this somehow. We're going to use tanks in the front as race cars. Basically, we're going to over power the enemy. We're going to be in France before they know it. We are already behind them. But it would only work if you would reach Sedon, the border city of France within 3 days and three nights. And that was only possible if you don't stop. Suddenly, Ranka realized that his moment had come because he had the recipe how people could stay awake for 3 days and three nights. Before that he was kind of an outsider like the freak with the drug idea. Suddenly he became like okay tell us how does it work and he gave like lectures in front of the officers and he wrote a stimulant decree where like a whole army is prescribed a drug this case methamphetamine how much should be taken at what intervals. This became a very big thing and then Tla had to deliver 35 million dosages to the front lines and then on May 10th they took their methamphetamine and they started the surprise attack through the Aden mountains. The following is a conversation with Norman Oler, author of Blitzed, Drugs in the Third Reich, a book that investigates what role psychoactive drugs, particularly stimulants such as methamphetamine, played in the military history of World War II. It is a book that two legendary historians, Ian Kershaw and Anthony Beaver, give very high praise to. Ian Kershaw describes it as very wellressearched serious piece of scholarship and Anthony Beaver describes it as remarkable work of research and it is indeed a remarkable work of research. Norman went deep into the archives using primary sources to uncover a perspective on Hitler and the Third Reich that is before this but mostly ignored by historians. He also wrote Tripped: Nazi Germany, the CIA, and The Dawn of the Psychedelic Age. And he's now working on a new book with the possible title of Stoned Sapiens. Great title. Looking at the history of human civilization through the lens of drugs. This is the Lex Freedman podcast. To support it, please check out our sponsors in the description and consider subscribing to this channel. And now, dear friends, here's Norman Oler. Tell me the origin story of meth methamphetamine and pervertin brand name drug version in the context of Nazi Germany in the late 1930s. Let's start there. I think you're right to ask about the context because without the context, it's not really understandable. So, what was the situation? In the 20s, the Nazi movement basically started and it started in Bavarian beer halls. So alcohol was the drug of choice of the early Nazi movement. The only guy that didn't drink was Hitler. He was a tea totler I guess you say. So um that was happening in Munich. So alcohol and national socialism are very closely connected. At the same time in the 20s in Berlin there was a completely different thing going on. People were taking all kinds of drugs. This had to do actually with the defeat of Germany in the first world war. I mean the context is a big context. The Versailles treaty had the effect that the German economy was not really able to recover after the end of World War I. The Versail treaty was written basically by the Western victorious powers. Germany had no say in the negotiations and um I'm certainly not a German nationalist, not even a German patriot, but even I would say that the Versail treaty treated Germany somewhat unfair. I mean it laid all the blame on Germany. And I mean a war is a very complex thing and the first world war to examine how it actually started is a very complex you know story and there's many factors to it. But the Versail treat just said it was Germany's fault and then Germany had to do all these payments to the allies. It couldn't create a new economy. It couldn't have a new army. So it was the economy really went down. Everything in Berlin was cheap and the people were using also substances that were very cheap in huge quantities. So while in Bavaria they were drinking alcohol and alcohol in the brain uh stimulates behavior a a group behavior us against them. You can actually examine this as a neuroscientist would know exactly how this works. uh while in Berlin the drugs that were used were morpheium, there was cocaine, there was masculine, there was ether. So people were experimenting. Everyone developed a different mindset. It was all, you know, you didn't behave in a way that some kind of authority would like you to behave in because the authority had just lost the first world war and there was no no real authority in Berlin. people were doing whatever they wanted to do and they were intoxicating themselves in the way they wanted to do it. So the population in a way if you just look at Munich and Berlin was growing apart like there were the alcohol people in Munich the Nazis then there were these weird diverse LGBTQ whatever scene in Berlin like actresses sniffing Ether in the morning and then making crazy moves. Could you speak to the nature, the motivation of the drug use in in uh Berlin at the time? Was a rebellion? Was it a way to deal with the a difficult economic depression? Was it just the natural thing that young people do to explore themselves, to understand the world, to develop their culture? Like what what do we understand about drug use there? All of these factors come together. But it was the first time in modern history in Germany at least that there was no emperor. Like before that Kaiser Wilhelm everything was very strict you know you had to you couldn't you couldn't go crazy you know as a young person you couldn't be a young person but now in the Vimma Republic in the 20s you could no one stopped you so people went crazy like that's what made Berlin into the city that it still somehow is and maybe later we talk about contemporary Berlin. It kind of it it's it still has that vibe, you know, that's why people still come to Berlin. Drugs are cheap. You can move however you want. There's no authority. So that created a rift between the Nazis in Munich. And they always hated Berlin and what was going on in Berlin. So for example, Gerbles, the later propaganda minister, he called the situation in Berlin the Fasta as reality, the hated asphalt reality of Berlin. He hated that. And when the Nazis then were able to take power in 1933, one of the first things they did was to really prosecute people who were taking drugs because they wanted to, you know, bring everyone back into the fold. And I think that's you asked what was the reason for people taking so many drugs. They were accessible. They were cheap. But I think the most important thing is that they they let you find yourself maybe or lose yourself, you know, also possible, you know. Can we also take a tangent there because you uh have a connection to this place Berlin and this part of the world. Can you just briefly speak to that so we can contextualize even deeper the personal aspect of this because you understand the music of the people, the land, its history. There's there's something you can only really understand if you've been there and you have taken it in and we'll return to this topic in in multiple contexts but in in this particular way as a as one human being who writes about this place. What's your own story? I grew up in West Germany and this was during the cold war um and Berlin the walled in city was always like a big fascination cuz there was a wall. There was actually a wall in the city preventing people to move into another part. And I was from the west, fortunate enough to be from the free west. So I could travel to Berlin and I could leave. I could look at it. And I always loved Berlin. I thought it was a very viby place. And then when the wall came down, I was still in school, but I like immediately got into the car of my parents and drove there. I wanted to see how it came down. And then Berlin really in the '9s became a place that was very attractive to me and I moved there then in the '9s. I was first living in New York. I wrote my first novel in New York and I loved New York before Giuliani became mayor. It was he ruined the city. Before that it was not gentrified. Let's say he introduced gentrification and gentrification is a big topic. be I I still lived in the ungentrified New York City for like 300 bucks a month rent and everyone I knew was an artist. You loved the diversity of it? Yeah, I loved it. I wrote my first novel there. I I took LSD for the first time in downtown Manhattan on a Saturday night. So, you're kind of like a like a German Carowak type character, but moved a few decades forward. I wouldn't compare myself to another writer, but I think Carrick is pretty cool, but he's he's an empetamine writer. on the road was apparently written in two weeks on empmphetamines and but it's good you know empmphetamines are not bad per se we can also talk about this so-called bad drugs you know because basically they're neutral but let's not lose the thread yes even though New York oh yeah and then I was in New York I was in a health food store one of the first like there weren't health food stores back then a lot but there was one on first avenue and suddenly there was an announcement which was unusual in the health food store I think it was called prana on a Pana Foods and the announcement was that Kurt Cobain had just shot himself. It was like and I had been actually and still am a Navana fan. I' I've seen one of the last concerts of Nirvana in New York City and it was amazing. But he killed himself and like the next day I received a music cassette from a friend of mine from Berlin with electronic music and I realized that there had been a paradigm shift. Obviously rock music with the hero on stage was dead. No, it was, you know, dance electronic music, which a lot of people today think it's kind of simplistic music form, but it's actually a very highly intelligent music form. At least it was in the '9s. People were really experimenting with that music. That was the new music. That was actually the reason I moved to Berlin. I really I decided I leave New York City. I'm going to move to Berlin. And then in Berlin, to answer your question, I fell in love with something that probably reminded me of the 20s, even though I wasn't there in the 20s, but there really the city was very open. The wall had just was still, you know, I mean, it's a few years later, but still the wall, it felt like it just came down. There was Germany was uh Berlin was not yet the capital of Germany. That was still in Bon. So Berlin was a very cheap and cultural and crazy city probably a bit like in the 20s actually and um that's how I fell in love with it and that's how I became interested in this electronic scene. Uh I mean I I visited many dance venues then called so-called clubs. That's one of the hubs in the world of electronic music. They claim that techno was kind of invented in Berlin but it was also comes from Detroit. So Detroit and Berlin are like the techno hubs I would say. Yeah. Electronic music is a soundtrack for some of the most interesting experience this earth has ever created, right? Just it gets people together in some interesting ways. So it's not just the music itself, it's the experiences that the music enables. Well, in Germany, we had a situation that the wall actually kept people apart. People didn't know each other. But because the wall came down, people suddenly met in abandoned buildings in the center of Berlin which had been owned by the socialist state of East Germany. The most famous club Tour means like vault. It was the big vault with the big door. So that's where Trezor was the club. It's so funny that the echo 100 years later, Berlin had all these uh left parters, young people using drugs and then Munich with a beer and then that's where Hitler came out. So, is that what we're supposed to imagine in the early days of the Nazi party when Hitler's giving the speeches to to just a handful of folks, they're all drunk? Well, it is it is a fact that um the movement came out of the burger boy kella. It's a certain restaurant pub in Munich and that was not only a beer hall that was also a political venue and it was a right-wing venue. It was for rightwing populist people like communists wouldn't use it even though communists are in many ways quite similar to the right-wing especially back then but it was used by right-wingers and Hitler didn't mind because people who are drunk are more susceptible to right-wing populism I would claim now here and Hitler would agree so he he he did not think it was bad that these people were a bit drunk or maybe even very drunk because if you're drunk you also get aggressive against others like it's he could play with that, you know. So drunk, aggressive towards others, but drunk in a group, it constitutes the group also. If everyone is on the same alcohol level, you you just go to October Fest in Munich, which is not a political thing, but everyone, you know, you can kind of sense how it originated. And actually, the first time the Nazis tried to grab power was the so-called beer hall put. I mean, that's a historical event took place in 1923. And it was after a drunk night where they suddenly decided now we're gonna do it. So they came out of the burger boy kella and they were all drunk except of Hitler and they just tried to overtake the Munich government and they miserably failed because it was just a stupid drunk idea like they were like yeah let's just do it. And the Bavaria police quite sober that day they just you know shot him to the ground. Hitler was almost killed like he just jumped behind his bodyguard uh Guring during the behold push was uh wounded in his stomach with a I think a gunshot that's why he became a morphine addict so this behold push in 23 had and severe effects also they were sentenced to prison and Hitler wrote mine come in prison all of these little events come together it's so interesting that for them it was just life but now we look back these critical moments in history that turned the tides of human civilization. Right? So Hitler could have died there and these characters occurring that became larger than life that influenced the the lives and the deaths and the suffering of millions. All first of all could have been stopped then and whatever that means when you look back at history. But all all of those are just human beings developing their ideas, growing, developing groups, developing ideologies, and using drugs or drinking. I mean, that's why I thought it's interesting, for example, to examine Hitler's drug use. When I announced that to a historian while I was doing research, he helped me a lot with methamphetamine and the army, proper medicine historian from the University of Ulm. And then I said, "No, I'm interested in Hitler." And he said, "No, don't. This is not interesting. This is not serious his this is not serious history but it's you know even Hitler was a person you know and if you understand for example the substance abuse of a person of course you understand more about that person and historians never had had that idea before Kershaw for example who is really a great he's very knowledgeable about national socialism like many British historians they always know more about German history than the German historians but Kersha really does. I think he's he's really good. But in his biography of Hitler, he just writes one sentence like, "And then he had a crazy doctor called Morel who gave him dubious medications and drugs and he stops there and then he goes on to describe whatever." Yeah, we should say that Ian Kershaw is widely considered to be probably one of the greatest biographers of Hitler. I think he he wrote the best biography of Hitler, which is so it's so important. Your work is really important because it opens a whole new perspective on the lives of the individuals and the machinery of the Nazi military that historians haven't looked at. It's so interesting that you can unlock those perspectives. And that's that's the underlying really the foundation of our conversation today and of your work is there's layers to this thing. You can look at the the the tactics of war, this strategic level of war, the operational level of war. You can look at the human suffering of war, uh the love stories. is you could look at the hate, the psychology of propaganda or you could look at the individual things substances consumed by the individuals that make up the Nazi party leadership and the soldiers and all those are critically important to understand the war. Right? And this piece of drug use and supplement use have been ignored by historians. That was very surprising to me. You know, I didn't know this myself. I never planned to write this book. Uh it's b it kind of happened to me and um I decided to team up with the leading German historian on national socialism Hans Mumzen uh who has passed away by now. Uh he was quite old but quite ready to be my mentor for this book Blitz. and he was maybe even shocked when I came back from the military archive of Germany with like a like a lot of copies all relating to the systematical drug use of the German army including an experiment done by the Navy who had always pretended to be the clean German we say vafangat weapon. Like you have the army, you have the air force, you have the navy, you have and the in Germany they had the SS and the navy always pretended to be like we weren't really Nazis. We were like, you know, the German Navy. We had we had our ethics code. But I found in the archive that the Navy did human experiments in the concentration camp of Saxonhausen trying to to find a new wonder drug because they had new what they called wonder weapons or what Hitler called wonder weapons. He always talked about these wonder weapons. Wonder weapons were basically mini submarines. One or two people going in staying underwater for up to a week and torpedoing, you know, Allied ships. So the Navy was trying to do to develop a drug that would keep you awake and combat ready for seven days and seven nights without sleep and without you know burning out. Very difficult to find. So they hired um a penalty unit in the concentration camp. They hired the SS had the so-called shoe walking unit. It was a penalty unit in the concentration camp testing shoe souls for the German shoe industry, walking for like days and then they would measure like how the souls, you know, kept up in the stress and they had different uh uh layers in the concentration camp like all the all the the surfaces that German soldiers would touch when they conquer Europe. So this is a very elaborate thing you know and if you go to the concentration camp today it's a museum you can still see that running track of the shoe runners unit. So the Navy hired the shoe runners unit from the SS paid them money and then gave them drugs different kinds of drug combinations methamphetamine combined with cocaine and in a chewing gum and like all kinds of things. So this is a big thing you know and there's documents to it and mumsen who knew everything about national socialism the old you know authority I'm like the young like I didn't study history I just you know I just try to make sense you know but I present him all these uh documents he's reading like from this pill patrol and he said wow like he said we historians we never do drugs we don't understand drugs this we missed this you know so he was very clear that we missed this and he said this is actually the missing link that historians did not have especially to explain Hitler's degeneration as a leader like he he he made very good decisions good in meaning militarily effective decisions in the beginning of the war and very bad decisions for the German war effort towards the end and you you can you can link that to drugs you explain a lot of Hitler through the drugs. But you can also look at this point that historians so far had not been able to figure out basically what happened to Hitler. Why did he get crazy and I mean he was crazy or he was but why did he get so bad as a leader cuz he was very effective for a long time and then there's this moment where it where it turns. Yeah. The the generation of decision making, psychology, behavior, all of that. you you cannot understand that fully without understanding his drug use. And we should also say that some of the historians you mentioned, Ian Kershaw and uh Anthony Beaver, these legends of history, they all gave you compliments. So uh Kershaw said that your work is very good, extremely interesting and a serious piece of wellressearched history. Anthony Beaver said that it's a remarkable work of research. So props to them. You have received a bunch of criticism from historians, but you've also received obviously a lot of props. I mean, Kershas, the legendary historian of Hitler complimenting how deep your work is. That's that must feel good. Uh maybe maybe this is a good moment to also just since we're talking about historians to address some of the criticism. Uh so Richard Evans was been also a great historian has been one of the bigger critics. He said that your work is crass and dangerously inaccurate account and is morally and politically dangerous. I think that's grounded in the idea that if you say that well all the Nazi forces and Hitler was on drugs so therefore their evil can be they're not really evil. It's just accountability can be removed because they were using drugs, right? And also another criticism of his which I also understand and probably can steal man is if you look too much through this singular lens of drugs, uh you can overemphasize it. You know, you can overemphasize how important it was as an explainer of the effectiveness of Blitz Creek, for example. Because it's there's there is some I mean I should say there is something really compelling about a singular theory that explains everything and you can fall in love with it too much as an explainer. So can can you steal man his criticism or criticism you received and also argue against it? I think he's absolutely right that you shouldn't argue in a monocausal way and this is actually what moms also said to me because of course I was enthusiastic about all my drug findings and he said don't argue in a monocausal way especially the war there's a lot of variables a lot of factors a lot of things going on yes so that sentence of his don't argue in a monocausal way that always stayed with me um and I think that um I didn't deviate from that path actually, but it was still interesting that Evans thought that I put too much emphasis on the drugs. It's I think it's it's a it's a totally fine, you know, opinion. I I would disagree otherwise I wouldn't have written the book. Uh what is what I can state here is that I invented nothing. In all of my three non-fiction books, nothing is invented. If you are a good writer and I trained as a novelist for me it was also very unusual to write a non-fiction book. I wanted to write a novel about Nazis and drugs. My publisher said no this is he looked at the you know at the the facts you know he said someone has to write the facts. So I said but the non-fiction books are boring. He said not necessarily maybe you can find a way to write it with your novelistic style but based 100% on the facts. And that is like in German we say, how do you say that? Split. Like when you do with your legs like it's hard, you know. Yeah. Because with a very fluent sophisticated language, you can easily overpower the reader. If I describe how the German guys, 19-year-old guys took the math and went into the tank and the math started kicking in, five guys on math after like one hour of ride into France, you can write that in a powerful way that if you are the reader, you would think, yeah, I mean the Blitzkrieg without math is unthinkable. There is a bit of a man, I wish I found that kind of feeling for historians, right? Like how did I miss this p piece? So some historians like great historians like uh Kershaw obviously see they kind of give you a like a slow clap applaud and some historians are a little bit skeptical like this is a little too good. So totally understandable and um also they have a different techniques to write text like this. I used a totally different technique um and I have an apparatus. So it really feels like it could be acade an academic work but still it's written in a way that uh it kind of overpowers it's it it kind of colonializes the story in a weird way. I never thought about it about it like that but while I was writing it I was just trying to write it as well as I could. I didn't think about these questions we're talking about now. Um I just I got carried away obviously but I never left the area of facts. Yes. So, we should talk about your process. That's also super fascinating. You went to the archives. You went to the sources. What's what's that take? What what does it feel? What does it smell like? What does it look like? What does it what does it entail? Uh how much text is there? What language is it in? What what's the process there? I never thought of going to the archives. And my girlfriend at the time, she said, "You have to go to the archives." And she's an academic, so she and I I was like, "Yeah, okay. I'll go. I'm fine. I'm I'll check it out." And then when I met a a historian, he claims that without methamphetamine, there would be no Blitzkrie victory of Germany. Like he's monocausal. Mhm. But he was also extremely helpful to me and he's an academic. Uh he he he he gave me the signatures. It's called in German where you find stuff in the archives. signature is like then it's like H2538 something like this and these were the files of professor Ranka and Professor Ranka was he was the head of the institute for for um army physiology his job was to improve the the performance of the soldier and all of his stuff was filed in a certain place in the milit military archives which in Germany is in Fryborg in the south in a small town not in Berlin because Germany is a bit of a decentralized country. We don't want to put everything into Berlin again like the Nazis did. We try to avoid our mistakes. So the military archive is in Frybook and I went there and because I was I had this signature immediately I got you know original documents that were all relating to my research like I could read the I had the original what does it look like? These are sheets of paper. Yeah. It's like like So it's not scanned. It's Well, it's different things. Like the guy who did the math into the into the army, the professor, he was uh writing a war diary. That's what the name was. War Diary. So every day he would write it by hand. So this war diary was given to me. So you're reading that. So it's like dated like you have a date. The diary. It was a bit funny with him because he took a lot of meth himself because he thought it was great. He just thought it increases your performance. Um, by now we know a little bit more that methamphetamine is not so healthy because you get used to it and you burn out. You get depressed and then you have to take more big problem. and he became depressed and burned out and he didn't realize it's because of the meth that he he's like describing to the whole German army like he was he he made a convincing case and I can explain that in detail how that actually happened. Uh but just to have his war diary was great and then also like he would write he would type letters writing to the uh company of Tla how fast they could produce stuff in which time. So you have you have all these original documents. You have like 500 documents and it goes like he writes like reports what happened in this battle on methamphetamine. Like there's a lot of stuff you've can find in the archives if you find them. But the tricky thing is that you can only look you could you kind of look at a so-called find book. In the find book you cannot type in drugs. It wouldn't find anything because at the time when they were taking all the notes from this doctor, his war d everything, they didn't put the label drugs there. They put the label, his name, his position, World War II, French campaign, stuff like that. So, because at the time they didn't know that I would at one point come and look for drugs in that, you know, but he was the drug guy, but also they didn't realize he was the drug guy, you know, no one realized that he was the drug guy. So it's not easy to find stuff in the archives. So the archives you go it's a it's a cuff guys experience. You go into this building and you have to understand the rules and you will never fully understand what's going on. Also the archist they don't really know what's going on cuz there's so many documents no one's read them all. You know no one knows like there's history kind of lying there somehow organized somehow stored. I mean it does sound like a very Kafka-esque it's thing but it's great if you find something but you can also sit there for a week and not find anything. So what was the process for you? You're just reading open-minded seeing trying to see is there some truth here to be discovered. Well, I have a friend. He's a DJ and we talked about Berlin. We probably talk about it more. Uh, and he takes a lot of drugs. And he knows his, let's put it that way, he knows his drugs. Um, and one day he said to me when I was trying to uh figure out what I would write about next, he said, "The Nazis took a lot of drugs. You should write about that." And I said, "The Nazis didn't take drugs." Because you know when you grow up in Germany you get educated about the Nazis quite intensely especially in West Germany like they teach you everything but they don't teach you drugs. I mean now they do maybe you know but it was not known. So and and the Nazis always had this um this aura of being law and order. No drugs of course no chaos everything. My grandfather he was a Nazi always said well at least there was discipline in the country. There was law and order. So this this doesn't match with drugs, you know. You know, I should also say I think that's the experience for a lot of people before reading your book. Uh you know, I had the same kind of feeling that the Nazi ideology was all about like law and order and purity and surely they would not be doing drugs. So this was like this really blew my mind. And I think I was I wasn't quite ready similar to like Richard Evans like this is a big like okay a narrative transforming into a deeper more complicated understanding what Nazi forces and uh the Hitler in the circle actually look like. That's why I didn't believe Alex. Always take the DJ the drug expert with a grain of salt. I didn't believe him. But I I said it's a great topic. Maybe I could invent it. He said no we don't invent this. This is real. I said, "How do you know?" And he said, "Um, I have a friend and I know this guy by now. I met him. He's an antique dealer in Berlin and he had bought an old medicine chest in an old Berlin apartment. This was in 2010. And he found pevitine tablets inside which were the methamphetamine product that was marketed in Germany in the late30s. And this guy, the antique dealer, took some tablets and they were quite old, you know, 70 years old, but they still had an effect on him. And I later asked him and he he said, "Well, we took them for about a month. It was the greatest month we ever had. Like we had so much fun. We were so productive." Because that methamphetamine back then was also like a quality product. It was not crystal meth made in a in a trailer lab. So this is many decades later. They were still potent. Especially Alex convinced me because Alex has a high tolerance. And he said, "Okay." They still had some. So I said to him, "Can I have some also?" And I took one. And he's like, and this was, we were standing in my writing tower, which is at the river in Berlin. And he was like, "I took one and I could feel something." Then I took another one and then it's, you know, I could feel more and then I took a third one. like typical Alex he would like take three you know instead of just taking one he's take he took three metame tablets from the 40s and he said and then I felt like and he looked at the river and there was a big like big ship like a cargo ship going by and he said I felt like this ship suddenly there was a shoop he said in German like a a motion that was like energy that was grabbing me and I could like I felt so powerful and he told me this and I was like wow this is like and I googled like math methamphetamine Nazi Germany. This was in 2010. And there was this one professor uh at the university in Ulm who said the blitzk was only possible because of methamphetamine. So I called up this guy and he said, "Sure, I'll meet you." And then I he gave me the signature for the archive. Then I went to the archive and then I really started to do my own research. And then I went to different archives and I tried to find everything on Nazis and drugs and that came everything is in the book. So that crazy meeting with Alex in my writing tower, that kind of got me on this research journey. It makes me wonder what other mysteries like that are in the archives. Do you think there's stuff like that in there that we deeply don't understand? Uh about, for example, there's there's a bunch of mysteries that we think we understand. Uh maybe about the concentration camps, maybe about the Eastern Front. the interplay between Stalin and Hitler, maybe maybe a Bob Britain that could be discovered in the letters in the data that were completely missing. I think so. And I think that also there are archives that are not open. um let's say the Vatican archive some secret archives that some very powerful structures have structures that we might not even know you know now off the top of our head which still have a huge influence so I think that the human history is quite different from what most historians write I think that's uh that's just one version I think there's several versions And I think that it goes much deeper and is much more interesting. And so I guess like this history is a very active thing which I also didn't know you know I was writing historical non-fiction book and I suddenly realized that this is like a shark pool like because the history defines the future or is very connected. Our history teacher always said if we don't know where we come from we cannot know where we go. And that is that is I think true. That is what I now really am interested in for my next book. I'm trying to really understand human history. And obviously I'm not the first. There's a few, you know, alternative historians that go like because you have to go back in time quite a bit. And then it's it's not easy to to write about it. But it's very interesting to think about it. And I would love to find like the truth on Atlantis, which I don't believe in actually. And we can also talk about that. But maybe there's an archive where we can actually see that they had this king ruling. I don't think this could be found. But um I I think we we can still also find a lot of documents, but I think especially in in closed archives, so we won't find them. You said a lot of really interesting things. It's so important to have people like you that do the daring work of going into the archives of the sources, the evidence, and trying to find a a thing that completely transforms a history as we thought we understood it. That's revisionist history at its best. Uh there's revisionist history has a sort of negative connotation sometimes because you go to conspiratorial land without much evidence and you're just being a rebel for rebel's sake. But when you grounded in data and and dare to challenge the historical narrative, that's really powerful. So now I should also mention that we've been just setting the laying out the context. Yeah, we're still in the context phase. Context phase. uh and for the next 10 hours and maybe for the rest of our lives we will be continuing just setting the context but let us dare return to the original question of um Pervertton how did that come about taking the 1930s Nazi Germany the Munich and the and the Berlin tension that we all laid out beautifully uh how did Pervertton come into the picture? Well, the Nazis managed to grab power on January 30th, 1933, and they immediately become an anti-drug regime. That is important to them because the only intoxication they allow from now on in Germany is the Nazi intoxication, is the ideological intoxication. So they quickly install concentration camps which were at the time run by the SR not the SS takes over later and turns the concentration camps into an industry. Uh the first SR concentration camps were in cells in Berlin or in the countryside and um some of the first people that landed in these cellers and were disciplined were drug users. also anti-semitic policies which were um very important from the day one for the Nazis like they anti-semitism is the is the defining pillar of national socialism um the core of it really um they quickly connected anti-drug policies with anti-semitic policies they claimed the Jews in Germany the German Jews were taking more drugs than the non the non-Jewish Germans and um National Socialism's goal was to purify the German body. So they saw the whole folk the the c the folk folk the country the people as a body one body and that has to be purified. So all Jews are poison but not only Jews. Everyone who thinks differently, communists are also poison. Jews are the worst poison. But you know a lot of you know Yeah. And then you create this clean body. And obviously drugs play have no position in that. If you're addicted to drugs that's weak. You know you're morphinist. You you use cocaine. That's all degenerate. That's Jewish. That's Jewish doctors are all morphinists you know. Um so that Nazi Germany and Hitler was the shining example of the person who doesn't take drugs. He was he didn't have a private life. He didn't even have he didn't even have a body. He just led the the the folk's body, you know. So Hitler was on not putting any poisons into him. He stopped smoking cigarettes uh in the 20s already. He never touched alcohol. vegetarian. Vegetarian. No caffeine even. So he was that's what he was in the beginning. Story of course changes at a certain point in time but he started as this. As far as you understand that's true. Yeah. I'm pretty sure that this is true. Also vegetarianism was a right-wing thing in Germany. It was an elitist thing. If you were vegetarian, you had a higher frequency which kind of gave you uh a superiority over let's say like these workers who need like to eat the sausage so he can you know do the work like Vagna the composer he was a vegetarian. Hitler was impressed by Vagna. Um so vegetarianism all I think that's all true. So I think Hitler was like that and um and it's hard to be like that actually and I think that gave him an attraction inside the movement which were all like drunk you know drunkers and using morphine all the time because he of his pain he got used to morphine. So they were it was not the movement wasn't like this but he was like this. So he was um he symbolized but he symbolized that whole approach of cleanliness like purity. So then how does methamphetamine come into the picture? It's totally absurd. That's why I thought it was fun researching this because it's doesn't make sense, you know. Um and you know they use this simple trick by you know defining what is a drug an illegal drug and what is not because drugs don't have it written on them. This is an illegal dangerous drug. You know drugs are basically neutral. These are these are molecules you know. So the meth methamphetamine molecule was found in a Berlin based company called the Tla company. Um and the head of TLA he was very upset with the Olympics in 1936 because an afroamerican athlete Jesse Owens was running faster than German superheroes with the best jeans. You know how could how can this be? So they thought that he was on something cuz he won, I think, five gold medals. It was ridiculous, you know. This was supposed to be Germany's games, you know. And then the afroamerican runs better than the than the Aryan Uber mench. So the only explanation is he took a drug. He took probably benzadrine, which was a legal empetamine. And also there were no doping checks at the Olympics. And if you take an amphetamine, of course, you can run a bit faster. Maybe that, you know, when it kicks in. Uh that this has to do with the immense release of um of dopamine in the brain. Um but it was never proven that Owens used any type of drugs. But the head of the Templar company, he said, "We have to prevent this. We have to invent a better amphetamine. uh we have to make a German amphetamine that is stronger than the American benzadrine. So his main chemist, Hshield, Fritz Hshield, he did research and he found that in 1917 in Tokyo a Japanese chemist had made methamphetamine and he remade that methamphetamine and they tested it among themselves, the chemists in the Berlin pharmaceutical lab and they loved it like they made pure methamphetamine and you know they had a really good time and they were like more active they were talkative because that's what happens on methamphetamine. So the company really thought this is a great product and they turned it into a product. They went to the patent bureaucracy and got the patent for methamphetamine and then it quite quickly came onto the market. It was labeled as pavitine which is kind of a great name because it has like the perverse already in it and this pavein perverden uh was available in any pharmacy. So you just you didn't need a prescription. a child could go and buy 10 packs of pure methamphetamine. So methamphetamine was also very cheap. So it became quite popular because people you know talked about it. Did they understand the the side effects and negative effects of methamphetamine? Did they care? They didn't really know what it was. I mean I also read I went to the archive of that company also of course so they were like what is it good for? like I just feel great when I take it and I have more energy and they didn't know if that could be a product like they it was 1937 38 when they were discovering it but also did they how did they think about the fact that this is a drug well it it was they called it a performance enhancer got it is drinking a coffee in the morning a drug I mean it is a drug but we don't think of it as a drug you know it's legal and this was kind of how meth was treated did in Germany it was normal to use it like you had a a very important business meeting of course you would take a pevitine there's a a movie by Billy Wilder called 123 very good movie and he shows the American executive it was it the movie set right after the the end of the second world war so we see like I think it's a Coca-Cola executive American and he says to his secretary uh how should I have the morning coffee I half of a pevitine. So pevitine was also normal. It wasn't stigmatized. It was it it it was not the American just say no propaganda where your teeth fall out. And I mean it was a German quality product. People liked it. Of course they did uh tests at universities like but most of them were quite positive like yeah it reduces your fear. Today we might you know look for different things but this was also a performancedriven totalitarian society moving towards war. So if someone takes pevitine and says in the clinical test at the university I have I'm not afraid of anything anymore. So that's positive. That's actually what got the guy who worked for the German army interested because he read university reports. I I also saw all of these reports. They were also in the military archive. So he's like, "Okay, you're not afraid anymore if you take methamphetamine. You don't need to sleep anymore. You don't need to eat so much because your appetite is lowered." Like, this is perfect for a soldier. So negative effects only became public in 1940 when the first Pavitine opponent, he was actually a relative of Alberta, Hitler's architect and later armament arm arms minister. He was the this psychologist. He was the first one who said, "Wait a minute. First of all, methamphetamine is against the nazi ideology because now we're all taking a drug to be high performers. We have to be high performers without a drug." And he also said, "Yeah, you know, this the obvious, this is going to make you addicted, etc. This will, you know, create a tolerance." So only then the first negative reports came out. before that what Temla did and then what the universities did they all thought methamphetamine is really good. So what was the process of convincing the German military the army to use it at scale? Well, Professor Ranka was employed by the army. So it was his job to find things that would improve the performance of the German soldier. I always imagine him like a a James Bond character like Q who developed like gadgets and stuff because he also developed gadgets. So he was quite a you know he was an academic but he was also a soldier you know he was employed but he was basically running this institute examining it and he was so convinced that pav pavvetine is the answer to his question how to beat the main opponent of the German soldier and that was not the British soldier not the French soldier not the Russian soldier that was fatigue he had been looking for a way to keep a soldier awake longer. So when he read these reports um from universities, he did his own tests in the military academy with young medical officers. They came together at 8:00 p.m. in the evening and then they received either methamphetamine, caffeine pill, or placebo or benzadine. like they had different experiments and he always concluded at the end like at like they start at 8:00 p.m. and like at 10:00 a.m. in the morning one time he notes the pevitine people still want to go out and party while like the the caffeine guys are like sleeping on the bench and the you know it was clear that pevitine is the strongest it gives you the most energy lets you work for the longest time. So he was convinced but his superior like the surgeon general of the German army he was like an old school dude and he was like he didn't even react to these like rank would write letters we have to use synthetic drug in the next campaign which was against Poland which he knew about and uh because Pvine was quite known in the civil society people were using it already so he said he even said a lot of soldiers will just take it with them and we should we should control that we should make it an official drug. But the surgeon general didn't understand. He he didn't reply. So Germany attacked Poland without a clear like regulatory system on methamphetamine. And indeed a lot of soldiers used it. And what Ranka then was did was he requested from all the the medical officers in the field in Poland. The war was over after a few weeks. So but the German army was occupying Poland. He said, "Send me all back reports and tell me what did did your people take pevitine and what were the effects?" And he collected all these reports which I also studied in the military archive and he came to the conclusion this is a really good fighting drug and it probably is because people are still using it today. Methamphetamine is still being used and Ranka discovered this. He had he had everything in front of him and Poland was beaten and then Hitler wanted to attack the west and the west was a different story than Poland because the west was the world empire of Great Britain combined with L Grand Army the strongest army in the world the French army these two combined you know how can you win that Poland they could overpower they had you know better army than Poland but is the German Vat really better than both of these armies combined behind his officers didn't think so. High command said, "No, we're not going to attack the West. We're going to lose." And Hitler Hitler was fanatic about it. He really wanted to attack it. They were planning a coup against him in November 1939 just to prevent him ordering the attack on the West because it would have been a catastrophe for for Germany because they really cared. You know, if you're a high command, you don't want to start a war that you're going to lose. you know, very bad. Can you just briefly um give us a sense of do you think this is genius or insanity on Hitler's part to think that he can take on probably what's perceived as to be the most powerful military in the world, which is the French military or at least in Europe. I think his hatred for the French was very very deep. He really he really wanted to go to war with them. It was an ideological irrational decision. That's why he was he was not he didn't hate the the empire. He kind of looked down he admired it and looked down on You mean the British Empire? Yeah. Yeah. But the French he really hated and France had been the app find the genetic enemy of the German people at least right-wingers would say. So um there had been two wars. uh the first one Germany had won then first world war Germany had lost so Hitler wanted to kind of revenge and also stop the Versail treaty so he really needed to attack the west at least in his in his mindset but it was an irrational decision and that's why high command said no we're not going to do it basically and Hitler's position at the time was not that he could do anything he wanted I mean high command is still a high command of the German veh that's a very old you know it's it's a it's a tradition It's they they they do whatever they they want, you know, but also they have to obey Hitler's order. So, it's a it's a power struggle basically. Um, but to invade France was a totally stupid idea, but it changed in the morning on the morning of February 17th, 1940. Hitler invited three young tank generals to his office and they had a plan which was the plan to go through the Aden mountains. That was the victorious idea. So it's not the drugs actually that idea to go through the Aden mountain. If you if you think monocausal you would say that's the reason that idea was genius and Hitler immediately understood it because before the plan was to attack in the north of Belgium which is the same as World War I and you it comes a stalemate and they fight for months and no one really moves and it's bloody and it's nothing's happening. It's a bad but that was the only plan that they had. That's why the high command said, "No, we're not going to do it. It's stupid." Um, but these three tank generals, they had kind of like somehow they were able to snuck into Hitler's office and they said, "Look, if you if we go with the whole army through the Aden mountains and like Hitler, this is not possible. This is like a mountain range, how can the whole German army fit through this eye of a needle basically?" And they said, "No, we can do it because everyone misunderstands what tanks can do." Tanks are not slow machines in the back that kind of wait for the action to happen and then you know I don't know support this somehow. We're going to use tanks in the front as race cars basically. We're going to over power the enemy. We're going to be in France before the French who are stationed all with the with the British in in northern Belgium and also on the Majinino line but not really in the Aden mountains. that was hardly fortified because no one could imagine that Germany would go through there. And before they know it, we are already behind them. Basically, we are already in France and they're still hanging out in northern Belgium because it takes quite a while, you know, to travel. This was uh a different time also. Um so that he was convinced and he then ordered the attack. the attack would happen and that is then and but the it would only work if you would reach Sedon the border city of France within three days and three nights. the whole army or at least you know the avanguard of the of of the machinery had to be like a big part of the army had to be in Sedan after 3 days and three nights and that was only possible if you don't stop and that was the problem the sleep was really then suddenly became a huge problem and Hitler said when I was fighting in World War I of course I could stay awake for a week I'm a German you know even though he's not even German. He's Austrian. But that was a problem. But suddenly Ranka realized that his moment had come because he had the recipe how people could stay awake for 3 days and three nights. So Ranka suddenly became before that he was kind of an outsider like the freak with the drug idea. Suddenly he became like okay tell us how does it work? And he gave like lectures in front of the officers and he wrote a stimulant decree where like a whole army is prescribed a drug in this case methamphetamine. How much should be taken at what intervals? What are the side effects? So this was a this became a very big thing and then TLA had to deliver 35 million dosages to the to the front lines which were no not the front yet. I mean it was they they were stationed in in the west of Germany and then on May 10th they took their methamphetamine and they started the surprise attack through the Aden mountain. So 35 million dosages for the French campaign. I mean we could probably talk for many hours about this particular campaign because um it is I think it's fair to say the most successful military campaign from the German side ended with a big mistake. Dunkirk. Dunkirk. It was brilliant up until that point. That is the turning point. That was the first big mistake Hitler did. And it also had to do with drugs. We'll talk about it, but let's just linger on this three days. So, uh, we should also mention that's where Blitz Creek really shined. So, it wasn't just the tanks, it was the infantry, it was the aircraft moving very fast uh behind the the French lines. I mean, what can you speak to just the execution of that campaign and the role of drugs in it? And it is, we should say, a really bold strategic decision to uh use meth. I mean, it's a big risk. There's a lot of risks taken here, which could could be seen as military genius or military insanity and uh or a mixture of both. Well, they were very lucky that it all worked out. Like it also the the guys in the tanks could all have freaked out on the meth because then it it was never tested before. Can you actually be in a combat situation in a tank in enemy territory on meth? Can people actually cope with that and be better fighters going through the mountains? It's insane. Against the biggest military in Europe. Well, what meth does is because I read reports of depressed the depressed atmosphere right before the attack started because they were afraid. They thought they would lose. Like they didn't want that, you know, soldiers, maybe some, you know, really hardcore Nazi soldiers, but most people were just normal guys, you know, they didn't want to start that. But once they had the methamphetamine, it kind of it you're like in a party mood. So also when you're in the tank, you know, and everyone likes it, you know, it's rather an uplifting thing like they were they were really getting into it and they really, you know, they started fighting then is also intoxication, you know, it's a it's a rush like what is what is what does meth feel like? Well, meth creates the so-called fight or flight motors. So either you like it releases all the neurotransmitters in the brain which are released in situations of high danger for example. So in a highly dangerous situation you become very alert so you can cope with the situation. If you're like if you're like under life threat and you don't even react to it you're probably going to be dead you know but uh the body does that and methamphetamine does that. So you you take a a pill of methamphetamine or you snort a line of methamphetamine and you're like this you're like and um then that's the fight or flight mode. Either you run away like it's too much you know I but on math you usually don't run away. You kind of think it's really cool what's happening. You you like to move, you like to be with your pals, you like to you know be in a tank's grave. So there is a party aspect to it. I think it was very joyful for the German soldiers because it was springtime. They had immediate successes and it wasn't heavy fighting. It was all it was just being in the tank. I mean there was of course fighting and there were also war crimes and I read a report when Romel high on math like at night doesn't stop of course because they all you know they don't stop at night but every army usually stops at night. So the French army were stopping. They were in a village camping out and the German Romel was going with the tank through that village with his division just running over people and he was standing like in the open lid of the tank and he was like going through that thing, you know, and you know like a berserk uh type of you know warrior. And that was when that to me is a war crime. that that is when the when the veh lost its innocence in that push of of Romel through the French countryside because you don't do that you know your enemies sleeping because the French also had a drug regulation they received 3/4 of a of a liter of red wine per man per day so of course at night they're going to be sleepy uh on red wine and the Germans were like on math and they were just running over them there's descriptions of the chains of the tank becoming bloody I think he did it. He was like, "Oh my god, what did I just do? I'm sorry." You know what? What am I doing here? He was in the in the movie. You know, this is the dark thing about human nature that in war, if you dehumanize, if you allow your brain to dehumanize the enemy, the opponent, the humans in the other side, you can actually I I think hate can take over. And in that hate, you can find pleasure when you murder the other. And people have written about this, have talked about this. It's probably a thing that a person like me can't possibly comprehend unless I experienced it. And you have to be in the mania, in the hysteria, in the insanity intensity of war. I mean, what Evans, for example, said is that I excuse the Germans of the war crimes because they were just in an intoxication. I understand that argument, but and if you look at individual soldiers, it's quite tricky. Like it's a 19-year-old guy. He's been drafted and in Nazi Germany, if you don't go, you land in the concentration camp. So, you can choose, you know, concentration camp or you just join the ranks and then you get pavvitine and then you invade France. There was a trial in Germany because someone said all soldiers are murderers and I think then the German bundesear like sued him. No, soldiers are not murderers. And he actually won in court. So it's legal in Germany to call every soldier a murderer. But it's a it's a tricky question. Yeah, I remember seeing the documentary on the ordinary people. I there's also social pressure. Again, saying this to say, I think the documentary, Ordinary People, was looking at the Germans that were part of the shooting squads. Mhm. And you know, they didn't understand what they're signing up for. And they were told that they're free to leave once they understand what they're doing. And many of them didn't. And they didn't have hate for Jews or for the people who are they're murdering. You are again a 19, 20-year-old young kid. Like it's so hard to comprehend the moral insanity that's happening all around you and you just kind of want to fit in. I mean that's why I wrote the book The Bohemians because there were a few people in Berlin that didn't react this way but they reacted in a different way. They said we cannot be part of this. Um but it's hard to be the person. It's very hard. Yeah. And most people are part of it because it's much more safe or at least it seems more safe. I mean it has its own perils you know um because you might become a genocidal murderer you know that might happen like are you responsible I would say you are responsible but that's just my personal gut feeling like I always thought my grandfather was responsible for the genocide because he was working for the German railway system and he once saw a train car full of Jews in a cattle wagon and he only said to me, "Yeah, this was against German railway regulations." I said, "So, what did you do?" And he said, "Well, there were SS at the station where I was working and I was too too scared. I didn't do anything." So, I thought that he was he he made himself guilty. I thought that's and my father, for example, reacted very strongly because of that. He never called him by his first name, the the father of his wife because he still had that, you know, he was a Nazi because he was working for the railway. Um, so I wouldn't excuse people actually and I certainly would not excuse highranking politicians that make policies because the the genocidal policies that the Nazis developed and the war policies that they developed had nothing to do with drugs. And I never write that in any, you know, because there's no documents. If I would find documents that say, "Yeah, when we, you know, but this the Nazi ideology has nothing to do with drugs, maybe with alcohol, you know, but it's and I spoke with my father who had been a high judge in Germany. What does actually the law say?" And the law says if you plan a crime and then maybe when you commit it, you are under the influence, it does not diminish your responsibility. Your responsibilities only diminish. Let's say you're a totally normal person, never done any harm to anybody, and suddenly you take a drug that or you're totally drunk and you don't know what you're doing and you kill someone, then a judge could say maybe you have a lesser responsibility. But this is not the case uh with the crimes of national socialism. And I never even hint at that in my book. So I think that criticism by Evans was shortsighted. I wouldn't I I think he's he's not right about that. Yeah, I I think uh I agree with you totally. I didn't get that sense. He thought the book was very successful because a lot of right-wing people bought it, but that's not simply not true. I think your book did a masterful job of never um making itself amenable to that kind of narrative. To the contrary, I got a an angry letter by a German army uh employee, quite a high officer and a military historian. And he said that I he also thought I overemphasized the drug use of the methamphetamine in the in the Western campaign because he said the German army was just so good. and you kind of diminish their capability by saying they were only so good because they took methamphetamine. I thought that was kind of funny because the veh doesn't exist anymore and the the new German the current German army is called the bundesva and they're not historically they're not supposed to be connected like there was a clear cut but he still felt that I was kind of hurting the pride of of the vyama. So I I I generally sort of agree with him in general. It seems like great historians often. I'm just a human, so I'm not a historian, but they undermine the importance of the heroes that make up an army. The Soviet army, the British army, the French army, the the German army. Like these are humans. And some of the great military campaigns involve people really stepping up now. Like the effectiveness of the military tactics with Blitzkrieg, the effectiveness of meth, the strategic decisions around where to invade, the timing, the speed, all of those are important, but there's humans there. There's real heroes. And sometimes historians kind of diminish that. I don't know what to make sense of it. I I might be just an idiot, but I've had a great conversation with James Holland. I've gotten to know him well. He kind of analyzed the mistakes made by Hitler and by Stalin and the uh Operation Barbar Roa. But I just through generations because I grew up uh in the Soviet Union, you hear these stories of these heroes. You know, my grandfather was a was a machine gunner and miraculously survived. And like I just knowing those stories, Stalingrad would not have happened without the heroes on the Soviet side. And it's easy to say there's a lot of blunders, a lot of bad tactics, all this kind of stuff. But to me, from the human side, I just know through my bloodline, the people that have fearlessly given their life to defend their homeland. And that sometimes could be e a little bit easily dismissed. So I don't know what to make sense of it. Maybe I'm romanticizing or maybe I'm speaking to the suffering that the people have felt and they just uh propagate themselves through my my life story and then maybe the gratitude I have for uh the people who have stopped the the Nazi forces. I think it's amazing what the Russian soldiers actually did because they beat the Vey. It was really the Red Army on the ground that did the job, you know. And did they love communism and their system? I don't think so. And I think they were I mean, of course, some people, but basically they were defending their country and um I'm also very grateful to them. Yeah, they're defending their families. Quick pause. Bathroom break. Okay. All right. We're back. So, can we say a bit more about the French campaign? So, in um it was over in 6 weeks. It took six weeks to completely defeat and occupy most of France. Uh and the initial operation three days was from a military perspective successful. Um what else do we what else can we say about the role of drugs the effectiveness? What was learned from that experience by the mar? I mean for me to research the western campaign was very interesting because I didn't really know anything about it except that Germany won very quickly. So to actually look at the details is very interesting and the drugs give you kind of a way in. What are some things you found in the archives that were interesting like about maybe letters, reports, diaries? They gave you some insights about the the the human story of it all. Well, there is letters for example by Hinish Bur who won the Nobel Prize later in literature. He writes to his parents describing in detail what what Pavvatine did to him, how it kept his mood up and that without Pavvatine he wouldn't have been able to do the job. But also military documents I found very interesting. For example, I could see exactly how the methamphetamine was distributed because it was not distributed equally. It was done in a way that the tank troops who were leading the advance received the most meth and they also needed it. Um I could like see how many pills on which date were delivered to RML's troops and RML became I call him the crystal fox in my book um for obvious reasons like his division was using a lot of math and he was using math as well. I just have descriptions how he like totally crazy stands in the open lid of the tank and all his pe well they had the math but there's no from that there's no they they maybe they didn't use it maybe he didn't use it but it looks like he used it um like there was also never any reports that all the meth was given back I mean a lot of soldiers write that they take it but Romel specifically um I like I wouldn't write in my in blitz that like RL would take methamphetamine like on such a day or something if there was no record for it. But Romel there is a record for it that RL's division used the most meth of any tank division. So I write about that and that's that already makes him the crystal fox because you know in his division crystal meth is you know rampant. You know it's like an animal farm when the pigs discover alcohol. Animal Farm by George Orwell. There's no evidence that they drank. It's just the next day that they're all hung over. I mean, Raml is a very interesting character in general because later he turned, apparently turned against Hitler. He was part of the conspiracy of the operation Valkyrie. He received, you know, the offer to shoot himself in the forest, which he did instead of being tried and executed. Is he just part of the this general tension that the generals the military had with Hitler? That'd be fair to say. I would say so. Yes. Um I'm not an expert on the Viam. This is a very complex large organization, but I see most of the officers of the Viamart as not necessarily Nazis in the way that they would, you know, shout hal Hitler all the time. They were highly intelligent, highly trained, super professionals that ran a very effective war machine. And at one point, more and more of these generals realized that the orders that Hitler were given were not really helping, you know, and they have their men dying because of it. So that creates a lot of tension and um that that led to um the mistake that Hitler did in Dunkerk. Basically what Churchill called the sickle cut which was the idea to storm through the Aden mountains and kind of cut off the British and French troops who were still you know in the north of Belgian trying to figure out what was going on. Suddenly the Germans are behind them so that they they kind of cut as a like a sickle into enemy territory. the single cut that was so successful um that basically the campaign was won already. Um so then the Germans invaded like occupied all the cities on the on the canal uh back to England to kind of cut off the British completely. So they couldn't you know even flee but there was just Dunkirk was open the last port that was open and the German army was like you know they were already on the outskirts of Dunkirk. they could have just taken it and closed that, you know, that uh hole for for the British military to get out. But Hitler uh then did his famous and this is all in the dynamic of the western campaign. You know, a lot of things happen every day. And then they're saying like we're going to have Dunkirk tomorrow and then it's over. And then Hitler stops the tanks. It's this famous halt the the order to stop. Uh, and you know, they were all on meth, you know, they didn't want to stop. But Hitler was not on meth. Uh, Hitler was um he was he he basically it was a little bit similar than Berlin Munich uh thing. Hitler didn't really understand that campaign. It was too fast for him. He because they didn't say like, "Oh, they're all on me. They're not going to sleep. They they're going to behave erratically." They don't didn't discuss this. They discussed this in the oldfashioned terms. And Hitler was seeing like they do not protect their flanks. What if the British come from the north? This is terrible. Like militarily it was a they were already fighting World War II while Hitler was still fighting World War I. And especially the Allies, they were still fighting World War I. But the tank generals on math or the tank generals without math, the tank generals per se, they were fighting a new type of war. And Hitler then got a visit from Guring, the head of the air force, the Luftwaffer. And Guring was a morphinist. That was that is very well documented. Like he was on morphine. He was high as a kite most of the time. And that comes with losing touch with reality, I would say, or at least it it changes your grip on reality. You know, maybe you're still a good decision maker, but it could lead to, you know, if you're intoxicated, let's say you're writing and you're intoxicated, you think it's great, but the next day you read it is shit, you know. So, Guring was using morphine in the morning, then met met Hitler at the Felen Nest, which was Hitler's headquarters to to uh command the western campaign, the Felen nest. And Guring said to him, if the army generals are now going to take Dunkirk, then basically the army has won this campaign and that will give army high command which is already against you because they were you know for them Hitler was always like the uh the fry to like the small kind of regular army guy because that's what Hitler had been in in in the in first world war and now suddenly he was the big decision maker. So they never they thought they make much better decisions than him. So Guring says their power will be so overwhelming that they will from now on call the shots how this war will continue and what will be done next. You should let me with the Luftwafer do the job from the air. The national socialist Luftvaf is going to end the western campaign. So he thought that he could destroy it doesn't make sense you know even destroy the British military from myth planes maybe you can do it but certainly he couldn't do it so the the tank generals received the hal the whole the stopping order they didn't believe it when they received it because the victory this would have been complete victory over Great Britain this would have been the end of Great Britain the whole British military was encircled, but they did get out through Dunkirk. That's why the movie Dunkerk by Christopher Nolan is not good because he doesn't describe what happened on the German side. He's just this heroic British thing. Yeah, we just got out and we reformed and then we beat, you know, this was just because Hitler was afraid of the power uh of of his of army high command and convinced by Guring's morphine high vision that he would stop it with with the air force, which he couldn't, which he couldn't. Yeah, I mean he bombed and then the British, you know, they weren't ships and few ships were sunk, but basically they got they got out. You need to do this on the ground. At least back then, you would have needed to do it on the ground. So that was the a big mistake by Hitler. That's why Fon Manstein, one of the three tank generals from February 17th was Romel, Fon Mannstein, and Gutieran. And Fon Mannstein, he later said he spoke of a felor Nazique, a lost victory. He said the Western campaign was a lost victory because we really could have achieved the victory. We could have dominated, you know, Brit. They could have, you know, invaded Britain. There was no more military. Well, okay. On land. Well, there was still the Royal Air Force. Uh, and the and the Navy. And the Navy. Yeah. So, like, so invading invading Britain, I I think any invasion of actual Britain is a gigantic mistake on the Nazi part. But if Britain doesn't have a standing army anymore, it's much easier than they still have one. I think it's still extremely difficult to invade. But it's much easier to sort of neutralize make sure that n that that that Britain is not a player in the war. I mean the for sure maybe Hitler wouldn't wouldn't have invaded at all anyhow. Also because of his sort of not respect but non-hatred right of the British Empire because they're also white supremacists. So why why why would we fight them? You know it doesn't make sense. While the French they were already like half black basically in Hitler's eyes. If we're to talk about counterfactual history of the possible trajectories of the war that would lead to Nazi victory, one of the big mistakes is uh the invasion of Britain. So you already mentioned the mistake with Dunkark but beyond that if they even captured mainland Europe the they could have just neutralized the British threat and not invaded Britain and then go after the oil which is much needed maybe in the Middle East. So focus on that campaign before invading the Soviet Union and then maybe wait for the Soviet Union to invade them through Poland which will be likely coming or wait until 1943 something like this to invade east without the western front having to be been there. And the the other really big mistake is is um declaring war against the United States, having complete disrespect for the United States and in in declaring war in the United States, which would didn't have to be done at all. Right. So it's collecting enemies when those didn't have to be uh uh done. So there is to me actually there's a lot of paths there as dark as it it is to imagine for uh Nazi Germany to be successful in the invasion of the Soviet Union even. Well, I think that's why the Vat officers were pissed at Hitler because they knew that they could actually win if it was done in a certain way. But Hitler's ideology and his stupidity and later also his the degeneration of his cognitive abilities did not allow the veh to fight in the most um effective way. So they had a Hitler was a very bad leader after Dunkirk. So uh can you speak to the morphine? What kind of drug is morphine? Morphine was developed in the 19th century by a German a young chemist called Satua and he wanted to know what is the potent alkyoid in opium because opium is a natural drug but there's something in the opium that actually is decisive and that's morphine. So he was able to extract that from the opium. So he basically this young guy he invented um morphine which then became you know very important in wars especially like the American civil war is unthinkable without morphine or at least it would have been very different because with morphine you can treat people, you can amputate people, you can fix people up so and and send them back into battle and that that also corresponded with the development of the hypodermic needle, the injection needle. That was around in the mid 19th century. So the injection needle and morphine together became a very efficient way to treat soldiers and that prolonged for example the civil war in America. So Guring was taking morphine. Yeah. Morphine is like the classic. It's like you don't eat opium you know that's you you take what is active in opium and and you inject it. Uh, and that's a much that's a very potent, you know, that numbs all your pain. Like you don't have pain anymore if you're on morphine. Also affects judgment. I've never taken morphine. Um, so I cannot I cannot really say um I like there's a few junkies that have highly creative on it. Like a lot of musicians in the 60s were using heroin which is a more potent form or like it's a it's a half synthetic. It's an opioid. Morphine is an opiate and and heroin is an opioid. Um I guess you could be quite sharp in it also. That's why Hitler liked ooodal which is oxyon oxycodone and he injected that which is another opiate heroin like it was a product by the merc company from Damst Germany. They made ooodal which when Germany lost the war the patent was basically taken by America and then ended up in an oxycodone. So if you inject Ooda that was a very popular drug in the 20s because apparently it gives you the most beautiful high on earth. You're like super high like you feel extremely well and you can think very clearly and you feel like this is how life should feel on high on odal. is like Klaus man the son of Thomas man he used oda quite a few doctors actually used it also and probably quite a few Jewish doctors also used it because this was like a doctor's drug doctors knew how to you know set the the injection and it was you know a great experience and Hitler he really loved to be on ocodal like he would use ocodile every second day in the beginning 10 milligrams introvenously then he raised to 20 milligs and I spoke to someone who's actually done exactly that drug application because I wanted to know how Hitler felt and I didn't feel like doing it myself for some reason. I was I don't like needles. So I didn't want to put a needle in my vein to have like the Hitler drug experience. I should have done it like a historian, a proper historian never does that. Okay. So I take I but I thought I should take quite a few drugs that are right about to understand it better. But this drug I didn't take. I didn't I never shot uh oxycodone introvenously into my veins. But I I met someone who did and he said it's it's like the king's high, you know, if you do that properly. Obviously, you get addicted to it. You know, I'd be scared to try. Very intense experience. I think it's a very badass thing to do for a historian, by the way. But I think it's a big risk. I think I mean there is a risk that comes along with it, right? Well, but not for Hitler because he got the ooda from the pharmacy. He knew exactly like his doctor knew exactly what was inside. It was made by a pharmaceutical company. No, I mean the risk of addiction. Yeah, that is a big risk. That is a big risk. But there's also the risk of getting impure stuff and like heroin on the street and and die from an overdose or but the addiction thing is very I think it happens quite quickly with odai because it's such a great feeling. So why wouldn't you do it over and over again? because and then the opioid receptors in the brain want you to take it and if you don't take it you get withdrawal symptoms and you feel like shit and you have to so that's the problem with opioids with morphine that's what happens and that's what happened to Hitler I generally say yes to most things uh but those the those drugs like cocaine doesn't scare me heroin scares me like the opioids scare me oxycodone scares because they really make you physically dependent. I I don't even know if cocaine makes you physically dependent. It makes you psychologically addicted, but they actually you have to get it otherwise you feel bad. That's a physical terrible. And also for life to feel like less when you're not on it, right? That scares me. That's the problem also with methamphetamine. People who use a lot of methamphetamine on days they don't use it, they don't feel great at all. especially not compared to the methamphetamine days. So that became a problem in Germany when people were really using more and more of the pavitine. All right, you got to take me through the full drug cocktail that uh Hitler was on patient A of Morels's. Let's start at the beginning. We're big on setting context here. So tell the story of uh Dr. Theodor Morel. How did he meet Hitler? Well, Morel was he had his practice on Kirsten Dam which is like the main boulevard of Berlin in the west of Berlin kind of a fancy street and he was a celebrity doctor which was a new type of doctor in a way Dr. Feelgood he kind of was one of the first Dr. feel good. So you didn't go to him when you had a disease. You went to him when you were, let's say you were like an opera star in the Berlin Opera and you had a big premiere. So you would go to Morel in the afternoon and he would give you a nice shot and then you would, you know, be really good on stage. Um, so he but he was not a quack. I mean he was ser he he just knew his drugs and he believed in you know why shouldn't you treat someone even if that person doesn't have a disease if you can make that person feel better it's good especially if that person pays like he said everyone who pays my and it wasn't cheap who comes to me and wants a testosterone testosterone hormone injection or a vitamin injection or an opioid injection you get it from him he didn't have any scruples. I mean, but we should also say he was pretty innovative and uh extremely knowledgeable. So, you mentioned hormones, but also uh you know, like probiotics like you're talking about, just he knew his shit. He was a bit of a nerd. He was like a legit doctor, just didn't have boundaries about what he used. He had a very unappealing physical appearance and I think that was a problem for him. And he was known to have very bad eating habits. Like sauce was running and so people were easily disgusted by him. He was like an outsider. He was really like a freak. But when people looked at him after he had given them an injection and they said, "Thank you and I feel so great now." That's what kind of made his day, you know. So one day a man entered his uh doctor's office on Kufist Dum named Hubatus Hoffman. And Softman was a photographer and he had gorrhea and uh Morel because he knew about alternative ways to treat he actually cured him. Mhm. And uh Hubet Hoffman said to Morel, "I have a good friend and I think you should meet him and I'm going to have a dinner in Munich and I think it would be really worth your time to come." and uh Morel came and the good friend was Hitler because Hoffman was the photographer of Hitler and they were in German we have a U a formal U which is Z like if I don't know you so well I say Z and if you're my close friend I say do you and Hitler only had like four people he would say you too. He was always like the C like the distance it was always about distance and respect and borders and boundaries. What are the two again? C and what? Do. C and do. Yeah. C is the formal one and do is the is the informal one. Yeah. Know in Russian there's the same thing. V and the. And so there's a big that's a big thing also in Fr. In French you also have that. You have that in Spanish. No, only in English you don't have it. And there it is part of the cultural sort of discourse uh of like when you upgrade from the V to the T from the C to the D or from the do to the C from the C to the do the upgrade because you become more intimate. Yeah. Like and you ask can I go from C to do? Yeah. Like the older person must suggest it I think. Yeah. Okay. The beautiful language. So Hoffman was a dign a dudes we say of Hitler. So he was quite close to Hitler and so that's why he could also make that close connection. So he had a dinner with just him, Hitler, Ava Brown, Hitler's girlfriend and Morel came like they sent a plane to Berlin to pick him up. So it was like VIP treatment. It was the whole thing. And this is 3 36. Yeah. They had spaghetti with tomato sauce on the side. I read in the there's like a description of this event. The tomato sauce was on the side and there was muscat. What is muscat? It's a it's a spice. Mhm. Nutmeg. Nutmeg. Yeah, it was a nutmeg, which is an unusual recipe, I guess, but that's what they had. And spaghetti wasn't a fancy thing, you know. It came from Italy, from Mussolini, the the who invented fascism in Italy and who was like Hitler's role model for a long time until Hitler surpassed him, obviously. So the spaghetti the spaghetti they came from Italy and it was like a big thing and Morel had the big problem that spaghetti is hard to eat right and he couldn't even like it was a catastrophe but he got out of it because Hitler complained about stomach problems because Hitler was a terrible vegetarian. He was a so-called cake vegetarian. He would only eat like sweets like cake, no meat of course, but like he wouldn't like eat healthy stuff, you know? So he he was bloated the whole time cuz we only eat like cake and white bread and it's not good. So he voiced that and there was also uh Brand was there like his an official doctor from the from the from the SS that was like his doctor and and Hitler said my doctors can't cure me and Morel was like this is my chance. Thank thank you God. Uh and he told Hitler about the probiotics which Hitler had never heard of and like also Brand the doctor he hadn't heard of because that was a new thing that you give and he Hitler was asking what is that and Morel said these are live bacteria from like German soldiers from the war in the first world war that were fighting in Serbia. There was one guy who didn't get the stomach flu and all the others like drank the water in Serbia and all got sick. this one guy. So his bacteria and this is a true story. His gut bacteria were cultivated into a medicine called mutaflla and morel told Hitler about this and he said this is amazing like I have to try this you know and it helped you know he got the mutaflla he did the mutaflla kind of therapy and it cured him. He suddenly had no bloating anymore. And the farting of Hitler was really bad. So bad that he it would like he like const like it diminished his, you know, ability to work, you know. So suddenly he could work. So he felt better. He didn't have the pain. He felt great. So he really thought that Morel is a wonder doctor. And he asked Morel pretty quickly afterwards, uh, do you want to be my personal physician? And Morel was like his his wife was very much against it because she said if you uh become the personal physician of Hitler won't have any time for me anymore. And he said like come on man this is like the chance you only get once in your life. Yeah. I mean at this point Hitler is a really big deal. He's the most powerful man in Europe and there have not been war crimes because the war hasn't started yet. Obviously, there's concentration camps and a lot of crimes have been committed, but it's also kind of hushed up. You know, it was it's not such a huge thing as now we know it became. So, Morel never really has any conscientious problems. He just think it's great, you know, I'm going to be the doctor. I'm going to be part of history. So he becomes a personal physician and being this vitamin guy like vitamins were really his thing like he believed in the power of vitamins and today I think we know that he was right. Vitamins are good but back then no one knew. Uh and Hitler was like okay he told Hitler and then Hitler said okay I want to try this vitamins and and what they did from the beginning was injections because Hitler didn't want to take a pill because a pill takes too long and it goes through the the track that he has the problems with like the digestion like he didn't want to take a pill he believed in the injection and Morel was the masterful injector so Morel because the needles were thicker than they are today but Morel could give you an injection without you feeling any pain. So Hitler was quite impressed. So he got like a vitamin C injection, but Hitler loved the daily injection. So he got hooked on the daily injection. Once he got the injection, the day was good. And he never got sick actually like and he could stand like for a long time with the arm raised. He did like uh he he went to the gym basically. I mean, he had a gym where he he was like doing exercise so he could have the the arm up for like hours when a military parade would walk by. So, he was quite fit and he was never sick and Mor was giving him the daily injection. And they they lived happily ever after basically until the Soviet Union attack. Well, wait. He literally lifted so he can do the the how Hitler salute. Yeah, I found a doc I found a document for that. That's funny. Oh god, that's dark. He had an expander. We say I don't know. Do you use that word in English? Expander. Oh, like a a band. Yeah, it's like this. You do like Yeah. Yeah, I have one of those. Yeah, that's what that's what that's what he did in front of the window. Well, at least he's not doing in front of a mirror. Okay. Wow, that's dark. Okay, that's I mean those little details, yet another reminder that he's just a human being. I mean, it's hard to keep your arm up for like hours. You can't let it down. If you keep it up, that's what it's all about, you know. I mean, he was very much about the facade, right? He's very important to present himself in a certain kind of way when he's giving the speeches. Yeah. It was everything was orchestrated. The Nazis were masters in propaganda. They really knew how to create the perfect image. Uh, okay. So, let's go into the the cocktail started with the vitamins. This is in 36, right? I think it was pretty harmless in the beginning. just but the addiction to the injection was the main thing that I think happened that Hitler needed his doctor but from 36 to 41 only like vitamins are being injected and glucose so I don't think it really harms you I mean it might benefit you he never got sick he was fit this I mean this is the thing that that was phase one of his drug use were the vitamins until 41 so you think the tweaking at the Olympics that you've talked about before, but it's still So, you're saying this person we're watching a video of here is not on drugs. I don't know. I don't think so. So, the video is fake. It could be sped up. I think it's fake because I think someone read my book that Hitler was on thought that Hitler was always on math and created this, but I might be wrong and the narrative takes hold. And uh I think the thing you mentioned he could be on sugar. Uh, so it could be a lot of elements. He was also a weird guy. Maybe he was really just rocking because he was so happy what he saw, you know? Maybe he really got into it. Maybe it was a sexual thing for him what he saw. I don't know. There's no document showing that he took a drug on that day. Let's put it that way. I think I've been especially like stay up all night. I'll get I've been fidgety. You just be caught in a certain moment when you're being like very like like fidgety. I think he probably rocked a few times and then the video was cut in a way that he rocks more or something. Also, methamphetamine wasn't yet available in 1936. That's important to say. For sure. He he was not. So, what is what is said here on Hitler tweaking on meth at the 1936 Olympics is definitely false. Okay, there you go. So, when did it start getting more serious the the injection and the kind of drugs he was taking? This was a day in August of 1941. Germany had invaded the Soviet Union on June 22nd. So this is about six weeks into the campaign which was called unanim babosa and Germany was doing pretty well and it came to a crucial moment where high command said now we're going to take Moscow and Hitler said no we're going to split up the troops and take Linenard which is now St. Petersburg in the north and in the south we're going to go for the for the oil fields. Basically that was his plan. He said let's not do Moscow. And high command was like this is the biggest mistake. We must take Moscow. If we if we take Moscow we're going to win. Uh and Hitler became ill for the first time on the day this decision. I mean this is a dynamic thing that's going on. you know they're moving and now they have to decide will we split up or we will continue towards Moscow and um he had the Russian flu in German the R which is a like a flu type disease with very high fever it comes like they were in the field like so they were in the east you know camping out maybe he drank water that wasn't good or he had some you know they tested everything meticulously but he got you know he got sick high fever he felt like shit and he said to Morel Uh, and you know, you can see that in Morel's notes. Like Morel describes this very vividly in in his notes which are at the federal archives. Uh, which no historian ever ever looked at except me the non-historian which is kind of funny. Uh, so he describes how Hitler then asks of him basically says vitamins are not enough anymore like he's very weak. He must go to the military briefing. But if you the flu is quite a heav severe disease I think if you have a heavy flu you really feel like you're going to die. You can't go to a military briefing. But Mor kind of fought with himself and then he decided to inject an opioid into Hitler's veins intravenously like the strongest application possible. And this was Dolantine which is a German opioid that was legal. And um I was once an exchange student in Flint, Michigan, 1988. And I was number one of the tennis team cuz I was quite a good tennis player. We were playing our main enemy. I think it I was at Flint Patholic High School in Flint, Michigan. And I think it was Power Central and they had a number one Mark Restiner. Still remember. Wow. He was feared and no one no one could beat him. Yes. And on the day of the match, I had the Russian flu basically. I was and I was the hope. I was the number one the wonder kid from Germany and they took me to a doctor and the doctor gave me an injection and I don't know until this day because I just I was you know kid I got the injection I was 17 and I felt great like the flu was gone like this. It was probably an opioid, something, you know, something that just shuts off all the pain and gives you, you know, energy. And I beat this guy. Mhm. In a way, I totally I I thought of a new technique by playing like very high balls like in the in a in a direct like fierceful competition, I would have lost. So, I played something that in Germany we call footen, which is something you don't really do. You just play high balls, which is not pretty to look at, but it's very effective. And he just lost his nerve. And I beat him like 660 6 something like that. Sensational. So Hitler receives this uh this Dolantine injection and he gets up, he goes into the meeting room, he dominates the meeting room, he feels great. He decides, you know, in front of everybody and no one is able to no one overpowers him in that meeting. He was very good in the room and the the troops are split up like Lady Guard is now a target. This weakens the general thrust towards Moscow. This is probably why they didn't take Moscow. They probably could have taken it or maybe not, you know, but that's the decision was made in August to I think it's one of the biggest blunders of the not take Moscow to not take Moscow. I think they had a straight shot given this organization they had the one time thing the one time moment where they could have done it and the German war machine could only win in so-called speed wars like lightning war only if they would do it very fast and surprise because they were always weaker basically they just had this moment this dynamic moment and this was fueled by the methamphetamine also in the Soviet Union hundreds of millions of dosages were given so the Germans were really going and at one point this ends you No, you can't take meth for the rest of your life. You're just going to end up being a nervous wreck, but you can do it for like 2 months. You could do it, but then it stops. I think if you're really honest about where you have the the asymmetry of power, which is in the speed of the blitzkrieg. So that's similar to Jenghask Khan who had a very small military but their advantage was I mean I think at the peak it would be probably 100,000 uh and but but every soldier of Jagus Khan had five horses. So the the whole point was they can move really fast. They they and they not just fast but they can move on all terrain. So they can go around. You know, if wars were fought on normal roads, you're supposed to travel a certain kind of way. If you go fast and around uh not on paths that are usually taking attack from all kinds of sides, that's why you can conquer as much as Jenis Khan was able to conquer. And the same thing with the with the Nazi forces. This is their biggest advantage. And the not using that is is is is essentially the end of its effectiveness. I think that's also why the tank troops were such a good weapon because they can go off-road while military vehicles, cars cannot do it. Like a tank can even go through a forest and just you know kill, you know, small trees and just run over it. So that was uh that that those are kind of the five horses that uh that was the idea that they had at this working breakfast. That's what they presented to Hitler. We're going to use the tank force in a very different way and that's going to enable us to win the lightning war campaigns. Was that one of the first times he he he he tried an opiate like that, an intense one? That was the first time and then he it that was it for him. Well, not immediately. Like you can see when you study his medications that that is a turning point in a way that now he he deviates from the vitamins. Like he becomes more interested in what's out there. And like from 41 to 43, he tries out a lot of medications that he didn't try out before. Before that, it was quite conventional, mostly vitamins and glucose. But now he becomes experimental and he discusses this with Morel and Morel is also very experimental like they got really they really nerded themselves into like what can we use like bull's testicle extracts. So Morel in order to present those things to uh his patient a he created a pharmaceutical uh company that he ran. He was so he was a personal physician of Hitler and he was also the CEO of Hama Pharmaceuticals which had its production site in occupied Czechoslovakia. And for example at one point when Germany had invaded the Ukraine, Morel asked for a monopoly for all the organs of all the slaughtered animals from all the slaughter houses in the Ukraine. So this was a huge logistical operation like all the slaughtered animals all the organs were removed for the personal physition of the fura sent in military trains back to the to the factory in in occupied Czechoslovakia and like the the military became really upset with that because they said we need our trains to transport back our wounded soldiers. Now we're like cars are full with like awful and pigs hearts and pigs and and livers and it was totally bizarre. And Morel but Morel then became like he was this like goodnatured Dr. feel good in the beginning and then when the Ukraine was occupied, he became this like business freak who like made a lot of money with his dubious hormonal concoctions where like he would threaten the army if you don't let the train with my raw materials go to my factory I will tell Hitler and you will have a problem. He was up he was acting like that. He he became quite an asshole actually. um and a war criminal because he also at his uh factory where he would make the famous pig liver extract that was then tested by Hitler and Hitler said it was that's a that's a good medication I feel more I have more energy so this can also be sold to the German military that's how it worked because the regulations at the time were that it was very difficult to bring out a new medication onto the market because medications to bring them onto the market you certain test phases and all of that stuff. So that's hard to do in a in a war, especially in in World War II. So Hitler said to Morel, "I'm going to be your guinea pig. You just make it in your factory. I test it and if I think it's good, then I'm just going to write a Today you would say like a decree, you know, because I'm the president, you know, I can like order it that it's going to be legal all over Germany." So Hitler was a real drug guy. He liked drugs. Well, he liked to experiment, I would say, with his with with drugs and with morale. They never like he was against drugs, you know. He was But but that's a crazy thing for a guy who didn't do anything, right? It's a big uh contradiction or it's a big irony or it's very weird. But isn't it even a bit of a mystery? Cuz at that stage, I'm sure he was paranoid about being killed and all that kind of stuff. So he must have really trusted Morel, right? Yeah, he trusted Morel because Morel was not part of any organization. He was the loner coming from the VIP doctor's his own VIP doctor's office and now he was basically Hitler's toy. Like Hitler could get access to all kinds of medications through him and Mor would never say it to anybody, you know, he would just write it down. But this was kept quite secret. No one knew what was going on between the two men. That's just so interesting cuz like why why would he there there might be can you maybe even speak to that? Why did Hitler trust another human being this much? Cuz you could probably make the case nobody was closer to Hitler than Morel. That is that is certainly the story I'm telling. Isn't that crazy? Like what is that? What is it about Morell? this guy who's he's I guess he's fat and weird and like uh nobody really likes him. He was not a threat to Hitler. Like Hitler hated all the super smart medicine people. Like he didn't he never undressed before them. He never let himself be seen naked because he didn't want anyone to know anything, you know, about him that he couldn't control. So Moray was harmless. Mor would basically did what Hitler wanted. They wouldn't say we're going to take today we're going to take drugs together. It's going to be fun. You know, Hitler was always about optimizing his performance because he knew only I'm doing this. I have to he always thought he's going to die young. So he always like I don't have unlimited time. The the the clock was always ticking. So I have to be always the high performer. So Hitler when he when he first experienced the beauty of the uh opioid high that was given to him in August 1941 intravenously when he experienced that kind of his eyes opened and he didn't think this was a a drug. I mean this is a medicine that helps me function. This is a medicine that my doctor gives me in a very controlled uh manner and that lets me be extremely sharp for like 8 hours. I can convince all the generals I can do my job. I'm happy because Hitler was also depressed you know I mean this is he need he need like he really appreciated what the drug gave him but he never thought now I'm becoming like a drug addict or so it begins to oxycodone in general begins to work within 30 to 60 minutes and last for about 4 to 6 hours this is a longlasting thing yeah but these are this this you swallow if you get a introvenous injection it works after 1 second wow get the injection you you're high last for many hours. Yeah, that's why people love heroin who take it because you feel like shit. You take the injection, you feel great. I mean, it's in your system for quite a while. Like, you can go into the meeting quite comfortably. Into the meeting. Yeah. Okay. I mean, there's the briefing. It starts at 1:00. Morel comes and you can see this in the notes like I have to be at the fura in his bedroom at 12 and then you know you chat a bit and then Hitler rolls up his uniform sleeve and then he gets the injection maybe at maybe 12:30 then the high comes on and then it's very stable like you feel great this is a pure uh product from the merc company this is not some herin from the street and morel knows exactly how what dosage you want right now so You feel at the top of your game. You You don't feel you're not intoxicated. I mean, you are, but it makes you clear, you know. So, the mind is clear. The mind's totally clear. Your body feels fantastic. You know exactly your points. You know exactly how the others because the others are just mortals, you know, because they're sober. They just sit there and they just they haven't slept very well or they have problems with the with them, you know, and you're you're way above them. What do we know about general psychological effects of it? So, does it boost your confidence? Does it boost aggressiveness? What effect did it have on his vision of the world? It makes you feel extremely confident. You have a lot of energy, but it's not too much. Like, let's say you take cocaine or methamphetamine. You're like, that's why Hitler was never a meth guy. That's also why I think this video is fake. He was he didn't take math. I mean, I I I studied Morel's uh the things he gave them. He he gave a lot of things and only twice was meth. So that was that's not a lot for Hitler. Like twice. I read that the multivitamin had some um vetamine and maybe meth a little bit or no multi. I mean mutin vita mutin mutin. I mean vita mutin is interesting because it was a little bar of a sweet that was lying next to his food. So he would, you know, eat and then at the end he would take this. It was nice tasting. It had some sugar in it. And I read through all of the, you know, ingredients of the there were different types and never, there's never methamphetamine in it. Oh, there isn't. No, there was an SS doctor Shank and he claimed that Morel made special vita multine in his lab with meth in it, but I think he just made that up. Okay. There's there's there was never any proof of that. I mean, that's a really important like line to draw. The the army, the Nazi army at scale, not everybody, but some fraction, especially during the French campaign, used meth, right? And then there's Hitler, which used a lot of drugs, but meth was not one of them really. No, meth for him was just for the foot soldiers, you know? I mean, he didn't even talk about meth. This is not nothing that concerned him, you know. This is something that makes you function. Maybe he signed I mean it went over his desk the stimulant decree, but I don't know if he really read it or understood it. I mean he probably knew PV team because everyone knew it and maybe you know they discussed it but they would probably also not I mean there's there's a point when there's a conflict about methamphetamine in the army. This is when the secretary of health of the German government, the Nazi government, uh, Conti, he starts writing to the army and he says, "You must stop this. This is against Nazi ideology." But the army basically doesn't listen to him and keeps on using meth all the way to the end. So maybe that guy Conti maybe he discussed this with Hitler, but also Hitler never, you know, if Hitler would have said we stopped the methamphetamine, it probably would have stopped. But Ki saying that wasn't wasn't enough. I don't think Hitler was really into meth. It was not his thing. He was more into the opioids, into these weird hormonal things. Like those things were especially the opioids were interesting to him because you can function on opioids for a long time if you have a proper product and a doctor that gives you the injections. I mean, Guring was high was addicted to morphine. from 1923 until when the Americans captured him in 45 that's 22 years he was functioning on morphine and when they captured him he had I write about it in blitz like the amount of morphine capsules he had on him so what the Americans did was first to take away all the morphine from him and then he went through withdrawal in American you know incarceration and he lost you know a lot of pounds and he became like a more of a haggard uh Guring which was then in Nuremberg you know this haggard kind of guy defending what he did and so um Hitler was really an opioid guy while the army was really messed up that's that's how you could sum it up briefly he did try cocaine why didn't he get into cocaine he started cocaine after the bomb attack by Stalenburg on July 20th 1944 when this bomb went off which actually killed a few people in the room. This was during a military briefing. Stolenberg put a bag with explosives under the table and the table actually saved Hitler's life because it was a good German quality oak table. So the table was so stable that the bomb explosion kind of just kind of blew up the table. But Hitler behind the table was protected by this table. Yeah, this is the closest assassination attempt probably. I mean it's very weird that it didn't succeed because he had the bomb. He put it next to Hitler. He took out some of the explosives before he went into the room. This is one of the big mysteries. Why did Stalenburg take out some of the explosives? There's no explanation for it. But Hitler survived. But he was quite injured, which Nazi propaganda always denied. Like they always said the hit the the fuel was miraculously unharmed. But he was quite harmed. There were like over 100 splinters from the wood everywhere. His eard drums were blown which was you know it's quite an injury I guess you know he was bleeding internally and he was shell shocked basically and then a new doctor comes in his name is gezing because morel was not a in Germany we have well I guess it's worldwide it's the ear nose and throat specialist right so an ear nose and throat specialist from the German army called Dr. Gizing. He was ordered to come into headquarters after the bomb attack to treat Hitler's blown ear uh drums. And geezing gave Hitler cocaine because cocaine at the time was being was you know it was used. It was not schedule one. you know, it was it had the effect that it would numb the pain and you could you could like use it uh you would like put it on a certain place where you had the pain and then it would numb that area. But Hitler was like he he'd never taken cocaine before, but he got very interested in it. And Gizing writes a meticulous report about his experiences with Hitler alone. That report is is really fun to read. It's about a 15page report that he did for uh American military after the war when he was being interrogated by American military. He like described what happened with Hitler and him and he realized that Hitler really liked the cocaine and then he like started saying now give it in the nose and then it was a a liquid that he could apply like with a dab like into the nose like it was cocaine powder but he could like liquefied. Yeah. Interesting. liquified cocaine and Hitler loved it and he's just saying things like finally I can think clear again and it he had this cocaine rush which is a rush of uh superiority. It's a it's a dangerous drug because you think you know more than the other. It's not very humble drug, you know, it it it it just increases the ego and um that actually he liked that because that was, you know, after the bomb attack he he thought everyone is a traitor like he didn't feel safe anymore in his own bunker, you know, and he was like Nazis and the right-wing is always paranoid like who's the enemy? Like they're behind us, like they're stabbing us in the back. So Hitler was this type of person. So the cocaine kind of stabilized him and Gizing realized that this guy is like a drug guy. Like he didn't know. He like came in, he saw the fuel for the first time. He's like he was like in awe and like a drug wreck was approaching him and as soon as he had some cocaine in his system because this was summer 44. He already had taken a lot of opioids and a lot of drugs. So he and a lot of these dubious hormonal concoctions which led to autoimmune diseases in Hitler, maybe even had Parkinson's. He was morale basically turned him into a physical wreck. That Gizing also writes about this like he's like trembling before he goes into the room for the first time where the fur is and then like old guy like in a blue kind of pajama is kind of coming up to him and kind of shaking his hand. That's the fur, you know, and he's like totally shocked because he's like, you know, the the destiny of the German nation, the whole Europe, everything is like hangs on the sky, you know. And then whenever he takes cocaine, he's a little bit better. Like, but the cocaine had the problem that Gizing was more of a at least later in his uh discussions with the US military, he described himself as a conscientious guy. And he's like, I became like I had kind of problems giving Hitler more cocaine. And yeah, I mean, and I'm sure Hitler could have sensed that. And then Morel started disliking Gizing because Hitler spent more time now with Gizing than with him. And there was this the what I call the doctor's war ensued because Gizing then tried to get rid of Morel because Gizing could suddenly see that Hitler was receiving a lot of drugs and he was taking cocaine with Gizing. Gizing left the room. Then Morel would come in and give him uh ooodile, the opioid introvenously, which is the speedball effect. Cocaine and an opioid, you know, at the same time. That's like that creates a really crazy high, but that's a high that's not stable anymore. You know, that's a that's a high that you that's like at at the end of your drug career, you take the speedball. So speedball is a combination of a stimulant and a depressant. Cocaine depressants. Yeah. So, combining cocaine and heroin, huh? Wow. I've never had a speedball, but I think it's like the most hardcore drug experience you can have, you know, and Hitler had this in the summer of 1944 for quite some time. And then the the doctors really fought for an influence over Hitler. And Gizing teamed up with Himla, head of the SS, and basically said to Himla, this Morel guy, and Himla was already suspicious of Morel, obviously, because Morel is spending so much time with Hitler. There's no control. Like Himla was a control freak. What is he actually giving to the Fura? The Fur doesn't look good anymore. Mhm. So Gizing was trying to get Morel out. Maybe because he wanted Hitler to have a better health. Maybe he wanted to have the job himself. He certainly tried to get rid of Morel and it came to like the high high noon situation like the duel between the two doctors. It's by the way why I think it's completely insane that Hollywood hasn't bought the rights yet alone this doctor's war. You mean for the entire Blitz story? Yeah, of course. Yeah. Yeah. That's really I mean some of the greatest movie I mean like uh Fear and Alone in Las Vegas. You can do a drug movie on the Nazis. Uh, you know, one of my favorite movies probably Downfall, which is Hitler in the Bunker, which does I guess does Downfall have a drug? No, they missed they missed the drug angle because my book hadn't been out yet. They they don't they didn't know about it. That's why they be a different story. They can't really explain why Hitler became a physical wreck. There's no explanation for it except the drugs, the opioid addiction. You could explain it is a part of it that you're you're it's extremely stressful position he's in. Yeah. But don't become a physical wreck if the physical wreck aspect. Yeah. And there were two bedrooms in the bunker in Berlin. Two bedrooms. One of course for Hitler, the other one for Morel. No one else was sleeping in the bunker. I mean, you can you can see the importance of especially those last months of Morel in the bunker. and they didn't get that when they made the movie The Downfall. But it's still an interesting uh movie, but I can't take it seriously because they didn't see this. Um, has a drug component. Again, I don't think it has to be the main thing, but it has to be a part of it. A serious movie on Bliss would be really nice. It's not easy to do. No, there's something about drugs. If you do a movie on drugs that involve drugs that it makes it you can go too far into like Tarantino territory, right? Where it's more like which is also incredible and awesome, but it's a different thing. Well, he invents history and he's like very open about it like this is not what actually happened. I think a Blitz movie would have to stick to the facts and um I spoken with some directors, very good German directors, and it's just very hard to do, but but if you do it well, that's a legendary movie. Yeah, that would be incredible. Um what can you just speak high level from from what is it? You said 41 to 45. What were some behavioral changes or changes in decisionm that we can trace uh in Hitler that that could be attributed to drugs? Like how did they change him? Well, an interesting event is July 1943 in a villa in northern Italy where Hitler meets Mussolini. And Mussolini is basically fed up with the war and he wants Italy to leave the axis of evil. And Hitler is really pissed when he hears that. He knows that's what the meeting is all about. And Mussolini, I mean, the Italians invented that modern type of fascism. And they were all Italy was the role model for Nazi Germany. But by now Nazi Germany of course has been much more powerful but you know Italy is the most important ally and now Mussolini is like quitting in the middle of the war. I mean what is going on here? So Hitler becomes and Morel writes about this quite a lot. He's in a terrible mood. He really he doesn't want to go like he might lose his you know temper or whatever. He's not happy. And that's actually that's the day when he receives the odalai for the first time and he because he says to Morel I'm under such stress I'm not going to go he threatens like he calls off the whole thing like the plane's already waiting in in Ubaltzburg everything is ready and he says I'm not meeting this guy and then Morel gives him odal and you can see you know you know the the the time when he gets the ocodal and that's when he has this effect for the first time he's like I can do anything this is great I'm going to explain to Mussolini that he's not going to leave the war effort. And on the way to the plane, he says to Morel that this uh Ocodal is really helping him and he wants another shot and he receives another shot. So he has he has quite a lot of ocodal in him when he speaks to Mussolini and there's like uh the people who take who write the protocol of the meeting and also uh other people around. It's not like it's not just two people in the room. is like I don't know 15 or 20 people in the room and a lot of people talk about that meeting in their memoirs and um Mussolini is not able to say one word basically because Hitler is so high and so charged and he's like just telling the whole time how great this is you know what they're doing right now and of course there's not even a it's not possible that you're going to leave you know we are in this together from the you know he explains everything you know the whole thing for like two hours and Mussolini is just like it's like Uh then a a messenger comes in and says uh Rome has just been bombed. Uh he's like he knows it's he can't say anything and he stays you know. So that was very much influenced that meeting by his ocodal and that's probably because it was so successful in Hitler's eyes. What happened is why ocodal became a very attractive drug for him. And this happened this was the first time in July 1943. And then so he didn't take ocodal through the whole time you know he only started in July 43 he started with a with a regular opioid use. You can see that he takes it more and more regular now not every day but sometimes like there's a the September 1944 he takes oat every second day which like junky rhythm you take it then the next day you don't take it then you take it again. Why is that junky rhythm? You don't take it all the time because you need to I don't know relax or you don't there's like you take it maybe Saturday night you take it and the high lasts till Sunday morning and then Sunday when the high slowly wears off you sleep and then you wake up and you're hungry maybe you eat and then the next day Monday you're going to do it again. So that's that's this rhythm and it was uh more potent than uh what is it? Doine dantine is said to have the best effect the best in the ter in the sense of it's not about strength you know you just increase the dosage and you have a stronger effect but you can't increase it too much because then you're going to die you know that's also the problem with opioids if you take too much you're going to die because you just have a heart attack. Uh so but there's nuance differences that it's hard to convert into words I guess. Yeah, different different molecules have different effects. So, Orodal apparently had the best effect. That's why they had the oxycodone epidemic in America because people take this pill. I mean, thank God they're not injecting at all like Hitler did. They take a pill. So, it's not so dangerous as injecting, but apparently the effect is so pleasant of this ooodal of this uh of this particular type of opioid that it just is is more attractive maybe than dolantine. Is it possible to try to reverse engineer the effect of Hitler's drug use on the outcome of World War II? So, if he didn't use any drugs, would uh the Nazis be more successful or less successful? What do you think? I think it would be speculative to answer, but I can try. Uh but it's very uh the war is so complex. I mean, there's many different ways this war could have played out and ended, but I think it would always have ended with a German defeat. But I don't think it would have ended with a German defeat. Well, if you don't attack the Soviet Union, then of course you can win. But as soon as you attack the Soviet Union, that was as we talked about, I think the probability of success is low. But you know, I would put it like I don't know 10%. Again, extremely speculative, but yeah, if you do blitz Greek type of attack, very rapid, don't split the forces in operation Barbarosa. Go straight from Moscow. Don't invade Britain. don't declare war on the uh United States and really focus on gaining oil from the Middle East. So maybe take making the Africa campaign the central uh point uh in the in the very beginning so that you have the resources that are essential for the industrial capacity of Germany that's required to you know keep manufacturing and keep fueling the planes the tanks the the the the me the mechanized aspect of the army. So there there's a lot of paths to this. I mean, but I don't think I think it's probably fair to say that reasonable, thoughtful, calculated, disciplined uh leader would not have done any of the things Hitler did even in the beginning. I mean, it requires insanity. It requires hatred. It requires ideological self-capture where you tell yourself narratives that rapidly deviate from like ground truth from first principles of things and you just you're an insane person. You're an insane dictator that's drunk on power and it's impossible for you to make great military decisions at that point. Yeah. You would need like an impossible Hitler that is as crazy as he was but still wouldn't make any irrational mistakes. So that doesn't exist. Hitler can only be imagined or understood as this this this in a way as the the drugs Hitler without drugs is unthinkable for me and it it doesn't it makes it he was the drug guy it you cannot you cannot separate this um so Hitler was a self-destructive personality and national socialism is is a self-destructive movement that's why I said I think the Germans would have lost in any case you know except If there was this this perfect Hitler, which is theoretically impossible, theoretically impossible in the 20th century. I mean you you could think of Jenghis Khan or Alexander the Great type characters that would really internalize the sense of in the case of Hitler that the German people are like without the hatred without the ideology but with the murderous uh with the ability to dehumanize the rest of the world and see as the German people as uh the superior and so it's fair to do the Lebanon and all of that kind of Right. It's hard to It's just uh the reason you want to think about that kind of stuff is Hitler got to me at least close to capturing a very large part of the world and it's inc it's it's it's terrifying and uh sort of unbelievable that somebody could get close to that. I mean what you described as this feeling of superiority and conquering countries that was basically what the Vakar the high command that's what they were going for. Yeah. And they wanted to eliminate Hitler in the operation Valkyrie not because they thought he's an evil guy killing the Jews or you know they wanted to eliminate him because he was not this effective decision maker anymore that they needed to win the war or to end it in a different way. And um I spoke with uh Anthony Beaver once about um the attempt of British intelligence to assassinate Hitler. and he had seen some evidence that at a point in time they dropped those plans because they knew that drugged Hitler or malfunctioning Hitler, which he was after, you know, the summer of 1943, is better for Britain than, you know, killing Hitler and then having to deal with like some kind of, you know, maybe the army would have taken over the country and that would have been more uncomfortable for Great Britain And then having this having the continuation of the degenerating maniac. What what do we know about the very end? Hitler in the bunker, the the moments, the days, the weeks, the months leading up to the suicide, uh all those kinds of things. It's quite well documented because people at the time were keeping diaries and writing about it, writing, writing about their experiences. also Morel wrote quite a bit what happened in the bunker. Um, one thing that changed was that uh, Oodal was not available anymore. So the drug that Hitler actually had become physically addicted to was suddenly not available anymore. This had to do with the bombardment of the Merc company, the factory in December 1944. uh British uh bombers destroyed the production facilities and Morel there's a report of Morel the overweight person riding on a motorcycle through bombed out Berlin from pharmacy to pharmacy basically going into the pharmacy trying to score odal and he couldn't find it anymore it was nowhere to be found and that's when Hitler goes into withdrawal what I find surprising is that he didn't use another opioid because morphine was available all the way till the end. But he never kind of made that switch then like he doesn't also he didn't realize for a long time that he becomes physically dependent on a drug that he becomes a drug addict but this realization happens in the last uh weeks in the bunker cuz Goubbles he understood it and Goubbles wanted that bedroom the second bedroom so he said to Hitler uh do you understand what's going on that morel makes turns you into a drug addict and he does like and at one point he realized what Gerbus is saying is true because he felt the withdrawal. He was shaking and he felt like shit and and Mor is like giving him weird stuff in the end like one time he gives him harm which is an MAO inhibitor which is part of Iawasa actually uh because he still had that in his doctor's bag. It hadn't been used yet. So gives him that which also creates some kind of a weird high. But you know, Hitler at one point realizes really what's going on. This is late April, so very late in the game. And there's a few reports of what actually happens. Like some say that Morel has to kneel in front of him and that Hitler puts a gun on his head and says, "Uh, you've been making me addicted to opioids. Get the hell out of the bunker." For sure. He fires him that day. and Morz described as being in tears like leaving the bunker. He gets one of the last planes out of Berlin. Uh he has a research lab in the south of Bavaria close to the Bakhov and he makes like the one of the last or the last plane out of Berlin. He survives. Yeah. And he goes to this research lab and this is like May 2nd, 1945. He has like a little apartment in his research lab. His wife is still in Berlin. He's like all alone and he starts doing his taxes. And that kind of shows you that he was probably insane at that point, you know, just totally out of touch. Why would you do your tax? Maybe he was bored, you know? Maybe he's like he he didn't do his taxes for so long because he always had to treat Hitler and then he thinks like, "No, what am I going to do?" You know, I'm just going to do my t at least I'm going to do my taxes now. Very German thing to do. He's just a strange character. I mean, you tell this I would put that in the movie for sure. Him doing his taxes. That's how the movie ends. Well, then the Americans move into Bavaria, liberate Bavaria from national socialism, which was a great job they did there. And so I'm also thankful not only to the Red Army, but also to the American forces. Really uh very thankful that uh they because National Socialist was hard to beat. It was a beast, you know. It was hard to beat. Um, so they capture Morel and they interrogate him and he actually lives for another two years in American custody in Germany in a military prison. And after these two years, his health's really bad. He has heart problems and uh the Americans dump him in front of the Munich train station in a much too small kind of uniform jacket, like probably an American uniform. and he's like lying on the pavement in front of the train station and a halfJewish nurse kind of walks around there finds him and he says I'm like it's really like in a movie I'm m I was the personal physician of the fur she's like this is 1947 Germany's in ruins uh and she brings him to a hospital his wife comes from Berlin for the last time they meet in the hospital at Tanzi beautiful lake in Bavaria and then he dies so that was the end of Morel it. So, we know pretty much what happens in the end. Did somebody try to talk to Hitler about this? Like what about Ava Braun? Has anybody close to him try to talk about well did well that at the very end but you would imagine maybe the the generals or friends or in inner circle I mean that the reason I mentioned Ava is because you know like personal and people close to him. There is a certain tension between Eva Brown and Morel and I could very well imagine that she talked with Hitler about it but there's no record so I don't know exactly but they had a very intimate relationship. So Eva Brown was not just the the dumb blonde that plays no role. They actually spoke every day and when Hitler was in the military headquarters he would phone her every night at 1000 p.m. They would have a a long phone conversation. So they had a very deep relationship and I'm pretty sure she didn't really like Mor because you know for the obvious reasons he was closer to Hitler than herself and you know if you you know count one plus one it's two you know but she could have maybe not liked him because she might have cared for Hitler and you can see the effects of drugs on humans that you care for. She also had a good relationship with him at times because he was often at the back. the back of was like the the the what is it called? Melago. Oh, the Mara Lago. Yeah. Yeah, that's that was kind of what it was. And it was actually it became an official headquarter for Hitler. So, he would actually make decisions from there. It was not just a vacation place. And Morel was often there. And Ivapan was always there. That was her place. She was running that that place. She was like the woman of that place. And Hitler was often of course in the field in the headquarters, but he came as much as he could to the bakov because it's quite beautiful. I went up there. It's quite interesting. Um and she also had a good relationship with Morel. And there's like a paper that I found where um like they were very intimate and very close. Like there's a paper of Morel where she comes to him in the morning and she's she has like scratch marks. So apparently they had violent sex. So Morel is like al also kind of witness to that that that I found in Washington DC in the national Hitler and AA had violent sex. What do we know about Hitler's sex life? It's like not known, right? I found it interesting that Morel describes these scratch marks. I mean it's it's interesting. So they they they had some kind of kinky sex. Maybe maybe they also had normal sex and sometimes it was kinky or maybe Hitler was aggressive and bad. But it doesn't really matter. It's just what happened between Ava and him. Yeah. I don't think that affected military operations of the drug use did his sex if he would have had sex with like a lot of people maybe with his generals. Maybe then, you know, it would be worth writing about it because maybe he dominated these generals in bed or something, but he was just having sex with Ava and I don't think that's historically relevant. It might be interesting for the movie, but um also I don't want to see Hitler having sex. I don't think anyone wants to see Hitler having Eva Brown is an interesting character because she had more of a say than historians for a long time attributed to her than a biography was written on her by a female German historian. And that's a very good biography. It really shows that she had, you know, quite a lot to say in this relationship. She was not the dumb blonde that just she was quite, you know, opinionated and and active. So, it's it's and she was she was filming him a lot like she had she was always filming in the back hoof. You can go online and look at the Ava Brown clips and you will see Hitler in color at the back of how he's like meeting children, petting their head and you know this is she was contributing to the myth of this private the private man the good private man. So Eva Bon is is an interesting character for sure. But I found one note that she in the beginning when Morel started with his drugs said to Morel that she wants the same drugs, the same medications, not drugs, the same medications as Hitler. So she would be on one the same wavelengths with him. She wanted to be she didn't want to lose this world. But I mean Hitler became such a drug polytoxiccomomanic user that of course Ava couldn't keep up with that. They weren't a drug couple. I don't I didn't see any evidence for that. That they would like take all the crazy drugs together and then have crazy sex or something like that. That's not that's not how it was. So, I think she was sympathetic to Morel in the beginning and then changed her opinion and I'm pretty sure she talked with Hitler about it, but there's no records about their private conversations. Let's talk about another perspective on this whole story uh that you document in your book, The Bohemians. The subtitle is the lovers who led Germany's resistance against the Nazis. So this is the story of the people who resisted from within Germany. Right. Um can you can you tell their story and in particular it's told through the story of the uh two key figures in the movement who happen to also be in love. Well the main guy is Har Schulz Boen. He uh he caught my attention when I was doing research in a in an archive in Munich researching drugs in the Luftwafer. Guring's Luftwafer Guring being the morphinist. I mean the Luftwava was a drug uh a very promiscuous place like a lot of people in the Luftwaf are high al so more for entertainment versus the practical aspect of so it's less about like the meth optimizing the human performance and more about just exploring like the number three of the Luftwafer and UDE he committed suicide in the fall of 1941 uh and he had had seven pervertin tablets for breakfast. Okay, so he was really high on math. He really enjoy but he loved to take math and then drink. Alcohol was a big thing in the Luftwafa. Um you can drink a lot more when you're on methamphetamine. Um and I found this letter and it was really a coincidence while I was looking through like the drug stuff. I was searching for you know drugs and I found this letter by Har Schulzen who had nothing to do with drugs but still I found this letter. I don't know why I can't I can't remember how exactly it happened that I was suddenly reading this letter and it was the last letter that he wrote in his life. He wrote it to his father and he said that everything I have done I'm totally fine with it and I know it's very hard for you and I really am mostly sad for you and mother and my brother uh that you have to go through this and I'm very sorry but I'm fine with it and I have a clean conscience. I did what I could to stop this madness. I'm like, what? Who is this guy? You know, and I Googled him and there were not so many hits on him, but I read a little bit and he actually had formed together with his wife Libertas, which means freedom. Good name. He had formed the largest resistance network against the Nazis that ever existed. uh over a hundred people in Berlin that were all connected and they were they were like from all flights of life like there were some were artists, other were workers, some were leftists, other were patriots. uh how always believed that people could come to an agreement like it's possible to actually talk about things and he was a true democrat maybe you could say or a true I don't know libertarian or you know he was a he had to learn a hard lesson that with Nazis you cannot argue because they they are always right they're not they they It it it doesn't work. At least it didn't work during the Third Reich. Like he could he had he had published a newspaper during the Vhimma Republic called Gna which means opponent. And in the Gna opponents could all write like who would be on the streets opponents they could all write in the in the opponent. And so it was a you read all kinds of texts and and and and opinions. And he thought when Hitler took over power in 33 that he could continue to publish the opponent because the opponent he he thought even you know in a in a Nazileled Germany you know this keeps the discourse you have to have a discourse you have we have to discuss we have to disagree you know uh and then in in April 1933 2 months after Hitler took power they had a meeting uh with the with the editorial staff and they discussed the new issue and then there was a knock on the door and it was the SS and They uh beat up everybody and they destroyed the typewriters and the printing press that they had in the office in Berlin. And they took Haru and his best friend uh who was half Jewish to one of these early concentration camps and they tortured both of them and uh the the Jew was killed. He didn't make it. Henry Alanga and Haro at that moment he realized who he's against, you know, that he has to he decided to become to to fight this system. And the way he fought the system was uh later during the 60s uh we also had a 60s kind of cultural and political changes in Germany and then our our 60s uh they they called it march through the institutions that is a way to infiltrate the system like to become part of the system and then you know change the system from within. So you don't leave the country, you stay, you go into the institutions, you march through the institutions. So Haro decided uh to go into the Luftvafa and he was working in the air force Luftwafa ministry, a huge building still intact uh today in Berlin, Wilhim Strasa. Quite an interesting building that was like the power center of the Luftwafer, like one of the most important structures in the whole Nazi uh regime. and he was working there and he worked his way up and uh he received quite a lot of information for example when Germany for the first time became militarily active again this was in 1936 when the Germans supported the fascists in Spain in the Spanish civil war this was a clanderstein operation the Luftwafa did this uh and they like German soldiers went to Spain like in plain cloth like to like posing as vacation ers, but then they, you know, were actually soldiers and supporting Franco's, you know, were a part of Franco's victory later on. And Haro had this information and he passed he tried to pass this on to the BBC. He failed passing it on. Well, he he met a BBC journalist during the Olympic Games in in in Berlin and told him about this and the BBC guy was too afraid to make this public and he kind of buried that information. Um so Har is a it's it's just a very interesting character and he was in love with Libertas and Libertas with him. Haro came from like a bourgeoa family very educated. His great grand uncle was frontier pits who built up the marine the navy for the Kaiser. So he came from this like influential German family but they were all patriots. They were not Nazis. They were democrats, patriots and militarists I guess you could say or like you know very straight laced also in a way. Uh and and Liatas she came from a castle north of Berlin. She was this like bohemian like aristocratic bohemian type very good-looking always playing music and they fell in love. They met on the van on boats. Uh they were both on a on how was rowing and she was on a sailboat of a guy that How also knew. So he was rowing and he saw the his friend on the sailboat and he looked at Libertas, she looked at him and they were in love in 1934 and the the other guy the friend of Haro he left his sailboat because he realized I'm like the the the fifth wheel on the car like not really needed right like how do you say that in sailboat terms I don't know the third third sail it's not needed you know but what happened at night how didn't sleep with libertas for her that is very unusual because everyone wanted to sleep with her but how like he wanted to keep his clothes on. It was a very warm night and I researched this quite thoroughly like I know exactly the temperature and so also the Bohemians when you read the Bohemians you really experience the life of these people what like what they experience but everything is nothing is invented uh which is very tricky to do. Uh so what happens that night like Libertas wants to take off his clothes and he doesn't want to take them off because why? From the torture in April 1933 he has quite a lot of scars. They even burned swastikas into his thighs like not burned sorry they uh with knives the SS. So he doesn't want to show that to her. He just and he hadn't had a girlfriend for a while. Like he can't open up emotionally because he's fighting the Nazis. It's very secret. Like no one knows about this that he's long-term planning his life to fight the system that he hates so much because they killed his best friend in front of his eyes. Um but at one point Libertas does, you know, take off his clothes and she sees this and she's like naive. She's even a member of the Nazi party, but she's not a very active party member. She's just, you know, she works for MGM actually in Berlin, Mar Hollywood film studio office in Berlin. Germany was one of the biggest movie markets and she was the press girl. Um, she did the campaigns for the big uh Hollywood movies uh in Germany. So, just a regular German girl. Well, she wasn't regular. She was from a very high family. Um, actually her grandfather had been in a relationship with a German emperor, which is a side story that I found out when I research re researched the Bohemians. Uh, the German emperor apparently was uh, bisexual uh, and was going to that castle and they had homosexual kind of meetings there with Libertas's grandfather. So, she came from a very unusual family. Uh but what I mean actually in a usual German girl, what I mean by that is it it's not obvious that a person like that would be would hold a crucial role in the resistance against the Nazis. Not at all. That was always a problem because for her it was weird that someone was against the system. But how told how was totally convinced that fascism is wrong and that he has to fight it. and more and more libertists was convinced and then more friends uh kind of came into the group and the way how organized this resistance group was through parties like they were like a power couple of Berlin and they had a a great loft apartment. They moved together to a to a loft apartment on also uh side street from Kudam, a huge uh room and there they had parties every second Thursday night and they would invite friends and then once they trusted someone personally then they would spill the beans and say this is actually not just a party but they would like test it that like at the party they would say something critical of the regime and you immediately you know either the person jumps on it responds or like you know goes somewhere else gets a drink at the bar you know not not into it. So that was the way of recruiting people and that was such an efficient way that the Gestapo was not able to understand this group for a long time not even recognize that there is a group because Gestapo was very good in infiltrating for example communist resistance groups because you just had to go in as a Gestapo guy and be a communist. Mhm. just say the right words and they would at one point, you know, take you. But with Haro and Libertas, it wasn't so easy. You know, they would they would sniff you out, you know. These parties were what? Like intellectuals like uh like artists and that kind of stuff. Yeah. Yeah. They had music, they would dance, they would sleep with each other. They also Oh, sex stuff, too. Well, they had, and this is again kind of a parallel to the 60s, they had the idea that if you're against fascism, if you're for freedom of free, the whole thing. Yeah. They were they had free love, but it wasn't a dogma. Like there were also there was a a doctor, a female doctor there. She was quite square, I guess you would say, and she was like against this. And she said, "This is too complicated. We have we are resistance group. like what if like there's jealousy and what like that this could compromise operations and it did sometimes. So that's why the behemis are very interesting subject because sometimes it just doesn't work in a way it works that love really bonds them together but also especially Libertas and how they have a terrible marriage sometimes like they really fight because Libertas is not so much intellectually convinced she's she she's more resistance fighter from the heart like she feels that the Nazis are not good but how is more like the analytical guy so they have a lot of friction also and it's it's a it's a fascinating story and they came quite far. I mean they made there was a point in time when Harold had militarily relevant information through his position at the Luftvafa ministry and he passed that on to allies to Western allies and to the Soviet Union. So he went a step further than just being like a resistance guy. He became you could say a trader or he would give information to the Soviets. Yeah, he would because he said as part of the resistance. Yeah, they can beat Germany. But that was also discussed like in the groups. Very interesting to see like some say we can't do this because Soviet Union is also totalitarian regime. But then how says yeah but they will they are going to beat Hitler like we like. So it's the Bohemian is a very interesting topic. What lessons do you learn from these folks maybe about why so few resisted Hitler with in Germany? I mean it was extremely dangerous is purely the danger is it also people believed it's hard to uh take yourself like be an independent thinker and take yourself outside the propaganda because they're also swimming in propaganda. I mean the chances of succeeding are quite small because the system was extremely strong and if you'd made a joke about Hitler and the wrong person heard it like in a restaurant and would rat on you, you would land in a concentration camp. So people were very very careful also at parties with like how on libertas and she was singing and they were drinking and dancing and then suddenly the political discussion started. That's, you know, a you have to have guts to then actually not leave the party but to stay because they were risking their lives basically as soon as they would be found out they would be dead and people don't want to die when they're like in their mid20s. They were all they were they were pretty young and and also libertas she would often say like we can't win you know it's why are we risking our lives for like for like what you know so one time they did a um clay settleioet like they produced because one guy had access to a printing press and they produced leaf like small papers that had glue on one side and the paper said um what the Nazis did uh they they set up a huge um exhibition hall which was called the Soviet Paradise and this exhibition hall was in the center of Berlin. I'd never heard about this before. I found this when I researched the Bohemians and it was the most popular exhibition during the whole of the of the war. Like 2 million people 2 million Germans saw this. They went into this uh exhibition and they saw how horrible the Soviet Union is, how horrible communism is to people. So, it was a propaganda show and the group uh decided to uh make these leaflets which didn't say the Soviet paradise, but it said the Nazi paradise, torture, SS torture, hunger, war, how long will it last? and they glued over a thousand of these stickers everywhere in Berlin uh in the in May 1942 at night and they organized it in a way that they always two a men and a woman would go out and they had like the stickers with them and then they would pretend to kiss and would like lean on a wall and then while they were kissing one would like put the put the sticker on then they would move on in the dark. So in the morning of that May 1942, tens of thousands of Berliners saw that the the city was like saw these things. So is does it make a difference? It made one on that day. You know, it was a very dangerous thing to do and no one was no one got caught and in the morning a lot of people saw that there is actually resistance that there are people who do something against it. So I think they did something. Yeah. I was reading about protests in recent human history and then most of them many of them don't uh have an effect until they do. It's like this threshold effect. It's very hard to know. It's very hard to know because it's it's it's a match that lights a fire and sometimes a spark that takes takes a little bit of time to propagate through the whispers. What happens is the people whispering. It's the whisper network of people talking. And sometimes it just takes that one sticker to begin the whispers and then few months later the regime is overthrown. It's funny. It's hard to but it's hard to sort of trace back what was effective, what was not. I mean, how was convinced that the system would lose. So he thought that maybe we can make a contribution that it's going faster now. Maybe we will be that spark. So yeah, unless I when I think that there's this possibility, I must try it. You know, that's that was his conviction. So he would put his life on the line for that possibility. How did they get caught? They were approached by the Soviet Union who wanted to recruit them as spies and they um didn't want to do that. How refused the Soviet intelligence Um, these are documents that were found in the early 90s. One of the sons of one of the members of that group of Har, good friend of Har, one of his sons went to Moscow to look at the files and he found kind of furious Soviet uh KGB kind of descriptions of this weird guy that doesn't want to be a proper Soviet spy and just says, "Yes, I'm going to give you information so you can hurt Hitler, but I'm not going to play your game. I'm not going to be one of you. Um, so still they did collaborate with the Soviet Union. They accepted a radio transmitter from the Soviet Union with with which they were supposed to send uh military information via radio to Moscow. And um they like struggle with the technology. the Russians give them like a an apparatus only with like a Russian instruction and it's like very difficult. They make mistakes. But what actually then gets them caught is the Russians at one point answer and send a message to them through the ether and in and that message is uh is coded but the Nazis intercept that message and are able to decode it. And in the message it gives the clear names of Haru and his address which is a total like intelligence blunder or maybe they just wanted to give them up and and and had their revenge because Stalin Stalin did crazy stuff like that, you know. So they suddenly know the Gestapo knows Harrosen the highranking officer and the Luftwafa ministry is giving military information uh to the Soviet Union and apparently like he's meeting with all kinds of friends. So they started the Gestapo started observing the group for months and the group at one point realizes that they've been basically found out and but then it's already too late. Then they capture quite a few of them and quite a few get uh trial military trial and receive the death penalty and are also being executed and Haro and Libertas are among them and also that last chapter of their lives is uh very well documented and it's actually ends with that letter you know that I found in the beginning that's the last thing that Harold does is write that letter to his father It's very interesting what happens with Libertas because she gets in custody. Uh the Gestapo uh asks one of their secretaries get the brighter to go in and pose as a friend to Libertas and Libertas actually falls for it and starts telling that secretary who pretends to be her friend and kind of helps her with certain things, tells her secrets and that kind of breaks the neck of the group. It's very it's very it's a very tragic ending. So while my books always contain as much humor as possible, that is not a funny story, but it's a very dramatic story. Even though they had a lot of humor, obviously I mean they they had parties to recruit people. What lessons can we learn from that about uh how to resist totalitarian regimes? Is there some deeper wisdom? I just think it's admirable to be brave and uh not uh not do things that you cannot really uh that you cannot really justify in front of your own conscience. Um I don't know if I would have been so brave. I don't even know obviously how my conscience would have been, but I'm probably more the fleeing type. Like a lot of writers would just leave Germany like Thomas man just left Germany and and lived in Pacific Palisades and then and then maybe Wright criticized but leave first and he criticized it from the outside and he was quite influential like he worked for the BBC that did like shows against the Nazis. So you can all maybe you can do more when you leave. Um, it's just you have it's like today, let's say we see something, we live in a system that suddenly changes and we're not happy with it anymore. Do we just go along and, you know, continue to to stare at our smartphone or do we do something against it? What do we do? I mean, every situation has very different, you know, conditions. You know, I think it's probably even harder now to to be in the resistance uh than it was back then. But I think it does at the end of the day boil down to facing yourself, looking yourself in the mirror that you're facing your conscious and then doing the the courageous thing. And I think that in itself that like it's the tree falling in the forest even if there's nobody there to hear it. Just the fact that that exists somehow through the karma channels of the world can materialize into progress into a a revolution against the oppression. Some something about that that human spirit still shining through can start a revolution. I mean it it is that spirit that actually made us human. It is that uh that neuroplastic neuroplasticity in our brain that uh we do not just repeat the conditioned uh sets that we we we ought to repeat, but that we actually dim down the command center in the brain and let other parts of the brain react. which is the psychedelic experience basically um that I think contributes to the to the evolution of our species and our species is certainly threatened by extinction. So I think uh if we are somehow care for the human race um then resistance becomes a very uh immediate and important topic you know because you can resist obviously your brain is yours uh you can resist in many ways you know by thinking just by thinking that's actually why I became a writer when I was a teenager I was very political I wanted to change the system I thought this is not good what's happening. This was in the cold war very cons I don't know if conservative is even the right word but you know Ronald Reagan was president so I thought my writing could change the brain waves of the readers basically and therefore have a uh a neuroplastic effect on the reader and just because that is what literature is literature and I started off as a as a as a novelist and that's really literature it's about what what do you see right now? How do you describe it? So you do it in ways that when you read it, when you read a good book, you feel good because suddenly you see different things. Your brain changes. You become more free. I think if you read good literature, that was always my form of of resistance. Communist resistance cells would probably say this is nothing, you know, but I think it is resistance and that's a little bit I think it resembles a little bit what this group did. Just living differently, not living, you know, that's why I said in the beginning Nazis are bad dancers because they I think they were good dancers at the parties, you know, and they were like um I think it's dancing can be a form of resistance. Yeah, but I also like the scale uh when you resist and through that resistance you have impact at scale and I do think writing is that. So if you can encapsulate your sort of the spirit of that resistance into writing that's that's beautiful and some of the greatest literature does exactly that right that is the aim of my next book. So is this still called stone sapiens? Yeah it's called stone sapiens. Great title. Great title. So what what is this lens that you're looking at at all of human history through? I discussed this with uh already mentioned Anthony Beaver uh who is like the master in historical non-fiction books. I said is it also possible to write a world history like about everything basically and he said yes it is possible it's not easy because you have to understand like a lot you know and obviously it will always be uh a selection it's clear you know um that's why I also think that the historical science is basically a fictional science I mean I have a forward the blitz forward basically tells that story don't take it with a grain of salt not only Blitz but every historical book because we weren't there, you know. That's what Johnny Depp said when the when the when the guy said, "So, you had like a mega pint of of red wine." He just said, "Were you there?" You know, and the guy wasn't there. So, um his historical sciences is a fiction. Yeah. But, you know, it's a certain type of fiction and it it's based on facts. So I'm not inventing anything in stone sapiens and I'm highly interested in the very early uh human history and there are not a lot of sources. So the the beginning of the book is more speculative than for example the Vietnam war chapter. In the Vietnam War chapter, I'm in Hanoi speaking to Vietkong uh generals asking them did they supply heroin to the to the GIS which would dimin which which diminished their fighting capability. That's you can research that and that's that's that's also a chapter. And by the way, the Vietnam War is not called the Vietnam War in Vietnam. It's called the American War. And also I was like sitting with these Vietkong generals in Hanoi just like a few weeks ago for researching for stone sapiens and I said so did the Vietkong bring uh heroin because it's there's there's never been evidence that it happened this way and they just looked at me and they said there's no Viet Kong. Like what are you talking about? You are the Vietkong. He said no this is an American propaganda term. We're the we were the North Vietnamese army. We never call ourselves the Vietkong. So the book is full of surprises obviously. Uh but the very early beginning of Stone Sapiens goes back to about 1.5 million years ago when Homo ereecto which who who also has become kind of famous by now. Homo ereectos it's like the first human that really gets shit done you know. They they get moving. Yeah. They move. Yeah. And why were they moving? Why were they moving? I mean then you can examine exactly where they originated which was I mean it's also disputed by now that it's the great rift valley that only the most fossils have been found there but that doesn't mean that they originated there. Maybe they originated in the uh central African rainforest where fossils disintegrate and only there in the rift valley we still find it. So uh but we know for sure that in the great rift valley uh there was a plant called cut which is like a a plant speed. So they were using that. It's still being used now in these countries in Ethiopia, Yemen around the horn of Africa. Cut is is is very normal to use. You chew the leaves and it gives you like it's like an amphetamine. It's a plant amphetamine basically. Uh so Homocto you can there's no proof that they actually used it but they were living in that area and the plant was there. So you can you can write about that. Yeah. So it's interesting because they they were able to do certain things like they shed the fur. They were the first ones to have to suddenly be naked and that has the effect that sweat glands are produced. Homotos could sweat it out basically when they when they when they were very hot. Mhm. what animals couldn't do because they had the fur. So an antelope can run faster as a homo erectus. But at a at like after 10 minutes the antelope has to like stop like what dogs do like they the tongue goes out. And humans didn't have to do that because they were sweating. So they could they developed the jog jogging mode basically. So they were jogging. They were not sprinting to get the animal. They were jogging it. And when the animal couldn't do it had to rest, then the humans would come and hunt it down. So homocttous was uh a very was evolutionary very good. And then later that one of the species coming out of Homoto is homo sapiens. And homo sapiens at one point there were only like about 1,500 people left. There were not a lot of homo sapiens. There was a point in time when there were quite a few of them. And the problem became inbreeding and there was a real danger of extinction. They were vulnerable you know they were not on top of the food chain yet. So they had to develop consciousness. Consciousness is what save what basically saved us from extinction. Without the human consciousness we wouldn't be here. You know that is what made us in the end then superior to to the other animals. So how did this happen? You can kind of trace how they moved. You can trace that they went through the central African rainforest and there's one plant there which elephants like and that's ibogga and iboga now is like the hot thing of the psychedelic renaissance. Iboga iboga iboga but it's also the oldest drug in the book. Basically they saw that elephants were eating ibogga the root and the leaves and suddenly we were like walking backwards and we behaving in an unusual way and then people were also using this and this was going on over like a 100,000 years in the rainforest. So you can you can write a story about that you know did was it maybe a boa of course you can't prove it you know maybe the frontal cortex grew by itself you know that's a really compelling story that's one of the great mysteries of how did the light turn on the the magic of human cognition and consciousness and the the the like sapiens by Harari which is a great book he also misses that like at when when he comes to those moments he writes like we don't understand how the first cognitive revolution and the second cognitive revolution actually happened. So I find it interesting to kind of look could have could it have been drugs like I include like everything he he leaves out I I I look at thoroughly he does a good explanation of interesting consequences you know our ability to imagine ideas and share them and uh you know collaborate on them and the imagination all that kind of stuff but the why the transitions of why did it happen there's he doesn't provide Right. I mean, there's some theories, but if a bogga is one of them, that's a compelling one. That's a really compelling one. Yeah. I mean, I'm still researching this book and writing it, I also want to go there because they still take ibogga in the in in in Gabon, for example. I also um uh interviewed one of the leading Ebola experts at Columbia University and um for Stone Sapiens and he described how ibogga works in the brain because that's and he's never taken iboga himself. Oh, interesting. He just relies on the data. He doesn't want to be personally influenced, but he he said he will take it at a certain point in time, but right now he's still just working on data just on with patience, you know. And what he found and also examining in the brain through brain scanners what actually happens and like classic psychedelics like LSD or psilocybin they dock at certain points they interact with certain receptors it's quite well understood how they work and he said eboga is completely different it's like and he also showed this with his hands because he's so mesmerized by his own findings like it kind of it's kind of everywhere at the same time in the brain like he say like a spa for the neurons basically ally like the it's it's it is his findings show and these are academic findings at Colombia that it's like as if he says he said to me as if I bogg our brain from a long time like it knows exactly like if you're addicted to something or if you're depressed a depression literally is a depression in the neuronal network. Depression is a thought loop for example or you know a system of thought loops that you that I'm not worthy I'm not whatever I can't do it I you always go back like this is it really kind of depresses your brain in a way and the boa sees this immediately and kind of takes the depression out and and and and makes your brain basically well again. Uh so that this is this is what he this is what his findings are. So it seem he says he's totally convinced this is like a he doesn't call it um a plant he calls it like a neuro technology of the 22nd century. So really seems to be uh in a different kind of category. That's why I really feel that stone sapiens must be written because there's so much uh that historians just shied away from. And um it all it all started when I was on the island of Cree, the biggest island of Greece. Cree for that's another like Harari moment. Uh on Creed was the first what is called high culture of Europe. The Minoan culture. You might have heard of the Minoan culture and no one can explain so far why there on on Creed suddenly in Europe they started making amazing structures and amazing art and how did it happen there that this like totally backwards place Creed became I mean backwards as any other place you know why did it happen there that such intricate objects were being made and that the the culture was uh was developing so intensely and I was kind of thinking about that. That's how the book started. I was with my uh kids on vacation in Creed and if you go to like Kosus or Festos the big archaeological sites or to the museum in Heavon you don't find an answer why did it happen there and then I found like an old book in a in an old bookshop and it described an excavation site at the sea and that it was like maybe a maritime uh place where like a harbor basically. And then while I was swimming there, I found on the sea floor the remnants of a wall that was a harbor wall that was out that was breaking the waves. And then I climbed over the fence because the arch archaeological site uh is still fenced off like it's not explained officially what it is. And the the walls in there are the biggest walls of the whole bronze era. And it was actually quite a big harbor. And then the next step is what did they trade? And they traded olive oil because Creed was the first place to produce olive oil. And then I also found and this is historically documented. Opium was made in Creed and the poppy flower was growing there and this was the harbor. Basically they became incredibly wealthy through olive oil and opium trade through that harbor. So you could say that the whole of the European high culture which you know goes from Minoa it goes to Athens. So it all started basically with with you know they were drug dealers in a way or they I mean it was the most potent medicine because it was the only medicine that numbs the pain uh for sure you know opium works and the minowans uh developed that so I mean it's kind of it's a bit similar to the blitz experience you the more I start I did research the more I found that there's this whole component component to human history that could be a really critical component. I mean I am really interested about the or there are certain leaps like the the origins of human civilization and then the origins of homo sapiens. Those are really big leaps. I mean there's some evidence you know like they came through the area where was but it's there's no academic proof. So I guess an academically trained historian couldn't really write about that. Um, but I can write about it. I can I can I can write about possibilities. Yeah. Sometime I mean that's what the the farther into history you go, the more it's about writing the possibilities. I mean it's also interesting. Why did the Nandals die out and what we can compare is the cave art and the cave art of the Nandals is much simpler than ours. Like if you really get into the cave art, I don't know if you've done that. No. No. It's quite fascinating. Picasso looked at some of the cave paintings in southern France and he said, "We didn't learn anything new." And if you study them, they're really good, but only the humans are good. The Neandatals, they were like worse artists than us. And um you can also see there's a fa very famous one that comes from Alier with like a shaman and around his body like mushrooms grow out of his body. So he was like a mushroom shaman. So mushrooms seem to have been like part at least in that area. And I mean that's the stoned ape theory that uh that that Terrence McKenna did. And I think I a lot of evidence kind of points to it that we were able to develop our consciousness in a better way than the Neanderals who did not have a drug culture. They were basically too sober for the future. They we assimilated them. They had no chance against our impetus of boldly going where no one has gone before. They were much more like happy with what they had. they were not progressing all the time like we have the transcendental kind of moment which uh which is you know the psychedelic exper is psychedelic experience I guess you could think of it without it but to imagine sapiens makes more sense to imagine sapiens as stone sapiens as as a species that was able to incorporate psychoactive components into his development. It it it makes a lot of sense. What about one of the great if you could think of it that way technologies that human have developed is religion. Religion of all different kinds. Do you think there's a connection between psychedelics and religion? The development of religion throughout different parts of the world. Well, I think Moses is quite interesting. Um, Moses was a traumatized man that had fled Egypt where he had killed a per killed a man who had been uh beating up a Hebrew. So Moses kind of took revenge and killed him. So he was running from the law and he was together with um in the Bible it says I think 66 people they were in the desert in the in the Sinai and they had been fasting for days and no alcohol. So it was kind of a psychedelic retreat basically. I mean this is being examined uh by Isra Israeli scholars and I think it's very interesting work like they examine in detail what does the Bible say and the Bible mentions in that passage where Moses has sees the burning bush and then gets the ten commandments in that Bible passage there's a lot of uh several times the acacia is mentioned and the acacia the the the Egyptian acacia grows right in the in in that Sinai uh area and it contains DMT. Um, so there's uh there there's this Israeli research that Moses was actually having a trip basically. He he was seeing he had he was hallucinating the burning bush was you know if you take LSD and you look at a bush in the heat you know it it it it will move you know it it might resemble like uh a burning and you you know experience. Then he went up the mountain which takes 3 hours while the other the others were staying down. And with a DMT type of experience, it's not that everyone in the group has the same experience. Similar to Ayawaska sometimes like one guy has like incredible experience while another person might not feel that much at all and Moses felt a lot and you do feel a lot when you you know when you are when you have something to work through and he had certainly something to work through the trauma of killing a man. So it's also no surprise that he receives one of the commandments you you should not kill, you know. So for him it's like extremely extremely important and uh what he receives on this on the mountain like God is like there's someone speaking to me and he understands that God is not that there's not many gods just one God like he has a revelation you know and it I think it when I when I read you know these examinations uh by these scholars I think it makes a lot of sense to to imagine that the Jewish religion comes from Moses trip and also if you look at the Jewish religion they are quite open to drugs. I don't know if that you that could be an unconscious reaction to that to that to that kind of trippy beginning like they have purim where it's like you're supposed to get intoxicated to get closer to God. Um they're not as straight laced as the Christians like they were just you know they just allow alcohol. It's like the blood of Christ. So also stone sapiens is a book about religion. Also the the the Islam and intoxication is also a very interesting topic because you have the Sufis who intoxicate themselves to get into ecstasy to to be closer to God and then you have like the conservative Islamist scholar Iben Tamia who uh defended Damascus against the Mongols by combining anti-drug rhetoric like they're bringing drugs to us and they are not good Muslims. So it's um it drugs and religion sometimes drugs kind of uh help religion to like are used in religious contexts but then you can also see that religions work as prohibitionist uh movements against drugs like the Christian church. Uh also the purity law for example it's very famous in Germany it's called the reinhes beer can only contain three things water hops and barley or something like that's that's the purity law and that was done by the church in 16th century and in Germany for a long time this was seen as like this is like a quality control like beer has to be pure only has these ingredients but it's actually a move by the church to weed out all the other ingredients that had been put in beer before like nightshade plants. Um so beer also witches were brewing crazy beer. You drink it and you have like visions and you dance around the fire. It's like and the church didn't like this. So the church said this is the beer now. And and especially the hops was the was the new ingredient for the beer. And this was so the purity laws is the first prohibitionist law in in in in in the middle ages in Europe. Another fascinating. Yeah. I I think as society becomes develops more and more it seems to resist certainly psychedelics seems to resist drugs. I don't know what that's about. One of the very fascinating turning points that I have been able to kind of uh pinpoint or at least I think this is what happened is uh when do the first kings come up they weren't kings for a very long time. The first king that I can identify was in the so-called Sumerian high culture was in Uruk was Gilgamesh. And they wrote the Gilgamesh epic about, you know, the great king. But that was uh four or 5,000 years ago, something like that. But what happened in the thousands of years before, there's no source that there were rulers. It seems like humans were quite good in organizing themselves without kings before these first kings came. And I mean thousands of years from the end of the ice age until the Sumerian high culture there were no kings. So people were quite able to organize their communities. There was for example katalyuk in eastern Turkey that was working for like 2,000 years without any hierarchies. I think that is that is quite interesting. And then why do suddenly the hierarchy start and what makes the hierarchy stronger? And again I'm still researching this but in Sumeriia we can see that it's the beer that destroys the hierarchy free society because they sudden they are able I mean beer is quite old. The first beer was made in Gbecite the famous first kind of structure of mankind. I also write about that because it's very interesting small detour. What is gbeck? No one knows. How did they make it? No one knows. But they made it. But why did they make it? I think they made it because they were creating a meeting place. And why was that so important? There were not so many humans at the time. There were like 1 to 4 million. Those are the estimates on the whole planet. And they were usually living in small communities of like a 100 people up to 500, not more. But in so the problem then is again inbreeding. Inbreeding means it's a degeneration. So it's it's it's a problem. We we are genetically not so diverse actually as humans. So and but golete people were meeting from different areas having sex with people they usually wouldn't see creating healthy children and golete was working for 1,600 years. And I think it was like an evolutionary kind of machine like without without that idea we're going to create like a fucking place or party place, you know, it was a party basically. They were eating very well. They found a lot of bones, but no one lived there. They just came together there for parties. And then after 800 years, they start making beer there. And then the situation slightly changes. Uh they found these beer uh these places where they made beer. you can still find the chemicals and kind of it's it's sure that they made beer there and then once they make beer they create different stone circles and then somehow it changes and uh we we can see clearly how it changes in the Sumerian high culture when beer beer then becomes a business beer become is being done by the by the priests by the ruling class or ruling class emerges like monasteries often brew beer. And that was also the case uh in um uh in in the Sumerian high culture, they make beer. They they they labeled the beer like the the temple that would make the beer. The beer would be attributed to that temple. It would be sold. So that temple kind of rises in status, makes money. So that's how hierarchies started up. So the hierarchy which is the big problem right now that we have these hierarchies that we have these kings everywhere that kind of steal our money uh or at least make it very difficult for us as humans to organize on an egalitarian planetary scale which is our only chance for survival if we at one point overcome the hierarchies overcome the nation states and create a planetary probably AI assisted open-source AI assisted planetary society and everyone has the same political rights. There's no more borders. There's a planetary minimum income. So, no one is starving. Everyone has at least what everyone needs, which is totally possible. It's just a it's just a problem of organizing and of breaking the resistance of those who don't like that. And there's a lot of resistance obviously. I mean, I'm talking about what's happening on the planet in 50 years, not what's going to happen tomorrow. But that is where we slowly are moving towards. And you can see that this actually comes from you know a a time when we were able to organize ourselves without kings. We don't we don't need kings. Kings always say if you don't have me then someone else some other guy will come and but you know it's it's it's this that's why I I mean that's why I'm not you know if a nation state makes war against another nation state I'm not taking a position and saying this country is like better. Basically the the both nation states are doing war and who has to suffer is us you know is stone sapiens is the human species. Speaking of which I have to ask you so I I've done psilocybin a bunch and I've done IA but have never done LSD acid and you have quite a bit. So maybe the big general question is what's LSD like in the space of psychedelics which funny enough we haven't really spoken a lot about psychedelics except in the context of stoned sapiens. What's LSD like? Well, this is probably the third book that uh we want to talk about is is tripped because tripped is an examination of the history of LSD. And that sounds maybe less interesting than it actually is. It's it's I mean I I find it fascinating. I had tried LSD. I it was given to me by my girlfriend at the time Ana in lower Manhattan on a Saturday night 1993. So I was like 23. And she said, "Let's take LSD." And I had never really taken any drug. Like I maybe smoked a bit of weed, but um I didn't know what a strong drug is. And she gave me this paper and um I took it and we walked around in the East Village, pre-gentrified East Village. It's pretty cool actually. And it didn't work for like 1 hour. I felt nothing. And then I went into the toilet. I had a falafel or something. I think I went into the toilet and there was a mirror like I was peeing and then there was this mirror and but the walls had like lines like they were painted in line suddenly these lines were started to like vibrate and that's then the trip started and it was such an impowerful experience uh that I thought I would go insane like it was the worst trip I've ever had like it was because so strong I was toally scared. I didn't know what it was. I suddenly I I walked I I I said I said to my girlfriend, "It's it's working." And she said, "Yes, it's working. I feel it also." And I went into Noel Motel, which was my favorite bar, just to be in a familiar environment. It's not a good idea on your first very strong LSD trip to be out in lower Manhattan on a Saturday night. But I also didn't know this, you know. So, I was in the bar and I saw my friend Dora Espinosa from Peru. She was quite a a small woman like she was only like uh I don't know the American system like maybe 1 m 50. So she was quite short. Short is the right word. But on LSD she was like this. So I saw her down there like and I said Dora do I look normal because you look very small. Yeah. And Dora's like no you look fine. I'm like okay I I got to get out of here. And then we walked up to Second Avenue and we saw like a bunch of Puerto Rican kids killing one of their it was like a gang kind of it was more of a druggy kind of I mean Manhattan back then was kind of dangerous in the East Village and one of they killed one of them on the hood of the car in front of our eyes. We saw it and I said, "Do you see this?" Like my god. And then the and then they resurrected him like they gave him mouth to mouth and the guy was fine again and we walked past and we we were not sure anymore what what we were seeing. And this was this was a very strong hallucination. And then we saw a full-blown racial riot on Second Avenue. Like people were smashing in uh taxi windows pulling the drivers out like getting like it was like a GTA Grand Theft Auto. Yeah. Right. It was like that. And uh so most of this is basically hallucinating I think. So yeah and I have t but it felt real. It felt totally real and uh so I was happy when this trip was over because I thought I have gone insane basically. I thought like there was a switch in my brain that had been like something chem like I have I have now in chemical imbalance in my brain. I'm going to be crazy for the rest of my life. I thought that but after like 10 hours it suddenly got the effects wore off and I became normal again and I thought that was quite fascinating. So in hindsight I thought it was a great experience even though it was quite scary but it also had moments of incredible perceptions like I could see that the atoms are not you know rigid obviously everything is moving in our universe everything there's nothing fixed you know so I could see that that that everything was basically alive and that my previous perceptions how the world is It's just my conditioned perception and that the word was very different and you know just how you look at it. It looks different and so it was freeing in a way. Yeah, totally freeing. Also, it was much stronger than all the LSD I've taken since and I've taken high dosages. So, I'm not even sure if that was LSD. Like there's also other com compounds that are quite rare like DOM or whatever. Maybe it was something else. But then I also spoke to um uh LSD experts by now also for the book tripped and it can happen that your first trip is much stronger than all the other trips because your brain is kind of reacts very strongly to it because what happens in the brain is basically that the default mode network receives less energy and other parts of the brain there think more communicate better. So if this happens for the first time like your brain maybe is totally surprised by this like firework that's going on and then creates like hallucinations to somehow make sense of it like there's a lot of things firing and then so you see things that maybe are not there but that's not usual on an LSD trip like you don't have I've never had such hallucinations afterwards again you know what's the usual experience uh on LSD it really depends on the dosage if you micro dose uh it's just like drinking an espresso that lasts maybe for 2 three hours in a very pleasant way. So you're just slightly buzzed. Is it visual artifacts like no color? Then you would take like more maybe if you take 50 micrograms you start the colors become more intense. But if you take a micro dose of 10 micrograms nothing happens. The trip starts with about 100 micrograms and then you could see maybe it would be like I took I I took a swimming trip in Thailand uh in January and I took about 200 micrograms which is quite a lot. I just because it was so beautiful on this island and it was kind of will it be more beautiful if I'm on LSD now and of course every LSD trip also tells you about your life like some things you didn't understand suddenly you see like oh it's like this like you it's very good for you know reflecting on your life but it's also a lot of fun so I swam for like 3 hours through the ocean which is something you usually don't do you know I like swimming but after like 10 minutes or 20 minutes I go out but I was swimming and swimming and uh so yeah for me on the psilocybin and IA there's a intensifification of beauty of the world around you whether that's nature whether that's people or whether that's your own memories of your past or maybe uh your imagination manifesting itself in different kinds of visuals uh you know on Iawaska I saw dragons of different kinds and they were just really beautiful. Um, and maybe I've never taken like a heroic dose of psilocybin, but it was always everything was just always so beautiful and I was just grateful to be alive and grateful to be in this world and get to appreciate in in this most intense way. There's something about like like you you said you could see the individual atoms like there's certain ways to deconstruct or maybe visualize or reinterpret revisualize the world that makes you like appreciate holy shit this is really awesome. This is really special. And that can only be done through the process of like showing you like a different version of it a little bit. I mean when the Swiss pharmaceutical company Sandos developed LSD in 1943 like they were having the to solve the big question what is it good for? like Albert Hoffman a chemist he found it basically unvoluntarily and uh he reported to the CEO I had very strong reactions basically in the brain so they set up an uh intoxication room I found the documents about this intoxication room in the Novatis archive when I researched tripped uh because Novatist bought Sundos in the '9s so all the LSD stuff is in the Novatis archive and um this intoxic ation room. I always think it's kind of interesting to imagine this was 1943. There's a world war going on everywhere in Europe except in Switzerland which is a neutral country but Basel where the LSD was found is like a stone throw from the German border. So you actually hear the war going on and um so they created a nice room within the company and then all the employees voluntarily could go and take LSD. So they they were the first people to take LSD and they had no idea that there was at one point, you know, MK Ultra and you know they they were just trying out something that one of their guys had developed and I read through all these reports and they all had a great experience. They was like sitting in a nice chair and they looked outside the window and they were like reporting stuff like I just had to laugh the whole time. I felt so good. I realized about my life and or yeah it it kind of created in them the feeling like a heightened sens sensitivity and a feeling of that this is the life this is how life should feel kind of so the CEO Atra he was really trying to figure out what he could market it for because he thought maybe this is a gamecher in mental health because this was before anti-depressants before antiscychotics and it was in the middle of uh World War II which had created already millions of traumatized people. How do you treat these people? So they thought LSD could be really a big a big big big thing. And uh I mean I I came up I just told you when I first took LSD and I somehow was interested in LSD but I never thought I would write a book about it. I just used it once in a while when I wanted to understand something about my life or just enjoy a day in the in the ocean. Uh but um I read a study that micro doses of LSD at one point help against Alzheimer and my mother has Alzheimer's. So I discussed this with my father who takes care of my mother and this was an academic study. I I I discussed this also with an leading Alzheimer expert that I interviewed for Tripped and he's like, "Wow, this is amazing." Like because LSD interacts with the very same receptors, the five HT2A receptors in the brain that LSD interacts with those receptors and Alzheimer destroys those receptors. So LSD basically does the opposite that Alzheimer does. And uh I discussed this with my father and he said, "So why can't I buy LSD in the pharmacy if it's so good?" You know, he was a judge before. He actually put people in prison for drugs. So he said, "You better bring me the story." So I did the kind of a research loop. This is the book tripped. Yeah. Then I came back to him in the end with the true story of why LSD has been made illegal. And that is quite fascinating because the Swiss CEO he had learned biochemistry. This is very nerdy but I think it's quite interesting. He had learned biochemistry from the Jewish German god of biochemistry. Vilcheta Rishad Vilteta was Nobel Prize winner for chemistry and his work was he would extract the potent alkaloids from so-called poisonous plants and make you know the poison part taught us it's the dosage that makes the poison. You know if you take too much of a potent alkalide maybe it's a poison but if you if you extract a potent alkaloid maybe you can turn it into a medicine. So learned this from Viltetta and there was another guy that was learning from Vilta Rishad Coon. So it was Coon and Stol those were the two students of Viltetta and they stole left and made became the CEO of Sandos and developed the the pharmaceutical branch of Sandos and Coon became Hitler's leading uh biochemist and was responsible in finding a truth drug and also developing nerve gas. So, but the two guys Coon and Stol stayed friends also when the Nazis took power. Like I researched um the papers of Stol in the archive and in the 20s he would all communicate all the Urgot research. LSD is an urgot product. Urgot is a fungus that grows on rye. He would communicate all this with Coon and Coon would come to the Sundos lab and they did experiments together. And then in 43, Coon was, you know, a hardcore Nazi scientist and especially looking for the truth drug at the time. And I was looking through the archive. I wanted to find the connection that you know also uh sent uh LSD to Coon because when I was researching for Blitz in Dhau, I had found that the SS had done in the concentration camp of Dhau experiments with measculine and another hosogenic substance which was not named and measculine has the problem. The truth talk idea is I give you something without you noticing it. Like something that doesn't smell or doesn't taste like anything and then after like half an hour I know that something's working in your brain and you become insecure because suddenly something's working in your brain and I can play with that situation and therefore extract all the secrets from you because I it's a power. I'm suddenly above you because I know something about you that you don't know. That was the idea. The problem with masculine was it has a bitter taste. And it's kind of hard to make it. And LSD is very easy to make. Not very easy, but it's quite easy. And LSD is odless and tasteless. So I was trying to I I somehow had the notion that LSD has a Nazi past, you know, which is something that no one ever thinks about. LSD is like the hippie drug, right? It's a drug of the peace people. But I wanted to see all the papers of this of the CEO of Stole and the archist. he already knew like he was the Swiss archivist and this is not a public archive in a public archive you basically like a national archive of the United States you see what's there you have the right to see it freedom of information but a company archive like Novartis archive the archist can just say no you know I'm I I can't find this right you know he you basically at his mercy so I bribed him with LSD I because he didn't want to show me the toilet papers and I said to just to distract him. I said, "Did you ever have you ever seen LSD?" And he's like, "No. How would I see it?" And I said, "Well, I have some here." And I had some. I just had gotten it from a friend. What does LSD look like? Tabs. Yeah. Tab. I had a paper. And the funny thing about Yeah. These are different, you know, different designs. And you can put it on your tongue. Is that people usually take it? Yeah. Then you take it like that. And the one I had was given to me by a Swiss friend and it had like here you see certain prints on it. Uh oh yeah. And he had the the print was the old logo of Sundos from the 40s. So the guys who make this illegal LSD in Basa in some kind of lab. They know where it comes from. So they made like a joke to make like the old logo of Sundos. So I showed this to the archist. They said this is the old logo of our company. Said well it was made by your company. I know this, but it was it's not this is very interesting actually. And I said, you I'm going to I'm going to gift you one of these trips now. And he said, "Wow, you really you would do this." And I said, "You can archive it." He's like, "Haha." Then he actually took one. He was then the ice broke. That's great. And then he said, "Okay, I'm going to show you now the correspondence of our CEO. It's no problem." and he just went to the next room and he looked for like 10 minutes and then he brought me these boxes and then I saw actually the correspondence between stolen coon between the Swiss CEO and the German Nazi scientist what they were talking about and then I found the smoking gun uh October 1943 Coon acknowledges that he receives half a gram of erotamine which is the precursor drug to LSD and so it's highly it's highly likely that uh the Nazis used LSD together with masculine in Dao and when the Americans liberated the DAO camp um they had a special unit called ALS with them and Also's job was to find German scientists and kind of interview them get their knowledge for the nuclear program mostly but also for biochemical weapons and one of the first persons they interrogated was Rishad Kun and Rishadkun immediately collaborated because he didn't want to go to the Nuremberg trial Well, he wanted to continue his career. Actually, he was an opportunist. So, I guess his Nazi convictions were not so strong after all because he also liked the Americans. So he's like he told the Americans immediately about LSD and uh the next day a very high general flew from the states uh to Frankfurt went to H Highleberg spoke to Coon again went then took off his uniform and went in civil clothing to Basel because Switzerland is neutral and received the first LSD from Stolang. So he the American general had LSD. This was in 45 in the summer. And then the American military started to uh examine LSD. Could LSD be the true drug? Because if the Nazis think so, maybe it's true, you know, because the Nazis were, you know, cutting edge scientists as evil as they were in Dhaka. This was presumably used for the different experimentation that was done. Well, I read one report from a guy who was an inmate and he received it in coffee and he had a full-blown psychedelic trip and he had this SS guy who was like asking him questions and and the guy had such a great trip. Yeah. I would always imagine you have a terrible trip in the concentration camp. And he was like seeing fractals and colors and he could see that there was something bigger than these Nazis and there was something bigger than the concentration camp and he only said it was so horrible when the trip ended and he kind of became sober again. It was just an inmate again in the concentration camp. I mean one of the things you get from books like man search for me meaning by Victor Franco is that in the concentration camp actually the slightest good things are so rich of feeling you just get so like I would actually expect to have incredible trips there because you're just grateful for anything positive anything positive yeah I didn't I didn't think about that becomes intensified but from the perspective of the Nazis they're trying to develop the truth drug. They miserably failed because LSD is not the truth drug. LSD maybe leads you closer to your own truth because when suddenly the default mode network receives less energy and other parts of the brain think more and the brain becomes a neuropl you know the neuroplasticity of the brain is is enhanced and is stimulated. You might understand something about your life. You might not you know I mean LSD doesn't necessarily turn you into a more knowledgeable person. You could also focus that on your orthodox belief system, but many people realize different things, have different ideas. Um, so it doesn't work as this conditioning drug, but also the the CIA uh then kind of took over the LSD experiments that the US military took over from the SS. So now it's now it's in CIA hands in 1947. Central intelligence agencies founded because America didn't have an Central intelligence agency before. They had like the military agencies like OSS. Now they have the CIA and the CIA makes it uh Dallas uh the first director. He says the brain warfare is going on now between the Soviet Union and us. This is cold war. We have to you know maybe they are using uh something against us. we have to be really on our you know we have to be prepared you know for the brain warfare cuz communism is a propagandistic system. So they were always like either really afraid or just pretending to be afraid Soviet Union would you know develop the truth drug quicker than them. So the LSD truth drug program which was labeled MK Ultra the infamous MK MK Ultra is a mind control program. I mean it it is and LSD played a big part in it. And it's a deeply illegal one. Certainly. Yeah. I mean, it was never never approved by the Congress or anything like that. Probably deeply unethical. Maybe one of the more unamerican unethical things done in in recent times. It's certainly unethical. It continues the Nazi human experiments. That's what the CIA did. It's continuing one of the worst aspects of what the Nazis were doing. Absolutely. Yeah. defeated the Nazis and carried the flag forward. It's It's just dark. And this is basically the reason why LSD at one point became illegal because it did not get the chance. Stole still wanted to put it on the market, but Sydney Godly, the head of MK Ultra, he really didn't want LSD to be on the market. He wanted not because he thought it's not good or dangerous for anybody. He just wanted to control LSD. He wanted LSD to be his so he could use it for MK Ultra for experiments. He didn't but he couldn't really stop. There was also legit LSD research always going on in until it was prohibited in 1966. There was legit LSD research done in universities which came to all kinds of you know conclusions. But the decisive thing was a visit by godly in the uh office of in Basel where he basically says to he comes with a suitcase with $240,000 US to buy the world supply of LSD and uh because he he he has the information from the American ambassador like he has he said like I think we think by now Sundos has produced like 400 kg of LS USD. So that was the price for these for and said no actually we have produced only 400 g and uh but I I I'll sell everything to you of course I mean because the pressure that he received from the CIA was because the CIA and the FDA they're like quite friendly organizations. So the CIA has a certain influence on the FDA at least back then you know so the the pressure was if you want to put your medicines on the market which is of course the biggest market in the world and Sundos you know I'm sure you want to thrive and as a pharmaceutical company then LSD is not going to be one of these products and basically betrayed LSD. Uh so he said okay and LSD was only distributed as a research drug. it was never sold by the company. So researchers could actually write to Sundus and say I I'm doing this and this uh test and I'm new neuroscientist. I need LSD and then they would receive it. But um mostly what happened to the LSD was it went into the CIA's hands and then it was used in MK Ultra. But then it spilled out obviously because one of the guinea pigs uh was Ken Kesi. He received $75 US for taking LSD for the CIA and he was working in Menlo Park in a psychiatric ward and on LSD he basically had the idea to ride one flu over the cuckoo's nest. He understood, you know, that these people maybe are not crazy. It's just a different way of see that's like that's like an LSD revelation. These are not bad crazy people. They just see the world differently. Uh because that neuroplasticity that kind of leads you away from one way of thinking. you realize that there's different ways. So it it does I would say LSD the tendency of LSD is more to increase empathy is that kind of empathy diversity all these all all these kind because you mentioned u you mentioned the effect of LSD on you as a writer that it at least changed the way you write. Well, I mean the book tripped is a book where I come back with that story to my father and then my father decides to give LSD to my mother and we did do the LSD the three of us on Christmas and uh we did mushrooms on Mother's Day and whenever my mother takes LSD and she Alzheimer is a is a horrible disease obviously for example on Mother's Day there was the newspaper lying on the balcony we were like sitting in the sun and she was on mushrooms just micro do you know It's not that you have a trip, but you have that stimulation of the of of your brain. That's what you have. Even and her brain attacked by Alzheimer reacted stronger than my father. Like he he always says, "I never feel anything from a micro dose." And you're not supposed to feel anything, but my mother suddenly picked up the newspaper, which she hadn't looked at for a year. So on mushroom micro doses, she picks up the newspaper and starts reading the headline to us, which was about the Ukraine war. and she'd never heard about the Ukraine war. So when she like she had problems like pronouncing the word Ukraine because that was a new word for her because she hadn't you know been part of the news cycle in about a year and this was because of the mushroom micro dose. So this book, how did it change my writing? This on a on a on an emotional level, writing, taking LSD and then writing about LSD changed something in my family. Like it improved the health of my mother that made me very uh happy, of course, very satisfied, you know. Yeah, there's a deep personal connection, but I I even mean on Ken Keezy's side, like I know what you mean. I mean what does it do like p listen writing I don't know again me as a fan of writing it feels like writing is suffering kind of when I see like just these great writers in history talk about writing it seems like it's really hard it's a kind of torture you know Hemingway and you know there you have the carowak stories that you just kind of flows out of you but a lot of times it's like really disciplined day after day. You're really digging and digging and so it's interesting what that looks like under the different supplements, right? Like Stephen King famously, I mean there's a lot of people, you know, they go to the drugs to the alcohol. You have the Hunter S. Thompson who goes, you know, when given the option just says yes to all of it. Um, and the mind is a weird thing and and a lot of writers talk about like they're not really developing the ideas. They're plugging into some they're channeling a voice from somewhere else. And with psychedelics that certainly it feels like you're modifying the channel or you're expanding the channel or you're directing the channel to a different direction. That's why I ask. I think uh for me writing has two important parts and one of them is the actual writing part and that's the painful part that you talk about. It's basically discipline focus. It becomes harder and harder to focus because of the telephone. Yeah. Distractions. There's a place in Switzerland, the NE house. I go there as much as I can to write. It's in Sils Maria. It's quite high up. NZ went there every summer from 1882 to 1888 with the exception of 1887. Didn't go that that summer. I don't know why. And in those he stayed there for three months and wrote most of his work in in that room and that room is still there and his desk is still there and you can rent rooms in that nature house and I rent it's it's it's great and I do this as often as I can and only there am I able to switch off the phone in the morning. I don't I don't even switch it on. I I'm like a soldier. I'm in the ner house. Also na is magical. So it gives you you don't I I would never take drugs in the nature house because it would disturb that clarity that is in that house when nature wrote like and uh you can sense his presence a little bit. Yeah, I speak to him quite a bit like his door is always open. Is he an asshole or a nice guy? No, he's a nice guy. Nice guy. His room cannot be rented. It's always it's like a museum type room. And um I mean I never thought of him as an asshole. I mean he's a total weirdo obviously had issue like struggled getting laid. Yeah. I think he had a lot of problems. That's one of them. Yeah. But he had a lot of good qualities too. But he's also part of of Stone Sapiens because he did experiment with drugs there and he writes about it. It's very hard to find, but in the niche house, I found a book on on Nichzche's uh medicine history and he he he takes quite a bit of uh hashish. He smokes. Is it to help with the stomach issues or whatever? Oh, he's interested in what happens in the brain. And this this comes back to your question. Uh how did the the drugs change my writing? Um well, first of all, it's this one. It's this discipline. I can do it up in the nature house. I can also do it sometimes in Berlin. It's just sitting there trying to focus and writing. But what you need, of course, is the inspirational part. And LSD helped me just the first trip to realize that it's not all black and white. The world's quite colorful and uh there there's like the abyss and it's there's also the horror and like I was I was a happy golucky kid, you know. I I never thought it the world is so deep as I understand it now. So the LSD makes the world deeper. So I think for me to understand the world better, to understand myself better, it improved my writing, but I would not write on LSD. Mhm. Because on LSD you're like you want to walk in the forest or you want to go up the mountain or that's what I like. I don't I would never like sit in front of that ugly computer with a stupid like screen and write, you know? Maybe I would lie in the mountains with a a notebook and kind of write like poetic lines and I that could be done on LSD because you have like when I was researching stone sapiens I I did one LSD trip in from the niche house I went quite high up in the mountains on LSD and I came and it was not had I just it's just I just thought about the book and kind of looked at the different chapters does it work together like kind of like macro without taking too many notes, just kind of letting it, you know, play out in front of in in my mind. And then, but then when I walked down, I ca I passed a cave. Mhm. And I realized a lot about people's relationship to caves and the cave paintings. Uh how, you know, actually the the the the cave walls, you see all the arteries of the rocks. And I mean on LSD you see all of that and you like see how alive that is and how beautiful it actually was by humans to then use that canvas and and and and work your your cave paintings in there. I mean I never had the appreciation of that before. Yeah, you're right. You are able to uh detect the on on psychedelics the aliveness of the details if you can put it this way. It's a very for me it's a very creative drug but for other people it might not be you know so I cannot also I cannot advertise it because also if you have a psychological problem maybe it's overwhelming. Yeah, that's actually a good thing to say at this moment. Um, like from my perspective and maybe you can comment on it. In general, when people ask me because I've done psilocybin a few times and I've done Iwasa and I've talked about it. When people ask me if I recommend those things, I as a general statement I say no, you know, to the general population. And then as a second step, if I'm talking to specific people on a case-by case basis, I can just discuss my experience and let that be kind of an inspiration is I'm very hesitant to recommend a thing that could be so powerful because I don't know. Yeah. Like I had a tremendously positive experience and I was sure I would be meeting some demons. Like I thought I would have some demons in the basement or something but I didn't meet them. Not yet. And but people might have some demons that they meet and then it might destroy them or it might um change them in the way don't they don't like um and actually it's a good question for me whether it's good to do psychedelics when you're in a good place in life or in a bad place in life because I know that you know even scientifically there have been studies where psilocybin helps with extreme sort of with depression and PTSD and all these kinds of things. Um, but I'd be very nervous about that too because like the mind is such a powerful thing and it's such a complicated thing that with these really powerful tools, it's unclear where it's going to take you. But I have heard a lot of stories of people have taken incredible journeys, sometimes difficult journeys with psychedelics and have come out much happier and much um freer and have have healed some of the things that we've been going through. But if when people ask me to recommend or not, I'm just too afraid to say yes. I think I think the right thing is always as a general no. Be very careful. Yeah, I think it would be irresponsible to recommend it to people you don't see, right? You know, yeah. Uh maybe if you know a friend and a friend asks you, maybe then you could maybe I would say to a friend, yeah, I think I think you would be fine taking it. M but even that is a big responsibility you know because LSD in German the book tripped is called the strongest substance and it is actually the strongest substance because it works in microgram dosages like even a the strongest snake poison cobra toxine if you use that in micro gram dosages you don't feel anything but if you take 250 micrograms of LSD it can totally overpower you and if you have an instable psyche it could you know make turn you mad you know do you understand how it compares to psilocybin and I was DMT how does LSD compare to those is it similar land territory just more intense LSD and psilocybin are like cousins and distant cousins or no quite close cousins and I spoke to a neuroscientist from a university clinic in Zurich who's been researching psilocybin and LSD um since the early '9s and he puts people in uh uh in brain scanners for example. So he sees exactly what happens um in the brain on LSD or in psilocybin and he said to me uh when I asked him that very same question he said LSD is the more sophisticated molecule. he meant by that is that LSD docks onto more receptors than psilocybin like psilocybin interacts with like five recep different types of receptors in the brain and LSD like with nine. So that makes LSD more complex molecule. So the that's why it already works in very small quantities because it's like the key is like perfect for our brain. Our brain really reacts strongly to LSD. For mush psilocybin you have to take milligs not micrograms but milligrams. So mushrooms is also described as the softer you know psychedelic experience because it only lasts for like five hours while LSD last like eight hours and LSD can be more LSD is also a mushroom but it's uh it's it's it's urgot which is a mushroom but it's turned into a diia it's the you extract the potent acid from uh urgot which is lysurgic acid. it and you turn that into a deaflamite. So it's a processed drug in a way. It's a potent processed drug that works also for mass movements quite well. That's why it was so popular in the 60s because people could just make it. While mushrooms, they kind of they have to grow. Like the the hippie movement, they could never have, you know, sustained on mushrooms because so many mushrooms don't even grow. But a a good LSD chemist can make LSD for the whole world basically. Can we go back to something we talked about uh in the in the beginning about Berlin is just it'd be fascinating to learn more about this culture. Do you still are you still connected? I'm sure you've been to some wild parties. I've been told that Berlin has some wild parties. Well, it had them in the '9s. I mean, it had the best clubs that I I mean, it was just a dream, you know. You go into this club, but I was also in my mid20s. So, I go into this club, I take MDMA, and the DJ is amazing, and the sound system is crazy, and there's like 500 people on MDMA just dancing for like 8 hours. And that's when electronic music was really Yeah, it was really good. Yeah. Like a friend of mine, he he runs now Club of Visionaries, which is kind of a famous underground club in Berlin. And he asked me in the early 2000s when this club was offered to him, should I do this? I said I said, Gregor, techno is over. You know, electronic music is dead, but obviously it's not dead. It's still going on. But in the '9s, it was new. So it was you really went into the club and you heard something you never heard before. And the first time I came from New York and New York was a very old school kind of urban place. I mean, rock and roll or grunge music. And I came to Berlin. It was uh in a club called IMA Bucket in East Berlin. Doesn't exist anymore. Like in a rundown, totally rundown like uh squad. Uh and I I went to the bar and I had a beer. And I looked and there was just a few people on the dance floor in this like electronic music which I'd never heard before. And the guy in front of me, he was like he looked like an East Berlin skin head kind of type of guy, but like totally smiling. I'm sure he was on ecstasy. and he was disassembling like an imaginary machine. And I just looked at this guy. He was like for one hour he was just like doing the most complicated like things and I was like this is totally a totally different way of of of moving and I liked that actually. I I liked to dance in clubs. Yeah. And I did this for like two years very intensely with my girlfriend at the time. We went out a lot uh like for Friday to Monday basically. But it means and lot a lot of people still do that in Berlin but it means that you cannot really work. I mean yeah you escaped that you it's it's it's interesting that you were able to do that for a short time just as an experience and then go on to be extremely productive. For me it was also kind of research even though I didn't know this. I mean life is research in a way if you allow it to be. I could not have written these books on history and drugs without having had these drug experiences because that I mean also like when I wrote about methamphetamine and the Nazis, I asked at the time weed was illegal in Germany. So I asked the friend of mine, she's a she's a cannabis dealer, I guess you would say. I said, "Can you also get uh me crystal meth?" She was like shocked like no. Cuz she was a weed dealer. But then she found like a Polish guy who actually had crystal meth. I just wanted to have it. It was like the Paul Shraider thing when he wrote the screenplay to Taxi Driver. He had like a gun in his drawer so he would like, you know, get the vibe of like danger. And so I wanted to have this crystal math. So this Polish guy sold it to me and he gave me a zero without me saying anything. And maybe my French maybe she said he's a writer or something, but he gave me a Xerox. He gave me the methamphetamine 1 gram and the Xerox copy of uh the the patent of Pavitine from 1938. So this was a crystal meth dealer that actually had a historical Mhm. knowledge. Yeah. Knowledge about it. So did you did you ever try? Yeah. Well then I tried it because I really wanted I could not really write about it in the same way without having tried it. I can't recommend it. It feels very toxic like when you take a psychedelic. I can say this with a clear conscience. It's not toxic. LSD is not toxic. It doesn't poison you. You might have reactions in your brain that are too much for you. But if you snort crystal meth, it goes on your central nervous system. Your heart starts pounding. Your blood pressure rises. So, it's stressful on the organism. It's toxic, you know. Uh but still, you know, the effect in the brain is not so interesting as with LSD. Like, you couldn't go crazy, I would say, on on crystal meth. you just have like you're just very much awake but you don't have like crazy thoughts that you can't you know evaluate anymore. So it's a very very very different drug but taking that of course made me understand better how a soldier feels in the tank taking it. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's really really important to do. Um I have to ask your friend Alex who's it sounds like he's taken every single drug there is. Uh, has he spoken about like what's the most interesting drug? Like what's his favorite drug? He he seems like a connoisseur, right? But he's not a psychedelic guy, so Oh, well then okay. More He's more into the addictive drugs. It's very difficult, I guess. Yeah, that would be a special person that can be a really sort of um yeah, a fullon explorer of the drug space. Cuz if you get into psychedelics, then you don't really want to do the hard drugs. If you get the hard drugs, you don't want to Right. They contradict each other. They do contradict each other. Yeah. That's why we spend less and less time together. Um uh since you mentioned Carowak, listen, I love Carowak. Do we know any sort of famous writers that have used drugs as part of the writing? So Carowak is one. Do we any Do we know any famous writers who have not used drugs as part of their writing? Interesting. So wait, I didn't actually know uh to be honest the story. I I love That's the good thing about being a writer. You can take drugs on the job and no one will cancel you for it. You're like a politician. You can't really do it. That's right. Rock. You can be a rock star. You can be a writer. You can be an artist and take drugs. You mentioned that Kowak did what? Amphetamine. Amphetamine. Speed. Basically speed. The legend has it that on the road was written in two weeks on speed basically without sleeping and using an endless uh paper roll in this typewriter. So he was just writing. And I can imagine that you can write a hell of a lot on amphetamines. And I do it sometimes, but I don't do it a lot, you know. So I can take empetamines and have a really good time and write like 20 pages, but then the next day I wouldn't do it any I wouldn't do it anymore. But he decided, okay, for 14 days I'm going to do it. Philip K. Dick was an amphetamine writer. And also I think if you take a lot of amphetamines you get into kind of psychedelic spaces at a certain point in time where you start hallucinating and like if you write a you know blade runner maybe it helps you. So empetamines are also they can be creative I guess. It's just not I don't it's not my type of of drug and they're certainly not as creative as but it also depends on the person like Malcolm Lori uh under the volcano. He was drinking a lot or Hemingway was drinking a lot and they could only write when they're drunk. When I'm drunk I can't write. I just can't do it. Write drunk. edit sober and that's advisable like if I would write something on amphetamines I would certainly edit it sober of course because on amphetamines your self-criticism is lowered because you feel so good like you feel so confident you just write and but writing is about nuances especially literary writing maybe a non-fiction book would be easy on empetamines but a novel it's all about you have to be very very openetamines close You you become like a machine like you write but if you are on the right track like Kowak was on the road he had the right you know he was on he was going you know but you could also be on the wrong one and then write 200 pages and you just have to throw it away and probably he did a lot of that also you know. Yeah. Yeah. And and also on the road is a particular kind of book. It's an amphetamine book. You want the spontaneity the speed of it's about speed. It's about moving fast. It's about not stopping. It is a speed book. Yeah. But it's a great book. It's such a great book. But then I recently been uh rereading all of the Sioski. So So go to it. No. So in the to the idiot to cry and punishment to brothers Karazov and that I don't which was your favorite brothers Karazov. Well, I read in both Russian and English and uh for the longest time it was the idiot until it's a complicated philosophical issue. I I when I was younger, I thought Prince Mishkin, the main character and the idiot, was not as flawed as I believe he is now. I think Doses tried to create a Jesus-like character in Prince Mishkin, right? and I think kind of failed because he was uh too giving in a way that it was actually counterproductive and destructive to the world which is he tried to fix in the brothers karmaza with alosha karmaz so but anyway I I don't think that you could do that I'll be very surprised to to learn that dustfki did any drugs also there was not so much available that's true alcohol of course nicotine coffee that's that those are pretty powerful drugs and I'm also doing a podcast with Chuck Pollock, author of Fight Club and many other amazing books and yeah, he's a great writer. He Fight Club influenced me quite a bit. Uh I think the novel is even better maybe than the movie. Yeah, but the movie's great. I mean, in that case, as he said, like the movie is great and that it's almost like a bigger than life thing. And sometimes like the book and the movie and those things can influence culture. That certainly influenced culture to where like okay this has a life of its own. I'd like to think some of your work might influence the how we perceive history. That's really important. That's really powerful to not just change but sort of expand our conception of history which is important to do. Is there particular books fiction or non-fiction? So, you were both a fiction writer and a non-fiction writer. Is there books that had an influence on you? Yeah. Um, it's uh Ulyses by James Joyce. Ulysus is good, but only when you're like in your early 20s living in New York and you're writing your first book and you just have taken LSD. Oh, nice. Then I read it and then it open sense. Well, it just showed it's just a very experimental novel, so it opens up. You don't have to understand everything, but it shows you that there's many different ways of telling a tale. And that was that was quite interesting to me. But the most influential book maybe is The Stranger by Camu. Yeah. Uh because I like the language so much and I'm really mostly interested in language. I don't really care what it's about. Um, I was lying on the beach in Morocco when I was 20 and reading uh the stranger and then an uh Moroccan came and he said, "Why are you reading a racist book?" I'm like, "What are you talking about? This is world literature." He said, "Yeah, right. He's like killing an Arab uh without consequ No, actually there is consequence, but no reason basically just because he's bored. Uh, so this is racist." That was like made no sense to me that argument because I was just interested in how Camu constructed uh it was just for me a stylistical um experience to read that. I always love books and strange is a short book. I love books that are able to accomplish so much in so little pages in so few words. Yeah, the stranger. There's nothing unnecessary in the stranger. And I always tried to write a book where every sentence is just there's nothing unnecessary in the book. But it's very hard to do. Actually, ner could do this. Yeah, Peterson talked about this that every sentence in nature is like chiseled and it's like perfect. And I think not every I mean, but it's that's his tendency. He tries to write like this and that's very hard to achieve. That's actually where the writing becomes poetic. So for me n also is like a poet the apherisms is poetry. So na also stylistically uh since you asked was very important to me. So kamu ner James choice and then just in kafka also I like kafka always. Um and I like Thomas man. I don't know how well he translates but in German it's interesting his take on how to is funny. He's very he's a very funny guy even though he's like he talks too much but he's good. Uh, so I always wanted to have these guys as my colleagues basically. Are they there somewhere in your head as you're writing? Uh, less and less. Uh, but uh, it was like an incentive to be part of that club like to be able to write a book and it's out there and it's perfect and it's and and and you're on one level with Kamu, you know, it's very hard to do. Let's say you become a carpenter which is also you know a very challenging job but you don't have these kind of great well you have Jesus I guess as your call potential colleague. Yeah sure true but for I just like these writers these to so the ones I mentioned and also then Thomas Pinchin who wrote Gravity's Rainbow which I think is one of the best novels of the 20th century and I read that in Berlin in the late 90s and it really blew my mind. I thought it I think it's an absolute masterpiece. The intensity of this novel, Gravity's Rainbow, is unparalleled. And I'm still puzzled by how he did it. And it's not known how he did it because he lives he lives a completely obscure life. No one knows basically who he is. Uh so he's also a very interesting colleague. It's widely regarded as one of the most challenging and significant works of postmodern literature. Set primarily in Europe at the end of World War II. The novel centers on the design, production, and deployment of the German V2 rocket. The narrative follows several characters. Uh it lists the characters. Uh Sloth Robro is the American agent who's the main character. He works for Allied intelligence and he's really a funny guy. He smokes a lot of weed and he's like in Berlin and bombed out Berlin after the war and it's just funny to to go with him through that. He's he's a great character. It's a great novel. It really is. So, it does it does give a window into history also. It does. Yeah. But that's not why it's interesting to me. But it it makes it especially interesting because the way he describes these situations is just the way he writes is phenomenal. It's a pol surprise and Oh, but I'm sure he didn't take it unless Yeah, he declined. Well, no one knows who he is. I know a little bit. I know who his wife his wife is, but I'm not going to talk about it. He really wants to protect his privacy and I think that's also amazing. I think that's a beautiful thing. But for me, from my perspective, he wouldn't appear in the podcast. He would not. It would be great if he would go. Well, I I I believe it's possible, but with people like that, it has to be a long journey and it has to you have to like for me for example, I just interviewed Terrence Ta who's one of the greatest mathematicians, one of the greatest living mathematicians, probably one of the greats in history. And there's another I want to uh speak with which is Greca Gregori Pearlman who's a a Russian mathematician who's more akin to Thomas Pinchin. He declined the Millennial Prize, the one $1 million. He declined all the prizes, the Fields Medal, the Breakthrough Prize in mathematics. He declined everything and is just lives with his mom now. Quit mathematics. Like Kero, he also lived with his mom. Mhm. There's something really beautiful about a human being like that, right? Um especially because in his case it was done for principles like he has certain set of principles and no amount of money nothing could buy him or Yeah that's amazing actually. Yeah, I had somebody tell me this. A really interesting guy I met a few days ago uh said that there's nothing there's nothing more exhilarating uh perhaps only a rich person can say this, but there's nothing more exhilarating than saying no to a lot of money. But he said said it with so much confidence that I somehow believed him. Uh but it is the more the deeper truth there is um living by principles and having integrity there is there is something deeply fulfilling if that means saying no to money or if that means standing up to Hitler that's a and then risking your life that's a deeply fulfilling thing. Uh big ridiculous question I thought you were a good person to ask. What's the point of this whole thing? What's the meaning of life and our existence here on Earth? I somehow think that the universe has a big story to tell or it's telling a big story the whole time and our consciousness is part of that bigger story. So the consciousness of the whole of the universe the big the huge story is something that is probably the meaning of life and or the meaning of life of our individual life is to understand that story and that that is something for example that I understood quite well on LSD when I walked in the mountains uh about a month ago because the mountains they actually you know they they're quite high up into the atmosphere and They are made of all kinds of minerals and so they are receiving cosmic energy that comes you know that hits our planet and um walking up there and it doesn't I guess if you're on LSD you're more open somehow because you're not closing with your default mode network that you know this is the tree and this is the path and this is the mountain and now it's 2:00 and I have to go back and the rain like this you're more you're more open so you're more like perceiving I I that's at least the that's the impression I had and I couldn't put it in words what exactly I was perceiving but I was perceiving more of the bigger story and I think that is inspiration and I think those moments bring you quite close to the meaning of life and I wouldn't I wouldn't put that meaning on life in words it's it It is an experience and I think that uh for me as an artist it was an important experience to make to get close to that and and that is uh that is what you can achieve in each of your professions. You know, like a mathematician, he comes to that point when he like hears more like he grasps like connections and he might not be able to put it into a formula yet, but if he's if he's an open person, he might be a better mathematician because he can understand a bit more of of of the meaning of everything of this bigger story that's being written. Yeah. And uh I mean I mentioned to you my substack which I think is going to be the best substack. Do you think it's possible it's the greatest substack of all time in history? That's what it's going to be. It's going to be Yeah. Stone Sapion substack. But something else I just hope you actually do it. Well, you should become a subscriber. I will definitely subscribe. I re I really realize that that there is a greater a bigger story and it's somehow interesting to try to open up because if we live that's why I like to be in nature also quite a lot you you get you get you have a better access we live boxed in Va Benjamin called us like the boxed human beings like we're living in the cities we're doing we're waking up we're doing like it's good to be therefore it's good to be outside the system and I hope that my art can contribute to you know freeing the brain waves to you know understanding a bit more what that is I don't know but I think the process of understanding more and and connecting in different ways that is what I'm going for because I think that is the meaning of life well uh thank you for doing that with all of your work and for inspiring us all to do the same thank you so much for talking today it was great thank you thanks for listening to this conversation with Norman Oler to support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description and consider subscribing to this channel. And now, let me leave you with some words from the great Terren McKenna. Nature loves courage. You make the commitment and nature will respond to that commitment by removing impossible obstacles. Dream the impossible dream and the world will not grind you under. It will lift you up. This is the trick. This is what all these teachers and philosophers who really counted, who really touched the alchemical gold, this is what they understood. This is the shamanic dance in the waterfall. This is how magic is done. By hurling yourself into the abyss and discovering that it is in fact a feather bed. Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.