================================================================================
YOUTUBE VIDEO EXTRACTION
================================================================================
VIDEO_ID: Sfq3QEh-b30
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sfq3QEh-b30
TITLE: Five Questions For The Premier League Season | Libero 043
CHANNEL: Libero
PUBLISHED: 2025-08-12
DURATION: 1h 0m 4s
VIEWS: 1,459
LIKES: 89
COMMENTS: 25

DESCRIPTION:
----------------------------------------
Jonathan Wilson sets the new season’s agenda for Jack Pitt-Brooke and John Brewin ahead of Friday’s big kick-off. The title, the drop, the transfer market coming back in a big way and the current trend for hulking No 9s are all discussed. Every team gets a mention. Well, apart from one. Can you guess who? 

Join the Libero Fantasy League: https://fantasy.premierleague.com/leagues/auto-join/hjjtc0 or via the code hjjtc0

Produced by: Tom Bassam

Email us liberopodcast0@gmail.com

Libero socials
Follow us on X https://x.com/podcast_libero 
Follow us on Bluesky https://bsky.app/profile/liberopodcast.bsky.social 
Follow us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/liberopod

Chapters

00:00 Intro
03:39 Is 2016's 'Big Six' big splurge happening again?
27:14 What will be the impact of the Club World Cup?
32:40 Is this 'Big Man Summer'?
44:55 What will happen to last year's cup winners?
55:26 What are the promoted teams' survival chances?

Music: Kid Kodi - Blue Dot Sessions

SUBTITLE AVAILABILITY:
----------------------------------------
Total languages: 158
English available: True (auto)

EXTRACTED CAPTIONS:
----------------------------------------
Method: yt-dlp
Language: en
Word count: 23,420

TRANSCRIPT:
----------------------------------------
Welcome to Libero, the podcast about the Welcome to Libero, the podcast about the most important of the least important most important of the least important things. As I think it was Evangelist things. As I think it was Evangelist Marinakis who who said that uh this is Marinakis who who said that uh this is episode 43 of anybody still counting uh episode 43 of anybody still counting uh which I don't think we are anymore. I'm which I don't think we are anymore. I'm Jonathan Wilson and I'm joined today by Jonathan Wilson and I'm joined today by John Bruner of Guardian and Jack John Bruner of Guardian and Jack Pitbrook of the Athletic. Uh did we have Pitbrook of the Athletic. Uh did we have a nice weekend? You were at the a nice weekend? You were at the Community Shield. Nice to be back. Community Shield. Nice to be back. Oh yeah. Yeah. Uh good game as well. Um Oh yeah. Yeah. Uh good game as well. Um uh a game that showed that football is uh a game that showed that football is not played in the transfer market. Uh as not played in the transfer market. Uh as as as we've discussed many times um yeah as as we've discussed many times um yeah Liverpool bad in defense. I've seen this Liverpool bad in defense. I've seen this before, haven't you? Where team goes before, haven't you? Where team goes out, spends loads on attackers and then out, spends loads on attackers and then thinks, "Oh [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] what about the uh thinks, "Oh [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] what about the uh defense?" And if I was a Liverpool fan, defense?" And if I was a Liverpool fan, I'd be slightly concerned about that. I'd be slightly concerned about that. Yeah, me too. Um Jackie went to D Yeah, me too. Um Jackie went to D Hamlet. A crushing victory over Hamlet. A crushing victory over Dartmouth. Was it Dartmouth. Was it Dartford? Dartford uh started their Dartford? Dartford uh started their this season's promotion push um from this season's promotion push um from back trying to get back out of the back trying to get back out of the Espian League into uh National League Espian League into uh National League South. Uh started really really well. So South. Uh started really really well. So new manager, they've cut the wage bill. new manager, they've cut the wage bill. They brought brought back lots of old They brought brought back lots of old players including the legendary Nyron players including the legendary Nyron Cloon back in as captain. Uh Lukedio Cloon back in as captain. Uh Lukedio scored a hat-tick. We beat Dartford scored a hat-tick. We beat Dartford 4-nil. All is well in the world. 4-nil. All is well in the world. Well, I went to the Freud Museum Well, I went to the Freud Museum yesterday. So, if you're on a tube yesterday. So, if you're on a tube hamster, if you're wandering across the hamster, if you're wandering across the heath, or perhaps you're just waiting heath, or perhaps you're just waiting for somebody to finish telling you about for somebody to finish telling you about their dreams, why don't you turn to the their dreams, why don't you turn to the person next to you and evangelize about person next to you and evangelize about us, please do remember to rate, review, us, please do remember to rate, review, and recommend us. And in supremely and recommend us. And in supremely exciting news, and I know John in exciting news, and I know John in particular is really, really happy about particular is really, really happy about this, we're launching a Libro Fantasy this, we're launching a Libro Fantasy League this week. I I think it's fair to League this week. I I think it's fair to say that some of us are are keener say that some of us are are keener players than others. I mean, John players than others. I mean, John literally said, "I'd rather know how literally said, "I'd rather know how many nectar points you have." So, if you many nectar points you have." So, if you do want to message him on social media do want to message him on social media to let him know, he'd be delighted. But, to let him know, he'd be delighted. But, if that is your thing, it's not mine, if that is your thing, it's not mine, I'll be honest. But, if that is your I'll be honest. But, if that is your thing, there will be a link in the thing, there will be a link in the episode description. And we do have at episode description. And we do have at least one very keen player who'll be least one very keen player who'll be taking charge of Libro team, and that is taking charge of Libro team, and that is producer Tom. So, if it's terrible, producer Tom. So, if it's terrible, blame him. And if it's great, we'll all blame him. And if it's great, we'll all take the credit because that's how it take the credit because that's how it works. You mentioned dreams there, works. You mentioned dreams there, Jonathan. And I always say this about Jonathan. And I always say this about fantasy league that remember there's fantasy league that remember there's that Oscar Wild uh suppose um phrase that Oscar Wild uh suppose um phrase which is you know there's no worse start which is you know there's no worse start to a conversation than I had this great to a conversation than I had this great dream last night. Well, there actually dream last night. Well, there actually is which is I've got X in my fantasy is which is I've got X in my fantasy team. team. team. I actually haven't I I'm considering I actually haven't I I'm considering taking it back up. I always used to play taking it back up. I always used to play I used to play all the time when I was I used to play all the time when I was younger, but I found like uh they've younger, but I found like uh they've over complicated they've over over complicated they've over complicated the game a bit and you now complicated the game a bit and you now have to it demands so much of you as a have to it demands so much of you as a player. Um that I kind of lost interest. player. Um that I kind of lost interest. Also, I once I liked having a funny name Also, I once I liked having a funny name because doesn't everyone. Uh I tried to because doesn't everyone. Uh I tried to get fit in Andre Mariner's apartment get fit in Andre Mariner's apartment complex about five or six years ago and complex about five or six years ago and uh it didn't fit. It was too many uh it didn't fit. It was too many characters. But if I can come up with a characters. But if I can come up with a funny name this year, I will re-enter funny name this year, I will re-enter and take on the other Libero listeners. and take on the other Libero listeners. Oh, that's that's something very much to Oh, that's that's something very much to look forward to. But I think something look forward to. But I think something we can all get excited by is the fact we can all get excited by is the fact that the Premier League starts again that the Premier League starts again this weekend. I think in the second this weekend. I think in the second podcast we do this week, we'll look a podcast we do this week, we'll look a bit more closely at Liverpool and bit more closely at Liverpool and Arsenal, last season's top two. Uh we Arsenal, last season's top two. Uh we went into some detail about Manchester went into some detail about Manchester City in the Guadiola podcast last week. City in the Guadiola podcast last week. So today what we're going to do, we're So today what we're going to do, we're going to try and identify the five big going to try and identify the five big questions about the season to come. So questions about the season to come. So the first one we came up with um last the first one we came up with um last season was a was a good season for the season was a was a good season for the Premier League's middle classes. You had Premier League's middle classes. You had Forest, Brighton, Brenford, Fulham, Forest, Brighton, Brenford, Fulham, Bournemouth all looking very competitive Bournemouth all looking very competitive at various times. You Forest looking at various times. You Forest looking like he could get in the Champions like he could get in the Champions League. League. League. And there's a little bit similar to 2015 And there's a little bit similar to 2015 16 when not only did you have Leicester 16 when not only did you have Leicester winning the title, but you also had winning the title, but you also had Southampton, West Ham finishing in the Southampton, West Ham finishing in the top seven. And what happened in the top seven. And what happened in the summer of 2016 was the big clubs all summer of 2016 was the big clubs all went out, had these splurges and said, went out, had these splurges and said, "Right, this isn't happening again. "Right, this isn't happening again. We're going to reassert ourselves." And We're going to reassert ourselves." And is there a slight sense that something is there a slight sense that something similar has happened this summer, Jack? similar has happened this summer, Jack? Not quite on the same scale. I think Not quite on the same scale. I think that 20 the summer of 2016 was probably that 20 the summer of 2016 was probably the biggest the biggest kind of the biggest the biggest kind of collective bar raising that we've ever collective bar raising that we've ever seen in the Premier League just in the seen in the Premier League just in the sense that 2016 is obviously when sense that 2016 is obviously when Guardiola came to City, Kante went to Guardiola came to City, Kante went to Chelsea, Mourinho went to Man United and Chelsea, Mourinho went to Man United and obviously Klo had gone to Liverpool in obviously Klo had gone to Liverpool in what October the previous season. So he' what October the previous season. So he' he'd only really just got his feet under he'd only really just got his feet under the door there, under the door, under the door there, under the door, under the desk. I'm not sure what the phrase the desk. I'm not sure what the phrase is, but you know what I mean. Um so like is, but you know what I mean. Um so like you had all these basically all the big you had all these basically all the big teams went out and got good managers and teams went out and got good managers and having like 1516 was this season in having like 1516 was this season in which the good teams were really really which the good teams were really really bad looking back you know Arsenal blew bad looking back you know Arsenal blew the title Spurs were too young City were the title Spurs were too young City were old and tired it's Pelleigrini's third old and tired it's Pelleigrini's third and final year Van Vanghal the end of and final year Van Vanghal the end of Vanal's time at Man United Chelsea had Vanal's time at Man United Chelsea had the Mourinho season so all the all the the Mourinho season so all the all the big teams were really bad in 1516 they big teams were really bad in 1516 they went out and got got new managers and went out and got got new managers and then really everybody body every Premier then really everybody body every Premier League title since then has been is it League title since then has been is it been won by either Klopp or Kee or been won by either Klopp or Kee or Guardiola or on a slot with Klopp's Guardiola or on a slot with Klopp's Liverpool team. So it was one it's one Liverpool team. So it was one it's one of the really big turning points I think of the really big turning points I think in the Premier League. what we've seen in the Premier League. what we've seen this year. I mean, it's not really on this year. I mean, it's not really on the same scale, is it? Because Chelsea, the same scale, is it? Because Chelsea, I mean, Chelsea, Man United have gone I mean, Chelsea, Man United have gone and bought a lot of players, but neither and bought a lot of players, but neither of them have changed their manager. of them have changed their manager. Like, so much of the Premier League in Like, so much of the Premier League in the last few years has been Chelsea and the last few years has been Chelsea and Man United underperforming really or Man United underperforming really or which has effectively has created the which has effectively has created the space to have teams like Newcastle, space to have teams like Newcastle, Villa, Tottenham finish in the Champions Villa, Tottenham finish in the Champions League places. But if Chelsea and Man League places. But if Chelsea and Man United get their act together and have a United get their act together and have a strong season this year, then suddenly I strong season this year, then suddenly I think the Premier League will like that think the Premier League will like that space won't exist. That space for teams space won't exist. That space for teams from outside of the absolute elite to from outside of the absolute elite to finish in the Champions League places finish in the Champions League places and that I think is the thing to watch. and that I think is the thing to watch. What we have seen though is that that What we have seen though is that that that clutch of of middle class side, one that clutch of of middle class side, one of a better term, they have all sold at of a better term, they have all sold at least one player upwards. So you've had least one player upwards. So you've had Forest selling a Langanger to Newcastle, Forest selling a Langanger to Newcastle, Brighton sold Jia Pedro to Chelsea. I Brighton sold Jia Pedro to Chelsea. I mean Brighton selling place to Chelsea I mean Brighton selling place to Chelsea I guess is just that is the way of the guess is just that is the way of the world. Um Brenford has sold Brandon world. Um Brenford has sold Brandon Bremer to to United and Norod to to Bremer to to United and Norod to to Arsenal possibly Whissa as well leaving Arsenal possibly Whissa as well leaving maybe to Newcastle. Uh they lost Thomas maybe to Newcastle. Uh they lost Thomas Frank to Spurs as well which is part of Frank to Spurs as well which is part of that that same process. Bournemouth have that that same process. Bournemouth have sold Kirk to Liverpool, Dean Hson to sold Kirk to Liverpool, Dean Hson to Madrid. They've lost Keer, you know, Madrid. They've lost Keer, you know, who's on loan there last season. Even if who's on loan there last season. Even if you're Fulham, although you haven't you're Fulham, although you haven't really directly lost anybody, I think really directly lost anybody, I think you'd be particularly upset to lose, but you'd be particularly upset to lose, but they they lost Pellini last summer and they they lost Pellini last summer and they look across London and oh, there he they look across London and oh, there he is turning up on loan at Tottenham is turning up on loan at Tottenham because he only managed six games for because he only managed six games for for Bayern last season, which just seems for Bayern last season, which just seems this, you know, a particularly sort of this, you know, a particularly sort of um cruel example of of sort of a natural um cruel example of of sort of a natural order reasserting itself that yeah, order reasserting itself that yeah, sorry, you can't have him. uh it's just sorry, you can't have him. uh it's just going to go to a to a club with bigger going to go to a to a club with bigger history and more money. So So John, history and more money. So So John, before we get to Chelsea United, before we get to Chelsea United, how do you think that sort of clutch of how do you think that sort of clutch of teams in mid table are looking? Is this teams in mid table are looking? Is this sort of just the inevitable economic sort of just the inevitable economic process or is this something slightly process or is this something slightly bigger that is going to cause a few of bigger that is going to cause a few of them problems? them problems? them problems? Well, let's start with Brenford. They're Well, let's start with Brenford. They're the ones that I fear for the most the ones that I fear for the most because well, we aren't going to because well, we aren't going to recognize them from last season. And one recognize them from last season. And one of the reasons we're not going to of the reasons we're not going to recognize him is because Thomas Frank is recognize him is because Thomas Frank is not in charge. Uh and we also have uh a not in charge. Uh and we also have uh a rookie manager in charge, don't we? Um rookie manager in charge, don't we? Um good old Keith uh you know who I've sp good old Keith uh you know who I've sp we probably all spoken to on Irish radio we probably all spoken to on Irish radio uh as Keith Andrews I should say. uh and uh as Keith Andrews I should say. uh and uh they are taking a risk there but they uh they are taking a risk there but they are trusting the process the process are trusting the process the process that Matthew Benham put in uh place when that Matthew Benham put in uh place when he started rebuilding that club and he started rebuilding that club and rebuilt it to being well uh from the bus rebuilt it to being well uh from the bus stop in Houndslow to uh a respected stop in Houndslow to uh a respected Premier League club much admired and Premier League club much admired and unfortunately uh victims of the rather unfortunately uh victims of the rather carrying nature of the Premier League carrying nature of the Premier League which is big clubs pick off smaller which is big clubs pick off smaller clubs players and that's what's clubs players and that's what's happened. and they picked off Thomas happened. and they picked off Thomas Frank who was the frontman uh who who Frank who was the frontman uh who who really I think that there was several really I think that there was several dark periods during Brenford's time in dark periods during Brenford's time in the Premier League over the last four the Premier League over the last four seasons and in each of them it felt like seasons and in each of them it felt like it was Frank that pulled them around it was Frank that pulled them around with his confidence with his man with his confidence with his man management with his tactics that they're management with his tactics that they're the most one of the most innovative the most one of the most innovative managers around they will miss him and managers around they will miss him and they will miss Bran and Bremo they would they will miss Bran and Bremo they would miss Bon Whist if he went and Norard was miss Bon Whist if he went and Norard was a leader for them so I do fear for a leader for them so I do fear for But then again, those at Brenford have But then again, those at Brenford have faith in Phil Jiles, the sporting faith in Phil Jiles, the sporting director, and they have faith in Matthew director, and they have faith in Matthew Benham. So, let's see about them. Benham. So, let's see about them. Brighton, well, Brighton almost are Brighton, well, Brighton almost are impervious to change, aren't they, at impervious to change, aren't they, at this point that, you know, they're used this point that, you know, they're used to selling players. They do change the to selling players. They do change the manager. There is faith there in Fabian manager. There is faith there in Fabian Herzilla. There will be faith there in Herzilla. There will be faith there in the players that are brought in. the players that are brought in. I'll be watching them this weekend I'll be watching them this weekend against Fulham. Fulham, there is some against Fulham. Fulham, there is some concern as you say, Jonathan, it's a concern as you say, Jonathan, it's a good point. Uh, I wonder if those good point. Uh, I wonder if those famously voracious the A3 mob will take famously voracious the A3 mob will take to Joe Pelia Pellinia when he returns to to Joe Pelia Pellinia when he returns to Craven Cottage. Uh, because that was one Craven Cottage. Uh, because that was one that really hurt them. Uh, and but that really hurt them. Uh, and but listen, I'm not sure anyone could say listen, I'm not sure anyone could say don't go to Bayern Munich, but go to don't go to Bayern Munich, but go to Bayern Munich and barely play. That that Bayern Munich and barely play. That that was probably a little bit disappointing. was probably a little bit disappointing. was his injuries as well, we should say, was his injuries as well, we should say, was uh yeah, there was there was more to was uh yeah, there was there was more to it than just him not being quite it than just him not being quite good at he did struggle I think a bit good at he did struggle I think a bit when he did play I think as as far as I when he did play I think as as far as I can understand it. Um that may be to do can understand it. Um that may be to do with the style of play that that um with the style of play that that um Vincent company had had with them but Vincent company had had with them but but Fulham yeah they haven't bought any but Fulham yeah they haven't bought any players. I I wrote the Guardian preview players. I I wrote the Guardian preview for them and uh you had to talk of a for them and uh you had to talk of a star man coming in uh and it was a star man coming in uh and it was a reserve goalkeeper uh LacM who came in. reserve goalkeeper uh LacM who came in. Uh so uh it's a bit of a worry. The Uh so uh it's a bit of a worry. The thing is Marco Silva is a fine manager. thing is Marco Silva is a fine manager. He's a good manager at uh you know He's a good manager at uh you know renovating players but he hasn't really renovating players but he hasn't really been given any place to renovate there. been given any place to renovate there. There's some a lot expected of Josh King There's some a lot expected of Josh King there, but uh I think the fans of the there, but uh I think the fans of the club are entitled to wonder if that club are entitled to wonder if that great big uh big stand, Riverside stand great big uh big stand, Riverside stand has been the focus of the ownership uh has been the focus of the ownership uh and maybe the money's gone in that and maybe the money's gone in that direction. And as I wrote in the piece direction. And as I wrote in the piece on on Fulham, uh I do wonder if treading on on Fulham, uh I do wonder if treading water is a particularly good idea uh in water is a particularly good idea uh in the Premier League. the Premier League. And Jackie, you do you have a point to And Jackie, you do you have a point to make about Pellini there? I was going to make about Pellini there? I was going to say that I think the problem that Pinia say that I think the problem that Pinia had is that he was it was Thomas Tushel had is that he was it was Thomas Tushel who wanted to sign him right in the who wanted to sign him right in the first instance and then uh back when first instance and then uh back when Tushel wanted you know big big proven Tushel wanted you know big big proven Premier League guys and then obviously Premier League guys and then obviously Big Vin comes in and wants to play Big Vin comes in and wants to play possession football and like if you want possession football and like if you want possession if you want to play like you possession if you want to play like you know Guadiola style possession football know Guadiola style possession football you don't really need a guy who runs you don't really need a guy who runs around kicking people and like I love around kicking people and like I love Pellini but he's not he's just not a Pellini but he's not he's just not a stylistic fit for that style of play and stylistic fit for that style of play and I think he got there having been signed I think he got there having been signed signed by Tushaw then all of a sudden signed by Tushaw then all of a sudden company thinks well what I'm what I company thinks well what I'm what I meant to do with this guy you know as meant to do with this guy you know as Pep said I'm not a coach for the tackles Pep said I'm not a coach for the tackles and um Palinia is very much a man for and um Palinia is very much a man for the tackles the tackles the tackles and then you're born this was fascinate and then you're born this was fascinate because you losing three of that very because you losing three of that very good back five include the keeper as good back five include the keeper as part of it that's obviously a big part of it that's obviously a big problem for them the thing I was problem for them the thing I was surprised and and I guess with all these surprised and and I guess with all these clubs it's sort of built into the model clubs it's sort of built into the model they know that they're they're buying to they know that they're they're buying to sell on um you you then have to have a sell on um you you then have to have a very good process and Brighton have been very good process and Brighton have been exceptionally good at this, but it only exceptionally good at this, but it only takes one or two of those deals to go takes one or two of those deals to go wrong and they can be left a bit short. wrong and they can be left a bit short. And I think because levels are so high And I think because levels are so high in the Premier League, you don't have to in the Premier League, you don't have to drop off by very much to suddenly drop drop off by very much to suddenly drop from sort of 10th, 11th, 12th to 15th, from sort of 10th, 11th, 12th to 15th, 16th, 17th. 16th, 17th. 16th, 17th. But the thing that surprised me about But the thing that surprised me about Bournemouth is Dango Wata apparently Bournemouth is Dango Wata apparently wanting to move to Brenford, trying to wanting to move to Brenford, trying to push through a transfer to Brenford, push through a transfer to Brenford, which at best to me seems a a sideways which at best to me seems a a sideways move. John. move. John. move. John. Well, I suppose as someone who's watched Well, I suppose as someone who's watched quite a bit of Bournemouth over the last quite a bit of Bournemouth over the last year or two, uh year or two, uh Harris was pretty much used as a uh Harris was pretty much used as a uh utility player in the team. He played utility player in the team. He played center forward when you remember that center forward when you remember that time that point in the season when they time that point in the season when they were really flying. They didn't have a were really flying. They didn't have a center forward. center forward. center forward. Scored a load of goals. Scored a load of goals. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But um uh what's the Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But um uh what's the Evan Nielson obviously came back into Evan Nielson obviously came back into the team and restored the team and restored shunted to the wing. I think I saw him shunted to the wing. I think I saw him play fullback in one. Uh so maybe play fullback in one. Uh so maybe there's a player that actually wants to there's a player that actually wants to play in his proper position. You could play in his proper position. You could see him slotting straight into Breu's see him slotting straight into Breu's position, couldn't you? So maybe it's position, couldn't you? So maybe it's it's career progression in that fashion it's career progression in that fashion and and you would have thought Brenford and and you would have thought Brenford offering more money. That's that's the offering more money. That's that's the way football goes, doesn't it? That that way football goes, doesn't it? That that might just be uh a decision about money. might just be uh a decision about money. Um but yeah, Bournemouth are an Um but yeah, Bournemouth are an interesting one. Um, I mean Dean Hson, interesting one. Um, I mean Dean Hson, it may well be that in a few years we we it may well be that in a few years we we will sit back and wonder how on earth will sit back and wonder how on earth Bournemouth had this guy for a season, Bournemouth had this guy for a season, you know, because he is he is that you know, because he is he is that talented. Uh, and Zabani uh I think talented. Uh, and Zabani uh I think Chelsea were looking at him as they're Chelsea were looking at him as they're looking at everyone of course uh though looking at everyone of course uh though they don't like to talk about it. Uh uh they don't like to talk about it. Uh uh and um but they they felt that he wasn't and um but they they felt that he wasn't quite up to it. Now he's gone to PSG. uh quite up to it. Now he's gone to PSG. uh Kirz saw play um at uh Wembley Kirz saw play um at uh Wembley yesterday. Uh now people at Bournemouth yesterday. Uh now people at Bournemouth will tell you, "Oh, he's fantastic going will tell you, "Oh, he's fantastic going forward. Defensively, well, I think we forward. Defensively, well, I think we saw maybe a bit of that uh in the saw maybe a bit of that uh in the Community Shield. Um Isa Community Shield. Um Isa had quite a lot of fun against him. Uh had quite a lot of fun against him. Uh but so so B and and Bournemouth are but so so B and and Bournemouth are confident again of of bringing in new confident again of of bringing in new players and and and turning things over. players and and and turning things over. I think maybe the problem with them is I I think maybe the problem with them is I think Iola uh has it might be in the think Iola uh has it might be in the final year of his contract. He sticks to final year of his contract. He sticks to his contracts, but um we'll have to see his contracts, but um we'll have to see whether he's going to stay for longer. A whether he's going to stay for longer. A bit of disappointment there last season. bit of disappointment there last season. I think that they missed out on Europe. I think that they missed out on Europe. Uh it did feel like the goal all year. Uh it did feel like the goal all year. Well, they had a real problem finishing Well, they had a real problem finishing off games, didn't I? I remember the game off games, didn't I? I remember the game at Spurs where they they really were the at Spurs where they they really were the better side should have won and end up better side should have won and end up drawing. But so we we've sort of looked drawing. But so we we've sort of looked at the the sort of the the sort of at the the sort of stepping stone clubs, but Jack, how how stepping stone clubs, but Jack, how how do you think Manchester United are do you think Manchester United are shaping up this season? I know I know we shaping up this season? I know I know we talked about Manchester United a lot a talked about Manchester United a lot a couple of weeks ago, so let's not go couple of weeks ago, so let's not go into this in too much detail, but it into this in too much detail, but it seems to me that Benjamin actually does seems to me that Benjamin actually does make quite a difference to their make quite a difference to their attacking options, but probably still a attacking options, but probably still a bit short of the back of midfield. bit short of the back of midfield. Yeah, I mean better. I think I think Yeah, I mean better. I think I think they've bought three, you know, they they've bought three, you know, they maybe they've overpaid, but they've maybe they've overpaid, but they've bought three established good proven bought three established good proven players in Kuny, Bemo, and Cesco, um who players in Kuny, Bemo, and Cesco, um who I think are better than the players I think are better than the players they're replacing. You know, we could they're replacing. You know, we could argue all day about whether they paid argue all day about whether they paid more than market value for them. Um, I more than market value for them. Um, I think there's still huge problems in the think there's still huge problems in the squad. I mean, I think that do do they squad. I mean, I think that do do they have one central midfielder who can play have one central midfielder who can play who can do the amount of who can play who can do the amount of running you need to do to be to play in running you need to do to be to play in a two in that system? Like, you need a two in that system? Like, you need unbelievable athletes in there. unbelievable athletes in there. I mean, Ugate is meant to be the one, I mean, Ugate is meant to be the one, isn't he? But we didn't see that at all isn't he? But we didn't see that at all last season. And and he looked very last season. And and he looked very shaky. Was it the Everton game in the um shaky. Was it the Everton game in the um summer series or whatever it's called summer series or whatever it's called when he had a had a shocker? when he had a had a shocker? So I think they need more I think they So I think they need more in midfield, more at wing back need more in midfield, more at wing back both sides probably more in the back both sides probably more in the back three as well. And I'm not sure about three as well. And I'm not sure about the goalkeeper, but with the front line the goalkeeper, but with the front line they've done okay. they've done okay. Well, is it not that Well, is it not that recruitment teams these days seem to go recruitment teams these days seem to go first attackers, don't they? That first attackers, don't they? That appears to be the way that it goes. the appears to be the way that it goes. the the the the solution in the Premier the the the solution in the Premier League for a long time was actually League for a long time was actually defenders in the Premier League aren't defenders in the Premier League aren't very good. If you've got good attackers, very good. If you've got good attackers, you you're halfway there. And that's you you're halfway there. And that's maybe the solution for uh surviving maybe the solution for uh surviving relegation. It's it's also the solution relegation. It's it's also the solution for for rising up the top. Whether it's for for rising up the top. Whether it's solution for being the best, well, that solution for being the best, well, that that's a different question. But I mean, that's a different question. But I mean, I'm not saying you're wrong here, John, I'm not saying you're wrong here, John, but it's it's such a strange thing to to but it's it's such a strange thing to to hear said when for so much of our hear said when for so much of our childhoods, it was always, oh, you build childhoods, it was always, oh, you build from a back. And you'd also think I from a back. And you'd also think I mean, I remember Jen Klopp uh alluded to mean, I remember Jen Klopp uh alluded to this after Liverpool had drawn nil nil this after Liverpool had drawn nil nil against Bayern, when was this uh must be against Bayern, when was this uh must be six years ago now, and he was talking six years ago now, and he was talking about the game taking on a more about the game taking on a more defensive aspect. And I think we have defensive aspect. And I think we have seen goals per game, particularly in seen goals per game, particularly in Europe, have have dropped to an extent. Europe, have have dropped to an extent. You'd think that people would look at You'd think that people would look at that and maybe Burnley are trying to do that and maybe Burnley are trying to do that this season and said, "Well, where that this season and said, "Well, where can we give ourselves a competitive can we give ourselves a competitive advantage? If other teams aren't advantage? If other teams aren't defending, we can be the one who defending, we can be the one who defends." And yeah, I Burnley's defense defends." And yeah, I Burnley's defense last season obviously was accepted. last season obviously was accepted. Whether that can be replicated in the Whether that can be replicated in the Premier League, I don't know. But what Premier League, I don't know. But what why do you think that has flipped, John? why do you think that has flipped, John? Well, as I say, I I I I think uh Well, as I say, I I I I think uh defenders are asked to do a lot more defenders are asked to do a lot more than mere defending, aren't they? That's than mere defending, aren't they? That's that's part of it. So, they're supposed that's part of it. So, they're supposed to be multi-disipline. That obviously to be multi-disipline. That obviously means that they don't concentrate as means that they don't concentrate as much on the actual defensive rigor of much on the actual defensive rigor of the game. Uh, and also, let's face it, the game. Uh, and also, let's face it, the refereeing of the game is a much the refereeing of the game is a much more in favor of the attacker than it more in favor of the attacker than it used to be. Um, used to be. Um, can you see the likes of Steve Bruce, can you see the likes of Steve Bruce, you know, Neil Ruddock or uh or who who you know, Neil Ruddock or uh or who who were good high quality players of their were good high quality players of their time uh and also good footballers as time uh and also good footballers as well, you know, both could play could well, you know, both could play could play a bit uh setting aside fitness play a bit uh setting aside fitness issues. the way they played the game issues. the way they played the game that real hard how many how many proper that real hard how many how many proper hard defenders are I mean Jack's watched hard defenders are I mean Jack's watched Christian Romero is considered probably Christian Romero is considered probably like the the hard man of the Premier like the the hard man of the Premier League but he gets sent off a lot League but he gets sent off a lot because you cannot play at the very edge because you cannot play at the very edge like that anymore and I do think that's like that anymore and I do think that's how it it favors attackers and maybe how it it favors attackers and maybe maybe just scouts just get much more maybe just scouts just get much more excited uh and and and and big execs and excited uh and and and and big execs and you know do billionaires that own you know do billionaires that own football clubs football clubs football clubs prefer to sign big strikers than a you prefer to sign big strikers than a you know anchor midfielder like Jao Palinia know anchor midfielder like Jao Palinia or someone apart from Daniel Lee who you or someone apart from Daniel Lee who you know sees that as a great deal. know sees that as a great deal. I mean I don't know if this is a I mean I don't know if this is a a helpful example but Liverpool signed a helpful example but Liverpool signed Firmino Manet and Salah before they Firmino Manet and Salah before they signed Van Djk and Allison. Like Van Djk signed Van Djk and Allison. Like Van Djk and Allison were the last two pieces of and Allison were the last two pieces of that jigsaw. that jigsaw. that jigsaw. Sure. Sure. Sure. And they and they got the top attacking And they and they got the top attacking players in first. I mean, it's just a players in first. I mean, it's just a theory, but might it be the case that theory, but might it be the case that people think to a certain extent you can people think to a certain extent you can if if if the team is well structured if if if the team is well structured defensively, you can get to a certain defensively, you can get to a certain level with average players before you level with average players before you add in the absolute brilliant ones. If add in the absolute brilliant ones. If you don't have good attackers, you're you don't have good attackers, you're just not going to score goals and you're just not going to score goals and you're never going to be competitive. So from never going to be competitive. So from from a sort of Amarim's Man United from a sort of Amarim's Man United standpoint, even if the defensive standpoint, even if the defensive players aren't very good, we saw last players aren't very good, we saw last year the the limit we've seen for ages year the the limit we've seen for ages really the limitations if all your really the limitations if all your attackers are not good enough. But at attackers are not good enough. But at least now they've brought in three. If least now they've brought in three. If they've brought in three three they've brought in three three goalcoring players who can who can make goalcoring players who can who can make an impact from day one, then that might an impact from day one, then that might at least buy them the breathing room to at least buy them the breathing room to then go and get exactly, you know, to go then go and get exactly, you know, to go and get the the round pegs for the round and get the the round pegs for the round holes in the rest of the team. And holes in the rest of the team. And it's also an entertainment franchise as it's also an entertainment franchise as well, isn't it? Let's remember that like well, isn't it? Let's remember that like fans fans fans fans and by shirts want to watch these fans and by shirts want to watch these guys that you know they want to watch a guys that you know they want to watch a Cesco they want to watch a Kuna Cesco they want to watch a Kuna again they don't really want to watch a again they don't really want to watch a Palinia as good a play listen Palini I Palinia as good a play listen Palini I thought when he was at Fulham was one of thought when he was at Fulham was one of the best players in the Premier League the best players in the Premier League uh and yet pe most people wouldn't know uh and yet pe most people wouldn't know who he was but that's not how it works who he was but that's not how it works is it this is the Premier League in 2025 is it this is the Premier League in 2025 I I think you're right I think there is I I think you're right I think there is a low boredom threshold told from fans a low boredom threshold told from fans that it's fine if you're winning but if that it's fine if you're winning but if you're boring and not winning they will you're boring and not winning they will turn and you vanal found that we all turn and you vanal found that we all lose that earlier lose that earlier and somebody else he found that was Enzo and somebody else he found that was Enzo Moresca last season and suddenly Chelsea Moresca last season and suddenly Chelsea come back into this season and they're come back into this season and they're they're world champions they're world champions very impressive beating Milan yesterday very impressive beating Milan yesterday they're fourth favorites I think for the they're fourth favorites I think for the league Jack league Jack league Jack do we think that do do we think that's do we think that do do we think that's realistic or are they a bit better than realistic or are they a bit better than that how How how do you assess them? that how How how do you assess them? Well, it's weird, isn't it? Because I Well, it's weird, isn't it? Because I think so many people made their made up think so many people made their made up their minds about Moretska's Chelsea their minds about Moretska's Chelsea kind of early on, probably me included. kind of early on, probably me included. But the way, you know, it's kind it's But the way, you know, it's kind it's very difficult to argue with anything very difficult to argue with anything they've done really in the last they've done really in the last basically this calendar year, you know, basically this calendar year, you know, they they turned around their league they they turned around their league form and came fourth. They after, you form and came fourth. They after, you know, having that really bad wobble in know, having that really bad wobble in January, February, they turned around January, February, they turned around their league form, they came forth, they their league form, they came forth, they won the Conference League, and they won won the Conference League, and they won the Club World Cup. And on top of that, the Club World Cup. And on top of that, they've now added what? Jiao Pedro, they've now added what? Jiao Pedro, Gitens, Estvau, Dilap. Gitens, Estvau, Dilap. So, tons more tons more firepower and a So, tons more tons more firepower and a team that wasn't exactly short of team that wasn't exactly short of firepower in the first place. Um, I firepower in the first place. Um, I mean, instinctively I'd say they're not mean, instinctively I'd say they're not as good as the big three, City, as good as the big three, City, Liverpool, Arsenal, but I don't actually Liverpool, Arsenal, but I don't actually know. Like, I don't actually know how I know. Like, I don't actually know how I don't know how good they would be over don't know how good they would be over over the 38 game season. Like, I think over the 38 game season. Like, I think it's I mean, I think the robustness of it's I mean, I think the robustness of the big three is sort of proven by now. the big three is sort of proven by now. Uh, and I just I guess that's re this is Uh, and I just I guess that's re this is probably really one of the big uns probably really one of the big uns can't know the answer to at this point can't know the answer to at this point is the is the the the consistent is the is the is the the the consistent is the consistency and robustness of this consistency and robustness of this Chelsea team like can they can because Chelsea team like can they can because if they can do it to their if they can do it to their top level week in week out then of top level week in week out then of course they can win the league. I had course they can win the league. I had this sort of sense last season sort of this sort of sense last season sort of because they had that very very good run because they had that very very good run going through the sort of late autumn going through the sort of late autumn early part of the winter when it's early part of the winter when it's suddenly hang on what why would they not suddenly hang on what why would they not be title challenges and you look at the be title challenges and you look at the squad and you think the squad's squad and you think the squad's incredible they've got depth everywhere incredible they've got depth everywhere left back maybe not the one position left back maybe not the one position where they're a bit short I'm not sure where they're a bit short I'm not sure it's an area where they're particularly it's an area where they're particularly looking Levi Cwell being injured maybe looking Levi Cwell being injured maybe gives them a a slight shortfall in the gives them a a slight shortfall in the middle at the back it seems they're middle at the back it seems they're going after Javi Javy Simmons which going after Javi Javy Simmons which seems an expensive player in a position seems an expensive player in a position where they already seem to have a lot. where they already seem to have a lot. Yeah, with with Netto and with Kittens, Yeah, with with Netto and with Kittens, but you maybe they they see a role for but you maybe they they see a role for him that's not on the on the left side. him that's not on the on the left side. He's more could play more in a center, He's more could play more in a center, can't he? Simmons, you would have can't he? Simmons, you would have thought. thought. thought. Well, he can play either. Yeah, but so Well, he can play either. Yeah, but so maybe he's back up to Cole Palmer, but maybe he's back up to Cole Palmer, but that seems a lot of money to spend for that seems a lot of money to spend for somebody to do that. But again, maybe if somebody to do that. But again, maybe if you're looking at a squad, you say there you're looking at a squad, you say there is Cole Palmer. Is there anybody else is Cole Palmer. Is there anybody else who can operate in that that number 10 who can operate in that that number 10 role? Maybe there isn't. So, they role? Maybe there isn't. So, they clearly they've worked the PSR in some clearly they've worked the PSR in some way that they still have money to spend. way that they still have money to spend. Um I think the the midfield at three I Um I think the the midfield at three I mean Reese James played really well in mean Reese James played really well in that three in the club World Cup but I that three in the club World Cup but I would assume he'll return to the back would assume he'll return to the back four in ideal terms but it's good that four in ideal terms but it's good that you they've got him as cover but to have you they've got him as cover but to have Lavia and Kaisedo and Enzo Fernandez Lavia and Kaisedo and Enzo Fernandez that's a really sort of solid difficult that's a really sort of solid difficult three to get through that's going to three to get through that's going to give them a bit of solidity there as give them a bit of solidity there as well as the technical quality they all well as the technical quality they all have particularly Enzo you know I I I'm have particularly Enzo you know I I I'm I'm struggling to work out why I decided I'm struggling to work out why I decided they couldn't win the league because it they couldn't win the league because it looks like a league winning squad. And I looks like a league winning squad. And I think a lot of the problems they had think a lot of the problems they had last season, a lot of dissatisfaction last season, a lot of dissatisfaction Chelsea fans had would actually have Chelsea fans had would actually have been solved if he just taken chances. been solved if he just taken chances. And I I don't want to sort of turn this And I I don't want to sort of turn this into slagging off Nicholas Jackson into slagging off Nicholas Jackson because I think he's been in many ways a because I think he's been in many ways a victim of of the Chelsea project that he victim of of the Chelsea project that he you know he was brought in he played 16 you know he was brought in he played 16 games in La Liga and you sight you're games in La Liga and you sight you're the first choice center forward for a the first choice center forward for a Premier League team who expects to be in Premier League team who expects to be in the Champions League. It was nonsense. the Champions League. It was nonsense. He has to learn uh from somebody and he He has to learn uh from somebody and he was given nobody to learn from. He was was given nobody to learn from. He was he was exposed. You saw his confidence he was exposed. You saw his confidence go. There was that moment in the club go. There was that moment in the club World Cup final in the second half after World Cup final in the second half after you come off a bench when he was clean you come off a bench when he was clean through. Clearly the right thing to do through. Clearly the right thing to do was just just check square it. Colomb was just just check square it. Colomb has a tap in that it's 4-0 and the game has a tap in that it's 4-0 and the game is I mean it was done and dusted anyway is I mean it was done and dusted anyway was absolutely done and dusted and was absolutely done and dusted and there's obviously something in his brain there's obviously something in his brain saying I have to score I have to prove saying I have to score I have to prove myself and he drags a shot in the side myself and he drags a shot in the side netting. I think there was some talk netting. I think there was some talk that he might be an option off for left, that he might be an option off for left, but I mean obviously that's that's now but I mean obviously that's that's now gone with with Gitens coming in, gone with with Gitens coming in, but I I I just think Shia Pedro and uh but I I I just think Shia Pedro and uh Lindlap are both significant upgrades on Lindlap are both significant upgrades on on Nicholas Jackson. And if they if the on Nicholas Jackson. And if they if the domination they often have in games domination they often have in games results in in going one nil up in the results in in going one nil up in the first 20 minutes, half hour, suddenly first 20 minutes, half hour, suddenly the nature of the game changes, the the nature of the game changes, the opposition has to come out more, there's opposition has to come out more, there's more space, they can pick that off. The more space, they can pick that off. The fans aren't frustrated that, okay, fans aren't frustrated that, okay, nothing's happening, but we're one nil nothing's happening, but we're one nil up. I I just think that if you look at up. I I just think that if you look at the underlying stats, they're actually the underlying stats, they're actually much healthier last season than a lot of much healthier last season than a lot of the the mood around Chelsea. So John, I the the mood around Chelsea. So John, I don't I don't know. Um do you want to don't I don't know. Um do you want to mount defend Nicholas Jackson? I don't mount defend Nicholas Jackson? I don't know what the question is from that, but know what the question is from that, but No, no, I was I was going to say we No, no, I was I was going to say we talked of the the the summer of 2016. talked of the the the summer of 2016. Well, who won the title after that? Well, who won the title after that? After this great big, you know, uh After this great big, you know, uh revolutionary summer, it was a Chelsea revolutionary summer, it was a Chelsea team that came through uh and won the team that came through uh and won the title under Antonio K. I think last title under Antonio K. I think last season there was a lot of doubt in Enzo season there was a lot of doubt in Enzo Moresco, wasn't there? There was this Moresco, wasn't there? There was this idea that he could only play one style idea that he could only play one style of play. of play. of play. I'm not sure that's changed. I think I'm not sure that's changed. I think that one of the problems with Moresca is that one of the problems with Moresca is it's a fairly prescriptive style. We've it's a fairly prescriptive style. We've seen the outbursts he's had in public seen the outbursts he's had in public over certain players saying if he does over certain players saying if he does that again, I think it was to Enzo, that again, I think it was to Enzo, wasn't it? You know, if he does that wasn't it? You know, if he does that again, he'll come off the pitch and you again, he'll come off the pitch and you wonder whether he has the measure of wonder whether he has the measure of that team. Now listen, you can't argue that team. Now listen, you can't argue with the fact that he's won the with the fact that he's won the Conference League and the Club World Conference League and the Club World Cup. I mean, that's that's a great hall. Cup. I mean, that's that's a great hall. Uh I would suggest that there may be a Uh I would suggest that there may be a bit of defensive weakness there. Uh I bit of defensive weakness there. Uh I think yesterday was it tossin added by think yesterday was it tossin added by uh played in uh center half and Trevor uh played in uh center half and Trevor Chalaba that's not the greatest center Chalaba that's not the greatest center half partnership I think Levi Cole will half partnership I think Levi Cole will be missed as you said Jonathan be missed as you said Jonathan Fano will be back won't he Fano will be back won't he for well well yeah for well well yeah will I mean how much will I mean how much yeah yeah yeah yeah James again no yeah yeah yeah yeah James again no nobody doubts Ree James talent nobody doubts Ree James talent uh some of us may doubt his fitness uh uh some of us may doubt his fitness uh and that may be where it it comes apart. and that may be where it it comes apart. But Moresca, it's funny, isn't it? Has But Moresca, it's funny, isn't it? Has he won over that Chelsea support? he won over that Chelsea support? Because whenever I went to the bridge Because whenever I went to the bridge last season, I felt there was a lot of last season, I felt there was a lot of doubt within the support there in him. doubt within the support there in him. Uh but he he's come through for the Uh but he he's come through for the club. It's whether he can develop that club. It's whether he can develop that affection that certain managers, you affection that certain managers, you know, K was idolized for a while, Carlo know, K was idolized for a while, Carlo obviously, Jose Mourinho, whether he can obviously, Jose Mourinho, whether he can he can get that connection with the he can get that connection with the fans. And it may require a more fans. And it may require a more expansive style of play. And do you know expansive style of play. And do you know what Chelsea have that have the players what Chelsea have that have the players to do that it's whether he lets the to do that it's whether he lets the leash off a little bit. leash off a little bit. I mean I think what really helped him I mean I think what really helped him was that Club World Cup final. It was so was that Club World Cup final. It was so clearly a tactical triumph for him. clearly a tactical triumph for him. Yes. Yes. Yes. Which brings us to our second big Which brings us to our second big question which is the club world cup and question which is the club world cup and what hangover will there be for Chelsea? what hangover will there be for Chelsea? Maybe also for City. Obviously they went Maybe also for City. Obviously they went out earlier. The calendar fatigue Jack I out earlier. The calendar fatigue Jack I mean have you any sense of where Chelsea mean have you any sense of where Chelsea and City are? how they think the and City are? how they think the season's going to go. I know they've season's going to go. I know they've both had uh restricted preseasons, which both had uh restricted preseasons, which maybe means they start slower, but or maybe means they start slower, but or maybe means they start quicker. I I I maybe means they start quicker. I I I don't know. I I feel it'll have an don't know. I I feel it'll have an impact. I just can't work out what it impact. I just can't work out what it is. is. is. Yeah, it could be. I mean it could it Yeah, it could be. I mean it could it could it could be it could impact the could it could be it could impact the start or I guess in could it could it start or I guess in could it could it theoretically impact the back end of the theoretically impact the back end of the season like if they've maybe they'll season like if they've maybe they'll start quicker and then by you know after start quicker and then by you know after a while the fact they only had a 3we a while the fact they only had a 3we break where they're competing against break where they're competing against teams who had a much longer break um teams who had a much longer break um through June and the start of July maybe through June and the start of July maybe that's the point that it starts to bite that's the point that it starts to bite I don't know I mean I think I think with I don't know I mean I think I think with a lot of these kind of injury fitness a lot of these kind of injury fitness schedule fatigue related issues schedule fatigue related issues We're, you know, I think everybody's We're, you know, I think everybody's learning a bit, not least the teams and learning a bit, not least the teams and the and the players themselves. But what the and the players themselves. But what what I think has been increasingly clear what I think has been increasingly clear in the last, I think the last year or in the last, I think the last year or two, I think, is that the players simply two, I think, is that the players simply players and teams cannot keep up with players and teams cannot keep up with the work, the combination of the the work, the combination of the workload that they have to do and the workload that they have to do and the football that they want to play. They football that they want to play. They want to play a style of football which I want to play a style of football which I think in the main is unsustainable. And think in the main is unsustainable. And I think I I remember saying on this I think I I remember saying on this podcast podcast podcast uh towards the end of last season that I uh towards the end of last season that I think this is my theory as to why Anna think this is my theory as to why Anna Slot succeeded so much Liverpool is that Slot succeeded so much Liverpool is that Slot built a way of playing that was Slot built a way of playing that was repeatable twice a week that didn't repeatable twice a week that didn't injure his players that gave his players injure his players that gave his players a bit more downtime a bit more downtime um that wasn't trying to crank the um that wasn't trying to crank the intensity lever to 11 every single week intensity lever to 11 every single week because I think that the teams who have because I think that the teams who have tried to crank the lever non-stop up in tried to crank the lever non-stop up in the last year or so have actually found the last year or so have actually found that the lever's broken and that the that the lever's broken and that the players can't do it. You know, we saw players can't do it. You know, we saw the huge injury crises that various the huge injury crises that various teams have had last season, not at least teams have had last season, not at least Tottenham and Arsenal, Tottenham and Arsenal, Newcastle, Bournemouth Newcastle, Bournemouth Newcastle, Bournemouth team, you know, they want to teams want team, you know, they want to teams want to play with intensity. Of course they to play with intensity. Of course they do. Like physical intensity has been one do. Like physical intensity has been one of the biggest the biggest single trends of the biggest the biggest single trends in the last sort of 10 years. But I in the last sort of 10 years. But I think that modern I think that the think that modern I think that the workload on the players basically since workload on the players basically since they came back after COVID so that's they came back after COVID so that's what June July 2020 in the last 5 years what June July 2020 in the last 5 years the workload has been so intense and is the workload has been so intense and is not and is only getting more intense not and is only getting more intense that I I do think that in some form or that I I do think that in some form or another this particular issue will be another this particular issue will be one of the decisive factors in this one of the decisive factors in this season. season. season. So John I guess that can go you there's So John I guess that can go you there's two ways of dealing with that. You two ways of dealing with that. You either have an incredibly deep squad or either have an incredibly deep squad or you you as Jack says you you you find a you you as Jack says you you you find a system where you can control games system where you can control games without going hell or leather 100 miles without going hell or leather 100 miles an hour an hour an hour and that's another thing that makes me and that's another thing that makes me sort of just think maybe Chelsea can do sort of just think maybe Chelsea can do this because Moresca Moresca football is this because Moresca Moresca football is not 100 miles an hour and they have a not 100 miles an hour and they have a massively deep squad. I mean which which massively deep squad. I mean which which of those do you think will will be of those do you think will will be decisive? Do you think teams will learn decisive? Do you think teams will learn from slot last season? Well, I I was from slot last season? Well, I I was going to say that of the two that went going to say that of the two that went to the Club World Cup, Chelsea, despite to the Club World Cup, Chelsea, despite going further in the competition, are going further in the competition, are better equipped to deal with it. I also better equipped to deal with it. I also have memories uh of teams that were have memories uh of teams that were playing early in the season for say playing early in the season for say maybe even back to the days of the Inter maybe even back to the days of the Inter Toto Cup or whatever. They would start Toto Cup or whatever. They would start brightly to the season because they were brightly to the season because they were into their rhythm and then would peg out into their rhythm and then would peg out sometimes around, you know, November, sometimes around, you know, November, December because they were they were December because they were they were tired. uh it probably in the days of tired. uh it probably in the days of smaller squads uh as we've spoken about smaller squads uh as we've spoken about previously on the par I I fear for previously on the par I I fear for Manchester City's ability Manchester City's ability well this season because we just don't well this season because we just don't again there's a great unknown about them again there's a great unknown about them isn't there there's an unknown about isn't there there's an unknown about certain players Rangers Chery whether certain players Rangers Chery whether we'll see the new Phil a revive Phil we'll see the new Phil a revive Phil Foden the the the team that we saw at Foden the the the team that we saw at the club world cup briefly looked like the club world cup briefly looked like it could be very very good and then fell it could be very very good and then fell apart apart apart Uh yeah, it's Uh yeah, it's there was this talk, wasn't there, of there was this talk, wasn't there, of micro doing training where they're micro doing training where they're barely doing anything and just basically barely doing anything and just basically keeping their levels up. It's going to keeping their levels up. It's going to be an experiment for all of them. It's be an experiment for all of them. It's probably been on Pep Guardiola's mind as probably been on Pep Guardiola's mind as so much is over the summer. We're just so much is over the summer. We're just going to have to see w with both of going to have to see w with both of them. But I do think Chelsea are better them. But I do think Chelsea are better equipped. And do you know what? There's equipped. And do you know what? There's a lot of confidence around Chelsea that a lot of confidence around Chelsea that there perhaps isn't around City. there perhaps isn't around City. Well, with that thought, as to make sure Well, with that thought, as to make sure we don't become fatigued, to make sure we don't become fatigued, to make sure we don't end at the red zone, let's have we don't end at the red zone, let's have a break and we'll come back in the a break and we'll come back in the second half and deal with questions second half and deal with questions three to five. We'll see you then. Welcome back to the second half of Libro Welcome back to the second half of Libro 43. I'm with Jack Pitbrook and John Per 43. I'm with Jack Pitbrook and John Per and I'm still Jonathan Wilson. And I and I'm still Jonathan Wilson. And I think the big theme of this summer has think the big theme of this summer has been the return of number nine. been the return of number nine. Everybody is hunting strikers. We've Everybody is hunting strikers. We've seen Guckus, Chesco, Each, Victor seen Guckus, Chesco, Each, Victor Osamemen, Ollie Watkins has been linked Osamemen, Ollie Watkins has been linked with various clubs. So it suddenly feels with various clubs. So it suddenly feels that strikers are are popular again. that strikers are are popular again. Jack, is number nine back? And if so, Jack, is number nine back? And if so, why? why? why? Yeah. Uh I mean, as far as I can tell, Yeah. Uh I mean, as far as I can tell, it's never number nine's never gone it's never number nine's never gone away. Um, what I was hoping was that away. Um, what I was hoping was that this would be more of the um I guess the this would be more of the um I guess the question really is is this uh big man question really is is this uh big man summer cuz big man summer is Woot Worst. summer cuz big man summer is Woot Worst. It's Nicholas Fulkrug who sadly sadly It's Nicholas Fulkrug who sadly sadly has not made as much of an impact as I has not made as much of an impact as I was hoping for so far at West Ham United was hoping for so far at West Ham United but there still this year but there still this year he did score in the uh series. He's he did score in the uh series. He's looked quite good in over the sore I'm looked quite good in over the sore I'm tell tell tell friend of the show Salomon Rondon friend of the show Salomon Rondon who I'm still hoping may yet come back who I'm still hoping may yet come back to the Premier League this summer could to the Premier League this summer could be if Newcastle United are getting be if Newcastle United are getting really desperate at the end of the really desperate at the end of the window we could see another Premier window we could see another Premier League stint for for Rondon no League stint for for Rondon no who is he playing for at the club world who is he playing for at the club world cup was it was it Puka cup was it was it Puka he was definitely at the club world cup he was definitely at the club world cup I think isn't he back in SP I thought I think isn't he back in SP I thought he's at a sort of small La Liga team he's at a sort of small La Liga team rail ovo. No, on loan from Pichuka. rail ovo. No, on loan from Pichuka. Raedo on loan from Pachuka. Nailed it. Raedo on loan from Pachuka. Nailed it. Nice stuff. Nailed it. Well done. Nice stuff. Nailed it. Well done. His his birthday is uh Oh, hang on. I His his birthday is uh Oh, hang on. I know this. It's the 16th. It's he shares know this. It's the 16th. It's he shares a birth with Neville Southall. I think a birth with Neville Southall. I think it's the 16th of September. it's the 16th of September. Does he share an age with Neville South? Does he share an age with Neville South? I mean, he has been around a bit, I mean, he has been around a bit, but but White's getting a bit close as but but White's getting a bit close as well these days. well these days. Yeah, actually. It'd be good to see Yeah, actually. It'd be good to see Neville South back actually in the Neville South back actually in the Premier League, wouldn't it? Premier League, wouldn't it? a role for big nef but I think so I think it's sadly we're but I think so I think it's sadly we're not quite I mean it's not quite the sort not quite I mean it's not quite the sort of uh woot woot wear summer but I do of uh woot woot wear summer but I do think it is interesting that think I do think it is interesting that one of the defining characteristics of a one of the defining characteristics of a lot of these guys not all of them but is lot of these guys not all of them but is is physicality like you know I think is physicality like you know I think Cesco will be physical joz ideally will Cesco will be physical joz ideally will be physical dilap is certainly very be physical dilap is certainly very physical Cool. Um, and I was just physical Cool. Um, and I was just thinking like this is one of those thinking like this is one of those situations where it's you can identify situations where it's you can identify the phenomenon, but it's kind of more the phenomenon, but it's kind of more interesting to identify the cause. And interesting to identify the cause. And I've been talking to a few uh people I I've been talking to a few uh people I speak to who work in football. And the speak to who work in football. And the best theory I heard from them is that best theory I heard from them is that center backs nowadays are so physical center backs nowadays are so physical like because you have to, you know, if like because you have to, you know, if you're going to play a high line, for you're going to play a high line, for example, you need very athletic center example, you need very athletic center backs to cover the space. center backs backs to cover the space. center backs are so physical that you need a physical are so physical that you need a physical center forward basically because center forward basically because otherwise your center like a nippy otherwise your center like a nippy little center forward might not get little center forward might not get anything out of them. Uh but if you you anything out of them. Uh but if you you you know if you're going to win anything you know if you're going to win anything in the box or win those 50/50s then in the box or win those 50/50s then maybe you do need a big guy maybe you do need a big guy uh in in order to get any kind of uh in in order to get any kind of physical edge. So perhaps that perhaps physical edge. So perhaps that perhaps that explains why people want the kind that explains why people want the kind of dilap type model. And the one player of dilap type model. And the one player I didn't mention there was Ekit. Now I didn't mention there was Ekit. Now John, you saw him yesterday in the John, you saw him yesterday in the flesh. Now I've been led to believe from flesh. Now I've been led to believe from people who watch him regularly in people who watch him regularly in Germany who's a bit raw. That didn't Germany who's a bit raw. That didn't look a raw player at all to me. Some of look a raw player at all to me. Some of his touches were incredible. His his touches were incredible. His movement was really good. Took his goal movement was really good. Took his goal incredibly well. And I think he's a incredibly well. And I think he's a great example of what the number nine great example of what the number nine has become. I mean, I'm not saying he's has become. I mean, I'm not saying he's absolutely a finished product yet, but absolutely a finished product yet, but he seemed a lot more finished than I've he seemed a lot more finished than I've been led to believe. But I think if you been led to believe. But I think if you if you go back to sort of the 80s and if you go back to sort of the 80s and you had the the the classic strike you had the the the classic strike partnership, uh you know, and it would partnership, uh you know, and it would always be the finisher and the creator always be the finisher and the creator or the finisher and the target man. And or the finisher and the target man. And it seems with modern number nine, the it seems with modern number nine, the best ones have elements of all three of best ones have elements of all three of those. They're finishers, they're those. They're finishers, they're poachers, they find space in the box, poachers, they find space in the box, they can also work for channels, they're they can also work for channels, they're also good in the air. I mean, Chesco's also good in the air. I mean, Chesco's 6'5 but lightning fast. Erling Holland 6'5 but lightning fast. Erling Holland already in the Premier League is massive already in the Premier League is massive and really fast. Ekit is massive and and really fast. Ekit is massive and really fast. Isak I mean he's 6'4. He really fast. Isak I mean he's 6'4. He doesn't look 6'4 the way he moves. He's doesn't look 6'4 the way he moves. He's got such grace and fluency. But yeah, got such grace and fluency. But yeah, he's 6'4. he's 6'4. he's 6'4. So they're good in the air, but that So they're good in the air, but that doesn't mean they're sort of slightly doesn't mean they're sort of slightly lumbering figures who have to be sort lumbering figures who have to be sort of, you know, it takes sort of a squad of, you know, it takes sort of a squad of 16 to rumble them up to the back post of 16 to rumble them up to the back post and then you knock the ball into them. and then you knock the ball into them. They they are these incredibly complete They they are these incredibly complete very rare figures and it suddenly seems very rare figures and it suddenly seems every decided well Holland works in the every decided well Holland works in the Premier League for a top side. There's Premier League for a top side. There's no sense of you needing to link with the no sense of you needing to link with the midfield in the way I think we'd thought midfield in the way I think we'd thought a top number nine had to you can have a a top number nine had to you can have a more orthodox figure albeit the sort of more orthodox figure albeit the sort of this souped up orthodox figure where this souped up orthodox figure where you're taking in the this sort of you're taking in the this sort of composite role. But John, you saw echk, composite role. But John, you saw echk, how do you rate him? And and do you how do you rate him? And and do you think that's a fair assessment of where think that's a fair assessment of where the number nine's going? the number nine's going? Yeah. Yeah. And I when you mentioned Yeah. Yeah. And I when you mentioned rawness, couple of raw finishes maybe rawness, couple of raw finishes maybe there. Uh there was a header that missed there. Uh there was a header that missed and then uh Kirk has created a chance and then uh Kirk has created a chance for him that he smashed wide that you for him that he smashed wide that you thought, you know, if that had fallen to thought, you know, if that had fallen to Mohamed Salah who actually was not on Mohamed Salah who actually was not on anyone's wave and in that game, uh you anyone's wave and in that game, uh you would expected to go in. Um yeah and and would expected to go in. Um yeah and and Ekit did a lot of dropping deep you know Ekit did a lot of dropping deep you know uh working with um it worked uh working with um it worked particularly well uh with Floren Vertz particularly well uh with Floren Vertz which was a good start for Liverpool which was a good start for Liverpool because of course another thing is we because of course another thing is we sort of almost seen the rebirth of the sort of almost seen the rebirth of the number 10 haven't we that that come in number 10 haven't we that that come in there that these playmakers because there that these playmakers because you've got Cole Palm you've got Floren you've got Cole Palm you've got Floren Vertz and you know you would expect Vertz and you know you would expect other teams to to to mirror that when other teams to to to mirror that when Jack's talking about physical defenders Jack's talking about physical defenders you're talking about all speedy you're talking about all speedy defenders, aren't you? The, you know, defenders, aren't you? The, you know, you look at your average center half. you look at your average center half. Um, there are very few of your Robert Um, there are very few of your Robert Roberto Ayalas around these days, are Roberto Ayalas around these days, are there? The 5'10, the the Pasarella there? The 5'10, the the Pasarella players or whatever. They are big units. players or whatever. They are big units. Um, and yeah, they're very, very quick. Um, and yeah, they're very, very quick. Um, it it it feels to me that Um, it it it feels to me that here's a question for you. Well, maybe a here's a question for you. Well, maybe a question for you, Jonathan. Uh and and question for you, Jonathan. Uh and and in so in so often over the years, over in so in so often over the years, over the recent years, we've watched these the recent years, we've watched these wingers that cut inside. Yeah, they cut wingers that cut inside. Yeah, they cut inside. It's pre presumably the inside. It's pre presumably the statisticians have worked out you're statisticians have worked out you're going to be more effective if you cut going to be more effective if you cut inside and you shoot uh than if you just inside and you shoot uh than if you just cross it because the cross is cleared cross it because the cross is cleared more often than not. But are we going to more often than not. But are we going to see a return of this revolutionary thing see a return of this revolutionary thing where a left footed winger players on where a left footed winger players on the left to cross in to people that are the left to cross in to people that are good at heading the ball in? Is that is good at heading the ball in? Is that is that going to happen? Because it would that going to happen? Because it would seem to me because football always seem to me because football always change, it evolves and things come back change, it evolves and things come back in and out that this could be a in and out that this could be a revolutionary tactic uh that might revolutionary tactic uh that might actually work for teams. actually work for teams. Well, and there was a great example of Well, and there was a great example of it last season. Um was it was it against it last season. Um was it was it against Arsenal that Newcastle scored when Arsenal that Newcastle scored when Anthony Gordon playing on the right Anthony Gordon playing on the right putting a right foot across an putting a right foot across an outswinger and Alexander Isak met it outswinger and Alexander Isak met it with a with a beautiful header and you with a with a beautiful header and you sort of I don't know it was like it was sort of I don't know it was like going into a museum and seeing a like going into a museum and seeing a goal from 50s and it was something goal from 50s and it was something really sort of you almost quite stirring really sort of you almost quite stirring about it. Oh that's what it used to be about it. Oh that's what it used to be like. like. like. Uh was you like I don't know if you Uh was you like I don't know if you you're aware of Beeish Museum which is you're aware of Beeish Museum which is sort of lived museum in in the sort of lived museum in in the northeast. northeast. northeast. Yes. Yeah, Yes. Yeah, Yes. Yeah, five different zones of different five different zones of different periods. Great museum. Well worth periods. Great museum. Well worth visiting. visiting. visiting. But it it felt a little bit like the But it it felt a little bit like the football equivalent of that. Part of the football equivalent of that. Part of the joy of course is is when you get old joy of course is is when you get old enough to go, "Oh, I remember that from enough to go, "Oh, I remember that from my childhood." my childhood." my childhood." So possibly I mean I think the reason So possibly I mean I think the reason why why why there was that move to wingers cutting there was that move to wingers cutting in and this is Yeah. Jack said the in and this is Yeah. Jack said the number nine's never gone away. And of number nine's never gone away. And of course you're right. course you're right. I I looked at um 10 years ago who were I I looked at um 10 years ago who were the top scorers in the league. So 141 15 the top scorers in the league. So 141 15 the four top scorers in the league the four top scorers in the league Sergio Aguero, Harry Kane, Diego Kosa, Sergio Aguero, Harry Kane, Diego Kosa, Charlie Austin, all pretty typ in in Charlie Austin, all pretty typ in in slightly different ways pretty typical slightly different ways pretty typical number nines. So they they never went number nines. So they they never went away. But I think there was a sense that away. But I think there was a sense that the very highest level of a game in sort the very highest level of a game in sort of a tactical vanguard in in you the of a tactical vanguard in in you the Guadiola zone there was something a Guadiola zone there was something a little bit dickassy about having a little bit dickassy about having a proper number nine. You wanted somebody proper number nine. You wanted somebody you could drop off somebody you created you could drop off somebody you created space. You wanted Yeah. Perhaps it was space. You wanted Yeah. Perhaps it was Messi playing there. Perhaps it was uh Messi playing there. Perhaps it was uh Roberto Firmino. Uh even Aguero Guio Roberto Firmino. Uh even Aguero Guio tried to encourage him to sort of to to tried to encourage him to sort of to to drop off to move about. Harry Kane drops drop off to move about. Harry Kane drops off. You know, one of the things he's off. You know, one of the things he's always criticized for for England, which always criticized for for England, which seems nonsensical to me, is oh, he seems nonsensical to me, is oh, he doesn't play in the box enough. But look doesn't play in the box enough. But look at the reason Son scored so many goals at the reason Son scored so many goals for Spurs was often Kane dropping off, for Spurs was often Kane dropping off, spinning, playing the ball in behind spinning, playing the ball in behind him. But so center forwards had this him. But so center forwards had this role of creating space. Well, who are role of creating space. Well, who are they creating space for? It's either a they creating space for? It's either a number 10 breaking forward or actually I number 10 breaking forward or actually I think probably more effective is those think probably more effective is those wide players, the inverted wingers wide players, the inverted wingers cutting in field into that space they've cutting in field into that space they've left. And the reason that's so dangerous left. And the reason that's so dangerous um and I remember Alex Ferguson talking um and I remember Alex Ferguson talking about this uh when he was playing Rooney about this uh when he was playing Rooney on the left and Ronaldo through the on the left and Ronaldo through the middle before we sort of accepted middle before we sort of accepted Ronaldo as a as actually a very typical Ronaldo as a as actually a very typical number nine by the end. But when he number nine by the end. But when he first moved there, he was sort of he first moved there, he was sort of he would drop off, he'd pull wide, he was would drop off, he'd pull wide, he was good in the air still, but he he was good in the air still, but he he was about creating space for Tez and for about creating space for Tez and for Rooney. Rooney. Rooney. And what Fergus said, it it struck me as And what Fergus said, it it struck me as being so such an obvious thing and being so such an obvious thing and something nobody ever explained to me something nobody ever explained to me before is before is before is football now at the highest level for football now at the highest level for forwards is about creating space. And if forwards is about creating space. And if you think of a a a player running you think of a a a player running straight, there is not much space. If straight, there is not much space. If they run on the hypotenuse, there is they run on the hypotenuse, there is more space. You've created the space by more space. You've created the space by creating an angle. Not only that, but if creating an angle. Not only that, but if you have a right foot player playing on you have a right foot player playing on the left against an unorthodox right the left against an unorthodox right foot right back, you're attacking that foot right back, you're attacking that player on his weaker foot. So having player on his weaker foot. So having players attacking on a diagonal is players attacking on a diagonal is incredibly dangerous. And that's why I incredibly dangerous. And that's why I think over the last sort of 15 years or think over the last sort of 15 years or so, maybe maybe maybe even 20 years, we so, maybe maybe maybe even 20 years, we we've seen so many of these goal scoring we've seen so many of these goal scoring wide players, Messi clearly a sort of a wide players, Messi clearly a sort of a supreme example of a low such a good supreme example of a low such a good player that maybe normal rules don't player that maybe normal rules don't apply to him, but Muhammad Salah is a apply to him, but Muhammad Salah is a great example of a player who scored great example of a player who scored loads and loads of goals from wide that loads and loads of goals from wide that that top scorer 2014, the player who's that top scorer 2014, the player who's fifth, Alexis Sanchez. So another player fifth, Alexis Sanchez. So another player who attacked from wide. who attacked from wide. So Jack, do you do you want to do you So Jack, do you do you want to comment on that? Yeah, I was want to comment on that? Yeah, I was going to say it's interesting in the going to say it's interesting in the case of I mean both City and Liverpool case of I mean both City and Liverpool have maybe followed the same path here have maybe followed the same path here in the sense I don't think City have in the sense I don't think City have ever played better football than they ever played better football than they did before they signed Harland and they did before they signed Harland and they had that that season where they had had that that season where they had either Foden or De Bruyne like kind of either Foden or De Bruyne like kind of as a as a nine but dropping backwards um as a as a nine but dropping backwards um they played unbelievable football though they played unbelievable football though they actually they've been more they actually they've been more successful since they signed Harland and successful since they signed Harland and obviously with in the case of Liverpool obviously with in the case of Liverpool like the best Liverpool team of the last like the best Liverpool team of the last few years as you said was with a was few years as you said was with a was with with Firmino as a false nine like with with Firmino as a false nine like not really a conventional nine but not really a conventional nine but allowing him to create the space for allowing him to create the space for Manet and Salah but now they've got Ekit Manet and Salah but now they've got Ekit and they're obviously in the market for and they're obviously in the market for for Isaac as well. So I wonder whether for Isaac as well. So I wonder whether whether those two examples point to whether those two examples point to teams moving away from away from the teams moving away from away from the Force N model as you said towards Force N model as you said towards something more conventional. Yeah, and I something more conventional. Yeah, and I I think this is it's it's there's been a I think this is it's it's there's been a general in backlash maybe too strong a general in backlash maybe too strong a term. Um but there has been a a movement term. Um but there has been a a movement away from that sort of very extreme away from that sort of very extreme Guadiola football not least by Guiola Guadiola football not least by Guiola himself you obviously brought in Holland himself you obviously brought in Holland and that first season while there was and that first season while there was clearly some degree of tension there clearly some degree of tension there some degree of friction it was some degree of friction it was creatively useful and they win the creatively useful and they win the treble. Uh, so John, I don't do do you treble. Uh, so John, I don't do do you think this this return for number nine think this this return for number nine and and maybe as you said a more and and maybe as you said a more orthodox vision of the number 10 as well orthodox vision of the number 10 as well is part of this this general questioning is part of this this general questioning of that Guadiola model of everything's of that Guadiola model of everything's got to be about possession, everything's got to be about possession, everything's got to be about movement, everything's got to be about movement, everything's got to be about space. You can go back got to be about space. You can go back to more orthodox principles. to more orthodox principles. Well, you can be effective by playing a Well, you can be effective by playing a different style of football. I think different style of football. I think actually an S slot's team last season actually an S slot's team last season showed quite a bit of that that showed quite a bit of that that Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool uh were were happy to take the sting out uh were were happy to take the sting out of games and not play at the 100 100 of games and not play at the 100 100 miles an hour football uh that that had miles an hour football uh that that had been successful before. I wonder if been successful before. I wonder if their success was as a result of a their success was as a result of a weakened Premier League, a sort of you weakened Premier League, a sort of you know a period of change. We're going to know a period of change. We're going to find that out very soon. But, you know, find that out very soon. But, you know, you you look at the other teams around you you look at the other teams around them. Arsenal having been that very high them. Arsenal having been that very high pressing team don't really play that pressing team don't really play that style of football, do they? They It's a style of football, do they? They It's a bit more aggressive. It's a bit more bit more aggressive. It's a bit more physical. Uh, did they? Uh, yeah. physical. Uh, did they? Uh, yeah. Actually, I was going to correct you on Actually, I was going to correct you on something. You said Ronaldo end to the something. You said Ronaldo end to the end. Now, my nephews watched Ronaldo end. Now, my nephews watched Ronaldo play on Thursday night for Al- Nasia play on Thursday night for Al- Nasia against Rio A in a preseason friendly. against Rio A in a preseason friendly. score a hat-tick, they don't think he's score a hat-tick, they don't think he's finished. So there you go. finished. So there you go. Well, if you're scoring hatticks against Well, if you're scoring hatticks against Rio A, then you know, you're clearly Rio A, then you know, you're clearly still have a lot of fuel left still have a lot of fuel left in the tank. So should we move on to in the tank. So should we move on to question four? Um, so Newcastle were one question four? Um, so Newcastle were one of three English clubs last season who of three English clubs last season who won trophies who you'd say are not used won trophies who you'd say are not used to, not familiar with winning trophies. to, not familiar with winning trophies. Crystal Palace, Tottenham being the Crystal Palace, Tottenham being the other two. you can maybe include Villa other two. you can maybe include Villa in a similar category in that although in a similar category in that although they didn't win anything last year they they didn't win anything last year they had a lot of fun playing in the had a lot of fun playing in the Champions League and and you had a lot Champions League and and you had a lot of great set pieces yet it feels that I of great set pieces yet it feels that I mean Christopher just won the Community mean Christopher just won the Community Shield so maybe maybe this isn't Shield so maybe maybe this isn't entirely fair but there's ongoing talk entirely fair but there's ongoing talk that Mark Gay could leave that Ebertza that Mark Gay could leave that Ebertza could leave and I think if both of them could leave and I think if both of them left that that would be you know a left that that would be you know a crisis for them so where how do we crisis for them so where how do we assess let's start with Palace but let's assess let's start with Palace but let's assess those four teams assess those four teams who all seem to have gone from having who all seem to have gone from having hugely enjoyable seasons to slightly hugely enjoyable seasons to slightly frustrating summers. So, John Palace, frustrating summers. So, John Palace, I mean, Palace would excellent at I mean, Palace would excellent at Wembley. Uh, and Oliver Glasner is a Wembley. Uh, and Oliver Glasner is a fine fine manager who I think Palace are fine fine manager who I think Palace are going to struggle to keep hold of. going to struggle to keep hold of. Let's check the date here. A year from Let's check the date here. A year from now, he's probably going to be Bayern now, he's probably going to be Bayern Munich manager or something like that. Munich manager or something like that. He is that good a manager. Uh he seems He is that good a manager. Uh he seems to have the golden touch but will he to have the golden touch but will he have the golden touch without EZ who the have the golden touch without EZ who the problem is EZ may be too expensive for problem is EZ may be too expensive for other other teams to buy gay less so and other other teams to buy gay less so and I think that's possibly the uh equation I think that's possibly the uh equation that Palace are going to have to do was that Palace are going to have to do was excellent in that second half when excellent in that second half when Palace took control against Liverpool is Palace took control against Liverpool is an excellent player who's brilliant for an excellent player who's brilliant for for England wasn't he in 2024 very for England wasn't he in 2024 very unheralded player but Palace you know unheralded player but Palace you know trust their own processes are another trust their own processes are another team They're not as fashionable as your team They're not as fashionable as your Brenfords or you know Brightons or Brenfords or you know Brightons or Bournemouths, but it you know they won Bournemouths, but it you know they won the FA Cup. the FA Cup. They'll be okay because they they've got They'll be okay because they they've got trust in Glasnner for however long that trust in Glasnner for however long that lasts. Uh lasts. Uh lasts. Uh but I think there is a frustration but I think there is a frustration there, isn't there? And Glasner sort of there, isn't there? And Glasner sort of expressed it last week. expressed it last week. Yeah. That they haven't bought the Yeah. That they haven't bought the players. Yes. players. Yes. players. Yes. He he felt last season the start was He he felt last season the start was undermined by the fact they I think they undermined by the fact they I think they put in four players on deadline day. It put in four players on deadline day. It took him a long time to to to to work took him a long time to to to to work out what he was going to do with them, out what he was going to do with them, get them embedded into his system. But I get them embedded into his system. But I guess the problem that Palace have is guess the problem that Palace have is they got these two huge stars who they got these two huge stars who they're trying to work out what to do they're trying to work out what to do with him. Gay's contract, he's going to with him. Gay's contract, he's going to his final season. So maybe they think, his final season. So maybe they think, well, better to get some money now than well, better to get some money now than no money next summer. Between them, you no money next summer. Between them, you probably get what 900 million for them. probably get what 900 million for them. And obviously if you suddenly have that, And obviously if you suddenly have that, you're buying Jonathan, they would want you're buying Jonathan, they would want much more than that. I mean, as a much more than that. I mean, as a problem with a for other players, other problem with a for other players, other teams is he's 27. teams is he's 27. They probably want 70 80 million for They probably want 70 80 million for him. him. him. But Gary, last year contract is what 30. But Gary, last year contract is what 30. Yeah. So it's around about 100. Yeah. So it's around about 100. You know, the way the transfer market You know, the way the transfer market works these days because at 27 there's works these days because at 27 there's no resale value into the amortization no resale value into the amortization and all that stuff is possibly not a and all that stuff is possibly not a deal that clubs can do. deal that clubs can do. But given that they have those two But given that they have those two players that they could sell for huge players that they could sell for huge money, that makes it much more difficult money, that makes it much more difficult to bring players in. But uh should we to bring players in. But uh should we move on to to Tottenham Jack that move on to to Tottenham Jack that they've had an odd summer they've had an odd summer Madison getting injured failing to land Madison getting injured failing to land Gibbs White um Kudus Pellini your two Gibbs White um Kudus Pellini your two big players have come in before they big players have come in before they play in the uh Super Cup. How do you how play in the uh Super Cup. How do you how do you assess them? do you assess them? Yeah, I think I think the example of Yeah, I think I think the example of Spurs a bit like Newcastle maybe to a Spurs a bit like Newcastle maybe to a lesser extent Palace just underlines lesser extent Palace just underlines that you can't always the positive vibes that you can't always the positive vibes of winning a trophy don't always last as of winning a trophy don't always last as long as you might think. like Spurs long as you might think. like Spurs Spurs fans right now are not are not Spurs fans right now are not are not happy with how this this summer's gone. happy with how this this summer's gone. You know, they've signed they've signed You know, they've signed they've signed two players who I think will improve the two players who I think will improve the first team. Cudas and West Ham, then first team. Cudas and West Ham, then Palinia on loan from uh from Bayern. Palinia on loan from uh from Bayern. They've signed well they they've turned They've signed well they they've turned Mattis Tails move from loan move from Mattis Tails move from loan move from Bayern permanent. They've signed Kota Bayern permanent. They've signed Kota Takai who's a young Japanese center Takai who's a young Japanese center back. But I think the hope was from a back. But I think the hope was from a lot of fans that being back in the lot of fans that being back in the Champions League, you know, will be a Champions League, you know, will be a big summer of, you know, reasserting our big summer of, you know, reasserting our place in the transfer market and so on. place in the transfer market and so on. And actually, they've seen a lot a lot And actually, they've seen a lot a lot of fans are annoyed because they've seen of fans are annoyed because they've seen Man United, who they beat in the final, Man United, who they beat in the final, the Europa League, go out and buy more the Europa League, go out and buy more spend more money or more readymade good spend more money or more readymade good to go players than Tottenham have done. to go players than Tottenham have done. And during the course of which time And during the course of which time Tottenham have lost well son's gone to Tottenham have lost well son's gone to LA, Madison's done his ACL and will be LA, Madison's done his ACL and will be out for quite a while. Um, Kulleski out for quite a while. Um, Kulleski still got knee injury which he had from still got knee injury which he had from the end of last season. And so the the the end of last season. And so the the team that they put out on the first, you team that they put out on the first, you know, when they I think in in the Super know, when they I think in in the Super Cup on on Wednesday evening and then in Cup on on Wednesday evening and then in the Premier League this weekend will the Premier League this weekend will probably be worse than the teams they probably be worse than the teams they had at the back end of last season. Um, had at the back end of last season. Um, so and yeah, they've changed the manager so and yeah, they've changed the manager as well. There's been a huge amount of as well. There's been a huge amount of change behind the scenes which um but change behind the scenes which um but yeah, overall I'd say the the positive yeah, overall I'd say the the positive vibes of Bill Bao have not necessarily vibes of Bill Bao have not necessarily been carried all the way through into been carried all the way through into August. And I know this is a huge August. And I know this is a huge question, Job, but Newcastle in in a question, Job, but Newcastle in in a similar boat. Isach obviously is the key similar boat. Isach obviously is the key to that and exactly what happens with to that and exactly what happens with him. That that sense of the Saudis him. That that sense of the Saudis retrenching and um becoming less retrenching and um becoming less interested in their nonSaudibas assets interested in their nonSaudibas assets appears to have been borne out by by appears to have been borne out by by another summer of frustration for them. another summer of frustration for them. Yeah. Yeah. Uh you're almost back to Yeah. Yeah. Uh you're almost back to sort of almost m Ashley levels of sort of almost m Ashley levels of frustration, aren't you? uh which is frustration, aren't you? uh which is amazing to consider. Some may laugh at amazing to consider. Some may laugh at that, but you've got to have sympathy that, but you've got to have sympathy for Newcastle fans who had that, you for Newcastle fans who had that, you know, years of of pain. This is the know, years of of pain. This is the problem of uh you know, I suppose false problem of uh you know, I suppose false messiahs coming in uh with the promise messiahs coming in uh with the promise of all this stuff. And the problem that of all this stuff. And the problem that uh they've got is that Saudi Arabia are uh they've got is that Saudi Arabia are interested in lots of other stuff. Abu interested in lots of other stuff. Abu Dhabi when he came in at Manchester City Dhabi when he came in at Manchester City were only interested in Manchester City were only interested in Manchester City and expanding it from there. Roman and expanding it from there. Roman Abramovic when he went in at Chelsea was Abramovic when he went in at Chelsea was Chelsea Chelsea Chelsea. That's what he Chelsea Chelsea Chelsea. That's what he was going to operate on. Uh they are a was going to operate on. Uh they are a victim of the diversification of Saudi victim of the diversification of Saudi Arabia's interests. Um and the thing is Arabia's interests. Um and the thing is with the EAC thing, it's a classic with the EAC thing, it's a classic transfer story that often told which is transfer story that often told which is player wants to join better team and player wants to join better team and we'll leave which you know you go back we'll leave which you know you go back to Blackburn to Alan Shearer you know to Blackburn to Alan Shearer you know that that's what happens in football and that that's what happens in football and they're a victim of it and the thing is they're a victim of it and the thing is for some reason certain Newcastle fans for some reason certain Newcastle fans felt that that shouldn't be the case felt that that shouldn't be the case anymore but unfortunately it hasn't anymore but unfortunately it hasn't happened and also given listen the rules happened and also given listen the rules have changed since Manchester City uh have changed since Manchester City uh you know, had their gold rush. The rules you know, had their gold rush. The rules were changed for a good reason and were changed for a good reason and Newcastle are on the end of that. And uh Newcastle are on the end of that. And uh also the Saudis maybe weren't the the also the Saudis maybe weren't the the golden ticket that they thought they golden ticket that they thought they were going to be. Um have sympathy, but were going to be. Um have sympathy, but I also think there should have been a I also think there should have been a bit more caution at the start of it bit more caution at the start of it because you never know how these things because you never know how these things are going to work out. are going to work out. Yeah. I mean PSR certainly they feel has Yeah. I mean PSR certainly they feel has restricted them. Um but I mean as you restricted them. Um but I mean as you say it's partly because they spent so say it's partly because they spent so much so early. much so early. 400 million. Yeah. Yeah. Uh and Villa, 400 million. Yeah. Yeah. Uh and Villa, another club who are dealing with PSR another club who are dealing with PSR restrictions restrictions restrictions and I think their summer felt pretty and I think their summer felt pretty flat. Um I think you the fact they flat. Um I think you the fact they failed to qualify for Champions League failed to qualify for Champions League final day, final day, final day, such a bizarre final day, such a weird such a bizarre final day, such a weird defeat at Old Trafford where you nobody defeat at Old Trafford where you nobody was losing at Old Trafford and suddenly was losing at Old Trafford and suddenly Villa Doo in the Europa League. It feels Villa Doo in the Europa League. It feels like a step backwards. The players had like a step backwards. The players had on loan Rashford Desensio are not made on loan Rashford Desensio are not made permanent. I mean bringing Evan Gessa permanent. I mean bringing Evan Gessa from from Nice seems to answer some of from from Nice seems to answer some of the need they have for a play across the the need they have for a play across the front line but it it still feels that front line but it it still feels that this is a summer of of retrenchment this is a summer of of retrenchment there. So but another club finding that there. So but another club finding that there are there is somehow a barrier there are there is somehow a barrier there that prevents them from breaking there that prevents them from breaking through. Is that is that I mean I know through. Is that is that I mean I know PSR is an enormous topic Jack but is PSR is an enormous topic Jack but is that is that fair? that is that fair? Uh yeah yeah I do think it's fair. I Uh yeah yeah I do think it's fair. I don't want to maybe let's save the the don't want to maybe let's save the the kind of argument for and against PSR for kind of argument for and against PSR for another show. But I I definitely think another show. But I I definitely think that I mean it's it's beyond question that I mean it's it's beyond question that it creates a sense of frustration that it creates a sense of frustration for lots of fans because I think a lot for lots of fans because I think a lot of you know lots of fans want think that of you know lots of fans want think that there ought to be no limits on on you there ought to be no limits on on you know my my team can spend as much as know my my team can spend as much as they want in order to get to they want in order to get to the top and and you know and and they the top and and you know and and they think that for the understandable reason think that for the understandable reason that they've seen other teams do that uh that they've seen other teams do that uh in the last 20 years. Well, and some in the last 20 years. Well, and some teams seem able to sort of find teams seem able to sort of find loopholes in PSR that um I mean loopholes in PSR that um I mean Newcastle haven't. I mean, and that's an Newcastle haven't. I mean, and that's an interesting topic, but I think you're interesting topic, but I think you're right. I think that's that's too big for right. I think that's that's too big for the final five minutes of this episode. the final five minutes of this episode. Miller have attempts at a couple of them Miller have attempts at a couple of them themselves, you know, and and and themselves, you know, and and and listen, you know, Monty and Una Emory listen, you know, Monty and Una Emory will have plans for the close of the will have plans for the close of the transfer window. There'll be there'll be transfer window. There'll be there'll be moving around of players, a shifting of moving around of players, a shifting of the decks. Both both those both manager the decks. Both both those both manager and sport director are used to operating and sport director are used to operating well let's say on the very fringes of of well let's say on the very fringes of of how this operates aren't they both how this operates aren't they both operate there they'll be there's still operate there they'll be there's still faith in United there should be faith in faith in United there should be faith in Villa cuz they're a good team I mean Villa cuz they're a good team I mean it's not like they're a bad team and it's not like they're a bad team and it's they suddenly all fallen apart they it's they suddenly all fallen apart they were very close to the Champions League were very close to the Champions League they haven't significantly lost they haven't significantly lost everything you know they haven't the everything you know they haven't the family silver hasn't been sold off or family silver hasn't been sold off or anything like that. anything like that. Yeah. And the fifth hour five questions Yeah. And the fifth hour five questions and we did touch on this to an extent on and we did touch on this to an extent on Friday, but can any of the promoted Friday, but can any of the promoted sides stay up? Your leads and Burnley sides stay up? Your leads and Burnley got 100 points. That's never happened got 100 points. That's never happened before. Southernland have spent, you before. Southernland have spent, you know, well over 100 million pounds. know, well over 100 million pounds. Seem to have a much stronger squad now. Seem to have a much stronger squad now. But can any of them actually actually But can any of them actually actually cling on? Jack, cling on? Jack, I think the interesting thing here is I think the interesting thing here is that I mean Sunderland is kind of a that I mean Sunderland is kind of a slightly different case because they slightly different case because they weren't one of the dominant teams in the weren't one of the dominant teams in the regular season. regular season. regular season. Like the two managers of promoted teams, Like the two managers of promoted teams, Daniel Farer and Scott Parker are both Daniel Farer and Scott Parker are both promotion specialists. You know, Farer promotion specialists. You know, Farer um Parker's got three different teams um Parker's got three different teams promoted to the Premier League already, promoted to the Premier League already, which given he's only 44 is quite which given he's only 44 is quite something. AKA. I think this is Farer's something. AKA. I think this is Farer's third promotion to the Premier League as third promotion to the Premier League as well, having got two different ones with well, having got two different ones with Norwich City and now one with Leads Norwich City and now one with Leads United. But neither of neither of them United. But neither of neither of them have ever really made any any much of an have ever really made any any much of an impression at all on the Premier League impression at all on the Premier League with any of the teams they've got with any of the teams they've got promoted. Uh and it was no secret that promoted. Uh and it was no secret that at the end of the season, Leads United at the end of the season, Leads United were thinking very seriously about going were thinking very seriously about going for a different manager uh before for a different manager uh before deciding ultimately to stick with Farer. deciding ultimately to stick with Farer. So I guess the question like will it be So I guess the question like will it be any different for those teams for those any different for those teams than uh will it be any different teams than uh will it be any different for those managers now than in their for those managers now than in their previous attempts at the Premier League? previous attempts at the Premier League? I mean I just I don't know really like I I mean I just I don't know really like I certainly the evidence of the last two certainly the evidence of the last two seasons how badly the promoted teams seasons how badly the promoted teams have done in the Premier League suggests have done in the Premier League suggests that the gap is very big. Um you know that the gap is very big. Um you know two two years in a row that all six have two two years in a row that all six have gone straight back down. that did did so gone straight back down. that did did so last season with even few with what last season with even few with what combined 59 points even less than the combined 59 points even less than the combined 66 points the previous season. combined 66 points the previous season. Um but it's not impossible you know it's Um but it's not impossible you know it's not impossible to come up and stabilize not impossible to come up and stabilize yourself you know Fulham only Fulham yourself you know Fulham only Fulham came up in 22 23 Bournemouth came up the came up in 22 23 Bournemouth came up the year before that they're now established year before that they're now established mid-table teams mid-table teams mid-table teams forest forest forest Forest so it can be done Forest so it can be done I just don't know whether whether in I just don't know whether whether in either case you know uh Burnley or Leeds either case you know uh Burnley or Leeds might regret might regret might regret I wonder how they think they could have I wonder how they think they could have done differently with the manager done differently with the manager perhaps would it have made sense to go perhaps would it have made sense to go for a different man I don't know I for a different man I don't know I genuinely don't know what the solution genuinely don't know what the solution is. is. is. Yeah. I mean, I I think Sunland signings Yeah. I mean, I I think Sunland signings give me it's a glimmer. I'm not saying give me it's a glimmer. I'm not saying they're going to stay up, but there's a they're going to stay up, but there's a glimmer of hope that wasn't there on the glimmer of hope that wasn't there on the day that they beat every United in the day that they beat every United in the playoff final, but I I guess the playoff final, but I I guess the question is say say one of those teams question is say say one of those teams can get to 34 points, 35 points, which can get to 34 points, 35 points, which of the other 17 teams could conceivably of the other 17 teams could conceivably finish below them? And I I think that's finish below them? And I I think that's the question of who can you target? And the question of who can you target? And I'd say, you know, we mentioned Brenford I'd say, you know, we mentioned Brenford earlier, lots of questions there. We earlier, lots of questions there. We don't know. West Ham Southern play West don't know. West Ham Southern play West Ham on the opening day. It's almost like Ham on the opening day. It's almost like a six-pointer. a six-pointer. a six-pointer. It's a six-pointer. Six pointer. Yeah. It's a six-pointer. Six pointer. Yeah. First day of the season. First day of the season. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. West Ham quietly and it's they're often West Ham quietly and it's they're often not that quiet. We're lurching into not that quiet. We're lurching into crisis club stuff. you know, the type of crisis club stuff. you know, the type of thing where, yeah, obviously I live in thing where, yeah, obviously I live in the east end of London, uh, where fans the east end of London, uh, where fans talk of a relegation season, you know, talk of a relegation season, you know, and and West Ham fans are used to this and and West Ham fans are used to this over the years and, uh, there's been a over the years and, uh, there's been a lot of disquire over the fact that, uh, lot of disquire over the fact that, uh, a sporting director came in, didn't last a sporting director came in, didn't last long, and now the co-chair, well, you long, and now the co-chair, well, you think he's just chairman now, isn't he? think he's just chairman now, isn't he? Is running the club top to bottom, Is running the club top to bottom, sporting director for himself, buying sporting director for himself, buying players. Uh Graeme Potter did not do players. Uh Graeme Potter did not do much to convince uh the West Ham fans much to convince uh the West Ham fans last season. They were barely much last season. They were barely much better than they were under Julian better than they were under Julian Leopard Tegui. Uh and I wouldn't be that Leopard Tegui. Uh and I wouldn't be that impressed with their their summer impressed with their their summer dealing. So Hammers could be one. We'll dealing. So Hammers could be one. We'll have to see how Everton go. I mean, have to see how Everton go. I mean, we mentioned them. we mentioned them. Yes, we we've got them all mentioned. uh Yes, we we've got them all mentioned. uh as regards as regards your your uh as regards as regards your your uh semi belief in Sunderland. I think semi belief in Sunderland. I think you're he's right about the transfer you're he's right about the transfer dealings, but then I saw the name Arthur dealings, but then I saw the name Arthur Mazuaku appear and I began to wonder Mazuaku appear and I began to wonder alarm bell there. Yeah, alarm bell there. Yeah, I began to wonder, listen, great I began to wonder, listen, great attacking player actually very good fun attacking player actually very good fun to watch. Defensively, maybe not the to watch. Defensively, maybe not the best. Uh, so let's see how your black best. Uh, so let's see how your black hat heroes go there. hat heroes go there. He's just covered Dennis Cirin. That's He's just covered Dennis Cirin. That's that's what I'm telling myself. that's what I'm telling myself. Okay, fine. Fine. Okay, fine. Fine. So, we've done our five questions. Thank So, we've done our five questions. Thank you very much to Jackpid Brook. Thank you very much to Jackpid Brook. Thank you very much to John Brewan. Thank you you very much to John Brewan. Thank you very much for listening. Do remember very much for listening. Do remember please to rate, review, and recommend us please to rate, review, and recommend us and we'll see you next time. and we'll see you next time. Powered by Riverside FM.